welcome to category five technology TV
this week we're gonna be looking at the
Raspberry Pi but we're gonna be doing it
from a different perspective we're gonna
be connecting the GPIO and we're
learning how to turn on and off a light
yes but we're gonna program it so that
that light turns on when category five
technology TV is on the air which we are
right right now right now so stick
around yes
after this show don't go anywhere our
live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TB streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category-five dot
TV category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech gets here
cat 5 dot TV slash TPM and the
International Association of internet
broadcasters cat 5 TV slash ia IB
welcome to the show everybody nice to
have you here for episode number 596 we
are four weeks away from episode 600
it's amazing we're gonna do what are we
gonna do I don't know something with
sixes ah any ideas what can we do maybe
bring some cake or some pie that's too
raspberry pi zero 600 a lot of baking
your why did it baby she's way too picky
so hey Jen guess what you have been
nominated for 600 raspberry pies and
also a pizza and all of our friends due
to time constraints Wow
hard to believe that we're almost there
that's unbelievable did you ever think
you'd reach that cut 600 I never ever
even contemplated yeah it's just yeah
you're working every week every single
week well you are I am super happy Jeff
is here I feel like I'm a guest at this
point yeah
I had to rearrange all the cameras in
order to accommodate the fact that Jeff
was actually here tonight I just want to
say thank you very very much to everyone
who has thus far pitched in to support
the replacing of our our Wirecast
broadcast server it's a powerful kind of
gaming rig computer that all of our
cameras connect into and it allows us to
do the camera switching and the graphics
that you see on the screen and discord
over there and everything else it's
basically our everything plugs into that
and it produces the show but it's been
dying and it's been having some trouble
and we talked about it briefly last week
and some people didn't quite get why we
were asking for help and so just a
reminder and and maybe some of you don't
even realize that category 5 as we
mentioned has been here for 600 weeks
almost yeah but we do this as volunteers
we are volunteers the studio is a rented
space so we have to pay for that space
we have to pay for all the bills and
when something happens like a server
dying that's not really you know we
don't have money in the bank to say
let's just go and buy a new server it
doesn't work that way when you're a
voluntary organization such as this that
you know we keep keep the lights on and
keep the show going every single week
but but we do this as volunteers and we
need to be able to afford to replace
that old girl she's she served as well
fairly imminently
exactly it's like we got to do this like
yesterday so hopefully tonight will go
well technically last week went fairly
well after the show it's the kind of the
post-production that's a real problem
during the live is pretty good because
we're recording to an external recorder
so we don't have to really use a lot of
CPU resources or and and the bus itself
in order to to do that so thank you to
everyone who has contributed towards
that also to our patrons
we appreciate you these are the folks
who give as little as $1 per month and
there's no upper cap folks hey a
thousand dollars a month that's fine
that's fine we won't say no you know a
lot of folks just stay you know pitching
a buck a month
that makes a huge difference it really
does like I jump out a thousand bucks
mom no that's unreal like that's
ridiculous
that's just like be slightly
uncomfortable you own the place
so welcome boss but you know when
there's a lot of folks contributing just
a little bit it really makes a
difference because there's power in that
many people giving and and that keeps us
afloat and keeps the monthly bills paid
okay enough of that moving on to the
Kingston DataTraveler DT mm this is that
encrypted USB flash drive we love these
here we've shown them on the show it's
starting to get some buzz on YouTube and
they are really really excellent we've
got some of these to give away you can
look below if you're watching this on
youtube or on our website category-five
TV for the way that you can qualify to
win one of these make sure you if you're
watching this on cable TV or otherwise
if you're watching this on roku
obviously you can't look below just head
on over to our website category five dot
TV find episode number five ninety six
and you'll find the information about
how you can qualify to win one of those
and good luck to you mm-hmm
tonight now we were talking about
raspberry PI's there's no there's no
edibles here tonight however we do have
a Raspberry Pi set up and ready to go
we're gonna be tinkering with the GPIO
in just a couple of moments time stick
around
[Music]
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cat5 dot TV
slash shirts
and we're back so glad you're here
category five technology TV lots of good
stuff coming up but before we get there
I believe there's something with Sasha
getting documents online we were talking
about before past couple of weeks yes
yeah we were talkin give you a bit of a
recap of what please do because I've
missed things okay so I want an update
Quantum's
calls notes I work in an office that has
some windows-based computers some Linux
based computers I want it to be able to
open on my computer using the new office
online tool okay I wanted to be able to
or some tool or some tool open documents
on my computer so that the format
wouldn't be all mixed mashed up the way
it is when I just open it Libre right
okay yes right oh good
then this will help you a few okay
yeah so we looked at because one of my
laptops is all it's all LibreOffice yeah
it's Linux based and so often I get word
files sent that I open them up I'm like
oh that's a tough thing because that can
be any number of things
fonts yes the user used and they didn't
tag the file so when you open it you
don't have the same fonts and so it's
all messed up so you've got to figure
out what fonts they used and install
those fonts in order to open them
properly sometimes people don't realize
that hey if I create a file on my
computer it's not going to translate
when you send it over so there's no
solution to that beyond fixing the file
correct plain and simple so that's not
that's not a LibreOffice problem no but
that's what if it's one page you get
something that's yeah but typically with
the document it's gonna be like a
generic font that you can substitute
another serife font or something like
that
wingdings whole document it's a script
but so the the problem lies in the fact
that files are not tagged so the fonts
are not included with the file you have
to have that font installed that's one
good example
that's why pdfs are so popular
portable document format so when Adobe
it was it yeah I guess it was Adobe that
did PDF and they they created a format
that's not typically editable right but
it looks the same from computer to
computer to computer and that's why it's
done so well on the web because it
always opens the same so if you create
the document on your computer and then
you export it to a PDF file you can then
send it to someone and they will be able
to print it and it will always look
perfect right yes that's why we do PDF
that makes that if you then take that
docx file or ODT file and send them that
file they may be able to open it but
it's probably not gonna look the same
it's gonna look a little wonky mm-hmm so
understand the reasoning the underlying
problem that exists there so I suggested
why not look at Google Drive Google Docs
yep or now Microsoft Office online which
is available for free when did it go
free what's Microsoft doing go to cat5
TV slash MS office you'll be able to
just sign in with your Skype account or
you can create an account using your
email address whatever you want to do
yeah so let's take a quick look at how
this is going to translate so I've
created the world's easiest font using a
liberation serif font it's easiest doc
so I'm I've saved this as a doc X you
see the file name in the top left yes so
I just went file save as and I've saved
it as word format so understand what I'm
doing here is just demonstrating that it
will work with doc files right so I
don't have to convert them or do
anything fancy I'm I'm just gonna I'm
just starting with this very very basic
doc file okay save so now jumping back
to my browser I have Google Drive and I
have Microsoft's onedrive which does
provide free space up to a limit just
like Google Drive and then you can pay
if you want more space right so remember
last week we took a look at this just
really briefly on the fly and we didn't
really know how to open a file in MS
Office online because we didn't you
couldn't find the connection
I thought it might be one drive but it
was just put me through this loop of
click here click here click it turns out
it's because when I created my account
to be able to access MS Office online
uh-huh I didn't verify my email address
it sent me an email that said click here
to verify your email address and I
didn't do that that's why last week it
was going through this loop of your not
verified your not verified he can't so I
couldn't get in right a headache so I
clicked on the verify and boom lo and
behold now office online so if I go cat
five dot TV slash MS office and I open
word
so there's Microsoft Word it's free
office online apps click on word then at
the bottom here open from onedrive and
now it just takes me to my onedrive so
that's very similar to Google Drive
right gonna show you both so I'm gonna
go new file upload keep in mind now I'm
on Google Drive so this is Google's
product we're gonna look at both Google
and Microsoft ok because both of these
allow you to collaborate on my desktop
I've got that file it's gonna be the
only docx there it is test local file
upload to Google Docs it sees the docx
at the bottom right and it's removed the
file extension and it's there now go
over to Microsoft's onedrive let's see
how we upload to this hmm maybe over
here no not quite as intuitive I find
all files ah there we go
documents ok new upload upload I created
a folder called sashes test document hah
never quite got their files test local
file that's my doc file now here it
hasn't removed the docx extension it's
still docx ok back at Google let's
double click on that file and it has
opened that in my online editor called
Google Docs
it also has Google sheets for
spreadsheets and it will accept any
format that you throw at it now but here
you are in Google Docs you notice
there's no longer the serife font it's
changed it to something called normal
text
and it's going to change the formatting
of some files because it's supplementing
fonts and things like that if you've got
checkboxes that are actually a checkbox
image from a font it's probably not
going to translate right we need to make
sure that those are transferable but
what's neat about doing it this way is
now moving forward I always have them
online so if I send it to somebody I'm
sending them the Google Doc right they
can go in they can open it and and it's
always going to be the same right
because it's still in Google Docs in the
cloud jump back over to Microsoft's
product and let's see how this one
handles it I'm gonna double click on the
file looked like it was going to take a
single single click and there it is same
thing now it kept the font the same
which tells me that it's probably tying
into my local fonts so fonts that are
installed on my computer itself which
definitely it looks like that's what
it's doing that looks like kind of the
default set for Linux or for Microsoft
Windows I'm on Windows 10 pardon me so
there there you have it so it was able
to open both now where these products
Excel Jeff is file share so now Sasha
you want to be able to share this and
some folks were joking like don't put
information on here don't share this
it's not secure look at all the people
who are going in and editing it
well I purposefully during the
demonstration opened it up to the world
and then just let people at it Wow
what you're going to do is let's just
say it who is the email provider for
your company Google it is Google you go
to Gmail open your email that's true all
right
do you use Gmail I do yeah work but yes
okay well in your instance everybody in
your office has access to a Gmail right
because that's what they use yeah so
what you can do is you can just share it
with your company
exactly anyone at your company can open
it at this file nobody else can right
that's how you can do it so and I can go
as far as just setting up an email
address if I wanted to go live at
category five dot TV and then what do I
want them to be able to do they can edit
they can comment or they can view
this is Google Docs so with that I can
set up those permissions the way that I
want them jumping over to the Microsoft
product how do we share here I know that
it's going to be available there it is
share share with people no I want to
share with aliens come on now live at
category five dot TV what does it say
recipients can edit recipients can only
view ah
recipients don't need a Microsoft
account recipients need to sign in with
a Microsoft account so presumably that
means that you could send it without the
need for them to sign in so that's an
added level of kind of that's an added
level of authentication to ensure that
they are who they say they are
because if someone else got ahold of the
link they wouldn't be able to open it
right so that's pretty cool so I think
both products could achieve what we want
to do yes now maybe this isn't for this
demonstration but what about loading an
OTT how does word online show it how
would it work with an OD T so this is
the default format so basically the
question is is there cross compatibility
between the products right because
sometimes you know I might be sending an
OD T to some right and they don't have
LibreOffice ha and is it gonna load
properly so can I just take the same
file and I'm gonna change this to an OD
F text document which is ODT file
extension and I'm gonna save this as
Libre just so that I have a distinction
between them jump over here let's jump
back to Google Drive and upload grab my
LibreOffice so this just demonstrates if
they are compatible cross program so
does Google Drive recognize ODT files
there's the Libre one and that opened
just fine yeah now interestingly enough
you can go file download as so now if
you need to actually send it to someone
who doesn't have an internet account or
something you can download it as docx or
ODT right or rich type you can do PDF
you don't have to buy like a PDF program
plain text and zipped HTML epub over to
the Microsoft product let's try the same
test upload files and grab that file
that's the Libre Oh Dee T file and open
and there it is
open it and again single click on on the
word online and what's the same now it
warns though ODT documents some
compatibility issues could occur if you
edit this document details you know go
into some details that's their way of
saying weird formats better user words
better than odg
right that's just that is that's like
okay I was I was doing some school work
over the weekend with one of my
classmates where she asked me to edit
some of her work and so she works in
Word and I work in Google Docs and so I
so I could open it and it looked wonky
but I knew like I wasn't editing her
formatting I knew like the wording was
correct right so then I sent it back to
her she's like I don't like the way your
stuff looks well then so imagine this
now so pick your base and say ok you're
already a Google user so use Google Docs
exactly which is the Google Drive
drive.google.com is where you want to go
to sign in if you're not a Google user
if you're really Microsoft Office lover
then maybe the Microsoft online is the
way to go yes but both seem to offer
similar functionality and they give that
collaborative nature so my thought is
Sasha so yeah there's a little initial
hurdle where some files if you upload
them they may need to be reformatted but
once they are now they are in the Google
Docs format or the Microsoft Office
online format and you know that it's
going to be compatible right so that
when someone else opens that it's going
to look the same on their computer do a
couple of minutes work just yeah yeah I
think so yeah I think that'll work
really well perfect
this is category-five technology TV
thanks everybody for joining us today
are you folks ready to get into some
gpio coding yeah
we love raspberry pi yes we do you and I
have worked a little bit with the digi
spark remember when we made a light
light up using Arduino coding thank you
sir that week you weren't here I wasn't
no I remember you doing do you probably
watch it on repeat remember something
where you use the Arduino
it was awesome whose ass I don't know
what it was then I find the light maybe
you were here maybe you were Wow
I'll live vicariously through you guys
you remember definitely here she was
really impressed with my work now one
thing that I did during that
demonstration is I did a little bit of
soldering yes we're gonna avoid that
tonight folks yes I contemplated it I
got out a GPIO and a Raspberry Pi zero
and I thought about it and I thought no
I'm gonna breadboard it so there we have
it I've got a really really simple
breadboard set up I'm gonna tell you
exactly what we need for today's project
and before I do I'm gonna tell you what
this is gonna do okay we're gonna create
something tonight that is going to light
a light uh-huh whenever category-five
technology TV is live on the air oh okay
when we sign off it's gonna turn off the
light yes you can place this device
anywhere in the world as long as it has
an internet connection you're gonna
build it yourself we're gonna do it with
a raspberry pie and a cup it's gonna
tell you when we're live so I'm gonna
jump over here and I've got a little bit
of walking to do so talk amongst
yourselves while I get over here this is
great this is what we need great
reminder yes this is what we need we
need and now there's a Raspberry Pi in
behind here with ethernet cable plugged
into it I've got the tea cobbler this is
an optional component but it really
really helps to be able to connect
everything together and it shows you the
pin assignments which are really really
helpful we're going to need one led
we're gonna need a 330 ohm resistor can
you folks see that there and then we're
going to need a couple of cables to wire
it all together very very simple circuit
and you can see how I've wired this so
first of all the LED so just note that
the longer leg is going to be your
positive so that's going to go into pin
eight
which is 3.3 volts alright so that is
I've already connected everything
together just for the sake of the show
so the longer pin is going into pin 18
and then the shorter end of the LED
which is the negative also called the
the cathode that is going to go to the
lane that has the resistor so what the
resistor is going to do and it's
focusing on my hand rather than the that
doesn't really work very well so what
this is going to do let's grab a
screwdriver here so the resistor is
going to prevent too much power from
coming back along the negative cable
into the ground and that's going to
prevent the Raspberry Pi from getting
overloaded if you leave out the resistor
there is a potential chance that if the
ball blue or if there was too much
voltage going into the bulb it could
feed back into the ground and damage
your Raspberry Pi so that resistor is
just gonna help protect you so a very
very simple circuit we've got pin 18
coming off the tea cobbler which is
plugged into a Raspberry Pi 3 going to
the long end of an LED then the short
end is going to a 330 ohm resistor out
to the ground of the Raspberry Pi ok so
far so far so good and so far so good
right mixels notice no soldering
involved prototyping today yeah just so
that you can see how it's done you can
solder it you can put it into a nice
little case do whatever you want
we're using the LED you could use a
relay right in place of the LED get a
3.3 volt relay and then you can trip a
110 breaker and turn on a big sign
whatever you want to do okay first thing
we need to do on our Raspberry Pi now
I've already done this but I want to
show you just because it is necessary we
need to install a program called get and
get is going to allow us to ins
repositories and we're gonna need that
functionality app install get and you
might want to do an apt update first you
can see git is already the newest
version on my computer and that's
exactly what we're looking for this is a
clean vanilla wrasse
in light installation so I just
installed this on a Raspberry Pi 3 model
B okay so next I need a an application
that will allow me to communicate easily
with the GPIO I don't want to get into
creating registers and making all kinds
of crazy stuff there's there are tools
that are out there that make it a lot
easier to communicate with that general
purpose input output of the Raspberry Pi
which are all those pins so you've got
40 pins right yeah you can plug into
those and do all kinds of things we can
program what we want to do with them
this is like the most basic thing but
we're going to be tying it into our API
so it makes it a little bit more
exciting
so the tool that we're going to use I'm
just going to go into my temp folder
which resets removes everything that I
put in here after a reboot so it's good
spot to do this get clone so remember I
installed get and I'm also super user I
have to be root for these for these
things so if you're not already route
the way to do that is sudo su all right
sudo su and then CD slash temp why do
you have to be route you have to be able
to access the hardware GPIO you have to
be able to access the the folders like
user local bin
you don't want permissions issues but it
particularly you need to be able to
access the GPIO which requires root
access so we're gonna get clone and then
we want to grab this tool called wiring
PI which we're gonna get from git colon
slash slash and remember I'm gonna put
all the these commands in the notes
below draw gone dotnet not dragon dotnet
and then slash wiring and be mindful
it's a capital P on PI wiring PI
destination path wiring PI already
exists Oh apparently I already tested
this I'm gonna remove it just that I can
show you from scratch okay so try that
again
there we go okay so now CD wiring PI
with a capital P or I just type WI and
then hit tab and you'll see a couple of
files here but we need to build this so
we just go dot
slash build enter and you wait and you
wait and assuming you are not on a
Raspberry Pi zero it will happen quite
quickly now if you type GPIO you'll see
that it actually gives output I don't
have to be in that folder I can be
anywhere GPIO and it gives output ok so
now I can actually start utilizing those
GPIO connectors on my Raspberry Pi right
which are connected to a tea cobbler
again it's just a convenience thing you
don't have to have a tea cobbler you can
solder things to your Raspberry Pi but
this is just a really easy way to
prototype so the first thing I need to
do because all GPIO pins are input set
when you first boot it we need to set
that GPIO which is you remember do you
remember what number we plugged it into
you can see it if you're looking on the
screen there number 18 eight number 18
is 3.3 volts output when it is enabled
or they call that high okay so on pin 18
I have to change that from input to
output so I go GPIO - G mode 18 that's
the pin number output enter now my GPIO
pin is an output pin instead of an input
pin now I want to turn on the light just
to test it because I want to make sure
that it's working and sure I've wired
everything correctly so GPIO - G right
pin 18 and we're gonna put one one sets
it to high aka
on a KA 3.3 volts it's gonna be a little
less because of that resistor so now
when I hit enter in three two one yeah
it's on there we go
sweet now similarily is that excited I
know right so similarly I can remove
that zero that one and add a zero and it
will turn it off yes Jeff
simple things folks simple things this
is what happens if you take a week off
so now you say yeah so now you say well
what can we do with this well category
five has a live API it just responds
with either a zero or a one
zero if we're off the air one if we are
on the air you'll find this at live dot
cap five dot TV slash API slash real
time and you just pull that I'm using W
get using curl whatever you want so if I
do that so if I do W get HTTP colon
slash slash
live dot cat five dot TV slash API slash
real time and then it gave me a file
called real time I'm gonna cat that and
you see it's one you see that yes maybe
it would be easier if I did it this way
if I W get and then instead I'm gonna
output to the screen instead so W get I
think it's - Q - OH - one see the one
and then it says root mm-hmm and echo
you know and and echo quote quote
that'll help there one if we were off
the air it would be a zero okay so this
command is going to tell us whether
we're on or off the air now incidentally
there's another helpful tool on our API
called test and it will automatically
change between on the air and off the
air without you having to do anything
see how it was one first and then it
turned to a zero right every thirty
seconds it changes so that's a great way
to be able to test our code before we
move it over to real time so that we can
see if everything is working so I've
created a repository for yeah let's go
into home slash PI and let's go get
clone HTTP colon slash slash github.com
slash cat five TV slash cat five TV -
live we're gonna clone that into our
slash home slash PI folder now it's
their CD cat five TV - live slash SH and
you're gonna see a couple of little
tools there that are gonna be very very
helpful for us so in just a couple of
moments time we're gonna learn how to
tap into that API and turn on and off
that light depending whether or not
we're on the air so cool stick around
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequents
by using the links on our website visit
category-five TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching welcome back
to category 5 technology TV we are
turning on the lights sort of no but
that's what we're covering we're taking
a look at a Raspberry Pi we're using the
breadboard and we're showing you how to
use a little program from from category
5 to turn the light on when we are live
on the air and you know what it's really
just a proof-of-concept
yes because the whole idea behind this
demonstration is just to get you excited
about hey you know what I can actually
do some things with this you could use
grep and you could find out if the
school buses are canceled in your area
right and you can have a little light go
red if the school buses are canceled get
the kids excited every morning if the
light is red you know you can do
whatever you want to do you can use all
kinds of tools and and the what you do
is really up to you and we're just
working with one GPIO pin I almost feel
like this could be used as some sort of
like a Pavlov's dog kind of situation
you know just put lights around your
house and randomly turn them on it's
like oh it's dinnertime turn it off oh
it's dinnertime like a light that was
like so so practical that's so
incredibly practical ok so we mentioned
about our API and our API just tells you
whether or not we are live
it looks a little something like that so
we're off the air
zero see how it returns a zero I'm using
the test API C so if I keep running that
it's eventually going to change to a 1
right because those switches every 30
seconds yeah and I see that some of it
gets cut off there on your screen don't
worry about it you can see what that as
it Scrolls up oh it's taken a little
longer one we are on the air the light
didn't turn up that's cuz we haven't
coded it to yet Jeff the light GPIO
right number 18 one there you go Jeff
yes yeah
there you are okay so that's the thing
we want it okay first of all we need to
create some kind of intelligence to say
to create a loop and say are we live or
are we not live I almost feel like there
was a slam on me because I want to see
the light we need to create some sort of
intelligence so here's the simple tool
that I just whipped up for ya you can
see that it's got both the api's we've
got the test API that toggles every 30
seconds and we've got the real-time API
then we've got a quick loop and here's
what we're doing now we've already
learned some of these things so we're
setting the live variable in Bosch using
W get and then whichever API we're using
and then we're outputting the response
of that rather than downloading a file
okay so live is going to become either a
0 or a 1 if live is 0 say we're off the
air if live is 1 say we're on the air
and if it doesn't know either way if
it's not a 0 or a 1 it will say unknown
and low and then it will output whatever
it output may be my servers offline or
something like that then it will sleep
for 10 seconds which means the loop is
going to wait 10 seconds before going
again and the first thing it does when
it restarts the loop it do is it reloads
the API to check what the status is so
if I run this code we can see we're off
the air
no we're not this is the test API right
and it's going to keep checking every 10
seconds
we know that the API is going to change
the test API changes every 30 seconds so
the most we're going to see is 3 off the
airs and 3 on the errors and that's
going to loop right ok and so when
you've got something like this I mean
could you
use something other than a light could
you have like a little bell the dings or
could you sure you could program like
you're Alexa to say cat5 is on the air
or something like that you could do any
number of things now you see we're on
the air because 30 seconds have gone by
and so it's on the air as I mentioned
you can use a relay in place of an LED a
relay will take a small voltage like 3.3
volts and allow you to use up to two
hundred and ten volts or something like
that so you can you can have a 3.3 volt
trigger flip the relay which connects
the connectors for the 110 okay and then
turns on whatever you want or you know
that's the GPIO scenario anyway so you
can really do anything as far as
communicating with Alexa that's a whole
other thing
that's not something that we're doing
here with no fur that's certainly not
something we do I didn't know a program
would like if you programmed it to that
it would go that far you could make it
do any number of things but all this
does is it gives a 3.3 volt signal or it
turns off the 3.3 volt signal an LED is
the most simple way to demonstrate that
that is actually taking place right yeah
okay
but I think a relay really opens it up
to new possibilities so now we see that
that loop is happening we're off the air
we're on the air because it's the test
API now if I switch that instead to the
actual real-time API so comment out the
test API and run that we're gonna see
that every time it's gonna say that we
are on air because right now we're
broadcasting so we are in fact on air so
that's what it's going to output so I've
created a second tool which just takes
that to the next step so again it uses
everything that I've already
demonstrated and shown you here to be
able to do what we want which is
inevitably turn on the light turn off
the light depending on whether or not
we're on the air so I've set the GPIO
pin as a string so that you can change
that if you want to a different GPIO pin
I've set that to pin 18 then I'm saying
if the GPIO executive will exists in
user local pin then we can continue if
not it's going to warn us you haven't
installed wiring PI yet okay because
remember that was one of the first
things we had to do right
then we need to set the pin for output
we already demonstrated that but we're
using the string instead of having to
put 18 we're using dollar sign pin so
that is now an output pin at the
beginning notice there's no loop yet
okay because we don't need to turn it I
will put output output over and over
again now clear the light state if it is
on we're gonna turn it off the first of
the first run and then and we already
learn that command as well then we start
our loop and this is exactly the same as
the loop that we just looked at mm-hmm
except for one thing and that is that
I've added the GPIO statement so we grab
the API from the whichever API is
selected then we see whether it is zero
at which case we say off the air but
then we also turn off the light okay
right we're writing to the pin 18 zero
if it's live so one we say on the air to
the terminal and then we take pin 18
dollar sign pin and we set it to one so
pull it off okay then we sleep for 10
seconds now let's see what happens so
you see on the screen now I'm gonna run
that GPIO dot SH enter oh we're on the
air so now remember we're using the test
API so every 30 seconds is going to turn
on or off the air it's gonna respond
with either a 1 or a 0 every 30 seconds
so right now we're on the air so the
device that you've created now the light
is on now you know oh it's time for
category 5 time to make popcorn or
whatever it is the court has passed you
need to get to your feed wait for it
wait for it oh we're gonna go off the
air now no we're not
yeah here goes so that's a really really
simple programming really really simple
circuit you can build something like
that and it takes you 10 minutes
realistically sure take my code study it
I mean it's really really simple I just
whipped that up before the show just to
be able to demonstrate it for you
without making too many mistakes here on
the air while we're live and and it
works great and it could be used for so
many different things you know I mean
I'm truly sitting there going I'm
picturing like building a house and
firing lights all over the place they
offer a raspberry pie why not yeah also
you could be in the kitchen you toggle
switch it's like ooh dinner's on or you
know all that kind of stuff so that all
the bedrooms just have this little light
because often they give you kids
commuting the whole market like oh
there's ready so this is where we need
to tell you about voltage and yes you
don't want to pull too many volts off of
the Raspberry Pi you can't hook it up to
your microwave to pop the popcorn but
with a relay against you can then use
like a 4 amp power supply plug that into
the relay then plug the relay into the
3.3 volt a GPIO and you can have the
real a trip to trigger a 12 volt 4 amp
circuit it does whatever you need Dennis
Kelly asks and I think I know the answer
to this so is there a way to make it
come on 15 minutes before the show the
truth of the matter is we kind of go
live a couple minutes before the show
anyway right so it would be fine so
what's interesting about this is the
moment I push live on Telestream wire
cast our server database creates a
variable in our server
it's a session variable that says we're
live yes so it automatically creates all
the feeds and puts everything up and
does all that and and does everything
that happens yeah I get a little pop up
on my screen there you go right so what
you will get in that moment is the light
will come on not not when we start hey
welcome to category 5 no as soon as we
push that we're live button and we're
streaming to the web it's usually about
15 minutes before the show that's gonna
happen mm-hmm so try the circuit and if
you try this simple simple circuit and
the simple software that I've provided
for you to get started we'd love to see
your pictures we'd love to hear from you
and know how it's worked out and make
sure that you've got it near the TV next
time you're watching category 5 TV when
you're watching live and if you're not
familiar with our live schedule it's
every Wednesday night at 7 o'clock
Eastern Time that's when we are actually
broadcasting live if you're watching it
elsewhere you may be watching like a
recording or
exactly all right one yeah I love it
are you all set ready to head over to
the newsroom I am okay here are the
stories were covering this week in the
category five TV newsroom research
suggests thousands of websites are being
hit by cyber cyber thieves who implant
code to scoop up payment card numbers
the no-fly zone for drones around
airports is to be extended following the
disruption at Gatwick in December a
wake-up call as quadri grouse founder
takes 135 million dollars of their
customers cryptocurrency to the grave
and a new AI is able to generate
freakishly realistic people who don't
actually exist these stories are coming
right up don't go anywhere
this is the category 5 TV newsroom
covering the week's top textiles will be
slight Linux bias Jeff Westen Jemma
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website
what
are you alright you're terrible actor
what this we're acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay I'm building
a really cool website are you building a
really cool website just because Jeff is
confused doesn't mean you have to be
visit cap five dot TV slash DreamHost to
sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
DreamHost I'm Sasha Rickman and here are
the top stories for following this week
research suggest thousands of websites
are being hit by cyber thieves who
implant code to scoop up payment card
numbers security giant Symantec found
more than 4,800 websites were being hit
by these forum jacking attacks every
month high profile victims of these
attacks include British Airways and
Ticketmaster according to or Allah Cox
director of Symantec Security Response
Unit formerly profitable ventures
involving ransomware and mining
cryptocurrencies now made gangs much
less money so they have instead turned
to inserting attack code either when
sites failed to update core software to
close loopholes or via insecure third
party apps such as chat apps analytics
packages or other extras it's a tiny
line of code in there and that's enough
for attackers to monitor payment card
info being entered in as they siphon it
off Cox goes on to say quote it's not
obvious that the website has been
compromised to the naked eye everything
would look fine and quote hmm
so I feel like this is just a digital
version of those big thing this is such
an easy thing to accomplish from a
coding standpoint and I hope that people
understand that that if you launch like
if you launch a wordpress blog and then
you install a whole bunch of plugin
that sound cool this happens I'm just
going to give you a scenario so oh this
is a really cool slider that makes my
images slide like a nice slideshow right
just to it looks cool and it's free
okay remember that so then what happens
is some malicious party finds these
really cool sliders that are free yeah
and says hey I'll give you $1,000 to
sell me that program so that it can now
be my program that I I'll maintain it I
will take over the project right it's
like little small business transactions
of like coders who I developed a really
cool plugin for WordPress and Wow mom
will so pay me for somebody wants to pay
me a thousand bucks for the program that
I made in my bedroom that's that's a
very legitimate scenario so then this
party who is now purchased it injects
code into the plug-in then they upload
that to the repository WordPress which
you have installed with that plug-in now
says oh there's an update install
updates because we know to install our
updates right so now this code is
injected into our website our WordPress
website just to use that as the example
this is why WordPress websites you you
hear about a lot of them getting
compromised right and then people start
to say oh well WordPress is not safe no
it's the practice of the administrators
that is not safe I have folks who say to
me I want administrator access to my
WordPress site and I say why do you want
that oh well because I want to be able
to have control over my site if your
business goes under hold on one second
how much do you know and what is that
you're going to be putting in like you
have to be realistic here you've got to
understand the risks it's not a
wordpress problem it's a user problem
I'm not going to give you administrator
access you can take that hosting
elsewhere it kind of thing yeah because
it's just too dangerous for you
and that's why our local church website
got hacked and turned into an Isis
website this happens because they are
clueless about security and yet they're
and they're trying to say
Buchan so we installed wordpress and
somebody who doesn't actually understand
security is the one who's administering
it right that's the risk so so now this
plugin is installed and we're doing
sales on our website or we've got we're
collecting contact information emails
and things like that
and all they're doing is transparently
you don't even know what's happening if
someone enters their credit card number
it's sending a copy to you for the
payment and it's sending a copy to the
malicious party as well right that's it
you don't even know what's happening
know what using third-party services
like say - lien or something where you
can have your payment you know cards in
your program that automatically fills it
in would that be more secure or does the
form still read that information it's
not it's not at all that's not this
problem okay all right this is form
injection so this is taking a form that
is being submitted on a website
collecting the data before it sends it
to the actual processor okay so your
question was it does it help if I as the
administrator well let's say I use
PayPal as my payment processor or as the
administrator I allow maybe I'm I used
Medeiros and you know I'm sure I'm a big
business well it doesn't matter because
that information has to be transmitted
to maneras in order to get the the
charge to happen and then it comes back
with a yeah it passed or no it was
declined now in that case though maybe
that's a different it's a different
process cuz it's like OAuth and yeah
okay the transaction details are never
exposed PayPal same thing you don't
actually get my credit card number if
you that's right process my transaction
with PayPal so it's a different thing
however they could in jet they could
receive my PayPal user credentials Oh
theoretically right cuz I saw the form
because it's because it's being
transmitted through the form right they
wouldn't get my credit card number so
it's a little bit of a different
scenario but still but any data that's
transmitted can be intercepted by these
types of infiltrations and part of it is
that we've learned that a site needs to
be secure so the injection has
occur on the actual server it can't
occur out in on some other server that's
been compromised and then hey it's
communicating back and forth no it has
to happen on the actual server that's
hosting the website because that's the
security certificate so it happens
completely transparently I doctor
performs so be careful right well I
think it boils down to you know what
I've been sang on the it's come up a
couple of times on our new endpoint
security I see a podcast where Tony ants
come and even Stephen Cobb had
reiterated that we need to be very
mindful and Tony really talked about
this that when we are shopping online as
an example we need to know that we trust
the people that we are purchasing from
especially if we're going to be saving
our data for the next transactions right
so Amazon memorizes my credit card
because I'm shopping there all the time
I don't want to have to enter it every
time but another store where I maybe
shop once a year twice a year I don't
need to have them memorize my credit
card number because I'm only opening
myself up to be exploited if they come
under compromised so just be mindful of
all these things we've learned so much
in this moment of news the next moment
yes no-fly zone for drones around
disruption at Gatwick in December from
March 13th onward it will be illegal to
fly a drone within three miles of an
airport rather than the current point
zero zero point six mile exclusion zone
the government also said it wants police
to now have new stop and search powers
to tackle drone misuse Gatwick Airport
was shut down for more than a day due to
drone sightings near the runway it
caused chaos for travelers affecting
more than 1,000 flights and about
140,000 passengers since then airports
have been trying to improve their
procedures to detect drones but they
continue to see illegal flights near
their perimeters in January departures
at Heathrow were temporarily stopped
after a drone was reportedly sighted
transport secretary Chris Grayling said
quote the law is clear that flying a
drone at near an airport is serious
criminal act
he continues we are now going even
further and extending the no-fly zone to
help keep our airports secure and our
skies safe anyone flying their drone
within the vicinity of an airport should
know that they are not only acting
irresponsibly but criminally and could
face imprisonment end quote hmm no issue
with this makes it no no absolutely
well if three miles is a lot of distance
though and it is but we it's a shame
that they've had to take this step but I
mean you figure how high drones can go
and if you've got a major plane that's
coming in I mean that trajectory is not
it's not like they're you know
helicopter drop oh yeah they're coming
in to go three miles out you're gonna
need it
right you know so I I have no issue with
this I think it's good and it's
unfortunate that people are so careless
I think it bows down to the people the
the only reason that I have a little bit
of a different view is that my sister
used to live fairly close within three
miles of an airport nowhere near the fly
zone like there were no airplanes going
right over her house or anything but I
used to fly around the field in her yard
cuz she had a big yard and I and I
thought well that's within three miles
of the airport so you would not be able
to fly in your field here because it's a
no-fly zone at this point so there's
kind of two sides to it but people need
to be smart I remember when we heard
about these drones a long time ago I had
the idea why don't they come up with
some sort of scrambler or something that
would just not get it would this
distance be far enough away from the
planes that you could knock the drones
out of the sky 747 you need to get about
10 feet higher otherwise you're gonna
hit the wall ooh I think is is the fact
that I mean you've got drone makers from
all over the world and at the end of the
day they're not regulated on how they
make them so it's not like you could say
based on regulations you have to point
you know this script within there there
are my drone cannot fly above then like
to the to the no fly limit
right the GPS signal will we'll stop it
it's like it's like hitting a wall it's
an amazing feeling as soon as you get
there
the drone just is like then it just
stops right you can't go any higher and
all you can do is bring it down about 50
feet and then fly that's it so yours has
that program not it does it and as soon
as you enforce that in every drone
people are gonna be snipping the wire
right that's exactly what you know is
gonna happen he bikes came out he bikes
came out and people started removing the
governors yes people are boundary
pushers by nature so this is this is why
it becomes a criminal offense now
instead of just hey we had a policy now
it's like and but they can never find
the individuals right again I mean man
we have some really good information on
the endpoint security dossier podcast
because Stephen Cobb was saying you know
part of the issue with cybercrime is
people know that they are probably not
going to get caught how is a Russian
hacker in on Russian soil gonna get
caught when he's hacking an American
server it's not gonna happen and even if
he's caught he's not gonna be arrested
or anything right it's not gonna happen
unless he leaves the country so
similarily like I mean well a drone I
mean they still haven't found the person
or persons responsible no we're shutting
down the airport and they won't and they
won't know they put up a 50,000 pound
reward for anyone with information and
nobody's come for nobody has that
information because it's just drone
flying around close you have to be to
the drone in order to fly it like could
you not remote into your longer couple
kilometer could you remote into your
remote to fly your drone could you be
like one step these days you can use you
can just use a headset and you can fly
it as far as you want and is this within
range a couple kilometers or so yeah
then you can see from the cameras to be
the issue for planes Christmas lights
just a couple of moments a couple of
months ago a wake-up call as quad Regas
founder takes 135 million of their
when the 30 year old founder of a
Canadian cryptocurrency
change died suddenly he took around 180
million dollars Canadian and
cryptocurrency to his grave now tens of
thousands of quadriga CX users are
wondering if they will ever see their
funds again
back in 2014 one of the world's biggest
online crypto currency exchanges mount
Cox and unexpectedly shut down after
losing 850,000 bitcoins valued at the
time at nearly point four billion
dollars its meltdown shook investors in
the volatile emerging market place but
the calamity at the Tokyo based company
proved a boon for a new Canadian online
crypto currency exchange quadriga CX
founder Gerald cotton said at the time
people liked the fact that we're located
in Canada and know where their money is
going some five years later caught in
sudden untimely death has left thousands
of his customers scrambling for
information about their own missing
funds this month quadriga which had
grown to become Canada's largest
cryptocurrency exchange was granted
temporary bankruptcy protection in a
Canadian Court the firm said it had
spent the week since Cotton's death
trying desperately to locate and secure
the cryptocurrency reserves in court
documents quadriga says it owes up to
one hundred and fifteen thousand an
estimated two hundred and fifty million
dollars Canadian about seventy million
dollars in hard currency and about 180
and 190 million in cryptocurrency based
on recent market rates it believes
though it is not certain that the bulk
of those millions in reserves was locked
away by cotton in cold storage which is
an offline safeguard against hacking and
theft for now all has been all trading
has been suspended on the platform I'll
say yeah of course
hey anybody wanted right on there okay
so if but if it's a if it's a registered
exchange now granted I don't know if it
falls under the exchange rules as far as
like the stock market goes but it's a
company with somebody not have had
authoritative powers to take over all
those accounts it doesn't work that way
it's cryptocurrency so he
had the it presumably he had the D the
keys yeah he had private keys right but
then who gets access to his estate like
this is the ship it was 30 so he didn't
think of that I bet yeah maybe he was 30
we'll know in the next couple of music
Canadian 30 year old I feel like he
probably thought he had another 50 years
easy but I mean like I start not I don't
think if you're gonna have a company
that it's one point had point four
billion dollars in cryptocurrency you'd
have some sort of lawyer and backing
behind you and you some sort of had a
friend named Jeff at the time when you
were starting that you might have
thought of that but if you were just a
guy that was taking advantage of the
fact that he had a great idea and that
the other you know tokyo-based company
had problems then you just have an idea
you run with it and then all of a sudden
you meet an untimely end and you're
people now are scrambling probably
trying every cold storage area in Canada
yeah it's got no it's not it's not a
physical space oh this is cold storage
crypto yeah this means in my mind it's
like that time when that computer ended
up in the dump
remember that's right so I figure that
it was that hard
let's okay let's use this as an example
okay so we've got a DT 2000 from
Kingston yes it has a passcode key lock
yes I set the password on this and I put
all my files on this pretend that these
files are
the crypto currency keys for thousands
of customers okay so this basically is
the access to their money without this
you cannot gain access to that money
right now you can punch in your code you
can try to guess my code ten times and
then it wipes itself right
everything's gone from this Drive okay
he had the keys yeah and he died
unexpectedly so he didn't he made a
stupid decision I'm sure yeah it wasn't
intentional to take anybody's money no
he thought he was being wise to get it
into cold storage which is to make it
inaccessible by hackers
and it's it's a tough call because if
you're gonna trade in cryptocurrency you
need to have your own cold storage you
need to have your own they call it an
offline wallet it's a wallet that is not
accessible by anyone other than you keep
your keys somewhere safe I've got a
paper and you know and on paper your
wife can find them if something happened
to you
crypto currency isn't insured in any way
is it how do you prove your
cryptocurrency if it went missing it you
can't it's impossible that's the whole
point so it's just one of the so-so
because he is because this is an
exchange it's different this is not a
bank a bank you put your money in and
you trust your money safe right this is
not that this is an exchange this is
where I put my money in order to
exchange it to other to other currencies
to other right so you hear about the
value of Bitcoin and you think well how
do you actually monetize that I can't
walk into a store and buy something with
Bitcoin no so you put that Bitcoin on an
exchange convert it into etherium
convert it into litecoin and convert it
into US dollars right but it has to
enter the exchange in order to happen
yeah so that's why people put their
currency in there unfortunately some
people leave their currency and they're
not ever really making the wise decision
to move it into a paper wallet or an
offline wallet
it's truly is unfortunate because at the
end of the day the the idea is a great
idea but because the security and the
succession planning wasn't thought out
as a company people are now getting
screwed but fortunately it's a really
tough thing yeah and if I have paper
wallet like it said a bad image for
cryptocurrencies because people are
going oh it's my money but at the end
that's not the issue the issue is this
case no you wanted you wanted safe
guarantee you wanted a currency that
cannot be traced so this is the side
effect of that if something goes wrong
it's right but the the really crummy
thing is that you know people can't get
that money back
mmm it's a tragedy really there anyway
to so many ways to like pull those
trying transactions through the block
coin to rebuild it through the
blockchain store a block Jamie no no you
have to have the keys right and just to
find a final thought not to be ominous
or anything but you you think okay well
why don't you just have a paper wallet
why didn't he just have the keys printed
and stored in a safe or something and
one of the things that's also happening
with these kinds of folks so the people
who are responsible for Bitcoin and and
and other cryptocurrency exchanges is
that they are now targets sure because
if I know that somebody has that kind of
currency and it's untraceable and I know
that they store the keys in their vault
instead of in their head then I want in
their vault
I want a result at all costs because as
soon as I have those keys I have all of
that currency and there is no tracing
that transaction that's right ah well
let's move on to some lighter news yeah
okay a new AI is able to generate
actually exist at first glance they just
look like average looking people the
catches and none of them exist all you
all these faces that you're seeing are
fakes put together by artificial
intelligence to be more precise these
faces are created by a generative
adversarial network or Gann developed by
Nvidia using deep learning techniques to
produce realistic portraits out of a
database of existing photos head over to
this person does not exist com2 see for
yourself every time you refresh the page
the network will generate a new facial
image from scratch with again new to
neural networks neutral neural as in
designed to mimic the brains
decision-making process work in tandem
here one network generates a fake face
while another decides if it's realistic
enough by comparing
with photos of actual people if the test
isn't past the face generator tries
again this feedback loop is responsible
for the images you can see here similar
Gans have been used to switch a scene
from winter to summer Nvidia's
impressive face coding is now managing
to add a new level of authenticity
through what's known as style transfer
processing different parts of the image
like face shape and hairstyle separately
it means different faces can be more
easily and more realistically blended
together in a similar sort of way that
photo apps turn your face into a
painting or sketch after training the
programmers can combine these aspects in
any way they like the weighting of these
different facial aspects can be tweaked
and adjusted as necessary giving the
programmers greater control over the end
output that is incredible I know it is
freaky how realistic those faces are
they are
have you seen derp fakes like they can
make faces look like they're saying
stuff or singing or whatever yeah dig
take this blend it with that and
suddenly you've got actors that don't
exist well and that's it I mean when I
first saw this I was pulling enough up
my wife's like what are you doing like
you're looking and random people I mean
they're not people so use this as your
app what use these as your avatar well
yeah right
except then Facebook is like send me on
your picture to prove that it's you now
I will say though not all of the
pictures were great there was a few that
came through and when I looked at them
I'm going there's something odd about
this and I think it's a matter of
learning to you know kind of figure it
out but in general they looked really
really lot of them it's true it's like
the the little imperfections like the
smile lines around the eyes or the
crooked teeth it's like those sorts of
things that make you feel okay this is
an authentic person not an AI generated
perfect symmetry chol being like nobody
is it's incredible stuff yeah it's well
it's but at the same time it makes you
go now can I trust anybody
is image online it's like yeah you know
like could you turn around and create
you know a whole story about somebody
and have pictures and create this fake
like you've got these fake Facebook
profiles about steel that's with us and
stuff I'm thinking about the real
positive aspects of it though you're
thinking that let's get let's get all
yeah let's get into the neck no think
about this a game in virtual reality
with your headset so that is able to
upon launch generate all of the
characters that look like real people
and everybody has never been seen before
and they're not even real people but
they look incredibly real because the AI
could take that and form it on to a
model right so now just add three
dimensions to the photo it's in VR yeah
interact with these people you know kids
games these days they generate avatars
upon watch and it's all you know it's a
different avatar every time but their
video game quality now take it and take
it to the next level make them look
really real now though what would happen
if somebody use that image and there
happen to be a real physical your
doppelganger it's like it looks like
somebody who kind of looks like me or
you know you have to refresh all a time
yeah but it would be freaky like not
only am i no longer like an individual
but I'm like copied by and and it's an
AI person you know well see then you
just look at you go am i really real
let's put together like a wanted poster
sure with light and just every week
change the photo to one of these AI
generated photos see how many calls you
go or like employee over the month let's
just do it as employee there you go
brilliant we're gonna put that up behind
us all right let's get let's get over to
coin gecko here's what the crypto market
looked like as of 1800 hours Eastern
Time on Wednesday February 20th 2019
Bitcoin is up gaining three hundred
fifty three dollars and sixty cents u.s.
doing very well 3,900
$58 and 86 cents litecoin is also up
gaining about $10 just nine dollars and
fifty two cents us at fifty 110
aetherium is also at 146 94 gained
twenty-five dollars in 37 cents since
last week Manero is rising slowly at
fifty 124 and a small guys have come
down just a little bit stellite is down
at one point five nine ten thousandths
of a cent and turtle coin at 0.8 to
remember that the cryptocurrency market
never closes and is always volatile big
thanks to Roy W Nash in our community of
viewers for submitting stories to us
this week thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our web site from the category 5 TV
newsroom i'm satya Rickman and i'm robi
ferguson hey Jeff Weston thank you so
much for being here with us again this
week looking forward to next week same
place same time see you then did you
like to turn it on that's right
[Applause]
you
