welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode number five 97 this week
while we're looking at a single-board
computer with a twist it has its own
enclosure and it holds you ready for
this yes a solid-state hard drive
no way yeah it has eight cores it has
two gigs of RAM and I've installed
Debian stretch directly on this unit
so hey get creative with it you can do
pretty much anything you want build your
own nests build your own server tonight
we're gonna learn how to turn it into a
BitTorrent seed server stick around our
live recordings are trusted only two
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology we revive your computer with
improved performance or reliability over
traditional hard drives with Kingston
SSDs category 5 TV streams live with
Telestream Wirecast and nimble streamer
tune in every week on roku Kodi Plex and
other HLS video players for local show
times visit category-five dot TV
category TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat5 TV slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters
cat5 TV slash ia IB welcome to the show
everybody nice to see you I'm Robby I am
Sasha nice see how I didn't stumble on
you in that time that was good I was
like I'm gonna let her say I knew she'd
be right on top of that one thing we got
through the intro so now they know who
we are
exactly now we gotta have a rockin good
show so everybody's little LED light
came on just a couple of moments ago so
I imagine that your projects are going
very very well I want to say thank you
to everyone who's pitched in to assist
with our server replacement we've got a
our Telestream Wirecast broadcast system
that's the computer that all of our
cameras plug into and everything else
and allows us to do the switching and
and the live broadcasting that needs to
be replaced because unfortunately it's
at end-of-life it is an older system
that I put together back in season 5
here we are in the middle of season 12
and it it served us very
well but it is failing and so I just
again want to thank you there have been
several people who have thrown a little
something in the tip jar to support that
venture and for those of you who aren't
sure why we would even mention that or
why we wouldn't just up and you know
pull out the old credit card and and and
buy a new server category-five TV is a
group of volunteers we are all
volunteers here we pay the bills
we we do everything on the budget that
we have to operate which is based on
advertising revenue which is based on
folks that use our Amazon links and
other partner links in order to shop
through our website so that so that a
little kickback comes back to us right
and contributions from folks like
patrons and people who throw something
in the tip jar yes we don't have any
debt right which is a you know that's
that's kind of how we want it to be like
that's that's where we want
category-five to be I mean you you know
you got to pay the bill from a month ago
for the internet and stuff like that but
as far as like back down buying things
we're not putting like something on a
credit card and then paying like a crazy
amount of interest and that's not
respectful yeah yeah so we're not
falling look at that so so you know all
that to say your contributions are
helping us to get ready for that
reasonably major purchase for for a
small group like ours and so I thank you
very much and thank you again to our
patrons those are the folks who just
give some give as little as a dollar a
month and that's great because if there
are let's just say there were a thousand
people who decided to do that yes that's
that's our our rent covered that's our
internet covered in addition to that and
and then like everything else is gratis
right and then there are folks who give
$20 a month and and it's really it's up
to you and there are some perks there
that are that are given to you if if you
decide to contribute in that way so I
just want to again thank everyone for
for pitching in when we do raise the
money for the server which will be
happening soon yeah I just can't I just
build it like I am gonna put a fee to
perfection
put my feet up Sasha knows how to build
servers I can I can do this right
Marsh man how's your gaming rig been
performing I mean we put that together
back at the end of 2017 I think so it
was like it was a wedding little wedding
gift right and I've been married for
like a little more than a year a little
more than a year yeah so it's doing
really well it's I did not really felt
it really kind of I kind of did yeah I
sort of did I but I did a good job like
it's really all I did was go very
careful yourself Sasha don't bend the
pins that's probably that was my job it
reminded me of learning how to drive
which is with the backseat driver the
training person could you imagine okay
so that was my that's my computer well
it stays computer is my gift to Dave
yeah right so you didn't have like any
real like emotional attachment can you
imagine I was building the surfer for
the show right there's a little bit of
like a an added stress there yeah yeah
that'll be the one I'll just guide you
through it yeah yeah let's do it
yeah that'll be part of the our vodcast
they'll be so much my vlog basically so
we will show you that server once we put
it together and everything but as far as
patrons go if your patron you'll be able
to gain access to that if you're not a
patron but you contributed just email me
and say yeah I want access to that as
well yeah I'll just send you a link to
the video because that's gonna be a lot
of fun but it'll probably be like an
eight-hour putting together this amazing
server so what's new with you anything
exciting in the tech world did he get a
chance to look back at some of the stuff
we're doing with online yeah to be
honest I've been so super busy just in
time it's just been bananas and so I
haven't really had a chance so none of
my news is really tech news mostly I am
just gonna just go right out there and
tell you I'm going to Whistler for merch
break and I'm gonna be away in two weeks
it's gonna be way too
until my big news is really just that
I've been spending as much time as
possible trying to learn how to
snowboard so that I don't embarrass
myself on a mountain you've been
snowboarding for a couple years I've
been snowboarding not for a couple of
years for what for like one year one
year yeah yeah you enjoy I love it I'm
so bad at it but today I went out for a
couple of hours this morning it's cold
here minus 15 yeah
Celsius I went down six runs and did not
fall at all for the first time ever nice
okay so I can't even walk without
falling that's amazing in comparison at
Whistler BC if for anybody who's not
familiar way way out west Western us so
we're like we're central Ontario and
they're at Central cellphones what's sad
one of their runs is 11 kilometres long
I'm sorry what now 11 kilometres so you
know boarding you're like squatting
snowboarding like you're maybe doing 40
50 kilometres now no I'm not I'm really
really chicken but okay but okay let's
say you are going 40 I would imagine you
could easily you could sustain 40
kilometres oh yeah yeah 11 kilometres
long that's amazing yeah that's gonna be
a crazy amount of leg action yeah so be
safe so yeah send back video well here's
the plan contact but I mean everybody
wants to see it maybe vlog for us
exactly so we're going to Whistler on
the Monday and my plan is to do the
calculations I think it's a three-hour
time difference my plan is to be at
least in the chat room for the show
itself right you'll need to be there
like four o'clock in the afternoon I
feel like that's possible yeah so I can
do that and I can send you pictures and
stuff so that I can still be a part of
the show I don't like to be away yeah
jump into this cord tell my stuff
nothing that exciting going on
nothing at all really yeah all we've got
oh yeah I've got things on the go but
nothing like snowboarding 11 kilometres
down a hill in in Whistler BC right
that's that's not on the table for me
I'm really excited about it yeah okay
but we can't just talk one hour about
how cool it is going but I would love to
hear from our viewers in in British
Columbia please in Canada and just let
us know that you're watching and and
just know that sash is gonna be there in
a couple of weeks over the March break
it's gonna be a busy time it is gonna be
actually yeah if you're watching from BC
just know that I've spent all of my
money on my lift tickets for one day or
so also give me ideas of what I can do
for free let's see if I can now how can
i yeah get in here without a mouse is
there a way to to zoom in on I don't
know how I don't oh if I don't look like
double click double click double click
okay we have some folks down in in
Surrey and Vancouver we've got somebody
up there and willow looks like Williams
Lake yeah okay so where abouts
does Whistler fall on oh there it is
right in between so just yeah above
Garibaldi Provincial Park
there's Whistler and that's where Sasha
is gonna be so we've got some folks that
are watching from Vancouver British
Columbia we've got somebody down here
just a little north west of abbotsford
and and then they're there you are
right right north of Garibaldi
Provincial Park so so cool yeah yeah
I'll take lots of pictures I mean Dave
will probably take lots of pictures I
use all of my attention just staying I
take the GoPro video absolutely if you
want to know how you can see that map
and see where our viewers are watching
from just head on over to map dot cat5
dot TV it gives you a live global view
of our viewership so these are the folks
that are watching category five
technology TV and there's somebody right
in the middle of the North Pacific how
is that that is a wee tiny little island
that you might have heard of called
Hawaii Oh driving my car today with one
of my friends I was like my car is so
cool listen it's just Google assistance
but I was like that's your friend I had
human friends oh okay going off I like
plug my phone in and Android auto pops
up and I was showing off my cool
technology and I was like you can ask it
anything and today I asked it's like
what time is it in Hawaii
turns out Hawaii like at two o'clock in
the afternoon it's like 8 o'clock in the
morning in Hawaii oh there you go yeah
so we were showing off my Amazon echo
just before cranking up some tunes we
had volume at 7 and you wanted a song
and suddenly she started playing the
mini Pops yeah maybe maybe she was
judging my voice this sounds like a
child she would like to listen to the
mini pots not the original version of
any at all what she asked for and then
when we continued to ask note turn that
off put on something else
it kept choosing mini pops yeah pretty
much
that device judged me I said that now
we've set some very dangerous precedent
because now it thinks that that's what I
prefer right now when I ask for things
like Otis Redding it's gonna be like
here's the hits of Otis Redding
performed by the mini pies and mini pops
now when I was younger and you gassed up
at the gas stations here I don't know if
it's like this everywhere but or was
like this everywhere you used to get a
cassette tape as like a gift if you know
yeah so I you have like a really odd
collection of cassette tapes from like
the mid 80s and it would have like one
or two yeah one or two songs only on it
but they were almost always many pops so
I actually have a history tonight we are
going to be looking at a very cool
device from Odroid now we've looked at
the xu4 yes you remember this board I
actually have my xu4 if I can just leave
the set here for a second folks I'm
going to grab this because I've actually
got it connected on disconnecting it now
and then I can bring it around now my ex
u4q is installed in
cloud shell - case right so some people
have seen this on the show and said what
that's that's not a raspberry pie killer
it's huge and expensive this is the case
with a screen and a circuit controller
and two hard drives and a and a SATA
header here so we you know you pay extra
for those components right now the xu4
itself the circuit board is right there
so can you folks see that I'm gonna just
kind of zoom in here so that you can get
a look so this is the board it's a
single board computer it's kind of hard
to show you but that's it that's the
single board computer it's about the
size of a Raspberry Pi so whenever I
demonstrate the cloud shell to this
device this is like the full like I've
purchased the case I've got a couple
hard drives in there I've got a nice fan
on the back which people say well why do
you need to keep it cool if it's got a
heatsink that's for the hard drives
because the spinning hard drives do
generate some heat that'll just keep
them cool give them a longer life that's
cool no pun intended and then we've got
a three and a half inch screen or some
odd thing like that USB three all that
kind of stuff it's all built-in right so
I mention this because I know you've
seen it on the show before that circuit
board the xu4 yes is combined into a
nasty unit not like this not at all like
this I'm going to show it to you in a
couple of minutes time and it's gonna
blow your mind
so they've taken that SOC tip an
eight-core processor two gigs of ram and
built it into basically an external hard
drive enclosure it's called the home
cloud one and we're gonna be unboxing
that and actually testing it this
evening here on category 5 TV so make
sure you stick around
[Music]
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cap five
dot TV slash shirts
okay welcome back folks as we do it with
our single board computers and unboxing
I want to start it right here at our
unboxing table so you can get a look at
the Odroid hc1 now let's get right into
it
this is the box they sent me what is so
exciting about this device is that it is
a single board computer built in to
basically a hard drive enclosure that's
all that's in the box I'm just gonna
throw that down there and let's get in
it together now I was watching Doctor
Who last week and I'm afraid to do
anything with the bubble wrap I'll just
set that aside safely okay now this is
sealed Marsh man yeah he's so proud of
you
I know I know and there it is I feel
like there should be like some heavenly
semaphores playing as I open this I want
you to understand how incredible this is
for SOC and single-board computers
you'll notice there is no HDMI output
there's no video output this is strictly
your DIY Nass unit there is a larger
form factor version of the hc1 it's
called cleverly any guesses know the HC
to know ya the home cloud to will take a
full sized like three and a half inch
hard drive now what this bad boy is
gonna take so what I want to point out
is that this is basically an xu4 single
board computer I say that it's not
really an X u 4 but it's it's got the
same SOC so what it has underneath of
this you notice that there's no
processor it's because it is on the
bottom side you can't even see it but
it's down there and it's making contact
over here with the cooling architecture
of this aluminum
okay so this heatsink it's basically
like the the chassis is this giant
heatsink and the SOC is underneath of
this bit here and it's keeping cool the
SOC is why is it so exciting it is a
cortex a15 2 gigahertz processor with a
cortex a7 CPU as well that gives this a
total of eight processing cores eight
cores folks amazing unbelievable it has
2 gigabytes of RAM and as you can
observe here it has an SATA 3 header
built right into the board so what does
that mean now we can take our kingston
SSD there you go I've got a 960 gig or 1
terabyte drive and I just simply slide
it in there and boom now it's part of
that device so now this SOC when I boot
it I'm going to have access to this
drive as a hard drive for this system to
use for storage now it does boot from an
SD card so I've got a micro SD card
which I've installed Mavericks Debian
stretch on this so you can download that
at cat5 dot TV slash meb just to make it
simple for you
that'll take you to the forum thread
that gives you that image for Debian
stretch and that is going to boot from
that SD card then the data is going to
be stored here this is where we're gonna
actually put stuff the case here now
this is sold separately this upper part
here it's just the way that they've done
it so just keep in mind you'll probably
want to pick up one of these as well and
what this does is it's going to just
slide right on here I presume of course
I unbox this with you watching so you
know about as much of it as I do but I
think that's just gonna kind of pop
right on here huh yeah something like
that with the SD card right there does
it slide on
it looks like it oh yeah I got there's
like a yeah like a like a break back
there we go okay and then this side here
I imagine that's gonna do the same thing
and they're gonna lock together so no
screws need it yes okay we're lying here
together folks so this is the Odroid hc1
I've put my Kingston 960 gig hard drive
in there
I've got Mavericks install here on a
Kingston 16 gig microSD which I'm just
gonna pop right in there it's gonna use
5 volt 4 amp of course we need that 4
amp because we're also powering a hard
drive as well it's got USB 2 and it has
Gigabit Ethernet beyond that that you
add the SD card slot the the microSD
slot is is uhs-1 compatible so it is
fast but again we're gonna probably put
most of our data is going to be
happening here just the boot in the
operating system itself is gonna happen
on the SD card but before you test it
are you putting screws in the SSD
because there's screws on the side on
the table there beside you what what am
i look at you what shakes v you made me
sound like a genius well where do they
go yeah there you go look at that the
food for the wind you've got a couple of
we've got a hole there mm-hmm
and we've got that's it that's it
there's just one screw hole that
perfectly aligns with my SS perfect
let's grab that
because we you know we we absolutely we
only do things correctly around here
folks we read the instructions oh yeah
there weren't any instructions you saw
what came in the box actually it's just
DIY it's just hey stick this thing
together figure it out for yourself
this is very like chic I love the look
of it so and I think that has a little
tiny home server or anything like that
this is kind of an ideal device I think
as an M server as Nagios how perfect is
this for for something to monitor your
network and keep tabs on things
put all your logs on the SSD it's going
to give better performance and higher
reliability than something like your SD
card SSD SD there you go it's all
screwed together fantastic alright so
I'm gonna jump back over here Sasha if
you want to hit that wide shot there so
that we can see you and I'm gonna make
my way back to the set okay so let me
just all there is to it
yeah let me feel mm-hmm it is cool what
do you think ah unboxings make me want
to buy things it's just it's there's so
many different things you can do this
okay it is Linux compatible so again
I've put Debian on here yeah cat five
dot TV slash move to grab the the image
for that which you just flash using
B'Elanna sure I guess they've renamed it
because they got bought out by or they
changed their name or something like
that but sure anyways you can burn that
and then you're good to go
yes presumably and you say well you've
done all the work but we want to
actually see this thing operate yes so
don't go anywhere we're gonna fire it up
right after this
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching welcome back
this is category 5 technology TV and
before the break we were looking at the
hc1 which I've now plugged in right here
and so I've simply plugged in an
Ethernet cable and a power cable that
power cable is something that you
purchase at the same time from cat5 TV
slash Odroid and that is a 5 volt 4 amp
power supply right and it's important to
get the 4 amp because we're gonna be
powering not just the the circuitry the
the SOC or the single board computer but
also the SSD right or you could have an
a hard drive as well like a spinning
hard drive if it fits
it'll be like 1.5 millimeters thick or
is it 15 millimeters I don't know
millimeters in jeez 17 meters you know
but as long as it fits within 2.5 inch
enclosure then it's going to fit exactly
but I like to use an SSD I find there
these days they're gonna be reliable
mm-hmm they are affordable now yeah
Kingston make exceptional SSD drives and
it generates no heat it uses virtually
no power ran so this device is basically
this is a solid-state device that I can
just put in my server room
I can use it at work I can use it at
home I can put it in the cellar I can
put it I can just tuck it in behind the
TV and make it a server and it's fine
right like the spinning ones they can if
you give them all their arm
yeah and damage the drive right the the
needle can we'll call it a needle but
the head can touch the platter because
there's a very very fine air cushion
between the platter and the head and so
it can cause damage where is these
things even with it powered on right now
I have no risks in moving it around or
whatever else they're very I feel like a
solid-state drive is like Sascha proof
like I can I wouldn't call it sash of
proof we'll call it Sascha resistant
we're okay yeah so I'll still stick with
be careful around it yeah
so I've plugged it in and and I want to
remind you that you can't plug this into
a TV
there's no HDMI output there's no video
capabilities within this board
whatsoever so that's where differs from
an X you for the X you for has 4k HDMI
output right this does not this is just
strictly treat it like a server or in
this case we're gonna call it an ass
unit but it's so much more than that you
think of an ass as it's strictly storage
network attached storage right you can
save things to it being copy things from
it and it's centralized storage and it's
handy it replaces the need for buying a
full size server for storing files and
sharing them within your network right
what this does that but it also has an
eight core computer running Debian Linux
stretch Debian 9 is what I've got on
there now of course I could upgrade it
to Buster if I wanted to go to Debian 10
it's available it's it's I think it's
frozen as well so you could do that if
you're you know and if you know what if
you don't know what I'm talking about
it's okay you don't need to do it but if
you do you you can do that and it will
operate so it's basically a full
computer yes but with the networking
capabilities and everything else so all
I've done is I've so with it with
Mavericks Debian stretch installed
mm-hmm flashed to the SD card I've
turned it on and now I see the IP
address when I check out my router
cuz remember that doesn't have a screen
so I need to be able to find how do I
access it right so I checked out my
router and my router shows the DHCP pool
and I can see the DHCP for it showed as
debian stretch and it showed 10.0.0.0
had assigned to this device so now when
I jump over to a putty window on my
Windows 10 machine and type in that
address it's saying yeah it's found it
10.0.0.0
the so that you can see how that works
I'm gonna go 1000 dot 1 for 8 login as
and your login is route let's zoom in
here a little bit and I'm going to move
this window so that it it falls right on
your screen Beauty so your login is
going to be root out-of-the-box your
password is all lowercase Odroid just
like you see on the box well it's a
little strange font but Odroid odro ID
okay now I mean what do you want to do
let's do let's do apt update ok just to
kind of see how that goes
now we see hey we've got a service
certificate verification failed we've
got a whole bunch of errors what gives
what yeah
what gears what happened I didn't plug
in a real-time clock battery oh we could
you could plug in a real-time clock
battery I imagine that there is a spot
for it but my clock is gonna be wrong
right oh yeah yeah so what I need to do
is I need to set my clock and I'm gonna
confirm that so I'll jump back to this
any time that you get those ssh errors
if you get like you you're unable to run
an apt update you're unable to do an apt
upgrade and it's telling you that secure
SSL Certificates or bad if you're going
on the internet from a device and it
says that the SSL certificates are bad
first thing you want to do is check your
date and time on your computer right
with a single board computer it's
especially true because
a lot of them don't have a real-time
clock battery built in some don't even
have a real-time clock oh but if you
plug a battery into ones that do support
it then it will maintain that time once
you've said it right otherwise you just
want to keep it on a UPS so that it
doesn't lose the time or install NTP or
something like that so every time it
reboots it checks with the Internet
servers and downloads the the time yes
but to do it quickly
first of all let's verify that that's
the problem I can just simply type date
and I see lo and behold it's November
3rd 2016 Wow so that is thanks so yeah I
mean these are these this is a board
that I just unboxed right so it's never
been powered on and the system clock
thinks it's 2016 that's fine and they
didn't even exist back then I don't
think but let's figure out how to
actually set that time now you can go
through the hoops or you can use a tool
that I created which I call my Linux
time setting nerdgasm so if you head
over to bald nerd comm slash nerdgasm
'he's just like it sounds
and on my nerdgasm list you will find
set Linux time end date and all this
does is it makes it really really easy
for you to just say choose your timezone
and then it will give you two commands
one is one that will just set your time
right now or two is an automated script
that will actually download the time in
real time from my server but the safest
thing is just to set the time so let's
grab this command and it's you'll notice
that the clock is actually ticking so
it's it's real time to when I hit copy
and then jump over here and right click
to paste and it did it so now you'll see
having right clicked and putty it pasted
that command that I copied from balled
nerds nerd gasm at vault nerd comm and
now it's Wednesday February 27th as we
record this the real time 2019 so now if
I do app update presumably it should
work well yeah that's the hope there you
go no errors that
ah right so we know hey that's all it
was as my system clock was wrong if I
type date now I can see it is now 2019
now the system knows that it's 2019
that's good
apt upgrade you know you want to do your
typical Debian stuff upgrade your system
it says oh there are some automatically
installed packages that are not needed
so app dotto remove you can do some
cleanup do whatever you need to do
whatever we're not going to bother with
it tonight but it's Debian right the
Linux server you can you can do
everything that you need to do but what
we're gonna do here is we're gonna
actually create a BitTorrent seed server
it's gonna have two effects for us one
one it's going to allow us to download
full seasons of category-five technology
TV on a little device like this very
cool to it - yeah - yeah it's going to
allow us to then be part of that
community in sharing our download with
other people who are trying to download
it because that's what's really cool
about BitTorrent if if if I give you my
files then you can give it to the next
person and if ten people say to you oh I
want those files you say ok here I'll
give you a copy and I'll give you a copy
and I'll give you a copy
that's how BitTorrent works right now
you've heard BitTorrent and you've
thought oh well isn't that illegal
it has being used the technology has
been used in the past for illegal
purposes because it's such a brilliant
mechanism for distribution right so you
think about hey how would it be best to
distribute illegal copies of movies bit
that'd be a great way to do that that's
not what we're doing what we are doing
is we're actually we're showing you that
you can do this with legitimate files
you can download Linux distributions you
can download names Linux you can
download full seasons of category 5
technology TV and other category 5 shows
absolutely free and store them on here
so the first thing that we need to do
sash is we need to actually make sure
that the hard drive is working because
right now we haven't actually done
anything with the SSD that we've
connected right so let's jump into our
terminal and we're gonna go LS slash dev
slash SD star and I see that there is a
SD which is a
is that like an SATA Drive and there's
one of them which obviously is the case
here so we know SDA one is the first
partition on SDA the hard drive the SSD
I should say the Kingston Drive right I
installed there I can confirm that I can
go fdisk /dev SDA and then P and I can
see there is an exFAT filesystem there
of eight hundred and ninety four point
three gigs cool alright so I'm gonna
just quit that ctrl C is fine and I'm
gonna actually format that because I
don't want the exFAT filesystem remember
that as I format something I'm wiping it
right I know that that Drive is safe to
wipe I don't need to backup the files on
it I'm about to destroy everything so
I'm going to make file system dot ext3 I
suppose I could do the X T for 63 is
fine slash dev slash SDA one now keep in
mind when you're creating a filesystem
your formatting on Linux you want to
specify the partition because it's the
first partition SD a1 not SD a because
that's the drive if I format that I'm
not gonna be able to use it right you
have to use a partition so now I'm going
to create that it contains an exFAT
filesystem
are you sure yeah alright discarding
device blocks and presumably reusing
them for my Odroid hc1 so is it flashing
away it's just working away operating
that hard drive doing this thing there
we go
wow did you guys think that you were all
gonna be watching a format operation on
category 5 TV tonight riveting I know I
know it's just awesome you wanted more
Linux watch the make FS screen folks and
watch it discard device blah oh wow look
at that it's finished
that was fast now is super fast actually
truth be told we paused things and threw
them out
television we just kind of expedited and
jumped right back to it but our drive is
now formatted so this is just kind of
quick Linux tip it has nothing really to
do with the Oldroyd hc1 but hey we're
learning linux here as much as anything
else tonight
so we want to type BLK ID BLK ID shows
us the UUID of devices in our system and
we want to look for that SDA one see
that we have a UUID that is right there
that's what I want the reason that I
want that is I want to be able to mount
this thing automatically at boot time
right so I've got to create a folder to
mount it to we're going to call this our
mount point so let's jump into home
slash no there is no home folder because
we are logged in as root that's the only
user we're not gonna get in security
practices here I'm just gonna leave
things as root for today you probably
want to create a Linux user and all that
kind of stuff I don't want to get into
that step of things this this is running
as root which I don't like so for now
just for the sake of this keep in mind I
want you to create a user that will go
into your home folder instead but for
today should we just do it do it user ad
I think - D Robbie no user had bad user
is it invalid home directory nobody said
yet but it'll happen
oh the chat room will be okay user add
Robbie password Robbie and I'll give
myself a password I better know it
that'd be a real Sasha move you set up
my LastPass you forgot my password okay
so now user add - D home Robbie you know
how do you create the directory just
Robbie
invalid home directory Robbie bot okay
well I'm just gonna I'm just gonna cheat
home make der ezzor CH o na v : Ravi
home Robbie okay su - Robbie and now I'm
Robbie Hey look at me Who am I Robbie
okay at least and you know I may not
know all the commands off the top of my
head but at least at least I Know Who I
am and I'm teaching you semi good Linux
practices in that I don't want you doing
this is route because that's stupid
okay make a directory here I'm Robbie
now so make der and and I will okay I'm
just gonna say this for the record I'm
gonna post below in the in the
description the correct command to
create the home folder the correct way
as I'm creating the user I'm just it's
slip in my mind and I just want to move
on to the actual demonstration here I'm
going to call this SSD alright so now
I've got a folder in well if I go in
there you'll you'll see CD SSD PWD they
got home slash Robbie slash SSD so now
I'm gonna exit so I'm route again and
then blk ID I need to grab that UUID
from dev slash SDA one that's the SSD
hard drive understand what I'm doing
because I'm probably talking a bit of
gibberish feel free to just kick me
under the table and just say Robbie
you're I I follow and I catch little
things and then my mind goes like I want
to be able to save files to the SSD
Drive right otherwise if I don't do
these steps I'm not actually utilizing
the fact that this has an SSD drive
connected to the SATA connector right
the hard drive I so if I do anything if
I save any files or anything else it's
gonna save it to the SD card which is 16
gigs SD cards are not very reliable you
don't want a lot of input/output right
so I want to step away from that by
telling it to use the hard drive so the
UUID is
the unique identifier of the hard drive
partition dev / SDA one which we
determined is the SSDs first partition
which we formatted as ext3 so now I want
to go nan-oh
remember I'm rude again because I exited
Rabi Nano / ET c / FS tab and here I
want to just type you know what I can do
is I can just grab that first line no no
I'll type it UUID
equals and then I right-click because
I'm in putty but you need to pay some
way that you UID that I grabbed and then
hit tab slash home slash Robi slash SSD
this is the mount point that I've
created so that's where I want it to
actually mount to and then the the
filesystem type is ext3 and then let's
just grab the same info as the first the
actual SSD here which I've just
highlighted and then pasted need a space
there what is it doing there errors
let's jump out boom errors remount - ro
means that it's going to remount the
drive as a read-only Drive if there is
an error no a time means it is not going
to write the access time as you access
files that is something that's good for
SSDs SD cards because every time you
touch a file every time you open a file
it saves an access time so that fills it
up no no but it uses it writes to it
again input/output there's a finite
number of input outputs all right so
you're decreasing the lifespan of the
drive god so no a time says it's gonna
it's gonna not do that and it's not
going to wear out the drive as quick
discard I'm not sure on zero one I can't
remember the order that's the order of
scanning the drives something anyway
that's that's gonna do it for us not a
comprehensive demonstration of using FS
tab we do have those though on our
website category 5 TV and of course
discord over on the right-hand side of
your
it's gonna tell you a little bit control
Oh to save control X to exit and then
mount - eh if all worked nothing
happened
CD slash home slash Robbie LS / lah SSD
mount pipe grep SSD look at that s da1
is mounted on SSD so now if I go into
that folder there's a lost-and-found if
I touch a file test LS there's test now
watch if I unmount it you mount SSD now
go back into it where'd everything go
right cuz it's not mounted because that
is the drive the SSD hard drive this SSD
that's an oxymoron but at the SSD Drive
right yeah so now we have a place that
we can save things that is a solid-state
drive
now we're cool I want to actually create
a server this gonna be quick don't worry
I know we're out of time we're way out
of time but this is gonna be quick we're
going to now take this system and we're
gonna turn it into a torrent server so
you can go app now I already did app to
update but it's been a while so I'm
going to update again because hey if
they update something in the serve in
the repositories I want it apt install
transmission - Damon Damon bak
transmission is a great tool for working
with BitTorrent typically it's a gtk
application that allows you to download
bit torn in your GUI okay right but
we're doing it without a head without a
monitor without ex without any there's
no display you just want it running as a
server so now that we've installed it we
can just type system D no systemctl
start transmission
- Damon
and there's no response because it's it
should presumably be working so we know
that we are at 192 oh no no 10.0.0.0 'ln
90 91 is gonna take me into transmission
but it says wait a minute
403 forbidden that's good because hey if
it wasn't installed correctly let's jump
on to 90 90 we'd see that it just spins
and then it says this site can't be
reached well no it is reached it's just
rejecting us why is it rejecting us
unauthorized IP address how cool is that
so it actually has security in place
that says we won't allow anyone to
access our BitTorrent server unless they
are authenticated by IP address right
I'm on the internal land so I'm gonna
actually set that up right now by
figuring out my IP address so my laptop
and jump into my terminal I'm on Windows
10 IP config all Wow lots that hyper-v
and everything else let's jump up here
huh 10 dot 0 dot 0 dot
no first thing I need to do is System
CTL stop transmission
- daemon do that do not forget to stop
the daemon because if you make any
changes to the configuration yeah they
will not be saved because the daemon is
running and it has the configuration
loaded
you have to stop the daemon first then
nano etc' slash transmission dame -
Damon I suppose slash and there should
be a file called settings Jason there we
go now if we scroll down a little ways
we're gonna see and it shows you here
what we're actually looking for RPC -
white list so go down to our PC - white
list our PC port our PC password
username white list our PC white list
localhost
is enabled but my IP is not so I'm just
gonna go comma 10.0.0.0
fantastic again control Oh to save
control X to exit now start the name in
the game systemctl start transmission
daemon now if i refresh did I get the IP
right yes nice it's asking me for a
username and password username
transmission password transmission enter
now we have up and running BitTorrent
client server for seeding for
downloading everything we can set it up
to save to that SSD but we need to do
that again in this configuration so
let's stop and let's go back to editing
that settings JSON file and let's see
where it's actually saving to downloads
derp it's going into var Lib
transmission daemon downloads let's
change that home
Robbi SSD let's call this torrents okay
alright now I need to make derp home
Robbie SSD torrents remember it is
mounted right now CH own - our Robbie
Robbie I presume it's gonna be ok home
Robbie SSD torrents
I wonder if there's a transmission group
or user groups or a transmission well
let's try it anyways so okay so start
now that I've set the folder and I've
given it ownership by Robbie mm-hmm now
let's refresh okay so now head on over
to torrent doc category 5 TV and let's
grab say season 11
just copy link address and then open
that in your new server enter the URL
there you go destination folder look at
that cool Ord it automatically start
when added upload
okay let's see if it works I'm gonna
jump back to my terminal LS okay LS
torrents nothing there nothing there so
oh it's coming is it no error permission
denied
ah permission denied because Robbie is
not the user who is running transmission
gtk so I'm going to do a really really
quick search here let's jump up here
no it's Debian transmission there we go
let's try that okay one of the things
that I want to do here is I want to try
to give you good security practices I'm
not genius at it but I know that like
we're not gonna give it seven seven
seven permissions that's that's nonsense
that's very very dangerous don't ever do
that if someone tells you yes it will
work but we're not going to do that yeah
so what I just did is I looked at the
original file LS VAR Lib transmission
daemon /downloads and I did - lah and I
see it was actually owned by Debian -
transmission so I'm gonna try that CH
own - our Debian - transmission : Debian
- transmission home Robby
in my case SSD torrents I called that
there we go so now if I do
systemctl restart trans miss shown -
Daymond what did I spell around
transmission that I might need an s in
there there we go okay so now it's
restarted let's jump back to
transmission here refresh right click
and try resume okay I'm just gonna
remove Oh No is it going No okay I'm
gonna remove it
and I'm gonna try again now that I've
set the correct permissions that's key
folks because what I did there
understand from a Linux perspective I
set the permissions of the folder as
rowdy but transmission doesn't have the
ability to write to anything that's
owned by Robbie
okay let's hope work now let's see it's
gonna go and if I jump back here and I
look in torrents it should create a
folder automatically if everything
worked out oh oh okay it got a little
bit of data there you go watch LS
torrents it's got it category five
technology TVC 11 so if I go in there
look at that
there it comes season 11 and it is
storing on my SSD right
ud how lovely is that so here comes
folks downloading a 520 kilobits
kilobytes per second nice and now once
it's downloaded it I become what's
called a seed so now anyone else who
wants to download it can share the
downloading from my server which is
right there on a no droid hc1 incredible
it's such a good concept this thing is
so cool I'm just showing you one little
thing that you can do with an H see one
of course it can be whatever as an ass
just set up Samba and you've got an
in-house way to share your files from an
SSD
you learned a lot tonight hopefully we
were able to follow if you have any
questions do send us an email or join us
on discord head on over to our website
category-five TV there are lots of ways
to interact with us but check out the
hc1 you can get one a cat5 TV slash
Odroid purse I am in love with that
device I can't wait to fire it up and
just leave it running ah that's gonna be
a nice little
torrent cedar for category-five very
cool yeah you right I am alright here
are the stories were covering this week
in the category 5 TV newsroom a nasty
code execution bug in win war threatened
millions of users for 14 years
ready for another fright Specter flaws
in today's computer chips can be
exploited at too
hide run stealthy malware a pair of
hewlett-packard enterprise servers sent
up to the International Space Station in
August 2017 as an experiments have still
not come back to earth three months
after their intended return and
microsoft's hololens - has been
announced for $3500 and is available to
pre-order now to ship out later this
year these stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere this is the category 5
TV newsroom covering the week's top tech
space will be slow Linux by us
Jeff Westen Jemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website
aren't you your terrible actor what this
where acting comes into play you're
supposed to act okay I'm building a
really cool website are you building a
really cool website just because Jeff is
confused doesn't mean you have to be
visit cap five dot TV slash DreamHost
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
DreamHost I'm Sasha Rickman and here are
the top stories were following this week
before I start the first story I will
tell you that I do have a speech
impediment with ours so with the earth
this is a big important story about win
rawr
with yes I am going to say wrong at some
point when rawr is like an old archiving
to say that people still use it exactly
windows people who can say their arse
so full disclosure a total disclaimer
exactly I'm gonna do my very best better
than it might be wind lar it might be it
might be fine Renoir I supervise bear
with me it's win rawr every time it
sounds kind of a nasty code execution
bug in when were are threatened millions
of users for 14 years if you're one of
the 500 million winner our users now
would be a good time to patch win were a
Windows file compression program with
five hundred million users worldwide
recently fixed a more than fourteen year
old vulnerability that made it possible
for attackers to execute malicious code
when targets opened a booby-trapped file
the vulnerability was a result of an
absolute patch transversal flaw that
resided in an ace version to dot dl l a
third-party code library that hasn't
been updated since 2005 their true
traversal made it possible for archived
files
to extract to a folder of the archive
creators choosing rather than the folder
chosen by the person using the program
because the third-party library doesn't
make use of the exploit mitigations such
as address space layout randomization
that there was little preventing
exploits the most obvious path is to
have an executable file extracted to the
windows startup folder where would run
on the next reboot it was easy to bypass
Windows permissions required to write to
that folder in release notes published
late last month WinRAR officials said
they patched the vulnerability they said
an ace version 2.2 l l had not been
updated since 2005 and we do not have
access to its source code so we decided
to drop a Sark I've format supports to
protect security of WinRAR users
the code execution vulnerability in
WinRAR has existed the entire 14 years
since the unnies version 2 library was
created and possibly earlier that is
crazy yeah a couple of points that this
brings up for me one how many other
tools out there used on ace like ace is
another archival format right okay so
you've got zip you've got tar.gz you've
got 7-zip you've got all the rar yeah
right so WinRAR like 7-zip and other
tools want to be the you know they'd
like everybody install this and you can
unzip archive everything so they include
on ace mm-hmm and 14 years it took them
to discover this yet it's such a common
practice I can't believe it
like tar.gz has for ages so if you try
to create a tar file and you include a
path that is this starts with a slash it
will say stripping away the leading
slash because it's protecting the
unarchive process from going into
folders that you have not allowed it to
traverse right obviously anis did not
have that same level of protection for a
long time ten years
Nina I wonder how much this was
exploited so if he is someone could put
this file like a file a malicious file
in that archive and have it extract to
anywhere mm-hmm anywhere the startup
folders just a great example but but it
could be yeah anything anywhere but how
many other tools are using that on ace I
mean it's an old product right but still
I mean you don't really need it
some people install WinRAR or winzip as
another example they'll install winds up
thinking that they need it in order to
unzip zip files no you haven't for a
long time rar is different because
that's their own format mm-hmm so you
have to have their tool or something on
Linux or something like that 7-zip is a
good one see 7-zip I can say that why
can't this story have been about 7-zip
you say now you made it through real
good I think's who thanks your patience
ready for another fright Spectre flaws
exploited to hide run stealthy malware
Spectre the security vulnerabilities in
modern CPUs speculative execution
engines it can be exploited to steal
sensitive data just won't die quietly in
the IT world its unwelcomed persistence
isn't merely a consequence of the long
lead time required to implement
mitigations in chip architecture it also
sustained by its ability to inspire
novel attack techniques the latest of
these appeared in a paper presented at
the network and distributed system
security symposium in San Diego
California on Monday co-authored by
three computer science researchers from
the University of Colorado the paper
expector hiding malware in speculative
execution describes a way to compile
malicious code into a seemingly
innocuous payload binary so it can be
executed through speculative execution
without detection speculative execution
is a technique in modern processors
that's used to improve performance
alongside
out of order execution and branch
prediction CPUs will speculate about
future instructions that execute them
keeping the results and saving time if
they've guessed the program path
correctly and discarding them if not but
last year Spectre flaws showed that
sensitive transient data arising from
these forward-looking calculations can
be abused now it turns out that this
feature of the chip architecture can be
used to conceal malicious computation
the researchers have devised a way in
which a payload program and a trigger
program can interact to perform
concealed calculations the payload and
trigger program would be installed
through commonly used attack vectors as
such as a trojan or phishing scam when a
trigger program runs on the same machine
as is infected with the payload it
tricks the CPUs branch predictor causing
the payload program to specula
speculatively executes its malicious
bidding the result is stealth malware it
defies detection through current reverse
engineering techniques because it
executes in a transient environment not
accessible to static or dynamic analysis
used by most current security engines
even if the trigger program is detected
and removed the payload code will remain
operating the researchers have
reiterated what may have already been
stated these flaws need to be addressed
in the chips themselves until then they
expect malicious parties to create
variants of their proof-of-concept
malware technique that's very stuff I've
never even as you're telling the story
sasha is crossing my mind and it never
has how this type of technique could be
used to trick a I enjoy forming
malicious tasks like understand like the
the processors on your computer are
meant they're trying to make them fast
right so they add predictive technology
to make it think ahead what's coming
right oh I think you're going to ask for
this so I'm going to prepare it I'll get
it ready to do it and then if you don't
it does yeah yeah but if you do well
it's already ready yeah it's already
done I've got it
boom done yeah it seems fast so if we
can maliciously trick it into making
that a payload which is exactly what the
researchers have accomplished Wow that's
frightening now take that and put it
into artificial intelligence and say
okay we've got AI that is basically the
ultimate predictive technology it is
thinking for itself it is making
decisions for itself which is exactly
what machine learning is it's learning
for itself right it's creating its own
algorithms so if you can cause machine
learning to create its own algorithms
because that is its design mm-hmm then
what's to stop a malicious party from
tricking the artificial intelligence
into creating algorithms that are
malicious right I've never made that
connection before now and now I'm I just
want to find a dark place somewhere
they're saying chip manufactures the
ones that have to actually so hard wah
yes but how do you stop it right I guess
you can't stop a toy processor backwards
but you could exactly but it's going
forward you could have better practice
but then does that even slow down the
process or people wouldn't have it oh
well we'll go with the previous
generation cuz they're faster yeah right
oh no it's true
it's so then we got to get into new
computational models new and that's what
they're pushing for ultra yeah comes
down to the hardware manufacturers it's
unsettling yes it is hmm yes anagh need
is a pair of hewlett-packard enterprise
servers sent up to the International
Space Station in August 2017 as an
experiment have still not come back to
earth three months after their intended
return together they make up the space
born computer a Linux system that has
super computer processing power they
were sent up to see how durable they
would be in space with minimal
specialists treatment after five hundred
and thirty days they are still working
their return flight was postponed after
a Russian rocket failed in October 2018
hpe senior content architect Adrian at
Kaz Bergen said that they may return in
June 2019 if there is space on a flight
but right now they haven't got a ticket
the company is working with NASA to be
computer ready for the first manned Mars
flight estimated to take place in about
20-30 the company is also working with
Elon Musk's SpaceX currently the 20-year
old machines controlling the ISS
returned data to earth for processing
this is possible because it takes less
than a second to get the data back but
on Mars on a Mars mission the time taken
for a rack a data round-trip will grow
to more than 40 minutes as the planet is
millions of miles away that means that
the data processing will have to be done
on the spaceship itself the spaceborne
computer is currently embedded in the
ceiling of the ISS they were placed in
an airtight box with a radiator that is
hooked up to the ISS water cooling
system hot air from the computer is
guided through the radiator to cool down
and then circulate it back but there
have been problems with the redundancy
power supply as well as some of the
redundant solid-state drives the devices
will need to be inspected back on earth
to find out what went wrong I love that
they're planning so much for the Mars
mission so let's test this make sure
it's ready for a Mars just getting ready
for two weeks if you get the reference
I'll send you a cookie yeah I'd get you
a cookie but what is cool about this is
that they're still working up there I
mean there's million you know yeah
that's one X it's awesome yeah it's got
redundant power supplies and redundant
SSDs and everything else but I wonder
what could cause them to fail up there I
mean radiation particles zip zapping
yeah but also the other thing is that
you know the you talked about the Space
Station's current computers which are
old and slow 20 years old they cost
millions of dollars to install those
Yeah right like back in the day 20 years
ago right
now they can send something up
hewlett-packard send something up and it
just cost like thousands of dollars to
do that like well to manufacture the
hardware yeah the cost has come down so
far so to be able to send up something
that's the power of a supercomputer and
it and it it can just be sent up into
space and they're wondering what's going
on with it like there are a couple of
issues but it's still operational it's
still sending data back and still
working
so the first Linux computer on Mars
Linux right
well I they're they're they're SPARC
servers up there there are there are
other Linux machines up there yeah I
don't know if there's any windows on
Mars right now I'd cut
I doubt it they'd crash crash landing
there's definitely some spark up there
there's some power pcs up there so and I
guess they'd be running like a form of
Unix okay it's kind of like a
predecessor to to Linux huh yeah there's
lots of stuff up there and it's just
getting the people there now right see
you know how how we can communicate back
and I wouldn't call for help
well you're looking for help on Mars if
you're living on Mars you're not calling
earth for help send help if it takes 40
minutes to get the transmission right
let alone the people please hold your
request is being held in priority
sequence has Elon Musk said it's a
one-way trip that is correct
yeah microsoft hololens to has been
year comfort better visuals and easier
to use with your hands that's the
takeaway from hololens to microsoft's
follow-up to the space-age goggles it
announced four years ago the technology
behind the $3500 hololens 2 device which
Microsoft calls mixed reality overlays
computer images on the real world
imagine arrows directing you down the
street as you walk or repair
instructions floating over a machine as
you fix it
that's mixed realities promise according
to Microsoft the company was the pioneer
in augmented reality world when the tech
giant debuted its first headset in 2015
charging companies $5,000 apiece for the
gadget since then rival devices such as
the $2295 magic leap have come on the
scene at prices like that
our headsets are far more expensive than
the competing VR technology currently on
the market Facebook's oculus rift for
example is three hundred and forty nine
dollars HTC's five is four hundred and
ninety nine dollars and Sony's
PlayStation VR is two hundred and ninety
nine dollars you have to buy a computer
or a PlayStation 4 console to power
these VR devices but even then their
prices are at least half what Microsoft
or magically are asking that hasn't
deterred Microsoft from designing and
improved headset as part of its push
into the now far busier AR universe the
company says hololens still isn't ready
for you and me to use at home though
instead Microsoft is focused on
companies and the military but that has
stirred employee dissent as of yesterday
more than 250 employees have signed an
open letter denouncing the deal aside
from that caveat Microsoft has made some
welcome and welcome improvements to the
device which goes on pre-orders Sunday
and will be shipping later this year so
does that mean I could order it and have
it got or do you want to preorder it
let's do it yeah you know I want to a
are like the best thing ever actually so
virtual reality being like you are
immersed in a virtual environment and
everything that you do and see is
virtual right augmented reality or or
this particular type of technology is
like interacting in your world with
virtual things so looking at it from a
perspective of like industry being able
to like let's say I'm manufacturing
something and now with my augmented
reality I can overlay and see how this
is supposed to line up and
now I can actually line it up the way
that it's supposed to be because I can
actually see it I can see how I'm
supposed to do it in front of me with
and now with the hololens - and that's
all you need right and it it tracks your
hands and it tracks your movement in
such a way that it's like genius the way
that it's able to just it's a headset
and that's and I feel like it's it's
good for people who have like like even
safety issues like if I were going into
like a concert or a busy spot and I
wanted to know where the exits are they
would be automatically like there or or
I could say how many people are in this
room like automatically it like cuz it
could sense and tell and count probably
right so yeah directions you never get
lost again think about gaming though
right directions is cool or knowing when
something is done like cuts it just can
tell you that's ready normalize do that
- but it's kind of interesting I think
gaming like I mean being able to play a
game on your tabletop able to take the
pieces and move them even though they
are virtual right no they're not
physically there so now all of a sudden
it's it becomes your one point of
entertainment where you don't need it's
like the smartphone right yeah we don't
need a calculator anymore we don't need
this and that and all these are the
camera and a video camera all these
devices that we used to have to have a
Walkman and now you've got a phone in
your pocket that does it all right so
now take the hololens and say okay well
with this technology i no longer need a
chessboard
I no longer need even a computer right
because I can just okay well I'll just
interact like Minority Report yeah and I
can see that screen in front of me if
you think about it like for things like
say for rehab for somebody who's had a
stroke say and they can't write any
longer but it can show you you know cuz
you can see with your eyes what your
hands should be doing right learning so
many
we've done before they're too expensive
right now phone calls oh that's gonna
happen too right
hey mom holographically she's all of a
sudden in the room you gotta have your
hololens on but it works it that is
bananas it's so cool love it
okay should we jump into our crypto
reports a week just to take a really
quick look at how things are looking
from coin gecko this is what it looked
like as of 1800 hours Eastern Time on
Wednesday February 27th 2019 pretty much
everything has gone down a little bit so
you know we were like hey it was on its
way up and this kind of demonstrates how
the market is constantly constantly
changing so you know when we say it's
volatile keep that in mind
Bitcoin went down one hundred and ninety
three dollars and sixty two cents USD
down to $3,765.27 to 4406
etherium is at one hundred and thirty
dollars and 97 cents Manero at 47 69
stellite is at one point five one ten
thousandth of a cent oh it's so cute
turtle coin is the one gainer gaining a
whopping zero point seven no zero point
zero seven ten thousandth of a cent
think about that for a second but it
grew a little if we still had a penny
right take a piece of your hair right
put it on that penny and just measure it
that the wick the width of that hair
that's how much turtle coin gets like
having a pot open palm and just putting
like one single grain of salt
that's how much you got but growth
growth you're the only guy and steady
wins the race way to go turtle coin you
are the one fantastic remember as I say
the cryptocurrency market is always
volatile and it never closes that's
right
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category
TV newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our web
site from the category-five TV newsroom
i'm sasha recommen come on Robbie
Ferguson thanks so much for being here
again with us this week looking forward
to seeing you again same time same place
one week from now see everybody
[Applause]
