welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode number 484 for Wednesday
the 28th of December 2016 the final show
of the year 2016 this year it has been a
hard one for sure
not a good week either in the world of
entertainment for sure not to start off
on it
uber depressing sorry but yeah tonight
we've got a very exciting show for you I
don't know about you but I have stacks
and stacks of DVDs at home but I don't
use a DVD player anymore so we've got
some DVDs here tonight we're gonna learn
how to actually convert these two files
so we can throw them on things like
plaques so that we can use them on our
computer plug a computer in through HDMI
to a TV and be able to watch your entire
movie library without ever having to
touch one of these these discs anymore
so we're gonna learn how to do that
tonight using free software on Microsoft
Windows really want to stick around nice
to see you
hello everybody here's what's coming up
in the category 5 TV newsroom police
what Oh police want Amazon to give up
the data captured by echo another line
of consumer routers from Netgear are
dangerously vulnerable to hackers
takeover and Microsoft has contracted
nearly a billion dollars from the
Department of Defense stick around the
full details are coming up later in the
show
this is category five technology TV show
this is category five technology TV as
Jodi said and I'm Robbie Ferguson
Chelsey Jensen's here with us nice to
see you it's few and far between that
you're here you're here back for
Christmas break they've given you some
time off school happens Sam some time
off work cool so over here very good
well thanks for joining us tonight
looking forward to a great show and
Sasha dramatis how are you I am great
I'm super arrested because they gave me
a whole week off work - oh this is like
rub salt in that wound a little bit
Robbie Robbie's still sick and still get
an up day after day and going to work
and doing things and moving people and
doing everything else and you notice
that we're still on the old set yes I'm
gonna tell you a little bit of a story
about how our week went so basically you
know Christmas time just happened on
Saturday Sunday and we we were up north
visiting my in-laws and we got an ice
storm yes I'm talking to serious ice
storm folks I've got a video clip here
somewhere I'm trying to find for you if
I can pull it up so in Barry and all
over the place there was a kind of ice
coming down and so we were finally
leaving not finally like like I was
trying to get over there but I was at my
in-laws trying to you know trying to get
out of there to get to the next place
and we went down the hill
and up the other one and then sideways
and then slide down toward a ditch that
was about 15 feet yeah so the kids are
screaming and the kids are scared out of
their mind and I felt so bad for them
because so I just like you know spin the
wheel and you know thank you defensive
driving was able to get the van to just
turn around and drive back down the hill
and then we stuck it into first gear and
and skid it all the way up the smaller
hill on the other side and back to the
in-laws so needless to say lost some
time that that was meant to be spent
doing other things then
re unpacking the van yeah yeah when
you're out when you're out in the
boonies up north like here in Canada and
you know we're talking about an hour and
a half north of where we are here at the
studio and Mary Ontario and the back
roads are just like oh yeah we'll sand
them sometime yeah one day sometimes
people don't need to work but it's it's
kind of romantic the forced like
confinement right so you get a good day
with the in-laws or sure right like it
can be but by that point when you have
three young kids by that point like the
grandparents want the kids to go home at
that like they've been banging on the
keep on the piano for for two days
already and and you know enough is
enough
and so you know drinking their like
their martinis midday merr yeah they
took off their party hats oh I actually
on their way back in but I apologized
sorry you thought you were rid of us
yeah okay here we are there was a video
I saw of some people in Ottawa
ice-skating on there yes and I mentioned
that I have a video here and I pulled it
up in the Telestream Wirecast this is
Jeff Weston are one of our co-hosts here
at category-five TV trying to get into
his his what no he's trying to get his
daughter out of the car and here he is
[Music]
good luck with that Jeff maybe we should
take another stab at it
so let's let's see what we can do good
thing we've got this handy-dandy utensil
here
just go through all the snow all he's
got to get his daughter out of the car
so you know it's got to be done
he's almost there he's doing it this is
amazing come on Jeff you can do it man
he's he's enjoying himself happy
Canadian winter folks and he's got his
daughter out of the car and they're
gonna make it up to the house no they're
not essentially that's what we were up
against everywhere kind of from I guess
berry north I think someone was skating
on their Street early skating like ice
skates skating on which sounds that's
how you know speaking of sounding
romantic that sounds fantastic well I
was lucky because I fell a couple of
weeks ago so I oh come on now this is
still I was lucky because of that I had
looked up ways not to fall and I guess
if you walk like a penguin right you
know your weight over your front foot as
opposed to over your back foot when
you're walking in the winter so I used
my defensive walking strategies I walked
with purpose and intent eyes on task
mind on task and I didn't fall even
though I was on the ice you learned from
from the excursion so for those who
don't know when when we were shooting
the video the comparison of the the
various action cams Sasha had a bit of a
fall in the video but but it happened
and you know she will never let me live
down the fact that I asked her to come
and help out it wasn't and and she hurt
herself it wasn't just your fault I went
to work that day and my boss who my work
I work for chiropractor and he said well
if you weren't my employee I would tell
you to go home and put this up in is't
cause it's very badly swollen and I was
like okay he's like but you're gonna
have to do that after work you got a job
to do
nice boss needless to say we didn't get
the new set set up here at the studio
that's still on and that's still in the
cards we've got it here and you know so
the studio looks absolutely a mess at
this point because we've got we've got
new desks we've got all different stuff
that's coming in so I'm excited about
that we've just got to set aside the
time to be able to do that and hopefully
it'll it'll work out so thinking about
Christmas this weekend past any cool
techie games my brother a drone is it
the same one that I have the x5 C - one
explorers so I think it's the one I
recommend it yeah yeah the x5 C - one
you can check it out cap 5 dot TV slash
fly it's actually a decent drone so he
likes it down pour enjoy it yeah that's
a great great little drone for sure I
bought Becca TARDIS
Christmas tree ornament oh very nice so
she actually got a TARDIS for Christmas
say that so you know I suppose from year
after year it will take us back in time
to this year we'll remember the year of
the ice storm did you happen to see the
the Doctor Who it was very good I
enjoyed it
yeah I enjoyed it quite a bit I wasn't
sure they I heard that they were gonna
be introducing the new companion so I
was looking at the people in the episode
thinking okay is it him yeah is it hurt
yeah and then at the end this shows over
and it's like a commercial showing
here's the new companion and somebody
completely different so that was
unexpected I'm very excited for this new
companion yeah good yeah yeah it's gonna
be a great season I you know what I
loved about the Christmas special and I
know the Christmas specials they tend to
be a little more tongue-in-cheek and fun
and there are a lot of Easter eggs in
that episode and and everything else it
really felt like they were going back to
seasons 1 and 2 as far as the the B
nature and the
a lot of tongue-in-cheek jokes a lot of
stuff that like it was it was a little
bit like cheesy yeah but in a fun way
yeah I know for sure because as far as
doctor who's gone over the past like
we're into season 10 now this year yeah
and and this is the of the new version
of the show I found that they were
started it was getting really good and
that it was it didn't they lost some of
that cheesiness it did stage and you you
start to fall in love with that and
that's part of what Doctor Who is and
what makes us yeah but this one they
really brought it back I thought that
was good it was great it was a great
episode and I really enjoyed it I'm
looking forward to hey if you haven't
seen it yet its season 10 episode 0 good
luck it works good luck
Satchel what did you do for Christmas oh
I had an awesome Christmas yes like it
was Loki yeah I had it that's it I got a
new Fitbit from days tell us about
what's different about this one than the
other
this one doesn't track my heartrate so
it's like a little bit of a downgrade in
that case but is waterproof so it trap
women no way yeah so I'm excited sorry I
didn't understand how that works I
didn't go swimming this this past
Christmas but Dave did he jumped in a
lake
oh come on remember what I was saying
about the ice storm are you serious yeah
it was it was a super fun family thing
where I stayed warm and dry recording
everybody jumping in like how very
Canadian of Dave it's hockey and jumping
into freezing cold Lakes that's what we
do in the winter my most exciting
purchase though or a gift which I bought
for myself I bought a juicer on Boxing
Day yeah it's going to come in I guess I
bought it from the affiliate links on
Amazon thank you you're welcome
and it's coming tomorrow so I'm gonna
make all these incredible immune
boosting juices nice that's a really
neat way that you know some of us here I
can't do it unfortunately I can't use
the affiliate links because it's on my
account and that's against the the
regulations but but when other folks
here and when you at home use our
partner links
we just go to our website category 5 TV
click on support us and then partner
links and you can go to all these
different shops like Amazon eBay Newegg
shops that you already shop anyway
online it doesn't change the price for
you but it gives us a percentage of each
sale so that's a really really cool way
to help us pay the rent and pay the
bills here and we really really
appreciate it especially as we're coming
up on the end of the year and I'm
looking at things and thinking you know
what people are really supporting this
show and what we do here category 5 and
we appreciate it so incredibly much and
we couldn't do it without yes so thank
you very very much for for supporting us
we love all of you sure do
thinking about your Fitbit Santa I
actually exceeded the goals of my LG
phone for the first I think the first
time thank you and that was what was it
that was just yesterday so we were
moving a family member and I got I got
80 500 steps and the phone figures out
you know okay well right now my goal is
eight thousand steps a day usually
usually in around 150 you know we pretty
much at on the couch and watch Netflix
so your new Fitbit is not actually
getting exercised are you still alive I
can't tell because I can't tell your
heart be exact but you're not moving I
started a new series on Netflix that
I've been watching called black mirror
black mirror yeah I haven't heard of
that one
well it's it's creepy it's like near
like near future to us and it's about
what technology could allow us to do and
how our weaknesses might exploit it so I
made me feel a little kind of like Jeff
in like my distrust of rope well I used
to have a super love of robots but now
I'm starting to get the heebies from
them really so this show is like putting
like as a conspiracy theories or
reenactments of possible it's like yeah
it's it's just 60 story each episode is
a single story and I mean it's I don't
want to go to in detail
right yeah and those spoilers here Sasha
however it's super unsettling so if you
do get the heebie-jeebies easy but it's
not like heebie-jeebies like blood and
gore and gross Ness or anything like
that is it's about like our inner
weaknesses as people like if you did
have something that tracked every
movement of your spouse would you
exploit that or you right so it's kind
of like the creepiness of the Internet
of Things really how technology could be
used in these really you know yeah I
kind of like that Person of Interest
always did that to me for me up until
kind of the last two seasons in the last
season I don't even know if we're gonna
finish it or they kind of that's kind of
how it went like heroes was like that
and lost was like that like why can't
why can't we properly wrap up a show but
Person of Interest what was really
interesting about it is they took that
you know the the all-seeing eye of the
government and all of the cameras on the
streets of the town and all of the
surveillance throughout the town are
interconnected and are being recorded
and being monitored but then they throw
in the artificial intelligence aspect so
artificial intelligence is also then
taking that and aggregating that data
figuring out who the criminals are and
sending people after them before they've
committed crimes with precogs yeah but
that was it was a fantastic show and I
would say like I would recommend
watching the first few seasons until it
really drops off and maybe you know
maybe it's worth finishing but it's one
of those shows where unfortunately they
really did it an injustice by ending it
poorly
well I found that with that show Prison
Break I don't know if you you know the
Prison Break I haven't watched seasons
the first season they break out of
prison so so wouldn't that be the end
right like the show is called Prison
Break okay we did it hooray we did it
seasons two and three one is amazing
yeah
that funny yeah well this show keeps on
going yeah getting here exciting and I
hope that everybody did have a good
Christmas again if you celebrate and if
not I hope you got to see some family
and get some time off work hopefully you
got to relax and she lacks a little bit
and enjoy some time we've got a long
weekend again coming up here in Canada
and it's our new year Canada us and lots
of places around the world well China
Chinese members at a different time for
sure but they've already started their
celebrations their celebrations go
forever
Chinese it's like a four-week Festivus
so have fun with that yeah right like
that sounds like a lot of fun okay
well shall we get right into it yes all
right first of all before we do
congratulations to our winners
I'm sure polo just a reminder these are
tracker devices so you can use these to
find your devices that you've lost so
you just tag them on it's about the size
of a coin and tag this on here to buy
whatever your product your stick one in
your wallet stick one on your dog and
and if you lose them you can use this to
track them but we gave away a couple of
those for Christmas and if you didn't
win one hey you can still go to our
website cat5 dot TV slash chip polo and
you can pick one of those up we do sell
those and they are fantastic and get as
many as you want and track them from one
app and it's pretty cool
it's neat seeing your devices on a map
and you know if I forget something at a
friend's house and I can look at my
phone and oh it's figured out yeah okay
well let's get into it first of all how
many people still use a DVD player like
really like a DVD player like real no
like a DVD player like you sit down
because you've got a flat-screen TV in
your house now yeah and do you have a
DVD player or a blu-ray player plugged
into it my parents do do they do you
know you just use the laptop and that's
it you have a DVD player in that you use
desks yeah I have that si throw those in
them yeah cuz I got Harry Potter and
Lord of the Rings and all that fun stuff
and you're not tired of them yet
I mean that's it she's got a little
annoying I will admit just don't drive
your Tesla while watching Harry Potter I
promise I quit often come into stacks of
great bargain DVDs and things and and
the fact is I don't I don't have a DVD
player hooked up yeah my wife told me to
be honest and say Robbie you do have a
DVD player you do own one you just
haven't bothered to hook it up and to
that I say no dear I just don't feel
like we need it anymore because it's
just clutter and like this is one two
three four five six movies and it takes
up that much room on a shelf okay
ridiculous the four movies in it oh yeah
to be fair tremors one through four okay
so we're talking the best of the best
right there yeah no to be fair sure but
realistically that's how much space that
takes up on a shelf or whatever so what
I do is I into a computer that has Plex
and you've we've talked about Plex Media
Server on our show before and if you're
not familiar where they get onto our
website category 5 TV type in Plex in
the search and what it allows me to do
is it allows me to take this whole stack
of DVDs and put them onto the hard drive
of that system and then watch it from
any of my devices so I've got a Roku on
my TV downstairs it's a 55 inch flat
screen and it's great and then we've got
a smaller flat screen TV with a Amazon
fire fire TV stick upstairs so I've got
Plex on both of those devices plus we
have Plex on the computers yes so that
allows us to then watch our movies
without having to physically take the
DVDs out and put them into various
devices and have DVD players all over
the house because you imagine if you've
got two or three TVs that's two or three
DVD players or blu-ray players in order
to watch your movies yeah I also have
three kids at home and they're all under
12 years old one of them is six years
old and to have stacks and stacks of
DVDs you know they're gonna get ruined
they're gonna get rekt so I copied them
in and then I box them and I stick them
in storage in their garage yeah right
because we're not talking about copying
DVDs to bootleg I'm not I'm not making
copies and giving them to friends or
selling them or anything like that what
we're talking about is taking DVDs that
we legitimately own and having a way to
be able to put those on to our devices
because quite frankly I don't have many
devices anymore that take this yeah
realistically and if I do I do have I do
own one DVD player but it's not hooked
up because it just takes up it takes up
this much space on our media center well
I've got the TV on the wall and on the
media center I've got 5.1 surround sound
speakers and a couple of other little
devices I don't need to have yet another
huge device sitting there right like
let's just throw VHS into the mix does
this server does it also take blu-ray
blu-ray discs yeah sure like Plex yeah
Plex will just take any file that you
throw out so the trick is converting
these into files that can be played back
right so and you don't need to have flex
if you've got a decent sized hard drive
in your computer you could with you
being at school for example you don't
want to have a thousand CDs but you
could copy a thousand DVDs onto your
hard drive right for example just to say
so so then you know if you own the discs
you can have them on your computer and
they're yours and you can watch them in
on-demand just by double clicking on the
file a video file right
what Plex does is it gives you basically
your own homebrew Netflix style service
so that you can actually watch all of
your programs all of your movies in one
centralized system on any of your
devices and it keeps track so if I
finish half of Sherlock Holmes just like
Netflix it will carry on from where I
left off the next time I push play and
if I if I'm ripping seasons of shows
another example would be and here's a
great example we do have a DVD player
but we buy a lot of British shows on DVD
okay because you can't get them here so
for example my wife opened up season
five of Stella as part of our Christmas
morning so so we've got Stella season
five it is from Sky one and it's it's
region coded to the UK right so if I put
it in my DVD player here in Canada it
would not play so the other advantage to
what we're doing is I'm able to buy from
Amazon Co UK get the discs in the mail
and then convert it to files that can be
played here in Canada a disc that I
would not even be able to play if I
plugged it into my DVD player
yeah people going on the chats talking
about Debbie Reynolds now she's in
hospital too
oh my gosh how do you keep twisting
things it starts with knowing what kind
of software you ask about blu-ray
blu-ray is a bit of a different can of
worms and that's because the encryption
on blu-ray has gotten better right now
there is software available that will do
it and there's ways to do it but it's
it's beyond the scope of what we're
teaching you tonight so we're looking
specifically at DVDs and that's because
DVDs I can show you that in a half-hour
or less it's really really simple and
you can do it at home and you do not
need to be a tech savvy wizard in order
to you don't need to do a bunch of
compiling and all that kind of stuff
okay so we're gonna start with DVDs I've
got my trusty little laptop here and it
has Microsoft Windows 10 on it and so
the first thing we need to do is we need
to get a program called handbrake and
we're gonna find that just on the web
just bring up Chrome or whatever browser
you're using and go hand brake dot fr
and that's the official website of this
tool what handbrake is is it is a piece
of software that is designed to convert
videos from one format to another so
that could be a file to another version
of a file so if you want to be able to
play it on your PSP or something like
that or it will convert it to a file
format that's compatible but similarly
we can set the source to a DVD and it
will copy that into a file that we tell
it to you know
format we want like an mp4 the where
where handbrake falls short if you will
will say is that it has to be an
unencrypted non copyright protected disc
okay so we're talking realistically the
only things that you can copy with that
out of the box are like your home movies
that have been burnt to DVD right things
like that or you know what can you
really get that's not copy protected
again I reiterate that we're not showing
you how to hack discs and we're not
looking at piracy tonight that's not
what we're doing what we're looking at
is making a copy of our own legitimately
own discs so that we can put them on our
other devices so that we can view them
on the devices that we own because we
may not have DVD players laying around
the house and connected to every TV so
that's what we're going to do so
handbrake as I say is not going to out
of the box rip these Hollywood DVDs but
I'm gonna show you how to get how to get
around that if you will but basically
okay I'm gonna download the Windows
version so I'm just gonna save that
download and it's pretty small it's
gonna be here really really quickly why
handbrake does not do this out of the
box is because it's open source it's
free it's available for you to download
on Windows Mac and Linux you'll notice
I'm doing this some windows because a
large number of people are on the
windows platform so I want you to see
how this is done on Windows if you're on
Linux if you're on Mac you can get it
for that those platforms as well and the
process is pretty much identical other
than the fact we're not going to use
dll's as you're going to see in a few
minutes with Windows but the reason that
they don't include the capability to rip
copyright protected discs is because one
they don't want it used for piracy but
also they're the kind of cover in their
butts a little bit because as soon as
they bring out a tool that will do that
out of the box now they are creating a
tool that could be used for piracy for
sure and when you're creating a
legitimate application with legitimate
use they just it's like a gray area we
don't want to go there so we're just
gonna play it safe and the tools are
available out there you just need to
know how to get them that's what I'm
gonna show you how to do for all
legitimate intents and purposes okay so
I've got handbrake downloaded he
and I can click on that and I'll run it
and it's gonna ask me to install version
one look at that brand new nice and
sleek and there we go
okay handbrake has been installed on
your computer so it should be on my
desktop now there it is pretty sleek
straightforward what do you want to do
source selection okay so it is just kind
of waiting for me to select something I
don't have a DVD in there right now so
it's not gonna do anything should I
throw a DVD in and we'll show you what
happens let's let's start with Sherlock
Holmes here so here's this is it I
haven't seen it yet so I'm looking
forward to putting it on Plex and and
getting into I may have seen it years
ago when it came it like it's an oldie
but a goodie right but we enjoy the show
out of the UK for sure is it current
uh-huh so I've just stuck in that DVD
here and we'll see that that's gonna
there's windows saying that they've
detected it
let's open handbrake and it should see
that DVD now there it is so Sherlock
Holmes is now one of my options for
source selection so I click on that and
what it does is it scans all the titles
on the disc so if it's able to read it
it will see the titles those are
basically like the chapter marks and
everything and basically we want to
record the entire video to a file so
every title from the from the DVD there
archana the tremors one for example that
you pointed out that has all four
tremors we may want to select just one
video because we don't want to rip them
all to one one straights straight video
right okay so this is saying that there
is there's a problem there's no format
of that disc that handbrake can actually
read so what's going on well the source
may be protected or include DRM please
note that handbrake does not support the
removal of copy protection so out of the
box you might say okay well this is not
gonna work and that's free software and
it's not going to do it for me what we
can do is we can tap into what VLC has
done at video land org
let's head on over there and video LAN a
VLC is a very popular video player
because it basically plays every format
right you've probably got it installed
on windows you maybe have it on your
Linux machine even your Mac because
it'll just play everything you don't
have to mess around and again it's not
about breaking copy protection it's
about being able to access the things
that you legitimately own and use them
on all your devices and that's that's a
legitimate use
so hopping over here on the VLC website
notice I'm not going to download VLC
although I would recommend that you do
that it's a great player and that
handbrake will actually tap into some of
its features but instead what we're
gonna do is we're gonna go projects and
then Lib DVD CSS and what this is as it
says here it's a simple library design
for accessing DVDs like a block device
without having to bother with the
decryption so basically circumvents the
fact that there is copy protection on
that on that disk so if you scroll down
a little bit it's not very clear on
Windows where you're supposed to go
because these are all instructions for
Linux machines but if we click on
releases here then we'll see a list of
all the various releases and as you
click on to the newer releases you'll
see that there are source packages here
for linux and so we click you know i
would start at the most recent and work
your way backwards
i happen to know that it's I believe
1.2.12 is the last build of Windows if
you go to dot 13 you'll see it goes
right to Linux sources if we go into
1.2.12 at least at this time here in
2016 at the end of 2016 that's the most
recent version of the Windows compiled
binary that is available so what this is
going to do is it's going to give us
access to the abilities the capabilities
of ripping encrypted copy protected
disks okay so we're gonna go into now I
have windows 64-bit alright how do we
tell that click on your Start menu now
I've got I've got Classic Shell
installed so I'm gonna have to hold the
shift button in order to get there but
you can just go there right click on
file explorer and go properties and
you'll see windows system type 64-bit
operating system ok so I know that I
have a 64-bit it will be either 64 or 32
so I go into the wind 64 folder and
you'll see that there is a live DVD CSS
- - dll I'm going to save that
first of all I'll throw it into my
downloads folder that's fine it's pretty
much instantaneous because it's a tiny
little file cut that file we're gonna
use that and we're gonna jump into our C
Drive we're gonna head on over to
program files on our 64-bit system and I
should see handbrake there yep there it
is and simply in the home folder the
root folder of handbrake I'm going to
paste that file in give it permission to
write and now handbrake has DVD
decryption okay so if all went well with
the versioning here open up handbrake
and select our source again now they've
just released version 1.0 so I'm hoping
that this is gonna take just like that
let's see what happens just going
through the titles just like it did last
time because I didn't go through any
installation steps for that it was just
hey just pop it in drop it in the folder
older versions of handbrake will now you
notice I didn't get the error message
there you see that yeah so so that's
great so it took so here are our
different titles and you'll see this one
is 11 seconds that one's 12 seconds 21
seconds 30 seconds 14 minutes etc the
first one here is 2 hours and 8 minutes
that's gonna be the full movie ok so now
I'm gonna browse and what am I doing
here I'm just telling it hey this is
where I want to save the file to so I'm
gonna just call this Sherlock Holmes how
do you spell it Holmes Holmes and we're
gonna call it dot mp4 Hindu dot m4v it's
save ok and then choose the type of
video rip that you want to do okay now
it's automatically set to fast 1080p 30
now this is a DVD so I know that it's
only going to be 720 by 480 so there's
no point in doing a 1080p file because
that's more it's gonna take up a lot
more space than it needs to
you only have 480p
on a DVD yeah which is still gonna look
really good but we know that 1080p is
not an appropriate format so we can say
what very fast 480p 30 right or we can
say Super HQ which is high quality 480p
30 so 30 frames per second I like that
and it has surround sound I'm not sure
if I want the surround sound embedded
but it's it's going to likely work
anyways but you can play around with
selecting these are the presets that
come with the application and you can
you can simply click on any one of those
to set it to that so let's say just for
the sake of our show we're gonna say
very fast 480p 30 because when we come
back from the news we want this thing to
be ready so that we can actually give it
a test and you'll see that that has
given us a width of 720 by 480 and we've
got everything kind of set you can go
through here and see what the settings
are for the for this filter you notice
it's gonna automatically D comb the
video so that gets rid of the
interlacing that happens on the DVD
makes it look real nice it's constant
quality and it's gonna be very good
quality there don't put it up too high
because this can just be unreasonably
slow and there's no point in it and
everything looks good great this is
gonna rip everything so now we can
either start in code or if we're doing a
chapter thing like like I would with one
of my BBC discs or sky1 discs from the
UK I could add to queue and then
continue you can click on preview and
it's gonna create a nice little preview
for you so that you can see what is this
going to look like right off the DVD you
can see that it's obviously decoding it
just fine everything looks great
and I can start that so let's go give it
a start let's take a look at our cue
show cue there it is it's taking
chapters 1 to 31 and it's saving to
Sherlock Holmes mp4 so I'm gonna let
that go we're gonna let that rip to the
to the desktop of the computer and when
we come back from the news it should be
you know if all goes well it's going to
be all ready for us and we'll have a
file that we can import into Plex or we
can watch directly on our
laptop computer so I'm gonna send it
over to the newsroom sash it or made us
hyah we didn't forget about you so you
know nice super exciting I'll tell ya
you like this stuff I certainly do
all right all right and I like this
stuff here the stories are covering this
week in a category-5 TV newsroom police
want Amazon to give up the data captured
by echo another line of customer routers
from Netgear dangerously vulnerable to
hack to take over and Microsoft has
contracted nearly a billion dollars from
the Department of Defense these stories
are coming right up don't go anywhere
Jeff Weston gentlemen you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what are you
you're a terrible actor
what does where acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay I'm building
a really cool website are you building a
really cool website you need hosting one
of the things about a hosting account is
you don't want to have limitations put
on your website that's true how much
harddrive space do you have how many
email accounts how many domains can
point to it well we've got an amazing
deal for you for a very limited time
cat5 dot TV slash dream host for just
five dollars and a bit of change per
month you are gonna get unlimited web
site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name so your own com dice to
put that amazing website that you've
been working on on there if you run if
you want to build a wordpress site fine
sign up cat5 dot TV slash dream host
just don't put that on the paper sorry
just don't do it but hey it's a great
deal folks best deal you're gonna find
five dollars and change per month go to
cap five dot TV / dream host I'm Sachi
through Madison here are the top stories
for the week of December 28 2016 u.s.
police investigating a murder have
topped tussles with amazon over access
to data gathered by one of its echo
speakers the voice control device was
found near to a hot tub where the victim
was found dead amid signs of a struggle
according to court filings Amazon was
issued with two search warrants but
refused to share information sent by the
smart device to its servers however the
police said a detective found a way to
extract data from the device itself
the accused killer has yet to be put on
trial and it is not clear whether the
information ultimately proved useful to
the investigation I would say that this
news story is super important and
relevant due to the fact especially that
they refused and I think that that's
actually a safe card to play even though
it is a murder investigation I think
that you you don't want to give give up
to my
information to easily insert a slippery
slope situation so do you think Sascha
that this is a like we're protecting the
integrity of our system and of the data
of our customers or do you think it's
more of a marketing decision I think
it's a marketing decision do you think
so
absolutely I think that they will
happily if compelled by the law share
like if they went to court for it
but I think that they want to look as
though they are protecting the privacy
of people especially when they want more
and more products in your home like they
don't just want what is the name of the
echo what is her name it's a I can't
relax this I like yeah it's a little
sour or something yeah they they want
these products everywhere
yeah and so they don't want you to think
that they're going to just give you not
that everybody's a criminal but that
they're give you up right it so the
internet of things it turns out is a
scary thing it can be can be I think
with this one the the interesting thing
about this case is that there we want to
think that this is a good reason to give
up that data right anytime there like
this is a criminal investigation they
they may have evidence that you know of
who it is that's responsible for a
murder and there's an echo right there
that they know is recording all the
things that are being said right and
saving them somewhere right but if a
police officer is a to just using the
device get the information that's fine
right right yeah because then you're
talk thats not compromising the echo
service that's the built-in hard drive
of the device itself right right at that
point if it's just the singular device
not the you know the web or the cloud
services echo itself it's I'd rather
just be the thing itself like a personal
hard driver yeah right I'm just somebody
if if I got killed
by all means you have take the recording
device that's sitting on my desk yeah
open it up copy the files up you're out
who did this to me sure it be told
that's probably in the next agreement
like terms and conditions you
we going to have an upgrade that you
check off saying that now you're okay
with if it's a criminal investigation
sharing your information but that
probably wasn't already rolled yeah but
see the it's such a tough thing because
we have you're talking about this show
dark mirror and how it makes you think
about the dark side of technology being
used to track things and information and
so if I sign this document that yeah if
I got murdered I want you to be able to
fight I want you to be able to listen to
the data the the content but where's the
legal line where okay well I haven't
been murdered no I'm suspected in
something that I didn't do but it's
still a legal investigation and I signed
off on the fact that okay they can now
violate my privacy and listen to my
family you know where where is that I
mean I know that they probably do have
access to absolutely everything that's
going on if you have an Alexa device in
your home they can probably really tap
into anything at any time
the fact that they are protecting that
or it's perceived protection at this
point protecting it from other people
looking at it is a good thing right they
don't want I guess
Amazon doesn't want people to know that
really the information is there to be
had yeah sure and rightly so
right rightly so good job high five
except that in a criminal investigation
I'm happy that the the person was caught
without the need of the information
danger that's true
okay next Netgear has downplayed the
significance of newly discovered flaws
in it w and are two thousand line of
consumer routers I'm pretty sure that's
the router that I have that is pretty
sure II tell us about this yeah the
vulnerabilities could hypothetically
allow a remote attack to execute code
and take over the device without
authentication claims Pedro Rivero the
security researcher who discovered the
bugs come on now now it's truly it's a
land-based attack but it can also be
used over the Internet
if remote administration is enabled in
the router which
scary and this is what Rivero told el
reg Rivera went public on the flaws
earlier this week with an advisory after
claiming he'd not received an adequate
response from Netgear Rivero mint
maintains that the flaw is more serious
than net gears response implies
vulnerable devices are easy to find
using an IOT search engine he claims
right also the exploit by its very
nature can be used to grant a hacker
access to the users internal network
placing personal fire files and even
devices like webcams at risk
scary stuff Netgear plans to release
firmware updates that fix the remote
access and command execution
vulnerability for all affected products
in the meantime it is advised to
completely disable remote management on
your device so Robbie have you done that
you know what Tasha as dear as I'm
looking at this router and thinking
about the story and what's going on I'm
thinking who buys a net gear router and
doesn't immediately install dd-wrt or
tomahto right like replace that firmware
all together a problem solved because
these routers are fantastic for running
third-party open-source firmwares dd-wrt
on that router is a dream and that's
what I run so I'm not susceptible to
this because it's not a hardware flaw
it's a software flaw in the stock
Netgear firmware so you got a look at
what are you using I suppose a consumer
like if you were to go out and buy a
router would you think to change the
software that it's running lately no
never I wouldn't even think of it not
absolutely well because you can buy a
cheap router like this guy like 115
bucks or whatever Canadian and then
download a firmware like dd-wrt is a
perfect example that you can install on
that device and now just like
reformatting your computer and
installing Linux vs. the windows that
comes with it you can put dd-wrt on
there and you get the features of a ten
thousand dollar router
Wow but it's only 115 bucks huh because
it's an open source firmware so and it's
not susceptible to this particular hack
and you would expect that yeah okay it
could happen dd-wrt could be compromised
but they would you know it's open source
so I would expect that they'd be pretty
quick to fix it so I'm sure like this
might be a whole other show topic but
like how would you disable remote access
well generally I mean a router you need
to be able to log into it through your
web browser in order to change settings
like this is a router it's not a modem
so you need to be able to set up pppoe
so if you've got a DSL connection for
example or fibre to the node that you
need to be able to authenticate with a
username and password
all those gibberish words are just to
say if you need to be able to put in a
password you need to be able to log in
to it to tell it what your username and
password is so that remote login
capability is what's giving hackers the
access that they need in order to
compromise those devices I'm not too
sure of the nature they're not really
saying much about this are they Sasha
about the nature of the hack that's part
of the complaint that they're really
downplaying this sure at all making it
seem as significant as it is yeah and
and I so I don't know is it that people
are leaving the routers with the default
username and password so people can just
find these routers online and log into
them or are they actually compromised in
the software because it's a firmware
update that's required I think that
there's a backdoor into the router
that's giving them access it could be
something we've seen it before where
some of these backdoors and you see it
in like in military defense
installations and stuff the IT companies
sometimes deploy a backdoor into the
system to give them the ability to
support it no matter what the user sets
their username and password to so if
somebody ever determined Batman's
password because I think that's what it
was they can get into that system
regardless of whether they know the
actual system username and password so
could it be an exploit like that we
don't know that's why because they're
not telling us but if you have that
device you need to you need to fix that
for sure so to answer your question
really just need to turn off the remote
access capabilities so that it cannot be
accessed through the internet
pretty much just every single time I buy
anything I'm like Robbie can you set
this up like sweet that's a good little
dd-wrt router right there
roll that firmware on there tomato
tomahto whatever throw it on me
Microsoft just scored a big win with a
927 million or almost 1 million dollar
contract to provide technical support
and consulting for the United States
Department of Defense reports router
Reuters I knew I was gonna do it we just
did a story on routers we just did a
story on routers and now we're doing a
story that has Reuters sorry to do that
to you yeah back in February 2016
Microsoft secured a huge deal with the
Department of Defense to bring the
Windows 10 operating system to all four
million of its employees within 12
months at the time Microsoft said it was
the largest enterprise deal for Windows
10 ever make sense Windows 10 is
actually new that 12 month window nears
its close it seems that the Department
of Defense has gone back to Microsoft
for the services and tech support
necessary to keep everything running
smoothly admid admit the transition so
that's a huge big win for them you see
the money yeah well they do because they
need their remoulding they're companies
like many companies these days are
realizing there isn't money in Hardware
there isn't money in software the money
is in support right that's where you
make your income and so like so many
other things they have to change to that
model and it has to become a support
model otherwise they're gonna fold and
they're you know they're pre-empting
that and saying okay here's a great
contract sweet blackberry making the
opposite this
and Blackberry now getting you know oh
well maybe we should get into software
and support that would be smart now that
we were almost bankrupt and thanks the
things I should have done oh we should
have done this 10 years ago yeah the
money's not in hardware thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom i'm sasha
dramatis thanks Ashley this is category
5 technology TV you can find us online
at category 5 dot TV not just a fancy
name it's also a website yeah we've got
some great shows there that are
available for you I want to say hey
thank you to everyone who has been
supporting us this has been a really
great year a lot of fun and a lot of
change over the course of the year and
and to come as well and so we really
greatly appreciate your support don't
forget you can support us on patreon
it's patreon.com slash category-five and
that's a great way that you can support
us just by throwing a little our way
with each episode that we produce
ok so bring them back up my Windows
machine here you can see it's still and
coding past one of one it's about 50%
done so it's not gonna be done during
the course of the show there's about 16
minutes left to the encode itself but we
saw in the preview there that it was in
fact working just fine and since
installing the Lib DVD CES CSS dll file
on our Windows machine as easy as that
was to do it gave handbrake the
capability of decrypting those DVDs so
these are commercial DVDs that we're
able to now decrypt and add to our
devices as a file so that's where Plex
comes in and you can start building up
your library from DVDs that you
legitimately own and and then you're not
downloading illegal things and stuff
like that I'd rather see you be a you
know import your own movie library and
set that all up and then and then you've
got that all available and all your
devices I love that I love that things
are so connected with Plex it's a really
great piece of software
but that's all the time that we have for
tonight can you believe Wow
Kelsey it's always nice having you here
thanks for making the trip come to join
us and what's what's next it's like
you're back at school in a week's time
next week and so then you're you're away
from us for a while again yes I'll be
back
February yeah okay good we'll make sure
we bucket yeah good and it's been nice
having you here this is the end of 2016
hard to believe but here we go
thanks again for supporting us through
the year and we're looking forward to
all the things that are kind of to come
in 2017 and of course if it's tech it's
here cat fives on TV for such TPS and
the international association of the
jennette broadcasters cat5 TV /i AIB
nailed it nailed it for the wind she
actually remembered to do our tags at
the end of the show all right well I
hope you have a very happy new year all
the best for 2017 please stick with us
over the course of the year we've got an
exciting season ahead as we do the
second part of season 10 and we're
looking forward to it all of us here
thank you for being a part of the show
take care everybody
we'll see you happy new year
[Applause]
