any of you kids in the audience have you
ever worked with stick BOTS or
stop-motion video at all
anybody here oh that would be great yes
thank you thanks a lot
so nobody here has ever done a stick pot
video Oh Callie says yeah I've done
stick bot videos for sure you have as
long Jared he with Lego figures we've
got also Liam over there yeah cool all
right
so let's let's get a look at how you do
this so can you just quickly show us
your set now this is a homemade green
screen well let's open it up and show
the folks at home how it works and so
what program do you use in order to do
this it's stop-motion studio so why
don't you use the one that came with the
stick box
well what's what's different about them
well for one thing the sound is terrible
and that's it yeah this this stop-motion
studio it lets you do green screen and
stuff like that yeah oh I know for the
screen screen doesn't work on a clock on
stick pot on this aquatic okay so that's
pretty necessary so what does the green
screen let you do lets me put in any
background I want as long as I don't
have a picture of it cool do we have a
phone with stop-motion stop-motion
studio do you happen to have a phone
with you or if you could just pass me my
phone there they are the orange one yeah
thanks Jeff Jeff's just kind of grabbing
that for us so with stop-motion studio
do you want to fire this up and give it
a go and what we're going to do is we're
going to get you two to just kind of
show the folks at home how this works
just really briefly and then while we're
while we're continuing on with the show
you can continue working on your video
okay and then at the end of the show
we're going to actually we're going to
show that video so that you can show
everyone at home how you're able to do
this so stop-motion is a little
different as we said it's going to take
no we don't need to make it a megohm
movie motion picture right so so stick
boxer articulating and you can actually
move them around in order to yeah so do
you want to do like a five-second just
kind of quick video all right well here
15 hours okay well have ski that can't
happen because the people at home don't
have 15 hours so what I'm going to do
I'm going to give you my phone Zach but
if you could set this up show us how you
set this up so this is a tripod for the
phone and this is something that you can
pick up at various locations but it's
actually a stick pot tripod and good
input thanks man
okay so what else have you got let's see
you've got some cotton balls that you
use for beards and things like that okay
I'm going to look for stop-motion studio
there it is half film it all right so in
stop-motion studio it's just basically
it's an application that lets you take
picture after picture as you move your
stop-motion and it all it takes is a
phone so if it's got a good half decent
camera you can actually do really good
up to 4k stop-motion video so this is
this stop-motion studio cost about five
dollars in space and and that's going to
give you everything that you need to get
started so do you want to borrow my
phone Zach and if you could set up down
here now these plastic guys what's this
for the green screen so the green screen
is just like a bristol board in a stand
that you can get at the dollar store or
something like that so it's a nice cheap
way to be able to build a really good
good sized green screen so here you are
you want to set that up and take a
couple of frames
any questions from the audience you
folks kids have you ever seen this
before
no you never seen it you want to come
and take a look this is pretty neat just
watch your step there that's all um for
those who are getting this a for the
first time does it come with like a good
tutorial to show you how to do this last
thing checked is the app come with any
kind of tutorials it doesn't so this is
all you get this is this is it this is
your tutorial so make it look at the
camera you can press one then input oh
there's a hint button
okay well that's pretty cool it's pretty
straightforward though eh it's healthy
every single thing that's pretty cool
alright so you're going to you're going
to do a little video where you can move
things around so the stick bots are just
CDs they're just little dolls that you
can actually move and you just move it
just a little tiny bit ready to try the
best one to use with the green screen
yeah and are you going to use chroma key
the green screen maybe okay so you can
change the background and things like
that so you can move him just a little
bit savanna so when you move his arm
just a little tiny bit and you take a
picture and then you move it just a
little bit more and you take another
picture and a little bit more and so
then when you play back the video it
actually looks like his arm is moving
and you can make them walk and because
you just move them just a little bit at
a time it actually will look like it's
walking so Zek is going to put together
a quick little demonstration video for
us that we're going to look at after the
show so we're going to play that for you
in just a couple of minutes time Zech
over there working away I can see your
case right now are you done you're done
nice so let's let's get a look at this
video that that you've put together for
us
[Music]
you kidding me that was a good dream a
really good one
you
