to even just start us off right now like
we've heard that the Raspberry Pi kits
I've been doing extremely well right you
know and it's really cool to see that
because like you everyone out there is
supporting the show every time they go
through our link and it's amazing
especially when they go on the site they
click the Amazon link and then it's it's
been a huge seller and that's amazing
thing is that with the Raspberry Pi
these maker kits you use your
imagination or you can follow the makers
guide everything else that's that's cool
thing about technology nowadays is that
it's so open and with tonight's little
exciting bit of information we're
showing off something
hi live camera there's a camera behind
the camera which makes it all cam
reception but yeah tonight we have
something exactly it's not it worked
cam reception it is now that's the cool
thing no tonight we have something
really special for the viewers both live
and post-show they can definitely get
this through the store as well so if you
go to cat5 dot TV slash maker you can
see what we're gonna show tonight and
that is firstly this amazing amazing
book it's like the Bible of happiness
right here make no no make electronics
it's an amazing book and I loved it I
browsed through it it is absolutely
fantastic because what it does is that
even if you don't know anything about
computers let alone electronics if you
have the basic level of knowledge of
electronics or even if you make little
Raspberry Pi projects at home what this
book does is that it provides a guide
from the beginner level all the way to
the more advanced level okay and you can
do so many amazing projects in here and
it explains how to do everything but the
cool part is that it doesn't stop there
books are really nice you know they make
great information holders however this
is not the only thing that we're going
to be talking about tonight all right we
also have part two which comes in many
parts and this is what we're going to
use our special camera for in a few
seconds and it is the actual component
kit one of make it so you actually your
actual maker kit is a legit kit so as
you're using the book you can work
with the kit because they yeah I think
yeah and the best part is that it's
double-sided so you actually have like I
know you have to yeah
let's give it a go let's open this and
see the amazing parts inside so I'm
gonna put it down for a sec do we want
to go to the overhead or yeah let's do a
quick unboxing or is it an uncasing here
because it's technically a case sure I'm
Casey I'm casing okay so let's do a
quick on casing guys so as I mentioned
earlier the maker kit here the make it
kit has two sides
they both easily accessible let's take a
quick look here so when you first get it
this is what you get so we're gonna open
it up here and you get a nice little
manual in English from Syd if you speak
French so it's basically just a quick
guy explaining you everything what it is
and this is where it gets the real guts
of this which is amazing like you have
everything from LEDs green red multiple
colors Christmas colors or and
everything else you can make a little
stop light if you want and even goes to
just switches to capacitors different
levels of capacitors batteries
everything else and they have it all
organized like I'm not sure how your
garage is that home of mine isn't very
organized but I love how they have
everything so nicely organized and put
into baggies here but yeah it's
absolutely fantastic what comes with
this kit because again it comes with a
book so again you can make an alarm
clock to a speaker to there's so many
amazing projects we should actually do
one of these sometime in the future
question yeah what age would this be a
great idea to introduce it to st. maybe
some kids or grown-ups I was a kid well
that's the thing too is that they they
literally go down to the basics so they
they describe a little but a history
there's a lot of fun activities in here
I'm not going to show like any major
pages from the book or anything but
there is kind of like little diagrams
and they do explain things fairly well
so like what resistors are how they work
they go into like all that little
information but it's not boring it's
exciting
because they really do describe how
everything works so really would appeal
like across the ages like if totally
like a mother-son father-son
father-daughter duo trying to build like
an alarm clock brother brother brother
brother like if you could make your own
alarm yeah I know exactly and they have
games in here too right so like I'm not
sure if you know what a breadboard is
I'll show it off in a second but they
have like a little reaction test photo
on there you go I'm not gonna show any
more because you guys have to buy the
book I'm sorry support the authors but
yeah so it's just like it shows you how
to use the breadboard so if I flip this
over okay and if you go back to that
cool like tot cam there for a second the
other side here I'll open this sucker up
like so and it comes with literally
everything you need and more so like
again it comes with all your wires it
comes with all the parts and here's the
breadboard so okay for those that don't
really know what a breadboard is can I
open this Robby I have to make sure I'm
not gonna they're gonna come after me
opened that's how much detail they put
into these things know what a breadboard
is is that you can literally play around
with circuits and stuff but you don't
have to solder things down so literally
oh yeah so I could take a wire just
place it down in a hole here and you
could build like an entire circuit a
little game or contraption whatever
you're doing without having to use a
soldering iron so again for Sasha how
you mentioned that like kids use this
things like that yeah they can totally
just use the little breadboard here and
then have a responsible adult I'm not
sure if Robbie counts as one but but
yeah then they can help solder if they
want to do anything more crazy like that
but yeah it does come with a breadboard
it comes with batteries you know it
comes with batteries as well it comes
with coils it comes with everything you
really need again 12 volt power supply
everything else but no again it's
fantastic to see how much love they put
into this kit as
right like again even to the batteries
even so just all the parts and I'm not
sure like if you're one of those people
who really loves to like play around
with things but being one of those
people myself it's really cool to see
how everything they literally have
everything so organized and if I open
this right here
Boop they've made it so easy cuz a lot
of kids nowadays they come with actual
like wires which can get tangled
everything else right but the way that
they've organized the kit is that they
have a few wires here for the breadboard
but they actually come like pre bent so
I'm not sure if you can see that I'll
put it on the tack cam here we'll get
into focus but yeah they actually
they're straight lines that they come
pre bent so if I take a breadboard here
you can see how that would fit right in
like they're very simply like that so it
literally just fits in you don't have to
like bring the wire twist it around
things like that and they have all your
different lengths and everything like
that so it's really simple to do things
okay um but again that's where
imagination comes in because again we
were talking before about the Raspberry
Pi right the book itself so the maker
book that we saw earlier this guy here
it talks a lot about in the back it
talks about like the Arduino kits which
are similar to raspberry PI's but
nothing says I can't go get a pie well
I'd love apple pie myself but you can
get a Raspberry Pi and you can actually
program that you could hook it up to a
lot of these parts because again a few
shows ago we Robin Robby had my PI on
the show and I showed it as flashing
with lights you can do with that project
with literally this kit really yeah
because we have LED lights here we have
like little sent oh my gosh there's just
so much here there's just so much
amazing happiness here like what would
you guys do well these so they've got
extra cable here's or extra wire here
that's what these are yeah yeah so um
you can use spools of wire okay there's
oh they also have activities I can use
with those spools as well I think I Kim
talks about again like radio picking up
radio stations you could also use the
make a radio station not a registered
well no you can pick up yeah and sorry
it's actually solder no no cause like
again I'm just looking through this book
as well because that I just love how
accessible they've made it right because
you're on category 5 we talk a lot about
technology right and everyone's at a
different level of Technology and I feel
like kits like this are gonna be really
important in the next few years
especially like when we're talking about
kids adults all ages because before if
we wanted to get like hands-on with
stuff you'd have to like have a little
bit of knowledge or right to go to
school things like that but now with the
internet like you can go on reddit get
all these like Raspberry Pi projects
these kind of projects with this kind of
kit and you can literally just find that
on the internet now and there's so many
online communities and you have shows
like category 5 where we talk about this
kind of stuff as well so just because
you buy this kit with this book you
aren't limited at all you're let you
literally you're limited by your
imagination
so I'm just blowing people's minds right
now yeah I mean my son he's getting into
electronics as far as being able to
build things and yeah his set is a snap
set there's like little buttons to it
and and it goes that way but so I mean
this is more advanced which I'm sure he
would absolutely love but I mean I'm
looking at this going can you blow these
resistors like if you have some cross
wire or it or is it protected in that
way you know if somebody like me I'm not
sure like how much like Jeff protection
it has no but you have a lot of
protection ya know like again like we do
have different power sources right so
like if you are playing with kids you
can have something a little bit low
lower voltage so again you do have like
your little wall adapter here it's
limited to amp with 12 volts again that
can do damage if you're a little bit
more concerned you can just stick to
using batteries so it again it comes
included with double-a batteries you
also have a 3 volt cell that it comes
with or 9 volt sorry perfect
and again how do tell if those are still
fully charged are you supposed to like
lick them or something I just stick them
against your tongue there's actually
picture in here that says that no I'm
not I did that to my kids want some like
this battery's dead can you can you just
taste it for me you could tell if it's
this I'm not sure if they can you can
kind of see that but that's what Jeff
did as a kid right there that explains a
lot yeah it's it's it's like an
autobiography of no you helped make this
book yeah that's amazing no but that's
neat but yeah like in it again like Opie
it's really cool to see that kids like
this are becoming more popular and again
like it's exciting what you can do with
this so as far as this electronics is
there anything else that we need to let
people know or is that kind of the
basics and they've just got to get one
themselves no I mean like it it really
does kind of sell itself in the sense
that if you want to learn more if you
want to learn start its beginner kit
intermediate give even a few play around
with computers all the time it's a great
kit to have and I definitely take a look
at it like myself again you guys know
that I play around with raspberry pies a
lot I'm interested in this kit now
because there's a lot of cool switches
and I was playing before like I made a
switch now that can like I don't get
more coffee yeah so if I use the switch
now I can automatically get more coffee
no but no again like to end the segment
here guys it's a really really great kit
it's really organized and when you're
done if eventually you use all your
parts risk comes to worse you have a
wonderful carrying case for all your
parts at home if you want to restock and
get some nor no but again like if you go
on Cod yeah my pen cat5 dot TV slash
maker yeah then you can take a look at
this yourself alright and make a
judgement so it's a make electronics
second edition it's so beautiful and
we've got the make electronics kit I'm
very cool yep LEDs and the worst comes
to worst these can be your Christmas
lights for next year
save some money so you're you're all set
[Music]
[Applause]
