hi and welcome to new every day I'm
Carrie 2010 and on statio is part two of
God so he does answer prayers will stay
tuned
[Music]
hi welcome to new every day we're so
whether you've tuned in we're still in
the growth we're talking about how God
answers prayer we've just had an awesome
trip in Tennessee and Kentucky we're
headed back to Canada and last week we
talked about how we prayed for God to
let us interact with people that he
wants us to and we had a wonderful
meeting with friends from Winnipeg and
also professor stone house from a free
university and a serendipitous lunch
date which was absolutely wonderful and
then just had different people that
we've met along the way what you know
what last week highlighted from eagan
with that what am I prayed that we like
and it wasn't even like us dear Lord we
have lunch with someone from the church
it was in the back of my mind yeah like
we're on a test
anybody need to see at my sponsorship
but my god heard that yes and I wasn't
like I was kneeling at the bedside
making it happen you know making it
known I think there's a place for that
to be hardened in your hair it was in
the back of my mind and there's a verse
in the bible says in the morning we sent
our prayers before you and we wait and
expectations and quite often lost legion
I'll be praying in a more precise Terry
way red I am praying sincerely that God
would answer these prayers but have like
not insane and half in fate that he's
going to entrance but maybe I did can't
picture the way that he's poised mister
whereas I I was like yeah I want to
watch
the carrot no community that way and he
answered that way and what's interesting
as as he was saying that the
persecutions mindless was delight
yourself in the Lord he will give you
the desires of your heart right and so
he knows that the desire of cherry tart
is to have our communal experiences in
conversation with people like just
having the opportunity to get to know
people and she said had said you know be
so great to have one to the local person
and I'm like okay and and that happened
like to have I God granted you the
desire of your heart but we set it up
for you too because the pastor yes good
morning just look at you the pastor
preached on what does it need to be a
pastor and then this woman is you know
it has a lot of us an interest that you
do again and kind of priest I pursued
the same avenues of ministry like
and it told me because as we sat down
the pastor said well probably one of the
weirdest sermon ever preached on I'm
thinking where's going with it and he
actually talked but gave us a whole
sermon on what it means to be a pastor
and I'm thinking I can't believe he's
talking about this and yet I'm so eager
to hear it because God knew that in high
gear I encourage and it's like when we
like we often think that prayer is dear
Lord Jesus would you know Amin foul down
the side our beds or we pause but prayer
is that ongoing dialogue with the Lord
nor easy to say or I really like it this
would happen or could you encourage my
spirit or where are you need is happiest
ongoing conversations with the Lord and
I think you could totally forget about
him or we just don't think that he's
really engaged in listening to our
hearts cry and
you know requesting on that sin so that
we will we were in the church this
morning it's very different than what we
experienced forward maybe a little bit
more liberal in the way that we express
ourselves whereas this was from like a
more traditional organ music that was a
choir there was a way of doing there was
responsive reading which largely I'm not
used to be I did grow up right here
whereas you had experienced that before
and I had to spend that I am also part
of a family as our speed people and the
first that i read this morning with his
Hebrews that talked about that when
Jesus died on the cross he tore the
curtain in the temple which separated
the holy place from the most holy place
and we had only talked about this before
and that we can come into God's Fredman
confident knowing that was been washed
by the blood of gene is better than
their forgiveness and we've been made to
and that when he looked on I've seen the
righteousness of prey and even though I
didn't have it all together I didn't
know what to say i didn't know any of
the music so I've been expecting the
thought I wasn't doing things the way
that they were doing and yet I know I've
accepted yes and there is that community
and we're so able to have good
interactions with people who don't think
the same way that we do yes or it could
be oscillating it could have been
off-putting for me because like wow this
is pretty rigid what I was calling hurt
because I read that first morning and at
one point she actually just handed me a
hymnal is that it's not a listen I was
like that's cool so I have had friends
before say you know when they are in
another country and they're singing in
other language they're like well how do
you participate in worship and then
to the spirit right they just be taken
and they realized that the spirit is
alive in that church even though they
aren't actively participating they are
so there with the body of Christ
worshiping God together
and so God has this way of just meeting
with that answering our prayers even the
first you don't think Ukraine but that's
because we think there is such a formal
thing but we also have the opportunity
to so you can see out here to here right
I want to count one two three four five
six like a 90 year I went oh dear chosen
contest not really but she has the gift
of finding gear and I said god I want to
find my own dear i wowed by my own dear
without carries health that's that kind
of hops much good I need to only do too
much wow this morning I was also driving
and I was like yeah boom boom boom
totally somebody want to find her own I
wasn't laying here we can both see it
under something satisfied with that was
a big win that was a big senior jackpot
I know I your job did sorry that was a
sort of off but even then isn't that in
someone in my heart I was like I want to
find my own gear we could
maybe there's I'm not as competitive as
well and territories cleaning up I just
mine something inside me said I just
won't find my own here without any help
and that was nine and she confirmed it
and you guys I only found 50 cereal so
the sacrifices on Angie's friends and so
is you have something you want to
imagine okay okay it's these little
things
like the small things that got answers
like finding the year yes having lunch
with people
that I sometimes don't give enough
credit to so when I've asked people like
I'm on this journey of asking Christian
how do you hear God's voice how do you
know what he's speaking to speaking to
you how do you and then how do you
follow him but if I can't that's a
problem and so I've been asking
different people and people will give
examples of instances like that where
they know that God had handed of prayer
someone might write it off as
coincidence but to them it was answered
prayer and I just feel like
really even though I had experiences so
I want to remember these times and we
have this now forever immortalized on
the internet so that's great we have
this video journal right but to write
down when God has answered specific
prayers even if they're small I think we
really affirming and bolster our faith
for the time but I forget what God has
one
and like Anthony I actually elicit the
words dear God having my dear but in my
heart of hearts like I was like I just
want fine here I knew you did too
totally and example it is and it's like
God knows the desires of our heart
because good good dad I know you're in
there because you got quiet to like
really looking so not only does God
answer I want to pay the unspoken pairs
of our hearts he also answers I want to
say the wrong person because what that
we signed up so you might be thinking
what would rock Emperor so with that
we're going to come right back after
these messages will hold on Jeff Weston
jela you're building a brand new
beautiful website what are you all right
you're terrible actor what does we're
acting comes into play oh I don't know
what Isaac you're supposed to act okay I
don't really cool website are you
building a really cool website you need
hosting one of the things about a
hosting account if you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
it's sure how much hard drive space do
you have how many email accounts how
many domains can point to it well we've
got an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV / dreamhost
for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are going to get
unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name the route put your own com
guys to put that amazing website that
you've been working on on there if you
run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat5 TV / dream hope
still folks out of a paper sorry just
don't do it but hey I
it's a great deal folks SPO you're going
to find five dollars and change per
month go to cap five TV / dreamhost and
welcome back to new every day we just
had a commercial break and if you would
like to take a break and go to new
everyday TV and check out our partners
page that we wonderful help support us
in making this show a possibility thanks
again to category 5 and Robbie Ferguson
to make this show possible
so rocket prayer rocket red
we actually seen a lot which we don't
record it's because we enjoy it but we
don't think anybody else's own and that
being said okay what's the rest probe
never read the Bible rocca priori
Nehemiah Nehemiah rocket in segment I'm
going to open up for bible this to
preacher if it exists in her vitals and
it is since ok this is Nehemiah one and
so power of prayer how cool is that
Truman full gospel we just have to find
that the tower prayer gotta fit gate
Nehemiah it has heard about how the wall
of Jerusalem is totally desolate okay
maybe he's feeling bad at it mad about
it and so he first for one verse or so
it was when I heard these words that sat
down and wept and mourned for many days
I was fasting praying for the Lord
before the God of heaven and I said I
pray Lord out of heaven oh great awesome
God you keep your covenant and mercy
with those so he's interacting with God
right so something has happened and he
is like just pouring out his heart to
God so I want to say that is like a
supplication like you just pouring out
it is hard to the Lord rightfully so
supplication is asking but he's also
calling on God Sophie
it's
he's grieving screaming so there's a
petition it's more of a petition hyper
he's petitioning the Lord be who you are
right and then he goes on and it says
that
and it came to pass in the month of May
pen in the twentieth of those risk to
that he was supposed to take wine and
give it to the king now I'd never been
sat in his presence before so remember
name is green he's gone before the Lord
petitioning him that's better word
petitioning him to be faithful to the
Covenant okay covenant being the
Covenant that the relationship agreement
that God had with the nation of Israel
to be faithful to them to look after
them to provide for them to be their God
and to give them property sublet nation
of Israel so it was there for the king
said to me why is your face fed since
you were not sick this is nothing but
sorrow of heart so I became dreadfully
afraid and scented Akane may the King
left forever why should my face not be
sad in the city the place of my father's
Tunes lays waste and it's kate's our
burns with fire then the kings of me
what you request so I pray to the Lord
of Heaven and I said the King that is a
rock prayer just like in the moment boom
in the moment boom that's a rocket
prayer where it's like and we do this
all the time actually like Kerry will
ask me a question I'll be like Georgie's
had our song it is like boom the words
12 or like policemen Cubs or even
sometimes before will record will say
dear Lord Jesus what you'd want us to
talk about
and it's like boom there it is and it's
like well that was really quite cool
anyway that's a rocket a rock of prayer
life is in the moment you just fired off
right so we are walking through the
Cedars of Lebanon state park yesterday
beautiful height beautiful hike there
are sinkholes there were like cedars of
left on these cedar trees that we could
reach right up to like just so high and
then these wonderful oak trees that were
massive and gnarly and then there's like
I still many different kinds of please
there is these pods that we actually
broke open and yeah pases defeat this is
really how hard speed work was and so
the lady said this is Ranger Debbie I
got it mixed up last week the Ranger
Debbie said oh yeah five miles are like
great no problem two and a half hours so
we looked at a time yet will be done no
problem well do we come around to this
about what three quarters through and
it's starting to get dark
and we're like maybe we should walk a
little faster but we kept getting
distracted by these massive sinkhole
because the Fords and on top of
limestone bed and I get the water would
erode the limestone away underneath
streams underneath the ground and then
awesome the growlers think and so we
were exploring in these sinkholes that
it was taking up a lot of turn that we
didn't realize grow it's getting dark
it's getting done and then we leave this
parade well dear Lord Jesus help us find
a white dog who are falling on the white
dog and then boom a white dog like yeah
thank you guys even turn to carry on
point and said wow if you can't do that
fast what we needed it because we
weren't getting caught we were and so we
haven't read ourselves like you haven't
gotten to the trailhead yet and we get
to the sign that actually said trailhead
and because it was a big loop we just
thought oh well maybe this is where it
came in I thought
she's really the hiker why she was me
you're the Navigator side the driver
fair enough so anyways I knew that I'd
tell light over on like the right hand
side and so I was like okay well what's
this head towards like well it got
darker got darker and I'm really so
started feeling very uncomfortable we
don't really have a number to call
nobody knows that were there i'll head
lamp and there's no hell i have had no
white dot back on the White Sox are well
following this path 'it is not even
marked not even mark and then all of a
sudden I look out I see a road and we
just booked it for the road yet and
right before then we actually stopped
and we said to your lord please so like
and and it was interesting because at
that point when we saw the road you did
say trust in the Lord with all your
heart like and he will make your paths
straight like I I think you said that
scripture like at some point where we
had complete trust in God and Kerry said
in he'll make your paths straight and it
was just like yes like we knew that in
our own strength we were not getting out
we were not in though and we actually
not freaking out what we were getting
concerned a car a Taliban like wait a
minute so it's mine like oh and so we
just committed our ways more and he did
see it through and what's interesting as
Carrie saw the road we just be a book
tit for the road we got on the road and
we realized that if we have continued on
the path that when wheel past the real
path it would have been dark and we
would have been lately we live in the
middle is more and it was just really
cool how God answered our rocket prayers
right then and there so even though we
did lead a lead God's graciousness
answered our prayers so very cool and so
we want to encourage you today to pray
and believe in the power / that God
really does answer prayers whether
they're spoken or just the cries of your
heart whether you petition him reminding
him to flee is as Nehemiah did or you're
in the midst of a situation where you
might have Billy dad Valley there put
things offer you just like your Jesus
like please come and save me
I just want you to know that he hears
your prayers and he's gonna answer he's
going to provide for your needs to be
people of used here too and if you've
never prayed before start now one of the
things that we talked with dr. on hows
about was the fact that God is calling
me from the time that you were born if
you love you and carefully and watch
have a relationship with you so we
encourage you to respond to that today
so not know why don't we pray and it may
be in join us for the first time all
right dear Lord Jesus thank you so much
for you hear our prayer and that you
answer and you to look after the prize
of our hearts you do look after the
desires of our hearts you hear us and
we're just kind of thinking about stuff
and you meet our needs and words you
want to be in dialogue stuff you are
drawn ourselves to you so father for
those people that are praying into the
first time and they're like yeah I want
a relationship orbach immune system
would you draw them by your booze
spirits they feel your presence
no but you are real and you desire to be
with them and work that they would fully
commit their lives to and if you can
never create that part just like this
killer Jesus
I want to follow you I know I'm not
perfect
but I commit my I give you my skin and I
trusted you're going to help me to live
the life demopolis relationships where
God if it's almost great that prayer
today I ask in your name that you would
send them some of the pieces up about
the commitment that day high praise
thank you so much thank you for staying
with us thank you for tuning in thank
you for giving us this opportunity even
talked about who God is and being
released to listen
we sure hope that you can join a sexy
pizza later
you
