okay so nest thermostat is pretty neat
because one of the things that they
claim is that with this thermostat so
simply buying and replacing your houses
thermostat with a nest thermostat is
going to save you anywhere from about
135 $245 per year which is a big deal
now in Ontario that our jazz has gone up
significantly Wow
I didn't even want to go there how did
this get political says gwg Kathleen
Wynne no but it's true I mean it's now
costs more to heat your home and being
the dead of winter I think what Jeff is
trying to say is with the cost savings
you can buy right really cool things
like for example a Star Trek drone works
very PI a Raspberry Pi Star Trek The
Next Generation bluetooth communicator
badge which you just have no reason to
buy beyond the sheer geekery of it
you're thinking about it I'm trying to
come up with some feel like it would be
great to wear that while you're holding
your certificate from the Starfleet
Academy I think yes okay so talk about
that okay so that was this not the thing
that had the issues in the past the
issues in the past now security nest
security was a concern at one point and
now with the current generation of NASA
and with the firmware updates and
everything everything is set up to be
very well encrypted all the
communication that happens between nest
the nest servers the nest servers in
your app it's all done through encrypted
connections and they are using
sophisticated encryption in order to
establish all of those communications
the other thing to consider Jeff is that
nest as a thermostat now this is a smart
thermostat so it monitors things and
learns from your behavior right one of
the things that I love about nest is
that it sees you it knows not not
visually it's not like facial
recognition kind of thing but more along
the lines of a motion sensor so if you
enter the room it knows hey I'm going to
turn on the screen because you probably
want to see me and there's your nest all
lit up nice but also it
combines that with the motion sensor
technology with the Wi-Fi compatibility
of your phone and will actually know if
you've left the house this is a less
creepy version of the girlfriend in a
box girlfriend in a box
keao is a gate box yeah um yeah
here's the thing though but using that
information knowing that you've stepped
out of the house now I set a target
temperature
so now Nesta allows me to change between
Fahrenheit and Celsius so we'll say
about 74 degrees 75 degrees Fahrenheit
can't say Fahrenheit with a stuffy nose
2020 three and a half degrees Celsius
give or take and look at warm yeah it's
winter we'll turn it down to 15 in the
summer my goodness is right I still like
it you know 20 you're wearing a wool
jacket well in here oh yeah I gotta look
good because we're standing up oh well
what do you saying I'm not wearing a
wool jacket so with this information so
nest knows okay you've left the house so
now talking about security
yeah it seems kind of dangerous that
your device is communicating that data
back to a server however keeping in mind
that it is encrypted man-in-the-middle
can't get ahold of that information and
we can feel confident that that
information is held safely okay okay so
what does it do for us that this
thermostat now knows that I've been out
of the house so it monitors the app
that's in my pocket on my phone the kind
it knows my geolocation and says okay
well you're in the house or you're near
the house so I'm going to have the
temperature at your desired target
temperature so that's my 23.5 if I leave
the house it sees that the app is
disconnected from the internal Wi-Fi
right it still gives me access through
my mobile Internet or through whatever
Wi-Fi I'm connected to but it it sees
that I've left so then it says okay well
let's look at the motion sensor are
there still people in the house beyond
the person who has the app installed
okay and it uses the motion sensor to
say oh there's still movement so we're
going to keep at 23.5 degrees so then if
everybody leaves the house this was kind
of cool
I went away for a bit of a Christmas do
and nest I pulled it out I was on the
Wi-Fi at a family member's house pulled
it out and it showed me that it was in
Eco mode so having left the house my
nest thermostat has now disabled my
furnace in such a way that it will stay
within the threshold that is still safe
for my plants is still safe for the
animals it's not going to get too cold
it's also not going to get too hot but
it's saving energy because it doesn't
have to maintain that specific I'm
comfortable at 23.5 hmmm but the dogs
are fine at 20 or I would say 17 she's
been fine in 17 no if you're not they're
fine at 17 and not there the dog would
be fine absolutely absolutely the plants
will not die at 17 degrees Celsius
great so with that so now I took a
little bit of a video to show you the
thermostat itself I do like that it
turns on when we approach it but also
something to mention is that it's a lot
smaller than I was expecting the form
factor to be I thought from the from the
marketing material that this was going
to be about the size of a CD you get
that impression when you see agree about
that big it's about that big it's really
size of a bell huh so much much smaller
than I was expecting and in comparison
to a CD DVD it's you can see the the
size difference is quite substantial so
it's a lot smaller the the one thing I
don't like about that is that now comes
with this back plate but because my
original thermostat was bigger than the
nest now I can see where the previous
owners of the house had thermostat and
I've got this awful looking now I've got
to paint the whole wall if I want it to
look nice or just play some sort of
deckle around I thought about that yeah
getting some kind of sticker that I
could put behind it mount it all on top
I've yet to find one that'll work
thinking that this would be really good
for landlords with tenants right because
if they could control remotely the
temperature then they wouldn't have
tenants that like totally pump up the
jam in the house and then leave yeah
well and let's take it one step further
because if there are tenants in the
house let them turn on the temperature
and that's fine but yeah I mean if they
leave and the motion sensor senses the
nobody's home it will adjust the
temperature accordingly that's perfect
that said let's say you do temporary
rentals right how ideal is it that when
somebody checks out bring up your app
from the comfort of your home and it
could be on the other side of you know
of Barrie and adjust the temperature
because it doesn't need to be kept warm
and they'll be staying there at the time
right so that's pretty cool so let's get
an actual you know look at this you can
scroll through on the device itself you
can turn the device you can push into to
adjust settings and kind of click OK but
what's interesting about it is the fact
that the app allows you to connect to
your nest thermostat from anywhere in
the world as long as you've got an
internet connection so I've got my phone
here with the app and this is live in
real time so I'm on our studio Wi-Fi
here and yet it sees that my home
dining-room is 23.5 degrees Celsius so
if I click I can see that and I can
actually now I can see that the furnace
right now is on okay so the furnace at
my house because the screen is red I can
see that the furnace is on right now you
can see that little that little line
there just below where it's set to 23.5
see that line that stays static says
that it is currently 23 degrees so I can
adjust that now as I adjust that my wife
at home would actually see that moving
back and forth and adjusting on the
screen ugly deep well mmm it could could
be if it wasn't for the fact that it's
me demonstrating it on the air so I can
actually turn off the furnace by
bringing down the temperature and now
it's 22.5 it's going to detect that hey
the house is already 23 and it's going
to turn off the furnace for those at
home it's gonna wait a couple of moments
to do that oh they're just it just
turned off so the blower on my furnace
is now off that's cool my wife and kids
sitting at home right now the furnace
just turned off for them now it's going
to turn back on again so I can see the
inside humidity is 33 two percent which
is good and I can adjust that from the
furnace itself but it's nice that I have
that on my display and then I've got the
outside temperature which is kind of
brilliant as well just nice measures the
outside temperature it actually pulls
that because remember this is Wi-Fi
connected right okay it has access to
the weather forecast right that
information is available so I can
actually see what are the conditions is
a raining outside I can see that
in the app and on the screen of the nest
thermostat because it's a smart
thermostat right so I'm going to go into
now a couple of settings here at the
bottom you can see okay you can set it
to actually heat cool heat and cool or
Eco mode so I can force it into these
modes so even if I'm home if I don't you
know if I'm curled up in a blanket I can
put it into Eco mode and I can force
that myself
what does Eco mode do well I'm going to
click on settings here and go into my
eco temperatures and you can see that it
will turn it down as low as 15 degrees
Celsius and it will make sure that it's
never any hotter than 28 degrees Celsius
so that'll keep my plants safe in the in
the summer so it won't get too cold from
the air-conditioner being on too long or
too hot from the air conditioner being
off right keep things and we had that
happen and it was a shame that we didn't
know because we were at the cottage that
our plants were dying under the heat of
not having the air conditioner on that
was an unfortunate thing so we can avoid
that with our nest so we can now connect
to this from anywhere and adjust the
temperature at home it also works as a
bit of a kind of a warning system
because I can see from that app that you
see on your screen right there I can see
if the temperature drops below a safe
threshold I'll know before I ever have
before it ever happens before it ever
becomes a concern I'll see the
temperature dropping and when it hits 15
degrees I'm going to know something's
wrong with my furnace this is great for
people who winter away so it's a shiny
winter in Florida or myself spends the
winter in Mexico right so she has
somebody checking right now on the house
all the time just make sure everything's
okay this is one last thing she has to
worry about them checking she'll always
know if the furnace is working if she
were to have this what if you've got a
like a summer vacation home right for
example or a cottage where you've got
nest installed you've got an air
conditioner and you look at your nest on
your app and you say oh the temperature
right now is pretty hot at the cottage
we're going to hit the road we're going
to be there in an hour let's turn on the
air conditioner let's get it cooled down
to a comfortable temperature so that
when we arrive it's already set but yet
when we're not there through the week we
can turn it off that's cool right now
the motion back on detection settings is
there like a pet mode where it doesn't
read below a certain
eight I know what honestly I'm not sure
how that works I know when I enter the
room it goes off when my dog who's you
know up low past my knees comes in it
doesn't go okay doesn't turn on and that
may just be that your thermostat is up
this high and it's like a high level
thing okay I don't know the technical
end of that how that works but that's
cool that it doesn't get set off by pets
exactly and it knows from you know it's
going to know if you've been away from
the house for twenty minutes that
obviously there's you know somebody
you're away right and you can set that
all yourself so just really quickly
looking at the settings here let's jump
in I really like the fact that you can
control things a lot nicer a lot more
specifically and because of the Eco mode
here when I'm away from the house when
everyone is out of the house it switches
to that mode and it just instantly
starts saving energy so by that now we
did a little bit of a test and I'm not
sure how I would pull that up on here if
I can see my my test on here let's see
no not there but what we did is we ran a
bit of a test to see how it how it
looked as far as energy savings and the
day that I set it set up Eco mode and
then we went to family members house it
shows us the breakdown of our usage and
we were about I would say about an 1/8
maybe 1/10 of the usage was knocked off
oh so we had already saved about maybe
up to 10% of our our heating bill that's
all today because we weren't home so we
didn't need it to be super comfortable
at home hmm so there you have it I mean
it's pretty simple to set up hey is
there anything that you want to see how
easy is it to install that's a great
question real simple actually and you'll
see from the from the instructions it
was actually it's like a little booklet
a little okay hand flat and you take out
your old thermostat there's only a few
wires there right tells you where to put
them and then it programs itself and
gets everything up and going and you
just follow the prompts for the apt app
and it was in an up I like the I don't
half-hour kind of thing so you program
it through the through the app through
the app or on
screen okay so and it's all it's all
there so you can actually see here let's
see if I can do it in the app I believe
I can see the current wiring so if I go
into technical info here
do I see let's see here I just want to
check but there's nothing that's it's
private here equipment here we go I've
got an air filter reminder that will
automatically tell me
it has safety features that will
automatically make sure that the house
is always over four degrees Celsius okay
that we don't have any kind of issues
with the freezing pipes things like that
right so you see how we set up the so
when I when I hooked everything up it
shows me where to plug everything in
this is in the app okay and it shows
once it's connected it says equipment
detected and you saw kind of as I was
going through this process I was posting
things on Twitter yes excitement
detected yeah super cool so there it is
so you've got all the contacts and shows
you where to put them I've got three
contacts and that's it everything else
has done over the Wi-Fi so works really
really well so easy to set up really
really neat from a perspective of saving
some money I'm going to report back
after I would say a couple of months
where we can really see our energy bill
and and how this is affected things yeah
but check it out you can go over to our
website cap five dot TV slash nest and
est and you pick up one of those or just
simply learn more information about it
through the information that is provided
for you there
[Music]
