Sasha are you ready yes okay last week
Sasha finished kind of putting together
the computer yes so we've got this thing
let's clear some space here if I may
all right and let's see if we can do
this so this is part 8 do you know no we
are going to if memory serves me
correctly we're gonna connect the power
yeah and close the case and power it up
we're connecting the power powering it
up there's the power supply there I know
see I've missed the unboxing well I was
here for the unboxing boxing but I miss
like old put it yeah Oh Jeff can you
folks see that at home
it's a beautiful build that is pure you
know what Jeff you could watch the parts
of the series that you missed I know I
could do it cat 5 TV slash CPU 2017 do
it that's where you go that's right all
right
Sasha this bag here yes is chock-full of
these modular cables right so as we get
into our eighth part realizing that hey
we've got to wire this thing up that's
really all we're gonna accomplish
tonight it takes some time we're gonna
get this thing done so all these cables
come with the power supply because it's
a modular power supply excuse me while I
crush down behind a desk there we go oh
and by the way Jeff wore green today
Thanks
I said no no do not wear greens and do
not wear green and he I misread that you
know but I completely misread it yeah
yeah there we go all right so this big
stack of cables there you have it so I
need all of those no that's the beaut is
that anything that you don't need you
can omit that's right so it doesn't use
up space in your child yeah it's not a
bunch of cables to tie up look at all
those keeps inside keeps a clean keeps
the air flow high it's beautiful okay
all right I have the same power supply
in my computer at home this is the 850
acts from cores
love it absolutely love it because I
only need the cables that I need keeps
my box so clean air flows much better
it's awesome nice can we what we're
gonna do because Sasha you've got to be
really hands-on with this and we're on a
green screen tonight where we're
actually on multiple cameras and Sasha I
can't just walk over here so we're gonna
fade to black and when we come back
Sasha and Jeff are gonna be swapper Oh
welcome back Sasha where are you it's
funny the bag we elevated your camera a
little bit to make you a little bit
believe how much we crash back down to
reality in one show just like that okay
so are you ready to get going on I am
what we're going to do here is just
basically wire it up all right that's
all we've got time for and that's all we
can do but if you're following along the
series this is a great opportunity for
you to see how just normal everyday
folks can build computers we're not
computer builders we've never done this
before I haven't built a computer in
years
and you've never done it I have never
done it so this is brand new to me and
so I need all I can see the guidance all
right oh that's what I'm here to do but
I'm not here to give guidance as a
professional computer builder by any
stretch and its really just comes down
to hey you know what anyone can do this
as long as you kind of have an idea of
what you're looking for what you need
and and can you know be reasonably good
with your hands and gentle with it so
sack a couple of things here right so
first of all this is your power header
24-pin for the motherboard right that's
gonna come off the power supply these
guys here you see all these cables yeah
those are for the case so these are
different pieces of the case HD audio so
that's so you can plug in headphones and
like that we've got look at the u.s. USB
so that's already port 2.0 and then
we've got a USB 3.0 right here so these
are all things that are part of the
the actual chassis the case okay okay so
your motherboard came with if I can find
it here there it is
what's called a pin header and this is
going to make it a little easier for you
to to connect all these things so do you
want to just open that up
certainly all right so what we need to
do is basically connect all these things
to the motherboard where they go so the
pin headers are part of like the power
switch and the LEDs and things you'll
seasons all right well labeled so you
need to find and line up these guys
usually the labeling is going to go on
the outside so it's positive and
negative but I'm already lost okay find
your way
okay speaker this is Round 4 power power
LED which is light emitting diode so
this no Pat oh this one here no that's
the reset switch so this is a reset
switched and we don't see any reset no
there turn it over you see reset
Oh reset okay so that goes there there
are two
okay so reset goes this way no no goes
flat looking at Oh like this yes
got it holy moly see this is why we
budget eight weeks to this maybe that
way
cuz that's you know I'm so sorry things
are so yeah it's just gonna plug right
on oh I'm just being too gentle sure
don't be too gentle folks yeah okay
that's your reset switch with the ground
and okay so now we've got a power switch
which is on this side yeah that's your
power switch oh yeah okay see how that
goes
yes okay what else can you get on there
hmm let's see what other cables we've
got these are USB and audio here we go
power LED power light emitting diode
these are the lights Oh
the hard drive LED all right so this one
here positive goes on this side and
negative on that side exactly yeah just
line them up all right so this header
just makes it easier because then you
can just plug it right into the
motherboard so easy yep
you can do it out something like just
easier to get that okay next one is what
this is the HDD hard drive okay
hard disk drive case it's a an MDOT -
great all right that if that actually
shows MDOT to activity or not okay so
we've got to find where the header goes
on your motherboard let's see and don't
forget now you should I have a ground on
here cuz ur we have not plugged in the
the fan yet so don't forget we need to
put the fan on the header I'm gonna just
do that right now real quick if I may
okay so that is just right down in here
we learned that last week we just want
to make sure that that's on the
motherboard so that when we fired up the
fans gonna go right okay so the headers
what have we got
what's the header look like okay so we
see kind of how the pin looks so that
shows me there you go it's called panel
on the motherboard it's only gonna go on
one way so Sasha do you want to plug
that in yeah and it's only going to go
in one way
yeah because there are pins that are
missing from the right and they're
filled in on the header that was easy
was it easy yeah fantastic look at that
folks
it's got the headers on there okay so
now we've got to find USB three which is
this bad boy that's outcast USB say find
a port where you can plug that in
alright USB one Oh USB three that is not
it okay it's only gonna go one way
because there's a kind of oh there's a
Dickie boo on it a ticky boo file that
the technical phrase yeah
all right she's in okay we've got USB
and front panel audio HD audio and USB
there you go
are they also over here I don't know I
see a USB header there okay so we got
we've got another USB three header
chassis fan header we've got whole bunch
of stuff this guy in here gonna put the
USB up there yeah okay oh wow sasha has
never done a computer built but it
pretty much other than me just lending a
hand here and there and and giving a
little bit of advice from what little
experience I have she's done this whole
build so this is really the final touch
hey Jeff like just getting the wiring
finished oh yeah and and then we're
ready to fire up the wiring is the part
that I always lower then it comes to
builds tedious there yeah you just want
to turn it on yeah I having trouble with
this one what's going on it only goes
one way right okay so look at the pin
pin assignment and we see that there is
a pin that is one away from the edge but
the one that you're trying to plug into
has not the same pin assignment so that
port is not compatible with this front
panel okay so let's just oh maybe I just
tried to plug in the wrong one I did and
that would explain it
plugging HD audio into USB good call
holy there we go that was easy alright
what else have we got
can you find the HD audio we could look
at the the manual of oh but they're
gonna be around here somewhere okay
we've got a whole bunch of stuff there
it is oh you see you yep okay you get
that alright alright there we go so
that's the front panel audio boom it's a
long so we're gonna tie all these down
and make it look nice and all that kind
of stuff later make sure we've got okay
so the chassis fan oh this is the fan on
the back of the computer right
mmm that needs to be plugged into the
motherboard so you're going to need to
untwist that and find a chassis fan
header which I see two of them down
there Oh see there's a couple over here
okay
go Sasha go go go
I feel like it would never make in one
of those survivor shows yeah it's like I
don't recall survivor building a
character twist-tie
this is TV take off the twist okay so if
you're new here fan yeah that's nice and
close you could probably left the twist
tie on actually that could've saved five
minutes off the show oh boy oh my
goodness as I do this how many weeks do
we budget for this to no I'm kidding I
do hope to fire it up and start
installing the software next week okay
okay are you on yes okay fantastic okay
this is done this is the motherboard all
the headers so that when you push a
power button and all that kind of stuff
it's going to actually power up that's
the key thing right okay now we've got
to get this up Sasha sorry I need to
upstage you with your computer okay
let's take a quick boo at this guy here
so the headers on the power supply
itself right these are going to power
the motherboard and all the peripherals
by running the cables through the back
of the case so it hides it it hides it
yes okay so we've got to find the right
one so this is SATA no they should be
marked
I know these these kind of things but
SATA is your harddrive header right for
power this is a molex molex we do need
because I saw a molex adapter here
sticking out of the challenge
most likely the LED lights right that
was my guess or it could be no there is
no chassis fan in the top so that is
going to be the lights which are the
most important piece in my opinion
mm-hmm so that was a big thing that
they've wanted right yeah exactly
we suspect that he does because he wants
the coolest of cool right so what I want
you to do sashes grab that molex and
feed it out through one of the grommets
just so that it's out and it would not
matter it would not matter which one
well just yeah the one that's closest
and hide it away so you see that that's
gonna hide that molex away so that when
we plug it in here it's gonna be in the
back of the case right I've seen so it's
very cool on little wire where does that
plug in so this plugs into the power
supply right right so I just need to get
in there mm-hmm
and find peripheral there we go
peripheral peripherally that tons of
them so I'm just gonna have to wire in
those kinds of things so we're gonna
take a really kind of quick go at this
we're gonna get it done really really
fast and through the magic of television
we're gonna speed things up and then
we're gonna we're gonna be ready to go
[Music]
PCI Express is the graphics card okay
okay part 7 so the graphics card needs
supplemental power and if you fire up
the computer and there's no video you
know that you've missed this particular
cable this is what is going to give that
graphics card power so again we're gonna
go out through a grommet Sascha
right I can do this hands-on a little
bit right oh absolutely
push on that just so it looks like you
did it all right so we've got the power
for the motherboard is this big fat guy
okay you do this one this is the most
important because this is the power for
the actual motherboard itself the
computer okay okay so I have to find
where it goes in here yeah so it's gonna
go out the probably the same grommet I
would think that's a good one it's well
situated these ones here are blocked by
the motherboard so you're not gonna be
able to go out those ones okay now let's
make sure that you've got the right I
don't know yeah I don't know if these
are oh if it matters which side you have
well they looked the same
yeah they look the same on on both sides
so except this one's got an extra clip
so this is the power supply side all
right okay and then in here where do i
plug that that's gonna go in for the the
actual ATX power something so this right
here if that looks like the 124 pin ATF
oh there you go yep he says it right on
seriously doubting my abilities he just
needs to go right in there okay and and
I don't mind lending a hand I just want
you to be pleased Dave please dad this
is this is sashes build and I don't want
to be too hands-on with it it's just you
know it is a little tricky sometimes
it's tough to to do when you can't get
at it let's yeah here okay so let's get
that one on here now in this case could
it have been like is there enough wiggle
room to hook up the power supply first
and then secure it yeah you absolutely
could Jeff but there's a lot of room in
here that I can you know I even meet
with my sausage fingers you can get it I
can get in here no problem you you get
in here no problem that's a good - she's
just yeah we just got to get that to
clip in and for those who are watching
this and you're just walking in and
saying what the what are these guys
doing they don't know how to build
computers you are absolutely right this
is an experiment in proving that even if
you are not a computer builder even if
you're just a normal everyday person
that is just wanting to build their own
computer just for fun but you can't you
can do it you can absolutely do it so
that's on okay we're gonna flip this
over here notice how gentle I'm being
with your baby thank you mm-hmm now
there's the 24 pin header on the
motherboard there right it's only gonna
go on one way but you want to line it up
the right way and there we go perfect
that's the power for the motherboard
couldn't have done it better myself so I
think we've got everything set as far as
power goes I believe yeah we've got the
all the headers on for the fans we don't
need a hard drive power supply because
we don't have a hard drive we're using
an MDOT - right okay so when we
come back we're gonna plug this in we're
just going to turn it off we're gonna
hope that it doesn't explode yeah yeah a
fire extinguisher handy you have a fire
extinguisher and we have coffee we're
ready to rock I can throw the cup of
coffee don't go anywhere folks when we
come back we're gonna see it try to go
up in smoke or light up one or the other
those are our two options
that's it don't go anywhere whether you
shop on ThinkGeek gearbest B&amp;H Photo
Video eBay or Amazon or even if you want
a free trial of audible you'll find the
best deals and support the shows we
produce by simply visiting the shopping
sites you already frequent by using the
links on our website visit category-five
TV slash partners for the full and
ever-growing list and help us create
more free content like this show thank
you for shopping with our partners and
thank you for watching welcome back this
is category 5 technology TV great jobs
object yes now Jeff you've switched back
yes
are we ready I think so I plugged in a
power cord into the power supply did
just gonna plug the power cord into an
outlet I did ok fire that oh so this is
the power switch there's lights now the
power is oh look at the hair is power to
the motherboard oh the start button is
illuminated Sasha it's like starting
engine ok Jeff do you want to have the
honors yes ready but I feel like sorry
no no I'm gonna do it do it one yes oh
that's cool oh you can switch the colors
right yeah yeah we're gonna we're gonna
pick red at some point later I do I want
oh oh look at that nice so when you push
the button it just
Christmas oh there's your red perfect oh
it's off this is the first c22 from
thermaltake so the case came with all
these LEDs it looks nice so that's of
course it's not gonna actually boot to
anything because we haven't installed
any software yet right there's no smoke
things are moving the piano like it's
burning vans are spinning don't even
hear it no it's very very quiet it's
super silent we've got air flow going
the correct direction so I'm feeling a
good air flow coming off of that
Wow yeah things that don't need to be
spinning or not spinning
they spin up as things get hot that
looks fantastic Sasha congratulations
thank you thank you all Nick
next week we're actually gonna plug it
into a monitor we're gonna start
installing some software we're gonna get
Linux on there we want to get steam on
there I don't know if we're gonna be
able to get everything on there all at
once but at least we're gonna get it up
and running yes as a working computer
yeah that you built
Sasha built that so check it out folks
in the meantime that's all the time that
we have for this feature for tonight
make sure you go to cat five dot TV
slash CPU 2017 to follow the whole
series and see how we selected the
hardware why we selected each individual
component and how it was assembled
mm-hmm so don't miss out on that cat5 TV
slash cpu 2017
[Applause]
