you've heard of wanna cry wanna krypter
wanna Crypt
this is the newest stream of ransomware
that is attacking not just business
networks but the entire world we're
seeing a huge infestation of this
malware and it is it's unprecedented
it's never as far as I know nothing
quite of this scale has ever happened
before
so it's being deemed potentially cyber
warfare it's being called all these
kinds of things that you know we're not
really sure what is this right now is it
just ransomware by some lucky hacker who
decided to make some money mm-hmm and is
doing a fair job at that just a bit
scary I don't know but we've got some
industry professionals here with us
tonight in order to talk about that mark
skelton is our first interview tonight
he's a professor of practice in the
information systems and management group
at Warwick Business School in Coventry
England and he researches cyber security
he's the author of building digital
ecosystems and he's also got a new book
that's just a just about to come out you
can actually go to cat5 dot TV slash
mark ma RK and when you go to that link
you're going to be able to see the books
and actually order a copy right off of
Amazon as well so check that out mark it
is so great to have you here thanks for
joining us well so yummy roll the UH I
mean you have to be on the other side of
the moon not to see some of the issues
that coming out of this cyber attack so
thank you very much for having me yeah
Cheers and you know it is we can just
get right into our conversation tonight
because as you say you got to be living
under a rock to not know what's going on
and essentially you know this is
worldwide news we're speaking with you
from Ontario Canada and you're in
England and this is a real global event
can you give us a little bit of a
backstory on what you've seen as a cyber
security researcher is is really
happening in in kind of the whole
ecosystem of the Internet today yeah
that's a good question to ask me because
that's the sort of thing I tend to look
after you know you need to put this in
perspective you know one way to look at
it is well this is just Microsoft
machines that are being affected so if
I'm on iOS from Apple or I'm using an
open-source system
and this doesn't really matter it's not
that issue but then you hear about 11
million users or pcs being affected and
you get lots of different numbers and
where I position this as I tend to call
this is the third wave the third wave if
you will of cyber attacks I mean the
first way by describing the genesis of
what I call enterprise scale that cyber
attacks is really denial of service
these offices is phrased right here and
you know that's they see stopping access
to your system secondly we've got data
breaches much like the famous Sonny
Sonny attack which with that I'll give
you not particularly terribly good film
but some clearly was an issue about
stealing data and the issues of taking
money off you this is really the third
way just to get to the point which is
around ransomware where it's actually
holding you psychologically to rent and
for money or to inflict some emotional
damage on you but equally you're seeing
this now having attacked hospitals in
the UK right you know in Canada in
Russia's being hit very very heavily
it's over about 110 countries and really
this is a smorgasbord a palace fear of
the ecosystem that we're now living in
the 24/7 always connected all these
devices are now the legacy of all these
sort of operating systems and whether
there's a gap you know an air gap and
there's clearly been an exploit here
there's been been opened up by but we
believe criminals all those there has
been some new news on that we can talk
about as who's caused this but it just
shows the scale the way we're connected
today doesn't it and the the nature of
the threat now is about ransomware
unfortunately and do we suspect that
this is a targeted attacker is this you
know it's so widespread it seems like
this is just like how has this thing
spread so quickly to so many systems
what are we looking at from that
perspective well academically we talk
about narrative engineering which is a
rather Ponzi so that flashy words that
what does that mean but you see this
with which fake news and you hear this
in terms of information being put out
there into the Internet to create an
impact now I think what this is it's a
call it target it is difficult to say
that because
effectively it is a exploit on a
weakness in the Windows XP system that
we read which is an old version of
Microsoft's operating system but
everybody who hasn't Windows XP was
cancelled so you know how is this still
a problem today like there is nobody
runs Windows XP anymore right well
obviously not as the two things as we
know the poor National Health Service in
the UK clearly got a gold one here and
that they haven't they've been
repeatedly warns not no job great their
systems to the patch marks or the patch
job in March this year to fix this and
they told me you've got upgraded systems
but equally you can talk about some how
we put it some unlicensed software which
may be in Russia and elsewhere people
using potentially other on the savers
illegal versions so these aren't
protected by patches so this is what's
happening so complex issue I hear you
okay so what makes and now we're all
kind of at this point in like our
viewers and pretty much the world at
large we've all heard of ransomware so
we know that it is if an attack it
encrypts your files it wants you to send
Bitcoin to basically pay the hackers in
order to get your files back what makes
this new attack this wave of the wanna
cry or one equipped ransomware what
makes that so significantly different
and why is this now a global event when
there have been ransomware as in the
maps that have gone around well
obviously you know one of the things
that's different this time is that
another criminal group stole some
software which is called blue eternal
there's also some other software this
has other unusual names now this
software was from the NSA
this is reported by the Israeli Cyber
Security Agency four days ago this is in
the fact yeah yeah we believe so so what
we're finding is two combination two
things you've got a worm which is a
thing that sort of weave is way through
into your XP vulnerability really
there's been a backdoor method provided
by a military grade weapon cyber weapon
which is stolen from the NSA and what's
happening is the combination is so
lethal this
slice managed to get through file
firewalls managed to break through into
all these pcs and so the question is
even if you have had the patch you
probably would have been protected but
these computers because of this
additional piece of stolen
military-grade cybersecurity weaponry
it's nice to do so much damage all over
the world it's such a different world
that we live in isn't it from you know
20 years ago and this year this was all
speculated you know this is something
that was future ask cyber warfare and
things like that and I wouldn't mind
touching on that without getting too far
into you know it's so easy to fall into
conspiracy theories and and theoretical
you know like we could just banter here
and come up with all sorts of ideas of
what might be going on but just backing
up a little bit we keep going back to
this this exploit is from Windows XP is
it something that's also affecting other
users well indirectly because so they
say this is another service and also you
know you lose patients and medical
rather lose the records you lose medical
care time you can't go to banks you
can't go and buy staff care it's the
disruption this creates you know Robby
hands up it's that's that probably the
impact and what they're trying to do but
basically that it's a financial game
they've kind of so they're done a fire
fire store bit like the famous some you
know diehard 4.0 movie of you know the
one that's a it's no joke in this kind
of technology when it can get through
break through the barriers of devices
and Internet of Things now with all
these things connected the damage you
can do is really what I particularly
like if I could just sort of razor sure
point is from the Microsoft their legal
counsel the head of illegal in Microsoft
wrote a blog a couple of days ago so
that was very interesting Lee advocated
that we should introduce a thing called
the digital Geneva Convention the
digital Geneva Convention I think that's
quite interesting isn't because I think
what's happening is because if they're
NSA and others not just the NSA no you
look at the UK government others are all
sort of stop Eiling these side of
weapons to protect themselves but also
to be able to do surveillance and doing
national security rate activities
there's an issue about you know if you
stockpile Dukla
as you stop our cybersecurity weapons
they need to have the same level of due
diligence you don't want to leave the
door open government one going missing
you know this is not a good thing so I
think it's a good call by Microsoft well
I have an issue with I don't know what
your thoughts are is that should it be
just Microsoft saying they are the first
responder they're a bit like the judge
in the jury well it's their system in
the first place they've got hacked yeah
and now they're saying we're going to
fix you but why was it hacked in the
first place you know yeah you know a lot
of like an issues not an automobile
where you know we got to recall this car
because it's our problem right like this
is this is much wider Yale than that
yeah and and you know this does bring us
to the you know and it's it's such a
dangerous thing for us to get into this
conversation because like I said we can
so easily slip through to conspiracy
theories and things like that but but it
really does we do get the sense that
we're looking at a cyber warfare kind of
issue here so the underlying technology
being that it comes from these
government bodies and now has that been
stolen through data theft and and used
by cyber criminals or what are we what
are we looking at but we're looking at
that as unit of the whole Edward Snowden
affair and WikiLeaks and the
self-appointed and essentially
particular side of the political divides
and persuasion advocates but some you
know have these potential of digital
must say you and I are talking on this
connection right now it's a very
powerful medium you know you're in
different parts of the world but we can
connect in instant time and I think the
people the reality that we have to
understand this is not new is that the
ability to work at the speed of light of
these technologies which is not the
physical physical constraints that the
physical world has is that you've got
situations where people can still
information about you are your identity
they can basically do in enormous
amounts of harm within hours or minutes
or seconds even and this is really the
issue we know with artificial
intelligence and being able to automate
this let's say this is the third wave
robbery in terms of the ransomware is a
intelligence cyber weapon it's not a
thumb brutal sort of brick through the
window karne and this is intelligent it
well I know where this might go there's
a good device it presents itself as
something like this this could be some
really smart kids making money off of
their hack it presents itself that way
it reads itself that way it pops up on
your screen and says your files are
encrypted in order to get those backs
and money too so why would like just
this is you know to put a theory out
there why would a government use some
tactic like that in order to in order in
order to infiltrate computer systems and
essentially like looking at the
hospitals and looking at government and
possibly charitable organizations who
have never had the budget to upgrade
from Windows XP for example so why would
these be targets of this widespread
attack but it's always a vulnerable they
get attacked I think the two points
quickly on this is unfortunate people
with the least money or consider cash
constraints or you know ironically the
people who may be using illegal versions
of the software that get caught out with
this but Italy in terms of going back to
the narrative in the some of these
things is about creating obfuscated no
creating a fork the kind of noise of the
market there might be to do to undermine
an election that we might be to
undermine certain credibility's or in
most cases with traveling tends to steal
money or to get intellectual property no
not pointing fingers towards the Asia
for example or equally it goes both ways
to be even-handed about this it is now
really we talk about the police talk
about that so this is the fourth theater
of war we talk about land sea and air is
the three they're battlefields if you
will the war it is now the fourth area
war where is now the digital speech the
world and I think we have to realize
this reality this they think about
Microsoft legal counsel saying we needed
additional to leave the convention
because this thing is rapidly getting
out of scope you know the way yeah
absolutely and it is it's a changing
world right now and in that you know we
we are no longer dealing with you know
your antivirus
because we've got viruses that might get
into your your
sector like that's no longer the big
concern and I sell antivirus and I know
you need the firewall you absolutely
need the firewall don't opt out of that
don't turn it off yeah I was I mean I
was talking to another cyber security
expert friend who's a very very very
technical expert in this area and he
says one of the critical things to have
the wake-up were the one a cryo so that
was very interesting I put it on my
Huffington Post log and was this issue
around this type of cyber attack is very
sophisticated that you and I are not
technically able to actually fix it so
we just seriously like locking the front
door with your antivirus as you say
Robbie but that's not sufficient these
look at this is a worm and then it was
using military-grade so the backdoor
methods in addition to that so like hang
on a minute you know you don't bring a
knife to a gunfight sort of thing
happening but it's not it may be
laughing at it but my toilet Famer I
didn't work it didn't work and but I
think the issue is that it's a
multi-level response that's needed point
one and point two is we now need
government's not just Microsoft where we
need experts to deal with this kind of
threat position now as I've gone to the
third level which is a machine learning
it's artificially intelligent and just
the normal patches and fixes isn't going
to be enough going forward and I think
that's the big wake-up call though
you're scaring me is out here buddy you
know the evolution I wish I could tell
you better yeah yeah now are there other
folks in that you know we know about
Microsoft's proposals and what what's
going on there but what is that what's
in place right now to to protect the
world at large well the two things
probably want is the governments have
got their big agencies so in the UK for
example they've got the National Service
Security Agency which is specializing on
monitoring this list threatening and
they jump to the GCHQ know being the
national surveillance agency in the UK
the similar operations are in the United
States of course and Canada and
elsewhere so we have at the government
level now taking far more serious
attention and investments in the area I
think the gap that this missing at the
moment is really you know to put it
bluntly
our pants we found our pants or knickers
worth basically between yards rules here
with Microsoft they they they're not
updating their software probably and
then put commercials around there so
Windows XP is now a old older version so
your own supporter but that's not really
acceptable as a consumer I've lost my
data I've been attacked so I think we
need to have vendors particularly having
more accountability and responsibility
both sides of the pond in wherever they
come from and when you're selling a
product this stuff you build up after it
and so making branding to do more like
where is hard and where does it happen
for a software developer because you
look at a car and you buy a car and how
long is your warranty for that car like
at a certain point it becomes your
responsibility and when we add
cybersecurity researchers like yourself
have been saying to folks for years now
upgrade get off of Windows XP do not
continue running that system you've got
that computer that you barely ever use
that still has XP on it never turn it on
scrap it get rid of it it's not I just
not really fair to put it on Microsoft I
don't think as much as you know we're
Linux people here but it's it's such a
tough thing there has to be something
bigger than that yeah I think you hit
the nail on that it's a really good
point you're making it because I think
the nature of what you're describing
with a car the analogy of the car is
it's a physical thing you can touch it
you can say alright I'm going to put in
a new engine or I'm going to basically
scrap it yeah and if a people we're ez8
software again running forever
indefinitely exactly and that's the
problem so I just read that apparently
yesterday that in the dear old mp3
format is apparently now you thought
this out it's no longer supported but it
doesn't mean to say it's gone away
it's very still potentially because then
it's not analogous in this area but the
point I'm making into the digital world
exploits both modern systems as well as
old systems and I think again there
needs to be some accountability I've
been saying in the media last few days
that maybe we need a cyber security
police force bit like them you know the
first responders they do you call you
know not ghostbusters no joke I mean if
you need to basically take this up with
somebody and I don't think there's a
clear way forward yet and I think this
is a big wake-up call for everybody yeah
we'll see a lot of changes I think over
the the course of the next little while
as well
mark we really appreciate your time and
and for sharing with us do we have any
any inkling as to what's next with wanna
cry has it kind of tapered off through
the efforts of security researchers and
companies now I wish I could tell you
addresses no this is just accelerated on
to the package for this particular
attack but this is going to be more than
norm going forward whether you have more
insidious and psychological attacks on
our identity liberty and rights and I
think really this is just a matter of
escalation
I think the concern particular is around
weapons of cyber weapons by governments
now need to be under much more secure
environments because if this stuff gets
out you know I can give it a quick
analogy with say in advance
biological weapons just to pick a very
serious example you don't expect those
with category 4 or category 5 laps to
basically be opened or Institute's and
so I think the problem with digital of
course is that they're much more
vulnerable so we need to be very careful
about this going forward
sure and I think it's quite possible
that you know companies and hospitals
and industries need to take this more
seriously to take protection more
seriously it's amazing how like DLP
solutions and endpoint firewalls that
that prevent data theft and things like
that they've existed for so many years
and they've evolved to the point where
they're very very good and yet so few
have them in place yeah the people to
sign follow procedures point one I mean
uses the old adage you know how many
times you need to act and basically
change the behavior now this is a this
is a wake up call but I think what's
more concerning is if we're getting
military-grade military-grade social
security weapons out in the open market
rather than an adult web this is not the
great developments and I think that are
going to be something but for the
authorities and both sides of the know
all over the place are going to be
exploiting so this is not going to be
the last story I suspect unfortunately
for sure for sure any I do believe that
this is that you know kind of the start
of change for a lot of a lot of the
industry because people let you say it's
a wake-up call
people are realizing okay
we kept these machines running and we
thought that it was okay and we've
ignored the mornings of our IT people
and you know now it's time to really
step things ansel will see the evolution
over the next in a while
absolutely if you've got connected cars
you know you've got banking and online
banking
you've got medical devices maybe
wearables on your body and stuff knowing
your identity and your your very life
could depend on these systems working
properly in the in the new economy so
this is I think a level of security and
surveillance but also prevention I think
the prevention has been proven in this
case is it's not ready yet and this is
going through cycles they now build this
morning first morning that this is where
ransomware can go just as amazing you're
over a hundred ten cultures got attacked
in this yeah that's not just one or two
I mean it's like everybody goes down on
this one and I think what I've said
earlier was we do need a much more
investments in you know in America or
Japan or in modern economies need to be
sharing information needs to be
responding as a almost like the fourth
emergency service across the globe as
well as within their own countries
because this is this is a state of war
and not being exactly rating this to be
alarmist for you have years that we need
to be treating this incredibly seriously
way more than we know the level of that
we're doing at the moment we've got to
be very sure and strong in our response
there sure as hell the criminals going
to be doing was saying yeah and it's a
big wake-up call for a lot of folks
including myself where you know it's
it's kind of becoming that way where
okay we need to be ready for what's to
come and and that's the fact
that's intentionally the fact of this
world that we're living in right now so
as we've been speaking with mark skelton
mark thank you so much for your time
mark has a website if you want to check
him out and learn more about his
research check out his books as well
it's mark skelton com I've got that
linked below and mark thank you so much
for your time thanks Robbie thank you
very much today's avila all the way best
take
[Music]
you
[Applause]
