hello and welcome to new every day my
name is Kari and my name is Jen and on
today we have the final segment of Wow
I never saw that coming so stay tuned
[Music]
hello and thank you for tuning into new
everyday and we are in episode 7 of Wow
I didn't see that coming and we have
Josh Holden back on the show Josh thank
you for sticking this out with us and
this is like part three of your story
and part one he shared about like your
high school years and how was rocky
start for you got into drugs got into a
bad situation part two we talked about
how God started to draw you out of that
when he gave you kind of like a hunger
for something more in your life and what
you were doing and let you understand
the intellectual argument for Christ and
how it's historically accurate and know
what the gospel means essentially and
then we finished off with you realizing
who Jesus is because of the Beatitudes
in Matthew chapter 5 and how that was
like a mirror in your own life would you
kind of say that that's yeah what it was
pretty accurate yeah and God led you to
repentance and you asking God and I love
that prayer is God make me in your own
image like this is who I am but it's not
who I was made to be so make me day by
day in your own image and tell us where
you're at now like how is God doing that
in your life on the daily making you in
His image what's your relationship with
God look like do you guys know when we
first met you at church you came in and
you had made a commitment to Christ and
the talk of baptism came up and you're
like oh yeah
no yeah I'm not ready and we're like but
do you have not to be ready for you look
Christian man yeah like you've accepted
Christ you need to and and and I
remember very clearly you said to me I'm
just not ready to make that step yet and
I didn't really um
stand while you were saying I'm not
ready like because I hear that from a
lot of people who just say well I'm not
ready to happy baptized and and that's
fair enough but he genuinely said you
are not ready because you knew the
commitment that that represented and you
didn't want to take us take it lightly
so what was it that I want to say pushed
you over the edge
interesting into the tape as it were in
choosing to be baptized because we read
an ayah a baptism is an outward
confession yeah yeah an inward decision
which is part of that change that making
him into your His image well first of
all I just like to start by saying saved
baptized by the spirit rejected the
church what I saw in the Bible I didn't
see in the church okay yeah so first it
was kind of like finding hope and people
who claim to be Christian okay so I have
a co-worker named Steve wall and for a
while he's been inviting me out to
actually meet your dad Rob web and I
wasn't going for it because before I
wasn't you know I didn't really believe
in like you know whatever but after
Christ I was like okay well I do love
getting into the Bible and by this time
I'd already started my own Bible study I
started reaching out to people and in
Asheville on your own like I'm part of a
church you just started I just looked at
what Jesus said did it okay let's do it
yeah yeah and then yeah so Steve
convinced me to come out but I was like
okay well I'm not going to Sunday
worship or whatever you know and I mean
like I'll do the Bible studies so I come
out with Thursday night and the first
night it was kind of like just instantly
I felt drawn by the spirit to Charles
wood oh yeah and your dad like it was
just like an instant connection went
there for a couple of weeks and we got
in to act shout there 11
and it's funny because I didn't want to
get baptized here and everybody at the
Bible study was like okay well you know
when are you gonna get baptized when
you're gonna get baptized and I actually
talked to my friend David Lynn who runs
Christ's forgiveness ministries he does
a street outreach on Dundas Square
Toronto and I wanted him originally to
do my baptism right because I felt like
he was kind of a mentor at the time and
I felt comfortable there but it wasn't
until you know we were we were told in
this Bible study
okay Acts chapter 11 verse 21 and I
ended up getting there first and it's
basically Paul being told by Jesus I
have revealed myself to you what are you
waiting for get baptized and do my will
okay so you felt that was talking to me
yeah and you were like I better get
baptized yeah okay did you find it in
alright well that's a reference well
where he's talking to Saul he is second
to chapter 9 says he just got up and was
baptized so he was filled with the Holy
Spirit immediately something like scales
fell from his eyes does that sound
familiar
mm-hmm and it says and he got up and was
baptized okay so you got up they baptize
you right there in it no no no yeah
September 11th yeah 2016 Jenni baptized
there you go
yes I did and we sat down and we had a
conversation and and just tell me about
your story and what God has been doing
in your life and and you know so often
we think we have to have it all together
before we can come to this right yeah
and and so the thought that you could
come to Jesus and having not necessarily
work through all of your sin is
extremely
humbling when we actually see the stain
of sin yeah in our lives and so as I was
talking with Josh I knew he had met
Jesus I knew his growing in the Lord and
and so I was like no like you've got
this it doesn't matter if you think you
haven't got all together that isn't what
she there is no grading scale with Jesus
like it's like knowing you want to come
yeah
and and your baptism is that outward
declaration saying I'm gonna serve Jesus
and I knew it was real when he wanted to
do it because he had struggled so much
with the making it real like I know what
that means so yeah yeah so we're gonna
pause right there because we want to
make sure we have enough time for the
rest of his story and maybe you're
struggling with baptism because you know
what it represents and so we encourage
you today as we take this break right
now that you would give some serious
consideration as to what's really
stopping me we'll be back right after
this Jeff Weston Gemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what aren't
you right you're terrible actor
what does where acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay I'm building
a really cool website are you building a
really cool website you need hosting one
of the things about a hosting account is
you don't want to have limitations put
on your website that's true how much
harddrive space do you have how many
email accounts how many domains can
point to it well we've got an amazing
deal for you for a very limited time
cat5 dot TV slash dream host for just
five dollars and a bit of change per
month you are gonna get unlimited web
site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name so your own com
nice to put that amazing website that
you've been working on on there if you
if you want to build a wordpress site
fine
sign up cat5 dot TV slash DreamHost just
don't put that other papers on just
don't do it but hey it's a great deal
folks best deal you're gonna find five
dollars and change per month go to cap
five dot TV slash DreamHost hi everyone
thanks for staying with us on new every
day
go to our website new every day TV check
out our partners page and you can see
all of the amazing organizations and
businesses who help make this show
possible so Josh are still with us we're
just going bad we're so glad we're gonna
jump right back in because one of the
one of the cool things that happened at
Josh's baptism was all of the men in the
men's ministry stood up and clapped
they're so proud of him
and we have we've been tracking with the
life of Saul through here and how you
know several times Josh didn't
necessarily see how God was going to
move you didn't see how God was gonna
move in your life and then he moved and
you're like whoa that was I didn't see
that no I didn't see that coming and yet
there have been some men very much like
Barnabas was to Paul I'm just gonna read
that passage again because it says when
Paul came to Jerusalem he tried to join
the disciples but they were all afraid
of him not believing that he really was
a disciple but Barnabas took him
and brought him to the acai bowls he
told them how saw on his journey had
seen the Lord and that the Lord had
spoken to him and how in Damascus he had
preached fearlessly in the name of the
Lord and so so you've been baptized for
almost a year now and very active and
sharing your faith but like every
believer I even think of people who are
continuing to speak into my life who is
it who are your who are those men or
women that are speaking into your life
who are encouraging you along the way
who's like putting their arm around you
saying you know come on join me I'm with
you well actually the men of the men's
ministry the Bible studies that go to
Thursday nights they've been extremely
encouraging and as I mentioned earlier
Charles wood and your father Rob Webb in
fact Kerry's father has sort of taken me
under his wing and we were doing Bible
studies on prophecy the Testament
prophecies how they fulfilled in Christ
end times prophecies you know the things
to look out for and now how to recognize
our spiritual growth you know I've
learned a lot from him and you know he's
actually gone out of his way for me to I
mean I met path or I guess he was pastor
cliff he's now the bishop the Free
Methodist Church also mark McAlister
who's the liaison and believe floor he's
our director of church health yeah yeah
and they both because of what rob has
been saying he seemed to be interested
in my future
yeah with the church as far as like
perhaps doing other ministries within
the church yeah actually rob has been
Adam in and I don't know but doing my
own church plant of course I don't feel
ready like yeah but he sees something in
you that you have the call of God on
your life and that's part of what a
Barnabas does is he comes along or she
comes along and she sees her
he sees the gifts and graces that God
has wired into someone and they're like
like you got it and like I was in the
same position as you when someone came
alongside and said Jen you have the
gifts and graces for a ministry and I'm
like yeah I want Irina and so but you
need those the Barnabas's and your life
to come alongside and encourage you and
so are you sensing a call of God on your
life like what are you sensing that God
is calling you to now it's kind of been
up and down as of late I've had to learn
patience I've also early on you know my
experience with the Holy Spirit I was a
I tapped into I would call it God's
heart for people and like the best way I
could explain it is God's love for each
individual that is on this planet and
he's taken me to situations where how
you deal with the least of these it's
like dealing with me so it's hmm I've
been humbled to an extent and I know
that leadership is where I'm supposed to
be but as of right now it's I'm still
learning I'm still so new to the walk
yeah now what's really cool about what
Josh does is you're sharing the gospel
wherever you're going and so in the town
that you live in
Howdy's now I heard that it was on
Sunday nights what are you doing on
Sunday nights what are you doing with
your free time down there oh well I was
holding a Bible study for the longest
time but then we started going to Hope
Church yeah pastor Kevin yes
downtown berry they do outreach they
actually hold their services and the
movie theaters their own Dunlop Street
yeah so but tell us about the Bible
study who was who was invited to come to
that how did it start
well it originally started so I would do
Bible studies wind
Wednesday nights at the library no
public library and had it like so you
invited all your friends to come no I
kind of just threw an invite on Facebook
and then whoever showed up showed up
yeah and then it was kind of like
anybody who was at the library I would
just reach out to write and whoever
wanted to join would join at the time so
like Miss Sally walking down the aisle
just find her book you'd be like hey
yeah come on over look I try and ask
people you know what are they looking
for in life yeah you know because at the
end of the day we're all seeking love
whether or not we want to admit it and I
think the problem is we're seeking a
perfect love within imperfect people
because all of us fall short that at the
end of the day we don't want to
recognize that Christ is that perfect
love Christ is that standard that
relationship that we're all missing in
our lives
yeah and that is I think that sums it up
yeah right like he is the one we're
looking for
and I really appreciate the quote from I
believe it's a gusting I mean I guess
teen it is said a couple different ways
okay and he said you have made us for
yourself God in our heart is restless
until it finds its rest in you yeah and
you I think you hit the nail on the head
Josh is that there's this desire he's
placed eternity on each of our hearts
that started in you when you were
seeking after well you know I I know
that there's a god there's all these
religions and and you found Christ and
you know that his love is real and now
you're reaching out and trying to share
that with others yeah oh well very cool
I again I have so many more things that
I could just ask you but thank you so
much for coming and sharing with us I
knew every day and would you come back
again sometime yeah my pleasure
okay Judy thank you so much I'm just
gonna pray for us and then we'll sign
off lord thank you so much
thank you for Josh thank you for how you
are using him and you are making him
into your gym engine and I thank you for
your church and all over the world you
are renewing people and you are bringing
eternal life and you are changing lives
and we're movie be ambassadors for your
love this week to all people everywhere
I pray this in Jesus okay thank you for
tuning in and we hope to see you next
week on new every day have a great week
see you later
