we've got the ninja flame recorder right
here I'm just gonna get right into the
box okay this looks like it's pretty
easy to get into nice oh it's stuck on
the zipper that's the end of it there we
go all right there it is so it comes
with kind of like it's like a soft
hardshell case it's not quite hard it's
not quite soft but it's definitely it's
got some sponginess to it
I think that's gonna protect things
pretty well even if you don't get the
accessory kit here we are and ladies and
gentlemen the atomos ninja but this is
the flame model so that means it is 30
frames per second 4k whoo-hoo pro res
four to two beautiful now it looks like
a screen right it looks like our Lily
putt screen but this is actually not
just a screen it's also a 4k 30p pro res
recorder so an SSD is going to go into
here and slide in there just like that
we've got a spot for two batteries here
and they are hot swappable they recharge
while they're connected so if one is
dead you can pull it out put in another
one and and so on and just keep on going
okay so first things I notice we've got
quarter inch mounting on the bottom as
well as the top it's nice if you want to
have if you want to have it hanging from
like a gimbal system or something like
that versus mounted directly onto the
camera I've got a mic and line input
we've got a headphone jack nice power
button there and then it looks like
we've got like a screw on DC input six
point two volts so that's kind of nice
we're not going to have to worry about
like the barrel connector getting
accidentally unplugged from that
so the ninja flame has HDMI and so
that's 4k and no SDI which I don't need
here at the studio so we opt out of that
like that's not something that we need
at all because we're fully HDMI here so
we can take an HDMI signal in hit record
and output to our monitors to another
deck whatever we want to do I see a jack
here for a remote as well and I can't
wait to plug it into HDMI I'm wondering
if I'm gonna be able to trigger it from
the HDMI I don't know that yet haven't
even plugged it in yet as you know I'm
just taking it out of the box for the
first time but wouldn't that be neat I I
don't want to get my hopes up but what
if what if otherwise I think it's gonna
hold a lot of video so I can just hit
record and let it go so that's great ok
back down here what else is in this kit
here so this is the like what you get
with just the K just the recorder itself
we've got a QuickStart guide looks like
it's only a couple of pages here
yeah it's like a real visual kind of
pull out flyer nice and easy nice and
straightforward nothing overwhelming and
there we go we've got power adapter so
that is now I don't see a screw feature
so as I was mentioning on the back of
the Atomos ninja flame there is the
option to screw it in however this
particular charger that comes with it
doesn't have that now that said it's
pretty snug I don't think that's gonna
get pulled out of there at all if you're
working in the field you might want to
get one that screws in I think that
that's nice that it's got the threading
I didn't expect that nor do I really
need it here in our studio but that's
cool so here's the power brick looks
like and we've got adapters for looks
like China the UK what is that - 10 - 20
I don't know and then we've got the 110
4 here in Canada and the United States
so that's kind of nice that it's
universal out of the box so if you're
doing any shooting and traveling then
you're gonna be able to take this with
you and there you go comes with the
adapter all right now that I've put that
together is it going to go back into the
box that's the question now that I've
put that on no I guess you got to take
it apart there you go
that's alright looks like we've got a
couple of a couple more pieces of foam
that we could remove here so if you have
other accessories that's a bonus that's
something that typically you'd have to
buy another case for we do have another
case in the accessory pack but that's
nice that it comes with that if you want
to throw an SD card holder or something
like that in there or whatever else
maybe a couple of batteries if you've
got them that kind of thing that's great
ok so that is the recorder let's put it
all back together here so you see it
packs up real quick real nice you want
take it with you there we go let's set
this aside here and then I'm gonna get
right into
our accessory kit Wow that's got some
heft to it all right so what does it
look like here we've got Oh a handle
there you go so this comes with a whole
bunch of stuff I'm just gonna tear into
it and it's hard to hard to kind of get
a shot here maybe if we pull over to
this camera here we'll be able to see
the the wider shot a little better there
we go and let's just kind of get in
there this way I'm just gonna set it
down here folks for just a moment and
there we go so this it's nice that the
accessory kit comes with good Wow looks
like weather-tight waterproof case it
looks like a waterproof case it's got
the got an air vent and everything you
guys see that
all right I'm gonna get it out of the
wrap oh I need scissors I seriously need
scissors for this don't worry I got some
alright there we go okay buuuut now one
of the things that the first thing that
I do notice is a couple of the reviews
that I've seen online and I guess this
foam is just for the packing a couple of
the reviews I've seen online they had
when these first came out they had these
bright kind of orange or red neon
looking things for the case but they
have obviously made it black now which
just looks a little you know it doesn't
stand out doesn't make somebody want to
run up and grab it on yeah that kind of
thing
alright let's get down here so we've got
a nameplate so that we can put our name
in there
we've got locking holes here if you want
to get some padlocks to keep it locked
up now remember folks I have not been
into this yet so I don't even know how
to open it there we go so this is not
just a case as you see this is the full
accessory kit for the Atmos ninja flame
now this accessory kit from Atomos is
design
to work with with all of their 4k field
recorders so that's the inferno or flame
series so it's not limited to just the
ninja flame that we have here today and
that means that these batteries are
interchangeable between devices if you
happen to have more than one as well
5200 milliamp hours looks good and hefty
and that is an NP F 750 so I think that
these are actually the same kind of
batteries that go into our lighting rig
yeah so that's cool so that means I've
already got a couple of extras kicking
around as well so those are pretty
common batteries if you've already got
studio gear you're probably already
using these that's fantastic
these are a little heftier those so at
5200 milliamp hours we should be able to
get some pretty good life out of that
okay we've got some kind of breakout
cable I don't ever use any of the
internal miking or anything on a camera
so I'm not sure what this is for I'm
sure the first person to Google it is
going to raise some noise in in the
comments below for sure it's not a
headphone jack it's about 8-inch
no it's smaller it's like a sixteenth
it's tiny anyways all right moving on to
the Caddy's something that I know about
alright so we just get an SSD drive and
put it in there so there and then this
becomes the case for our SSD and then
here's a docking station with USB 3
which is nice I'm glad that they
included this because now I can dock my
drives to to the system I hope it works
on Windows I'm going to be trying that
sure it does
I've got Windows 10 on our broadcast
system for editing and things but it's
nice not having to go out and find a
docking station that will fit because
this won't fit into a normal train ow
because or a docking station without
first removing it from the caddy so that
does away with the with that problem
alright we've got a couple of holes here
for more batteries if you want to
purchase some more
looks like the Atmos ninja flame will
fit right in here let's actually grab it
I'm gonna reopen this box because we're
gonna consolidate will consolidate
everything into one carrying case
alright so here we go let's put this in
here
beautiful there we go alright then I can
set this the one that came along with it
that could be handy to take you know if
you need something a little more
portable all right let's get underneath
here and see what else we have all right
we've got a hood a Sun shield a Sun hood
whatever you want to call it there you
go let's get her out of the packaging
and see how this looks all right we've
got a couple of different pieces not
sure if they're magnetic or how they go
the true unboxing yes it says right on
it
magnetic quick release warning okay so I
noticed that it has a nice little
trapdoor here for doing puppet shows and
things like that
but will be able to reach in to be able
to get our hands into the to the touch
screen all right so put this in here
there we go I'm gonna set all this up
remember I'm gonna set this up we're
gonna do a demo this is really just an
unboxing and I haven't seen this stuff
yet so I haven't really learned how all
the puzzle pieces go together but we
will figure that out and give you
another demo all right oh and it comes
with instructions specifically for guys
like me to figure out how to put that
together okay looks like another charger
just like the one that I had in the
other kit so this is gonna be a backup I
suppose but if you didn't have one
there you go but this also check this
out oh how do you get that oh you can go
underneath okay so this one will plug
into a battery charger for the batteries
there we go swell all right we've got a
shoulder strap we've got another cable
of sorts this is like power for the
screen if your camera supports that or
if you've got some kind of separate
power pack now we've got a couple of
quarter-inch adapters here a little
riser to be able to mount your Atomos
screen to to your camera or whatever
else you're mounting rig then we've got
the the parts for the the power adapter
itself so that looks like everything
that's in the box there you go that is
the Atomos ninja flame and we're gonna
be seeing in the next couple of weeks
how this compares to say for example
recording straight to SSD how it
compares to shooting video directly to
sd card on our video camera we have a 4k
camera and we're gonna put this to the
test by shooting some footage recorded
both to the internal card and to the
atomos ninja flame as well all right so
we're gonna head right back over to our
desk over here thanks Robbie that was a
unboxing of the at most ninja flame what
a beaut
for product
[Music]
[Applause]
