welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode number 544 so nice to
have you here this week we've got an
exciting show planned for you if all
goes well we're gonna show you how to
install plex media server on a little
Raspberry Pi 3 it's like a micro
computer that fits in the palm of my
hand if I had a shirt pocket I could put
it in there it's so tiny we're gonna
learn how to set up our own would be
kind of homebrew Netflix on that device
this is gonna be cool stick around
this is category 5 technology TV
[Music]
[Applause]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drive by Kingston Technology
revive your computer with improved
performance and reliability over
traditional hard drives with Kingston
SSDs category 5 TV streams live with
Telestream Wirecast and nimble streamer
tune in every week on roku Kodi Plex and
other HLS video players for local show
times that category 5 TV category 5 TV
is a member of the tech podcast network
if it's tech it's here cat 5 TV slash
TPN and the International Association of
internet broadcasters cat 5 TV slash ia
IB
welcome to the show this is category 5
technology TV so nice to have you here
Sasha's back yeah way last week did you
have a nice week I had a great week good
good I spent my that that day yes it's
not Valentine's Day I booked my
honeymoon
hey nice near future I'll have another
week there you go what are you doing
we're going to Dominican nice I know all
of our viewers from the Dominican give
us a whoop-whoop yes please come see me
well no maybe not it's my honeymoon
I'd actually happily host on the resort
you can get date passes see yes there
you go okay so this is coming up that's
coming up in March
nice yes they're gonna have a week off
and I'm gonna have to find someone to
fill in for you
yes Jeff is away today that's yeah so
it's just us last week Becca was here
thank you everyone for your kind remarks
and all the thumbs up that we got on
YouTube as well we've been doing you
know growing our audience on YouTube
because it's been a process for us
because we're predominantly on like on
cable TV and on roku and Kody and Plex
and platforms like set-top boxes and
Smart TVs and so our audience is not
predominantly on YouTube right
and those who do watch on YouTube
possibly don't have accounts or maybe
don't comment and things like that so we
really appreciate you becoming a part of
that community as well watching our show
is watching our clips on on YouTube we
have not only category 5 TV but every
week we added up the show into
itty-bitty bite-sized pieces right those
go on Linux tech show and so you can do
the search for that on YouTube or you
can just go Linux tech show comm and
your favorite browser and it will
automatically redirect you there it's
cool because sometimes like this is an
hour-plus show the full the full episode
but then the features themselves may be
between 5 and 20 minutes long exactly so
people say in the comments hey how come
I had to wait for 45 minutes to get them
to the meat of this over to Linux tech
show duck right exactly then you'll be
able to watch just those little itty
bitty snippets these funny YouTube
people yeah and everything that I just
said will be cut out you will never hear
this if you're on I have been saying to
all of my friends lately whenever I'm
talking about cat 5 I say check check us
out on YouTube first and then all over
the rest o or Plex or Roku or Co kvv be
hello California and all the ways that
you can catch the show cool California
story yes one of the patients I work at
a chiropractic clinic and one of the
patients there is a truck driver and she
drives through California oh yeah yes I
wonder if she's seen our billboard
exactly so there you go I I think
there's a picture of Jeff giving you the
the bunny ears up on one of those
billboards somewhere in Southern
California look for it take a picture
and send it to us let me know exactly
where it is yeah that would be cool yes
we've got a fantastic show planned for
you tonight we're gonna be looking at
how to get plex media server up and
running on a Raspberry Pi 3
I don't want to talk too much about it
before the break we're gonna cover it
right after this so stick around and
it's gonna be fun yes it's gonna be fun
it's gonna be a blast here we go you've
got mad skills
now hone them learn new skills or
improve your existing ones with online
video tutorials and training from
lynda.com through our special link at
cat5 dot TV slash Linda learned software
technology creative and business skills
you can use today to help you achieve
your professional goals join today and
start learning we'll give you this
chance to try it absolutely free with
unlimited access to all of the courses
sign up now for free cat5 dot TV slash
Linda welcome back this is category 5
technology TV and imagine that in this
little box is a server huh this is the
world that we live in a Raspberry Pi 3
you can pick them up at camp 5 dot TV
slash PI it'll direct you to all kinds
of sources like you can buy them on
Amazon you've got one I have one I've
got several mm a lot of us have several
but they're an inexpensive SBC any guess
on what SBC stands for SBC yeah put me
on the spot hmm
okay like super super bitty computer
sync single board computer very close so
it's like the size of a credit card and
it is all built into one circuit board
right so the processor the RAM
everything is in there the only thing
that you have to really add is you've
got to put it in a case which I've done
here you all can you can kind of see
that under my monitor there it is super
easy to build I did don't want in an
episode episode yeah
previously we've done a lot of rat
berry pie features and last week was no
exception we did the comparison of the
ex u4q to the raspberry pi 3 in past
episodes sashes built one go on to our
website category 5 dot TV and click on
the search up at the top you'll be able
to just type in raspberry pi and you'll
find a bunch of stuff I put that right
there just to remind you what we're
talking about speaking of having done
raspberry pi features in the past yes
episode number 4 59 Jeff and I were on
the air you were in the newsroom and we
did the very same feature that we're
doing tonight however things have
changed things have changed episode 4 59
that was almost two years ago right and
in that time now that demonstration was
on Debbie and Jesse raspy and Jesse in
this case and now we're using raspy and
stretch so we've had a really great
response and if you're watching this on
youtube you know that you you may have
found this through our previous feature
from two years ago and now being 2018 a
lot of the technology has changed it's
improved it's gotten better and it's
also broken some of the steps in the
tutorial from our video from a couple
years back right so high time for us to
redo the demonstration refresher and
show you how to do it sascha one of the
things that has changed since that
initial demonstration is we've been
watching the comments on YouTube we've
been watching the comments on our
website category 5 TV and one of the
rezoning comments
well basically one of the resounding
themes is coming from people who are
brand-new to single board computing
brand-new to Linux and they want to try
it out but it's so complicated to go
through all these steps yes this is kind
of a two piece demonstration in this one
video we're gonna get to the DIY let's
break it down and walk you through all
the steps step by step
show you how to set up your own
Raspberry Pi plex media server but we've
also taken the time to create a ready to
deploy image for Raspberry Pi 3
it's called Plex Pi and you can get a
duplex pi
komm I think that you're very lucky that
I am the co-host today because if you
are a brand new user I have the right
question she's got the questions for us
such as what is plaques it's what it
starts with right folks
yeah the bare minimum question going
into a demonstration of how to create a
plex server is what is Plex what is Plex
plex media server think of it this way
Jeff and I like to call it our home brew
Netflix take all of your videos put them
on a drive o take all of your you know
the part of the video podcasts that you
watch like category 5 TV if you download
our torrents put them on that drive put
them into a folder and plug it into plex
then plex media server in our case on a
Raspberry Pi 3 creates an environment
that looks and feels a lot like Netflix
it keeps track of what episodes you've
seen it allows you to rate episodes it
shows you the description and a
thumbnail image of each episode in each
movie and as you watch things it it
marks them as watched so if you're
watching something like category 5 TV
and there are 11 seasons of this thing
right you can actually see where you've
gotten to so if you're binge watching
anything it makes it really easy ok same
with like in the middle of an episode
like you can turn it off and then you
come back to later and it's in the right
spot then the other nice thing about
plex media server along that vein is
that it works with all your devices so
oh this device will be plugged into your
TV no doubt and you'll be streaming
video directly on the device but then if
you have an Ethernet cable plugged into
it you can be using your tablet and
watching it on your tablet you can have
you can have it on your computer
upstairs or the TV in the living room or
the bedroom and still and not have to
move the device around it streams it
through your network to any of your
devices through the web browser can it
be multi-use okay within the limitations
of a Raspberry Pi because it is a very
small micro server it doesn't have the
same amount of power as a supercomputer
but yes you can you can definitely
string
to multiple devices so if you're
watching it on your TV downstairs mm-hmm
and you pause it because it's time to
make supper you go up to the kitchen you
pull out your Android tablet or your
phone and you set it up and you push
play it starts right where you left off
while you were downstairs that's a
magnificent homebrew Netflix with your
own content works with home movies works
with mp3s and your music library and it
plays web streaming we have an actual
plex channel an add-on that you can put
into your plex deployment and it gives
you access to all of our back episodes
plus live streaming during the live
broadcast so it is very well-rounded
solution and we're gonna learn how to
set that up on a PI perfect why why
would we do this
why would why do we ever use a Raspberry
Pi 3 because they're amazing they are
amazing they're inexpensive and they are
very inexpensive sacha they are easy not
only easy to use but easy to procure yes
and I may not have and you may not have
a server at home that has HDMI output
and can fit behind your TV that's
mounted on the wall this you can just
tape onto the back of the TV and plug an
HDMI cable in and the power cable and
you're done right this is a very easy
like it's a palatable beginning step
right like I feel like that like if you
are new to all things Linux if you're
new to all things tech and your this is
the first episode you've ever seen
you're lucky because this is a great
first step all right all right
so speaking of first step for those of
you who do not want to do it yourself
comes Plex PI right Plex PI comm will
take you to well currently it just takes
you to a forum and I'm gonna bring it up
on my computer screen for you I've got
my laptop here and let's just see if I
can bring it up see if that comes up yes
okay so Plex PI comm and when I go there
right now we haven't built a website for
it yet it just takes you to the category
five community forum and you'll see a
development forum here because it is
under development right now
and if you scroll there are three sticky
posts one of them is introduction to
Plex PI and download Plex PI images and
when you go there there's a brief
introduction as to how it works how to
follow along with the steps and of
course where you can download it as well
and this is going to evolve over time we
are going to create a website at plex pi
comm so that it's you know more
attractive and easier to find what
you're looking for
but in the meantime it gives you free
access to the image so what that means
is for those who don't want to do it
yourself if you're not a Linux guru and
you don't want to go through the steps
and figure it out and follow along with
the steps that we're gonna show you
tonight you can just fire up this image
use something like etcher that's the
program that I like to use right so you
install etcher
I've got a link below if you're watching
this on youtube or on our website or
anywhere where we've got comments and
things follow the link to enter and that
will allow you to burn the image to a
USB flash drive or in this case a micro
SD card that you're gonna put in your
Raspberry Pi right once it's in there we
can put it up you ready okay let's turn
on our Raspberry Pi 3 so this is
happening in real time and I've already
burned the image for Plex PI 1.1 the
current version on my on my Raspberry Pi
3 so here we go
so from downloading and burning it to
now booting it for the first time it is
this easy to get up and running with
Plex so you see the the raspbian desktop
there now wait for it wait for it and
wait a little X is a load and you're
gonna leave this thing running on your
TV you're gonna fire it up and it's just
gonna be running connected to your TV
you don't have to wait for it and things
like that
and then we're gonna be up on the screen
here where it's gonna ask us how do you
want to login now how do you want to
sign up that is a fully functional plex
media server from Plex PI com it's ready
to go
we just booted it up there exactly how
you're gonna see it so you need to sign
up for an account I use my email address
to sign up and just like any sign up
you just give them your email address
and enter a password and that is what
you're going to use on all of your
devices to connect to your plex media
server and you can access it from
outside of your network if you've got
high-speed internet those kinds of
things are all possible this is not a
tutorial on how to use plex media server
that's happening next week but what
we're doing here is showing you how to
get set up with a plex media server on
your Raspberry Pi so there it is it's as
simple as that that's Plex PI comm from
there if you want to get out of it you
hit alt f4 that takes you right into
your regular like desktop mm-hm
and you can just shut her down just like
that ok done and now we've got an
opportunity to change the card I've
already created a raspbian stretch
installation here so for those of you
who are interested in DIY here it is
it's just raspy and stretch nothing has
been done to it it's out-of-the-box
ready to go we're gonna learn how to
create how to build how to install
everything we need to have this become
that we're going to check that out right
after the break stick around
Jeff Weston Jemma
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website what aren't you you're terrible
actor
what this where acting comes into play I
don't know you're supposed to act okay
are you building a really cool website
just because Jeff is confused doesn't
mean you have to be visit cap five dot
TV slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash DreamHost
and we're back with raspbian stretch on
category five technology TV now
everything that's gonna happen from here
on out is for the DIY wanna do it
yourself and we're gonna install set up
Plex Media Server on this bare-bones
Raspberry Pi 3 if that's not you if
you're not the DIY just rewind this
video learn all about flex Pi calm
forget about everything you're about to
see here today that's right we're gonna
get real geeky here we're gonna get into
the Linux terminal and we're gonna see
how we can get this set up so let's do
it okay alright so speaking of Linux
terminal we're gonna bring it up there
we go and we're gonna go sudo apt update
that's the first thing we want to do on
Linux to make sure that things as far as
our repositories are up to date now do
we know what a repository is a
repository is something that Linux uses
in order to install software
it's a place on the web where a bunch of
software resides and anytime we want
software all we have to do is use that
apt command here on raspbian or a debian
derivative and then it will download it
and install it we don't have to find
their website we don't have to compile
anything we don't have to figure it out
it's all there for us ready to go so now
I'm gonna go apt and now notice that it
says that there are some things that can
be upgraded so we want to do that apt
upgrade not update notice it says hey
couldn't lock the file that's because I
forgot sudo because I need to be super
user now it's gonna go through and it's
gonna upgrade anything that is ready to
be upgraded so are we ready to do that
yes let's do that
this is now downloading all of those
programs off of the web and this just
shows you how bare-bones my installation
of raspbian stretches here tonight
because there is a ton of stuff to be
upgraded here I see things like like
Python and even my timezone data is
being updated so that's all happening
through those repositories that's also
how we're going to install plug
Media server tonight so let's check on
the status here it looks like it's
working away and it can take some time
especially you know if you've got a
slower connection we're gonna use the
magic of television to kind of speed
this up for you tonight let's see how we
can do that okay so in real time we are
sitting here and this has so far taken
about 20 minutes or so to get to this
point in that amount of time Marsh man
in the chat room says while this is
going on I downloaded and burned an SD
card and booted up the new Plex PI comm
mm-hmm and now back to our post
processed accelerated apt upgrade on the
Raspberry Pi 3 and boom it's done just
like that it took no time at all
actually it really did you're gonna have
to dedicate yourself some time on the
Raspberry Pi 3 because it does take a
lot of time to update so really quickly
now that that's been updated upgraded
now we need to go apt dist upgrade
that's gonna be the next step again
super user do sudo apt dist upgrade and
I'm not I'm so happy to see that it
doesn't need to do any because that took
a while to get through ok now we need to
go sudo reboot and that's gonna restart
our Raspberry Pi 3 because now that
we've got all those updates to the
software we need to make sure that we
get the basically those load right they
need to load up on the system so here we
go we're rebooting into the updated
raspbian stretch now if you're not
familiar with raspbian you can head on
over to raspberry pi dot org
don't forget the silent P in there rasp
berry pie dot org and as P I like the
number not I like the edible and you can
download it for free from there it's
based on Debian now it tells me okay hey
your upgraded to the latest version
congratulations thank you took long
enough ok so now next step because now
that we're up to up-to-date we can
finally get into installing deploying
our plex media server now a real case
for Plex PI comm comes from realizing
how much time the
can take to do this yourself right so
we've done the work for you folks Plex
Pike ami and just download it run it
you're good to go so let's let's see how
it's done though let's actually get in
there and make this happen
so all right in my terminal which thank
you to the community who has let me know
hey control shift plus allows me to
actually zoom in on the terminal so
folks if you're watching at home and
having trouble seeing that on your
60-inch TV well that's gonna help you
out a great deal there we go so first
thing I want to do now that we've
rebooted is we need to make sure that
apt remember we did apt update and I'm
tired of typing sudo so I'm gonna go
sudo su and now I am route done now
remember how when I do apt update and
everything else that connects to the
servers and gets its updates well we
need to make sure that apt is able to
use HTTPS SSL encrypted transport in
order to do that we need to install a
package which may on the new stretch
already be in existence but we're gonna
do it anyways just to be sure it doesn't
hurt anything remember that I am now
route okay
that's what sudo su did so I don't have
to type sudo apt install and we're gonna
just make sure apt transport HTTP hit
enter if you don't have it it's going to
install it if you do it says app
transport HTTP is already the newest
version so now we need to actually get
our plex media server the repository
it's a PPA so we're going to add that to
our system here I'm not sure if there's
a stretch one let's give it a go so
let's go let's go over here let's do it
this way
et Cie slash apt and we're gonna go into
sources dot list dot D and we're gonna
create a new one so I notice I'm in the
folder etc' slash app slash sources dot
list D this is where I can add all kinds
of things I'm gonna call this PMS dot
list and you can follow along with these
this whole tutorial at cat5 dot TV slash
PMS and to be sure it stands for plex
media server
hmm hmm I'm creating a new file with
nano I am route so I can do this and I'm
gonna go Deb HTTP now that we've got
HTTP transport and we're gonna go dev
today dot de / PMS stretch main and then
I'm going to output that with ctrl o and
then ctrl X to exit app update let's see
if there is a stretch repository there
if all goes well it's gonna it's gonna
tell me that the key can't be found
there we go that's good
so it's found a stretch all right
perfect
okay so the public key is not available
we need to get that so W get - oh do I
have a pipe this time I do not okay you
guys ready for this number last time on
episode number what was it for 34 59 we
had that trouble so let's see if I can
change my keyboard settings preferences
mouse and mouse and keyboard settings my
mouse is very sluggish by the way so
that's why I'm moving in slow motion
here keyboard keyboard layout Raspberry
Pi being based in the UK they've
defaulted this to a UK keyboard now I
want to change to a United States
keyboard you may need to change to
something that's more appropriate to you
and I'm gonna choose English your yes
now I'm gonna have that pipe character
unlike last time okay and then okay Wow
is that every sluggish Wow
okay do I have pipe yes okay W get -
capital o that is the letter O and then
- yes that's intentional we're gonna
output this and import it into the next
command HTTP colon slash slash dev - de
de / PMS slash dev - de -
PMS gpg key don't worry you can copy and
paste that at cat 5 TV / PMS and then
pipe and then sudo apt - key add - so
what we're saying is grab that key and
output it to - we'll say from dev today
doc de /p
GPG chi blah blah blah then pipe it into
sudo apt key ad - that's gonna download
and import the key all in one fell swoop
without actually putting the file on my
hard drive now if I go apt update if all
went well
we will not see those error messages
this time because the private the public
key is now available right and it worked
ok so now we're ready to install plex
media server this is where things have
changed a little bit in Debian stretch
or in raspy and stretch in our case the
package name has changed so we're gonna
go aft install plex media server
- installer ok now before I hit enter on
that I'm going to bring up my browser
here so that you can just see what is
going to be different and you can see
that a little bit of sluggishness to the
Raspberry Pi 3 that's what I was talking
about when when we were talking last
week about how performance feels more
like a desktop on the Xu for Q if I go
HTTP colon slash slash localhost colon
32400 slash web it's going to tell me
that such a thing does not exist ok
that's where Plex is going to live in
just a couple of moments time I'm going
to hit enter and it's found it it's
installing it fantastic
so again repositories save the day makes
it super super easy and it's grabbing a
couple of extra packages that are needed
that's fantastic
while we wait for that you know what
this is not even taking very long this
mom this is motoring along I'm gonna
bring up another terminal window and
we're gonna zoom in on that one and
we're gonna go sudo su and I gotta get
started with the next step while I'm
waiting so I'm gonna go nano
slash et Cie default and plex media
server which the file already exists
because it's halfway done installing so
this is my configuration file and I need
to tell it what user to run as you see
how plex media server user is currently
set to Plex well on the Raspberry Pi the
user is called pi so output that with
control o and then control X now that is
ready for us so it's going to be running
as that I also need to change the
ownership of that file just so that
we've got access to its CH own not the
file pardon me but the the folder which
is going to contain plex media server
but I need to wait until this process is
done because it's still adding some
files but I can get ready for it CH own
- R which means recursive pi PI so
that's the PI user and the PI group
because that's who we're gonna be
running as VAR Lib plex media server so
I gotta wait for this to finish before I
hit enter because they're still gonna be
some files that are gonna be dropped
into that folder and then we'll be good
once again feels like I want to speed
this up for you it's moving along
anyways a little better than the last
one but it is not an exciting process to
sit there watching it you'll feel so
much better just to boot up flex PI I
guarantee it but there's a certain
thrill that comes from doing it yourself
isn't there and you can really customize
it now that that's ready let's zoom in
again so I'm going CH own recursively
we're gonna go pi pi which means pi : pi
PI user PI group that folder so now that
folder belongs to
so it's ready so now system CTL restart
plex media server because we've changed
the user that we want it to run as so we
need to restart it
system CTL status plex media server and
we see that it is active running well it
could this be true let's go back to our
web browser and we're gonna hit f5 on
the page that says cannot be reached and
ladies and gentlemen we now have plex on
our Raspberry Pi 3 amazing quite a bit
more onerous than just downloading Plex
PI comm and installing it on a flash
drive and getting up and running but as
I say such a victorious feeling to do it
yourself ok learn along the way you
could go to the store and buy lasagne or
you could make a lasagna at home I'm not
even gonna talk about the robot grandma
who could make that lasagna for you and
it would eat just like grandma used to
make there it is folks that is Plex on
the Raspberry Pi three two different
ways to do it DIY or just download it
and go check out more you can get your
pie at cat5 TV slash pie that's the
device that you need nice and cheap nice
little piece of hardware that comes like
that get yourself a power supply for it
an SD card something that has a
reasonable amount of space say 32 gigs
or so to get up and going then you're
gonna use usb with an external hard
drive or an ass share or something like
that in order to store your media we're
gonna look at how Plex actually
functions next week we're going to take
it from here and show you how to use it
so that's Plex on the Raspberry Pi find
out more cat5 dot TV slash p-m ass we've
got to take a really quick break when we
come back we're gonna be we've got a
prize to give away that's right we've
got a winner of our video game giveaway
and the news room
now here's another great way you can
support the shows you love for the
category five dot TV network by shopping
gearbest that's right Jeff cap five dot
TV slash gearbest
it's an online store for the geek streak
in you or the loved ones of course I
mean especially your loved ones right
because cap 5 TV slash gearbest quite
frankly has all of the greatest tech
gifts that you can ever hope for at
rock-bottom prices
did that cellphones you betcha cap 5 TV
slash gear best has a wide assortment of
unlocked Android cell phones and tablets
what about computer
consumer electronics those make a great
gift absolutely from high tech watches
to action cameras headphones even
virtual reality headsets cat5 dot TV
slash gearbest has you covered they
literally have it all Jeff literally
really it's like a superstore right from
the comfort of your own chair at your
computer through the interweb yeah
I there's no way they have it all it's
true that's just a bunch of random
electronic sesame what about clothes yep
both men and women fashionable apparel
at rock-bottom
SuperDuper prices kind of like this well
look at this coat what do you think it's
a slimming mock leather jacket it's
available for less than $30 plus free
shipping at camp five TV slash gear best
yeah all right it kind of got me there
Wow any other questions for me Jeff now
that the winter is past flying season do
they have any good deals on say copters
oh my goodness well check this out dude
they have everything check out over 500
various drums and not only that they're
available marked down by about 32 up to
63 percent off the regular price love it
what's the website again well you're
gonna find gearbest on our partners
pages for any of your favorite category
5 TV shows like new every day
category 5 technology TV the pixel
shadow but of course if you want to shop
absolutely right now and you want to go
straight to the site all you have to do
is visit cat5 dot TV slash gearbest see
that's easy tech 5 dot TV slash gearbest
that's right
happy shopping welcome back this is
category 5 technology TV so nice to have
you here check out our website category
5 dot TV lots of great ways to
participate such as as winning a copy of
that effects VR that effect to VR yes we
have been having a contest and we pick a
winner each week now the way to enter
the contest is to let us know how you're
watching where you're watching from you
do that by email email contest at
category 5 dot TV easy pv it's too easy
to win folks we've counted up this week
not hundreds not thousands but several
of your ballots
and this week this week's winner is Sam
okay lickin one kiss listen x11 what's
your next one way to go congratulations
you are our winner this week all of
these dead effects to VR players are
gonna just seat somewhere get steamed
set up get her going we'll send you the
passcode to download that right after
the show
congratulations here are the stories
were covering this week in the category
5 TV newsroom an IT worker who
accidentally threw out a hard drive
containing a small cache of Bitcoin has
lost over 100 million dollars because of
the blender investigations have been
launched after a helicopter reportedly
crashed when swerving to avoid a
consumer drone a Japanese company is
planning to build the world's tallest
wooden skyscraper in 2041
to mark its three hundred and fiftieth
anniversary a mountain of sensitive
FedEx consumer data has been exposed and
Microsoft has back ported its Windows
Defender advanced threat protection
security toolkit from Windows 10 to
Windows 7 and 8.1 these stories are
coming right up
don't go anywhere whether you shop on
ThinkGeek gearbest B&amp;H Photo Video eBay
or Amazon or even if you want a free
trial of audible you'll find the best
deals and support the shows we produce
by simply visiting the shopping sites
you already frequent by using the links
on our website visit category-five TV
slash partners for the full and
ever-growing list and help us create
more free content like this show thank
you for shopping with our partners and
thank you for watching
this is the category 5 TV newsroom
covering the week's top tech stories
with a slight Linux - I'm Sasha Rickman
and here the top stories were following
this week an IT worker who accidentally
threw out a hard drive containing a
small cache of Bitcoin has so far lost
over 100 million dollars because of the
blunder we've reported on this a number
of years ago as well but as Bitcoin
continues to grow the time has come to
revisit this the story dates back to
2013 when James Howells had who had been
mining cryptocurrency on his computer
since 2009 to solve complex mathematical
problems and earn rewards dismantled the
device after spilling a drink on it he
said after I had stopped mining the
laptop I had used was broken into parts
and sold on eBay however I kept the hard
drive in a drawer at home knowing it
contained my Bitcoin private keys so
that if Bitcoin did become valuable one
day I would still have the coins I had
mined he continued in mid 2013 during a
clear outs the hard drive then worth a
few hundred thousand pounds was
mistakenly thrown out and put into a
general waste bin at my local landfill
site after which it was buried on site
the hard drive contains 7500 bitcoins at
that time that amount of Bitcoin was
worth about 700 thousand dollars but
Bitcoin didn't stop there had he had not
thrown away that drive it would have
amounted to over 100 million dollars 119
million five hundred and one thousand
nine hundred and twenty-five dollars you
asked as of last week while Howells had
made several requests to the local
council to dig up and salvage the hard
drive at this site he has yet to be
granted permission to look for the
missing treasure he says I haven't
actually tried to search for the hard
drive yet as I have not been given
permission to look despite having
financial backing in place and engaging
the local council a couple of times
Howells who calls himself a Bitcoin
pioneer and Bitcoin cache proponent on
Twitter says that he will not give up on
his search on December 2nd 2017 he
tweeted a diagram
of a modern landfill with the
bittersweet caption Bitcoin cold storage
vaults I remember this story I recall
you doing this story years back it makes
me so sad for this guy and I every time
Bitcoin goes up a coin is constantly
going up and has been going up but good
news is that he tweeted on December 7th
seems to be in good spirits has not
taken his own life so this is this is
Grace on the up-and-up I cannot believe
he's waiting for permission like I feel
like if this was me with a hundred
million dollars I might be sneaking in
under the cover of darkness and when
you're telling a story again I can't
help but think about Shizue Yamaguchi
coming on the show and talking to us
about decluttering yeah I cleaning up
cleaning house the Mary Kondo method and
I might be wrong in my recall on this
but I do not believe it was him who
threw it out was it the people from
hoarders that came in and like took all
this stuff and threw that something
makes me think it was his wife and I
don't know whether it's because I'm a
wife but I just imagine that's the kind
of thing that a wife would do I guess
believe me it's true how many times have
I been like where is such and such tech
device and then I find it
years later in the bottom of a box
because there's a box that says random
miscellaneous rabi things exactly at
least they don't go to the dump
oops okay so I want to know okay how
like would that usually be okay if you
took a hard drive out could you just put
it in a safe and yours leader would it
be okay if it had Bitcoin on it like is
that obvious I wouldn't trust it right
certainly it's certainly not yes and no
I mean cuz so many things could happen
putting a drive in a drawer right
sensitive to electrostatic sensitive to
vibration as people open and close the
drawer sensitive to people coming in and
throwing out the things that are in the
drawer granted he did spill a drink on
it to begin with so he's not exactly
up-and-up on the safe keeping of his
Bitcoin yeah
yeah okay so if we're gonna mine
cryptocurrency first of all yeah you're
gonna get a string of words or a
decryption key a private key they this
is what it was stored on that hard drive
the Bitcoin itself is not stored on the
hard drive
the Bitcoin is in the Internet it's like
just they call it the the the blockchain
it's in this blockchain so many many
computers have that Bitcoin coded into
them but in order to access those
Bitcoin you have to have the private key
so their Bitcoin out there that people
can see that it's not tangible but
numbers it's it's digital binary stuff
with with the decryption key though or
with the part of me the private key you
can access that as money I kind of
myself right
so had he had multiple copies of that
key or had he printed that key and put
it in the filing capsule so this could
easily be just to back up your stuff oh
my gosh right especially if you have
7500 Bitcoin at the time even when they
were $1 each that's $7,500 and at the
time when he had this discarded it was
$700,000 I cannot believe he's so I like
Jessica he thinks he's gonna find this
you're not fine in it no well at this
point it's been so many years buried in
the muck
when you buried in the muck what do they
do at landfills they put things on top
of it and they put chemicals and yeah
types of bacteria that eat away at the
things that are buried there right okay
so when it was in your drawer was
already possibly subject to some it
should had some 7up all over it yeah and
now it's a know you're never sorry buddy
if you're gonna mine cryptocurrency once
you get up to
a half a Bitcoin you got to know it's
time to like backup your backups put it
in a safety deposit box print it print
it when the electromagnetic pulse comes
from the alien invaders you have to have
a paper copy I will say I hope this guy
is still happily married but if he's not
he should never say on his first date
that he does not a way to introduce
yourself I could be out of McDonald's
right now I have a story for why this is
our first date I would be wining and
dining you downtown not a good pick-up
line investigations have been launched
after a helicopter reportedly crashed
while swerving to avoid a consumer drone
a trainee had been practicing hovering
about 50 feet above trees on Daniel
Island South Carolina seeing a
quadcopter flying towards them the
instructor took control but clipped a
tree with the tail rotor router causing
the helicopter to crash to the ground
and tip onto its side the drone is
believed to have been a DJI phantom DJI
says that they are trying to learn more
about this incident and stand ready to
assist investigators they also added
that they do provide owners with help to
ensure that they steer clear of
traditional aircraft industry groups
representing large US airlines pilots
and air traffic controllers have
previously urged the US Federal Aviation
Administration which has also launched
an investigation into the crash to end
exemptions that currently prevents it
from regulating consumer drones a letter
co-signed by three organizations warns
the likelihood that a drone will collide
with an aircraft airline aircraft is
increasing it is increasing because
there's more drones out there yeah and
it's scary I hope that the pilot and the
student are okay now there was no
mention of that I think I think that
they must be okay and that it would be a
much bigger story if they were not oh
sure yeah you know what you're right
absolutely if they were hurt or right
worse it would be bigger news but even
if there are what I mean
I'm certain that there are some amounts
of pain if you're 50 feet above the
treeline and you fall but okay I'm
assuming that they're alive and even if
they okay who pays for this is where
this is going no how you segue to that
okay so these people are on the ground
and there is their obviously hurt in
some way and they have to go to the hole
they just lost my helicopter that's got
to be worth a couple of Bitcoin right so
the drone flier is clearly at fault
right because I would in this I mean I'm
not the judge and jury on this one but
the drone was flying around we don't
have any inkling as to how close they
were but it was the pilots error that
hit the tree that's what took down the
helicopter now had that drone gotten
close you know what's happening
if it got on top of those rotors done
sucked down and shattered and who knows
what kind of mess right could have been
worse it could have been worse I still I
okay they were 50 feet they hit a tree
that's what took them down so they were
20 feet they hit at that point right the
hit a tree to avoid a drone that was
perhaps coming toward that me in my mind
it's like barreling toward them at the
feet of the way matrix-style
okay so they panicked they panicked yeah
so is there insurance did DJ DJ I but
the the pilot instructor would have had
insurance of course on the craft itself
right so they'd be covered now how do
you track down the pilot of the drone
good luck there now if DJI is helping
they may have GPS data but they have
been under a lot of heat for holding on
to GPS data so guess what they're
apparently not doing that anymore or
they're hiding the fact that they're
doing that so who really knows it does
say DJI helps drone fliers avoid a
medication for education so like when
you see a plane oh and through the
feature
right they will you can't fly your drone
into a no-fly zone if you are a good
pilot if you're a good player a good
player does not disable their GPS in
there and the geofencing right
geofencing will stop your drone dead
stop if you are approaching a no-fly
zone
some people will turn off that feature
on their drone I just hadn't want to
keep a lightbulb moment yeah
can each commercial aircraft each
helicopter and plane can they not have
like a beacon of some sort that does
like a force field I think I know where
you're going with you like here's my
theory protective bubble it's probably
not a good idea on an aircraft to have a
transmitter that takes down aircraft
right I see what you're saying yes but
if it was a signal if it was a like a
radio signal the broadcasts 50 yards in
front and around right then and and the
drone had a feature to receive that and
say oh I'm getting too close but these
are things that are traveling at super
speeds I'm picturing like Star Trek or
Star Wars whichever it is that is in the
Stars has the force field that goes
around Star Trek has right collector
dishes and force fields right so okay
ken planes not have that in theory but
for just base like it did welcome to
reality Sasha I'd love to be able to say
the Star Trek is real but alas no but
it's science fiction like just something
that pulses they're working like okay
they're working on it also
faster-than-light Drive they're working
on it not yet a thing idea right my idea
is this is the how drones like the way
you think yeah this is how a force field
and faster-than-light Drive dilithium I
don't know it started somewhere
a Japanese company is planning to build
the world's tallest wooden skyscraper in
2041 to markets three hundred and
fiftieth anniversary summit tomo
forestry said ten percent of the 70
story w 350 tower would be steel
combined with about one hundred and
eighty thousand cubic meters of
indigenous wood enough to build about
eight thousand homes with trees and
foliage on balconies at every level it
said a braced tube structure diagonal
diagonal steel vibration controlled
braces at the center of a three hundred
and fifty meter wood and steel column
would protect against Tokyo's regular
earthquakes the projected cost of the
building is about six hundred billion
yen more than five and a half billion US
dollars which is about twice the cost of
a conventional skyscraper of the same
size but Sumitomo said that it's
expected that the costs will fall before
completion due to technological
breakthroughs a block of student flats
in Vancouver was currently the world's
tallest wooden skyscraper at 53 meters
so this is about three hundred meters
taller than the current world holder the
300 the W 350 tower would be used for
offices shops hotels and homes I love
stuff that would be stunning are you
imagine so if it's happening in that
many years right 2040 G they got a lot
of time to prepare and save up like they
could probably plant the trees that are
going to be used the would probably have
deflectors by then I know right okay
well so bang on with that that girl she
knows it all yeah right how how is a
braced tube structure gonna protect a
wooden structure from earthquakes you
mentioned that it's in the it sounds
like it's in the interior corner so the
interior column being set up such a way
that so you think of a building and if a
building with these trusses of wood and
everything else and and built to look
nice if they flex
like this then things start snapping
things start breaking right so you get a
trust structure made of steel tube that
is like criss cross that is really
really solid that's not going to bend
and warp and and flex the same way
that's that traditional buildings like a
square building would in in that kind of
environment if there was an earthquake
okay
some may be worried about this sure
that's pretty tall for it but it is
steel and wood right and I don't think
I'm as worried in that tree seemed
pretty resilient like you see sure flex
in the wind right and yes are all right
with them I don't know if I live on the
top floor and I don't know that there
should be any amount of cooking inside
building ever in case of fire yeah I
kind of want like what what kind of fire
hazard is it to have a wooden structure
of that magnitude that's right that's
giant like 350 meters that's half the
size a little more than half the height
of the CN Tower that's crazy
this is significantly a non-smoking
building you have to stand in the steel
trusses you're fine I guess earthquakes
people but I'll match you got some
issues researchers said Thursday that
passports driver's licenses and other
sensitive documentation for thousands of
FedEx customers were left online
possibly for years in a blunder that
left the information available to
identity thieves and other malicious
actors in all caram tech security Center
said researchers found 119 thousand
scanned documents stored in a publicly
available Amazon s3 bucket the photo ID
scans were accompanied by completed US
Postal Service forms that included names
home addresses and phone numbers of
people who requested to have mail
delivered by an authorized agent the IDS
are from all over the world Mexico
Canada European Union countries Saudi
Arabia Kuwait Japan Malaysia China
Australia and more the data was
Julie gathered by Bongo International a
company that helped North American
retailers and brands sell online to
customers in other countries
FedEx acquired Bongo international in
2014 and eventually changed its name to
FedEx cross-border international FedEx
shut down the service last April the
discovery of the customer IDs and other
personal information suggests that not
only was the information never properly
secured to begin with but FedEx
officials failed to purge the data once
the service was discontinued Kron tech
said the information may have been
available since 2009 people who used
Bongo International or FedEx
cross-border international should be on
alert the incident incident is yet
another example of why people should
avoid giving over personal information
whenever possible wow this is a weekly
story when things feels like that's a
lot of now very like data you think
about identity theft what do you need ID
up on an s3 bucket which is basically
like a spot on the web to host files so
right obviously they're able to download
these hundreds of thousands of ID scans
right so it's ID and addresses and like
it's actually everything you need to
become it if it was never secured to
begin with yeah sounds like when FedEx
took over the company why wouldn't you
purge like why wouldn't you get rid of
that is it hidden from them in the
acquisition of the company I have no
idea like how can you not I don't know
in an acquisition of that scale like
what if the here's a hypothetical for
you what if they just didn't realize
like they acquired the company and
didn't realize that they were storing
all this data unsafely I would assume
that they wouldn't have realized it that
FedEx seems like an up-and-up sort of
company that wouldn't do something like
this intentionally
right like you yeah you would I guess in
crit would with that help encrypting yes
I have discussions with with people and
I say what are you thinking
like you can't keep doing this you can't
not have a backup you can't have all of
your data stored on this onedrive you
you know I'm I'm very vocal about hey
you need to have ransomware protection
on your Windows network yeah you can't
just use antivirus anymore you can't use
security essentials you have to have
proper protection and whether they
listen to me or not that's up to them
now here's a case where did FedEx go in
and did they see that that was there and
did someone be vocal about it and say
you can't do this you can't have
personal information freely available
for anyone to download on s3 in a public
bucket I mean like think of a hard drive
that is accessible to anyone in the
world don't know what this is and I've
had that yeah I hear the sort of people
who should have had that hard drive in a
landfill oh boy are you still holding on
to Windows 7 well good news Microsoft
has back ported its Windows Defender
advanced threat protection security
toolkit from Windows 10 to Windows 7 and
8.1 now in hindsight looking back at our
previous story I feel bad that I said
security essentials is not the product
for you I didn't see this coming but it
was a perfect segue we realize that is
now available perfect the release will
allow those holding out with older
versions of the operating system to get
the exploit and malware infection
detection prevention and Event Reporting
features offered by Windows 10 for
enterprises the extension to Windows 7
and 8.1 will more importantly allow
admins to bring their older machines
under the same security management and
administration tools they use for
Windows 10 pcs this is where Microsoft
is focusing its pitch by adding ATP to
Windows 7 and 8 point
Redmond hopes that it will convince sis
admin's
to add those machines to the Windows
Defender monitoring systems that they
use for Windows 10 devices and in the
process product companies toward
migrating in the older pcs to Windows 10
Microsoft noted that Windows 7 is still
slated for retirement in January of 2020
the software giant is also looking to
extend the ATP support for non Windows
devices by signing up another partner
for its security push Sentinel 1 will be
adding ATP support to the endpoint
protection platform security tool it
sells for Windows Mac Linux and VDI this
means that administrators can set up
Sentinel 1 to automatically pass alerts
along to management consoles via ATP hmm
I'm not a big Security Essentials fan I
like ESET I like proper protection but
for those who are going to opt for what
comes with your computer it is good that
there's something a little more robust
than what's freely available right now
yes if you're on Windows 7 why are you
on Windows 7 why are you on Windows yeah
I think a lot of people are still
holding onto the past it's true and some
people are stuck on hardware that
doesn't support Windows 10 or some
people just don't want updates crippling
their computers right some people stop
mullets she went there
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
story to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman thanks Sasha this is category 5
technology TV and thank you so much for
joining us a game this week I'm looking
forward to seeing next week when we take
this Plex Media Server and show you how
to actually import some of your video
files and music and you
that system that we've now built on a
Raspberry Pi three look forward to
seeing you next week
take care I actually love everybody even
if you have a Molly I feel bad
always nice to feel bad at the end of
