here are the stories we're covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
phishing scams can make themselves look
exactly like the real site right down to
the URL in the address bar a real
medical tricorder is coming to retail
shelves the Nintendo NES classic edition
is finished its short run and now novice
hackers can buy their own ransomware
service that more than pays for itself
after just one successful infection
these stories are coming right up don't
go anywhere
now here's another great way you can
support the shows you love from the
category 5 dot TV network by shopping
gearbest that's the right Jeff cap 5 dot
TV slash gearbest it's an online store
for the geeks streak in here or the
loved ones well of course I mean
especially your loved ones right because
cat 5 TV slash gear best quite frankly
has all of the greatest tech gifts that
you could ever hope for at rock-bottom
prices to that cellphones you bet you
cap 5 TV slash gear vest has a wide
assortment of unlocked Android cell
phones and tablets global compute
consumer electronics those like a great
gift absolutely from high tech watches
to action cameras headphones even
virtual reality headsets cat5 dot TV
slash gearbest have you covered they
literally have it all Jeff literally
really it's like a superstore right from
the comfort of your own chair at your
computer through the interweb
yeah there's no way they have it all
true it's just a bunch of random
electronics Stephanie what about clothes
yep both men and women fashionable
apparel at rock-bottom SuperDuper prices
kind of like this well look at this coat
what do you think it's a slimming mock
leather jacket I love it it's available
for less than $30 plus free shipping a
cat5 dot TV flash gearbest yeah all
right Nakata got me there
Wow any other questions for me just now
that winter is past flying season do
they have any good deals and say to
encompass oh my goodness well check this
out dude
they have everything check out over 500
various drones and not only that they're
available marked down by about 32 up to
63 percent off the regular price love it
what's website again while you're going
to find gear best on our partners pages
for any of your favorite category 5 TV
shows like new every day
category 5 technology TV the pixel
shadow but of course if you want to shop
absolutely right now and you want to go
straight to the site all you have to do
is visit cat 5 TV slash gearbest
so that's easy Tech 5 dot TV slash your
best that's right happy shopping
I'm Sasha dramatis and here are the top
stories for the week of April 26 2017
there is a phishing attack that is
receiving much attention the past few
weeks in the security community this
variant of a phishing attack uses
Unicode to register domains that look
identical to real domains these fake
domains can be used in phishing attacks
to fool users into signing to a fake
website thereby handing over their login
credentials to an attacker this affects
the current version of Chrome browser
and the current version of Firefox this
does not affect Internet Explorer or
Safari browsers as an example to
demonstrate how an attacker can register
their own domain that looks exactly to
another company's domain in the browser
security researchers at
wordfence decided to imitate a
healthcare site called epic comm by
registering their own fake site as you
can see in the screenshot both of these
domains appear identical in the browser
but they are completely different web
sites the fake epic com domain is
actually the domain X and - - II won a
WD 7s calm but it appears in Chrome and
Firefox is FX com this is because the X
end - - prefix is an ASCII compatible
encoding prefix it lets the browser know
that the domain uses puny code encoding
to our present unicode characters in
non-techie speech this means that if you
have a domain with chinese or other
international characters you can
register a domain name with normal
eh-2-zed characters that can allow a
browser to represent that domain as
international characters in the location
bar there is a way to disable the
dangerous feature in Firefox by turning
to Unicode off and chrome has released
an update as of last week that fixes the
issue so update immediately Wow by
incredible a mind blown because I
remember seeing a phishing scam come in
to my gmail inbox that when I hovered
over the links it showed the right URL
and all of that like it looked so really
you guys sat on an episode you note it
was crazy now it makes sense because I
was in Gmail in Chrome yes the rapist
oppressor right so they had exploited
the fact that Chrome then interprets the
Unicode and says epic calm or Microsoft
calm or whatever twitter.com click here
to log into your Twitter account like
it's so simple but it's so smart okay
it is our brilliant bad people are super
yeah and why does it take the bad people
figuring this out for the good people to
figure it out
goodness me good people starting to just
generalize oh wow yeah
you got no X Prize and the Qualcomm
foundation during a ceremony held in
Hollywood announced that the final
frontier medical devices team won the
Qualcomm tricorder X PRIZE competition
good people and the winner is quite
possibly humankind final frontier which
hails from Philadelphia and was led by
emergency room medic doctor Basel Harris
and his brother George Harris and
network engineer accepted the 2.6
million dollar top prize the tricorder X
PRIZE competition was established in
2012 challenging anyone or any team to
develop a practical lightweight mobile
real-world version of Star Trek's
fictional tricorder that everyday people
could use at home without the presence
of a doctor or healthcare provider to
evaluate health issues thus making it no
longer imaginary it is actually now not
fictional a real thing there were more
than 300 teams participating the two
finalists were dynamical biomarkers
group from Taiwan and final frontier
medical devices from Philadelphia many
clinical solutions offer a 40 percent
accuracy rate but XPrize set a goal of
70% accuracy rate of testing and user
experience both groups combined to an
average of 72 percent accuracy with
their devices an 82 percent positive
user experience with the devices the
winning device is an art of artificial
intelligence based engine that learns to
diagnose medical conditions by
integrating learnings from clinical
emergency medicine with data analysis
from actual patients the tricorder
includes a group of non-invasive sensors
that are designed to collect data about
vital signs body chemistry chemistry and
biological functions this information is
then synthesized in the devices
diagnostic engine to make a quick and
accurate assessment DBG was named
runner-up and accepted a check for 1
million dollars oh that's all Wow
final frontier Basile these technologies
won the top prize of 2.6 million the
tricorder will be available on retail
shelves once it is ready I think that
this is
such an incredible development so cool
so super cool I love it and things like
well West artac Star Trek inspires
development of technologies Thanks
where's your over here myself up this is
my Fitbit your Fitbit that's right what
is it doing right now it's counting my
steps counting your steps does it
measure heart rate notice yes they don't
have one day do you have one to do yeah
it tracks my sleeve but you know so
doesn't it make sense that okay so
they've got I see what looks like like
um what do you call it like heart
monitors like sensors yeah I see like
various sensors one that goes on your
finger probably Tasha's oxygen oxygen
and blood pressure so with those and
then connected to a tablet or a mobile
phone like a smart phone through
bluetooth probably asks you a series of
questions
all of a sudden wow this is incredible
especially for anybody who doesn't have
health care like we have where you know
oh wow you raise an interesting point
like think about that's very low
missionary work exactly is so like if
you go overseas or things like that and
you're able to help people so much more
easier now and you don't really have to
worry about well you stopped worry about
sterilization but you don't have to
worry about like any needles or things
like that because if it's just like a
tricorder everything is external right
so it makes people more safe meanwhile
still getting things hopefully right is
revolutionary this is real life these
are the good people can the next XPrize
be like a teleporter or something loon
see me up Robbie
I could not be part of that showcase
we're talking about but if we're talking
about you know third world and maybe
natural disaster recovery and and
helping people I want to see is so
thinking along the lines of teleporter
because they need to perfect that first
so get on it mmm food replicators that
is good yeah be awesome we have like 3d
printers already so could you inject
proteins and stuff and there are folks
that I think about it like they do that
with chocolate
they have 3d printers that print
chocolate so I need one so they
you know they tried stuff for in-space
we're like it's just a tube of protein
shake basically that prints out two
different very but it's not the same as
a replicator yeah no not the same at all
what a valiant effort yes I love food so
yeah if you can make more food that is
awesome I want to see one that just 3d
prints me some fried chicken nice
Nintendo is discontinuing the NES
classic edition a plug and play console
that became popular with collectors as
soon as it launched last fall a Nintendo
representative confirmed that the last
shipment of the NES classic editions
will hit stores this month
once that stock drives up retailers will
not receive any additional new consoles
this was the plan all along according to
Nintendo who told IGN and yes classic
wasn't intended to be an ongoing long
term product however due to high demand
we did add extra shipments to our
original plans the Famicom classic
edition the Japanese version of the mini
NES has also ended production however on
the website they leave some hope saying
this product has ended production for
now when production is being resumed we
will tell you on the website along with
the NES classic edition systems Nintendo
will also discontinue the NES classic
controller the peripheral is sold
separately and compatible with both Wii
and Wii U as well it plugs into the Wii
Remote to be used for NES virtual
consoles games this kind of reminds me
to be honest of like when they take
Disney movies back off the shelf and
it's remember you back again yeah yeah
limited time they really want you to
really want one well there's there's
going around the internet right now like
the rumor mills and stuff they cancelled
the nez classic because they might come
out with a snows classic so like the
next version so it's not confirmed yet
but it's what they're thinking could be
even though have you liked and followed
our facebook page because we happen to
have a picture there of a possible
miniature super ness
classic you haven't yet so mr. Jaffee's
last day to look and give us a thumbs up
on that photo yeah yeah hmm all right
back to the bad ones Oh
cyber crooks have begun begun retailing
a new easy-to-use ransomware strain that
promises profit with only one successful
infection the tool called Carmen is
being sold on the dark web forums from
russian-speaking cyber criminals dev vid
ox for one hundred and seventy five
dollars the new ransomware as a service
variant offers a graphical dashboard
allowing purchasers to keep a running
tally of the number of infections and
their earnings in real time the malware
requires very little technical skill to
deploy according to threat intelligence
company recorded future Carmen encrypts
files on the infected machine using a
strong aes-256 protocol weight to 56
protocol making them inaccessible and
less victims pay the attacker for a
decryption key keeping up-to-date
backups backups would negate the need to
cave into such demand and remains the
best strategy for safeguarding against
ransomware infection thanks for watching
the category-five TV newsroom don't
forget to Like and subscribe for all
your tech news with a slight Linux bias
and for more free content be sure to
check out our web site from the
category-five TV newsroom and Sasha
dramatic
[Music]
[Applause]
