welcome to episode number 307 of
category 5 technology TV it's Tuesday
the sixth of august 2013 great to see ya
I'm Robbie Ferguson and I'm Becca
Ferguson well hello better Ferguson just
kind of scoot over here a little bit how
you don't beautiful good how are you
she's my wife come on I'm doing good
thanks for asking it's coming up in the
news coming after news we've been
together all day so yeah how are you
doing well this yeah in half an hour
yeah we're like kids we have pizza for
dinner was good alright what's up coming
up in the newsroom dove is left a Trojan
for art directors who Photoshop their
models a tool to make them look even
more beautiful with a single click meet
a new nine-speed automatic transmission
gives a hundred kilometers for every
five point three liters of fuel a
concept mission to land humans on Mars
has been proposed by scientists at
Imperial College London and Disney is
testing a new air flow tactile gaming
technology nice so stick around these
stories are coming up later in the show
we get this question on the show once in
a while and it's really really tough for
us to tackle what we're going to do
tonight so I'm going to attempt it but
we get the question how do I take a real
computer and virtualize it into a
virtual machine the time that it takes
to do that is so great but we've never
been able to fit it into a one hour show
so we thought about okay humming ha how
can we do this and so we actually
pre-recorded tonight's feature so that
we could edit everything together for
you so stick around we're going to be
learning how to do that very very thing
take our windows 7 laptop here at the
studio we're going to convert it to an
actual virtual machine and we're going
to give you some use case scenarios why
that's an awesome
so stick around fetal msf so don't go
anywhere it's gonna be a great show I
believe her a great joke right don't
glare see a cereal commercial man could
be great this is category 5 technology
TV at eco alkalines we believe you
should be able to trust your batteries
not just here but here here and here but
with one exception you should also be
able to trust your batteries here Eco
alkalines of the world's first and only
certified carbon neutral battery
manufactured to the highest standards of
recycling and quality without any trace
amounts of harmful chemicals like
mercury lead or cadmium eco outlines
provide performance the rivals leading
national alkaline battery brands at a
comparable price find out more about the
Eco alkalines difference eco alkalines
calm this is category 5 technology TV
thanks so much for tuning in tonight
great show planned for you I want to
first and for my foremost almost a
foremost it's like I'm reading this
stuff no foremost I want to thank
everybody who has sent in donations not
just this week but you know all the time
but all the donations that we received
here the show we're volunteers and the
show you know is basically set up in
such a way that we're supported by the
limited amount of advertising that we
have as well as your donations so to
those who have donated this week as well
as those who have recurring donations
that happen once a month we appreciate
you and just want to extend thanks for
all the support that you give us if you
would care to send in a donation to help
us with the development of studio D
which is our big development project
right now more information is coming
about it but if you'd like to support
that it's cat five dot TV /c
we thank you for tonight if you have
questions for for us you can email us
live at category 5 TV pick up the phone
give us call on the cat phone 2545 cat5
TV or visit our website triple w
category five dot TV if you have a
mobile device i'll encourage you bring
that up scan this QR code right here and
that's going to load up our mobile
website mcat 5 TV and you have a tablet
mobile device you can actually watch the
show live you can listen to the show
live there's some great features there
as well and you can you can catch past
episodes it's pretty cool to have and we
love being able to offer that for you
category five dot TV is a member of the
tech podcast network if it's tech it's
here and the international association
of internet broadcasters thanks Becca
well what would you possibly want to
virtualize a real physical computer for
I think about a good use case scenario
is somebody who is using a computer for
business purposes or whatever and they
want to take let's say you're on Windows
and you there's something tying you down
to Microsoft Windows it could be a piece
of software that specifically is only
available on Windows so can't really
switch to linux because that software is
not available on Linux perhaps so you
know you want to make that switch but
it's not possible for you you could
install everything over again but that's
so much work and then you gotta get
licensing and so on and so forth so what
we're going to look at tonight is
actually taking that physical running
computer that you have and we're going
to convert it to a virtual machine so
this is a two part series tonight we're
going to get into the steps of actually
creating the image we're going to use
the saw we're going to get obtain all
the software that we're going to use to
do this and and we're going to actually
create the virtual machine and create a
virtualized version of the laptop that
Beck is using tonight and then next week
we're going to proceed to actually
create make it so that it's bootable and
we can get into windows 7 and all that
kind of stuff so it's an exciting thing
to be able to offer you and I hope that
you'll enjoy and we're
talk a little bit later about all the
different ways that this can be used but
first and foremost we're going to use a
couple of pieces of software that are
available for you free one of the big
ones is called clonezilla and he grabbed
that from clonezilla org we're not
actually going to download it from
clonezilla org tonight we're going to
use a different piece of software which
i'm going to show you but let me just
pull up their website so that you can
see that okay clonezilla dot org and
there's downloads over on the left hand
side we've been on to this website
before and we will be back here again
tonight because we're going to need to
go there to get an iso file in a little
while but we're not ready for that just
now what we want to do is we actually
want to take my flash drive we're going
to take this drive and were going to
turn this into a bootable clonezilla
device all right these things are great
because you can reuse them over and over
again it only cost me a couple bucks at
the store the the price of flash media
has come down so much it's crazy I
remember my first 128 gig flash stick
was like a hundred dollars yeah everyone
we because we used to own a business
together and we remember when we
invested and we bought like stock of
flash tribes and it was ridiculous we
had like what were they like for Meg
flash drives and we had like yes lots
and lots of them because we got a deal
on them because they were so expensive
back then this is an eight gig drive and
I can reuse it over and over and over
again and as long as I don't physically
break it it's reusable up until you know
so many reads and writes they're not
safe to store data on because it has a
finite amount of use they will
eventually die and you'll lose all the
data that's on it so but for what we're
using its transient we're going to
actually create a clonezilla
installation media on here rather than
having to use like a DVD or something
and burn isos and waste of DVD so the
way that I want to do that I want to use
a special tool that is called unetbootin
it's available for free it's in your
repositories on Linux so all you have to
do in our case we're on point linux I'm
going to bring up synaptic package
manager the same for a boon to for
Debian basically any debian based system
and I'm going to search for unetbootin
unetbootin sounds kind of from Texas
unetbootin or maybe that sounds more
Canadian I don't know who knows okay so
i'm just going to stall that with
synaptic package manager this is a
fantastic tool that's going to allow us
to basically turn this flash drive into
all different kinds of distributions
including that clonezilla which we want
to use to create our image of that
laptop really really straightforward now
that I've got it installed there we go
easy breezy I'm going to bring up well
first of all I'm going to plug this into
my computer here and then that brings up
the window for the flash drive and now
I'm going to bring up unetbootin which
is already installed doesn't take long
at all and there's something that I want
to see here to look down at the bottom
it's going to basically by default it's
going to write to SD e1 and that's the
only drive that it detects that it can
use as a USB Drive but my drive is
actually mounted on media / whatever so
I want to make absolutely certain that
that unetbootin is going to be writing
to the correct drive because we don't
want to accidentally put the files in
the wrong place or overwrite files so
I'm going to use this command sudo mount
and then pipe grep sde one and what
that's going to do is it's going to
actually allow me to see the amount
point and there it is and it does match
so we're good to go okay so with that
now we know that it is writing to sault
ste 1 is the correct drive that's good
so now all I want to do is I want to
change my distribution you see there's a
lot of them available to you look at
that there's a boon to there's all these
different versions of Linux but there is
clonezilla and that's the one that we're
actually using tonight and there's the
version there so we're good with sde one
we've determined that and we're just
going to proceed with that and it's good
to go it really doesn't take long for
this to take place and that'll be ready
for us back in just a couple of moments
so then we'll have this flash drive that
we can boot from and it's easy breezy
we've got this thing I love using flash
drives with unetbootin because I can do
clonezilla now and then two weeks from
now I might need let's say any g part ed
and i want to use the gparted live CD
but i don't need to keep on burning cds
and I don't need to keep stacks of CDs
anymore and label them the sharpie year
whatever else used to have boxes my nose
actually still do you haven't gotten
have to go through them okay I gotta
sort them out because I didn't sharpie
them all cuz my sharpie was dead so you
know it's like I gotta figure out okay
well what was this one and yeah that's
the thing that you'll never bother to go
through all these unlabeled brady's and
why they sit there in a box exactly
because you don't know really what's on
it and that's what used to happen before
you had the ability to use something
like unetbootin because you would
literally burn a DVD for every install
that you wanted to do and then oh well
where did my a boon to installer disk oh
I can't find it so I'll burn another
copy so you end up with 10 different
copies it's wasteful it's bad for the
environment but it's also it's just like
you end up with all this these stacks of
junk in the garage kind of thing and
that's what good is that so that's
already done so oh it's just wrapping up
its just installing the bootloader
that's kind of the final step anyways
doesn't take long to get this out there
we go now it's asking me if I want to
reboot I don't actually want to reboot
in this case because i'm not using it in
this computer i actually want to use it
to to make a clone of our
laptop so I'm going to eject it from the
computer plug it into the laptop first
I'll show you you remember what it
looked like the file system of that
drive but you see that it's actually get
a lot more files added to it now and
keep that in mind because we're gonna
bring it up on the window system too so
will safely unmount that there we go and
pull it out of here and we'll plug that
into the laptop but before we do that
we'll get you to log in and then I'm
going to just throw a folder on the
desktop here and this is going to be
kind of our test case so so that when we
create the image and create the virtual
machine it's going to look like it's
going to be an exact duplicate of what
we see here right now so this is just
the viewers at home can see that yeah
it's everything so here's a test file
we'll throw some text into that there we
go and of course all of our applications
are going to be intact as well that's
what's nice about this whole process so
if I have microsoft word installed if I
have whatever applications that you know
I've already got my computer set up the
way that I want so now when I
virtualized that all of that stuff is
still there so that's pretty fantastic
so so just plug that into the laptop
here and that's going to come straight
up on the screen there we go so we're
just going to I'll just show you again
the file structure you can see that okay
Windows has detected it because it's a
fat32 drive as it should be so now we're
just simply going to reboot and that's
going to come up in just a couple of
moments time and we'll be good to go the
the thing is you've got to make sure
that your boot order is going to boot
from USB now because we're using a USB
device to boot from so your BIOS has to
support it it needs to be a new enough
system to support booting from USB if
your computer is too old let's say your
use case is I've got a really old
computer the software is no longer
available and so I want to virtualize it
because it can't you know it's going to
fail its 10 years old or 20 years old
even and I want to have a virtual
machine of that system so in that case
you may not have the ability
boot from USB you might want to actually
download clonezilla and burn the iso to
a DVD in that case well CD because it
probably won't have DVD reader so in our
case USB is good it's a fairly new
laptop we've had it for a few years here
and it works really well so so with that
I have to I have to first now it's
asking me for okay so I'm going to hit
f11 at post here and by hitting f11
that's going to bring up my boot menu
and you'll see we've had to revert to a
camera here just because we don't have a
running operating system I've selected
USB and because we're using a camera I'm
going to select a low resolution just to
help the text to be a little bit larger
those are really the only you know
you're probably going to just choose
default this is going to just quickly go
through the boot up process as I have a
sip of my coffee that stuff probably you
know it doesn't really matter to you
it's all just Linux gibberish really but
we're kind of showing you here in real
time at this point okay so we're ready
we're going to choose English in my case
and we want to change the key map now
we're going to leave that as is and
we're going to start clonezilla so we're
going to do device to image in our case
we're not doing device to device because
we're not saving to a hard drive we're
actually creating an image that we want
to be able to restore from that's just a
fancy way of saying it's like an exact
copy of your computer so where do you
want to save it you want to use a local
device SSH server samba server or NFS
server we're gonna use samba which is a
windows file share so we're going to
save it to our unraid server and that's
what it uses so now I've got a network
cable plugged in so I can connect with
DHCP and just change the IP address of
the server to 10 dot 0 dot 0 dot 5 in my
case your server will be different or
computer that you're saving to and hit
enter for the domain my user name is
Robbie on that server and I want to save
to the TMP mount point so and then just
enter my password follow the prompts is
pretty straightforward but you can see
there it was able to mount home part
image to temp which is great so do I
want to save the local disk as
image that's what I want I don't want to
save local partitions as an image I want
to save the whole disk so that's going
to save the partition table and all the
data that's there and this one you can
leave as default and here I'm just going
to disable the first option C which
basically is it's going to ask me
questions as it goes because I know this
is going to take a long long time to run
I don't want it to pause while it's just
asking me to push why to accept or
something like that so that's all I want
to do okay what kind of compression do
you want you can use gzip it's fantastic
I would probably go with bzip2 it's
going to take a little bit longer but I
don't mind sacrificing time for a
smaller image so I'm going to choose the
second option that just makes it so that
it takes up less space on our network
okay so I'm going to hit enter on this
is just the file name that we want to
save and this is our internal actual
physical hard drive in the laptop it's
detected that so I need to salute it's
already selected if you have multiple
hard drives you might need to select
which one and then just follow the
prompts hit enter and it's like it's
detecting the NTFS file system and going
through and it looks like it's speeding
through but the actual process is going
to be quite time-consuming here it goes
not actually a hundred percent complete
don't be deceived this is going to take
over night folks there we go okay so now
it's actually creating an image of the
physical hard drive and that's going to
take quite a bit of time to be honest
with you so we're going to just kind of
let that go and in the meantime we're
actually going to jump into the news
nice and early tonight as that goes
through the process so what it's
actually doing is it's imaging that
whole laptop computers hard drive
including all the partitions all the
files all the programs the windows
operating system and its placing it on
my server and the TMP share so wait yeah
so if you're ready to take it away with
the news then we'll jump into that and
then we're going to come back in a few
moments time and we're going to look at
the status of that and
we're gonna proceed with our feature
tonight so don't go anywhere okay here
are the top stories from the category 5
TV news room the real beauty campaign
continues his assault on Photoshop by
fighting fire with fire the battles
can't always be fought head-on sometimes
it's advantageous to infiltrate the
enemy for a sneak attack which is
exactly what dove is doing and its
ongoing war against unrealistically
sabelt depictions of women in
advertising at the very least of is
making a strong statement with their
latest tool dove Canada's latest
endeavor is a sneaky way to hit the
perpetrators of such ads right at the
source their computers the team
responsible for the campaign created a
folder shop action called beautify a
downloadable file that makes a change
with a single click in this case aimed
at photography creatives who might be
photoshopping their models the company
hopes to spread beautify by leaving it
on sites like Reddit which art directors
in the like or known to frequent
presenting it as an aid for retouching
beautify claims to make the model more
beautiful with a single click and what
beautify actually does is revert
photoshopped images back to their
original state really well that's yes
sneaky sneaky sneaky sneaky that's kind
of funny really it's it's a different
tactic than what the what we're used to
with dove canada because usually they're
really really smart with stuff that is
just like it's powerful stuff like to
make people go oh you know maybe it's
really a bad thing that people are
photoshopping these images that sounds
more like it's a bit of a almost a joke
or a little bit of a haha at the expense
of whoever downloads it now is this in
any way associated with dove like will
they recognize the Dove name when I go
to download this be our cool and think
oh this is dove this won't be a trick
here well until until they actually like
it because so imagine you're using
Photoshop you're some bigwig magazine
editor and you're working on the cover
and you've got your model and you
slimming the hips and you're changing
the cheekbone structure and all the
stuff that they do that's crazy and then
they get ahold of this tool that is
called beautify and it says with the
single click it's going to make your
model more beautiful basically that's
the sales pitch it doesn't say anything
they've cloaked it as an a-team it's
nowhere a tool / me no that's right now
I there there's no we're there until you
run it but would associate the named of
with ya please self-esteem campaigns and
they drink this this can't be right
right nobody would download it no it's
literally just it's completely not
associated with dove up until the point
when you run it so they're working on
the magazine cover it's all fandangled
and they've done all this work to the to
the model and then they run beautify and
it looks like it's like magically doing
work to the photo but actually what it's
doing is reverting the whole model to
its original photograph so undoing all
of the beautiful all of the stuff that
they've done and they call it my which
is kind of I think it's just they'll
roll their eyes and they'll click on you
and then you know is what happens I
don't so when that nap going to affect
any any sort of change when it happens
just so you know it actually brings up
this message on the screen as part of
the photograph so it adds this to the
photos as don't manipulate our
perceptions of real beauty from dove
Canada the positive change and then they
do go on to say on that message just
undo to go back so they're not being
malicious with it they call it a Trojan
because it's a you know it's a trick but
yeah I think you're right I don't know
would it bring about change like their I
can't see it bringing about change as
long as women are all wearing fake
eyelashes on TV shows and they're
covered in makeup the magazines have to
compete with that so if you just had
women without fake eyelashes just
looking like your average women they
wouldn't compare to the women on the TV
and so there's always going to be that
competition
nobody wants to be the first guy because
they'll just get drowned but that's what
dove has done all along and then all of
a sudden they bring this out it's it
just seems a little bit hokey a bit more
like a joke it seems more like it'll
raise more awareness with people like us
talking about it and discussing it than
the actual application because that's
just some guy who will probably never
mention it to anyone except perhaps with
a snarky remark right but or if they're
watching a show like this they won't
even download it in the first place
because you're ready let the cat out of
the bag yep now you know now you know
graphic designers watch out for beautify
it'll undo all your changes hey check
this out if you're into powerful cars
and vehicles imagine having nine speeds
to your automobile that's what's coming
folks the all-new nine gtronic automatic
transmission is making its way into the
world and making a debut in the brand
new mercedes-benz e350 BlueTEC it's now
on sale in Europe now here's the thing
according to the German automaker the
nine-speed transmission helps achieve a
fuel efficiency of just five point three
liters of gasoline for every 100
kilometers driven what in that awesome
like could you imagine put that in our
van you know because we got a family van
right 55 people in our family so but
here's the kicker they say how does it
work well once you get up to 120
kilometers an hour it shifts into ninth
gear and in ninth gear it only rotates
at about 1300 1350 rpms so basically
it's like idling moving down the highway
120 kilometres an hour but here's the
thing here in Canada our speed limit on
the highway is 90 kilometers an hour or
a hundred sometimes 100 if you're on a
straight stretch or something where you
know that it may be up to a hundred but
usually that's a construction zone and
so the sign say eighty gonna be 80 to
100 but yet we've had the conversation
before where you know I'm doing
everybody drives 100
at least I'm doing a hundred on the
highway because that's the maximum speed
that it says we're supposed to go and
someone zips by 130 so I'm looking at
that and thinking okay so in order to
take advantage of this new engine I have
to basically break the law in Canada we
don't have an Autobahn here folks just
seems kind of useless to me it's not it
might be useless to you but it's useless
to me but the commuter who's doing a
little kilometres over the speed limit
there you go increase your fuel
efficiency at jerks so the kickin get
away from the cops what crime pays
what's this yeah exactly so you gotta
you gotta do 20 30 over the speed limit
in order to take advantage of this
transmission here in Canada I know it's
different elsewhere but I I don't speed
and so you know it's like it's i'm stuck
in sixth gear what good is that I'm
getting about I don't 30 liters for
every hundred clock it feels like
sometimes sometimes hmm what else we got
ok scientists at Imperial College London
have designed a concept mission to land
astronauts on Mars the plan envisages a
three-person crew journey into Mars
aboard a small two-part craft three
people three people three people to Mars
this is going to be multi-billions of
dollars possibly trillions and they can
only send myself Becca and one lucky
viewer the craft would rotate to
generate artificial gravity and use a
heat shield to protect itself against
solar flares the crew would then return
to Martian orbit in the pre sent craft
fueled using ice from beneath the
planet's surface all the concept
developed in conjunction with the BBC of
all things is intended to spark further
debate debate about the technical
obstacles and risks that would have to
be overcome in order to put human on
humans on Mars okay the new Imperial
concept comes amid renewed interest in
the red planet with two private groups
having proposed missions
okay two things that stand out to me
there first of all BBC is involved in
this mm-hmm yes it's like a documentary
are we gonna see this that would be my
guess that there they would document the
whole process from finish put it all
together and be amazing yeah it's
literally it's literally just
15 minutes of that per episode black
because there's nothing like six months
to travel to be a long documentary
filmed like 24 you have to watch it in
real time yeah maybe be like The Truman
Show where you know everybody just say
anything about a real-time document I
know I'm just totally kidding this
entirely speculation is just odd to hear
that the BBC is involved in this project
but what else stood out to me is that
they're okay this other powering the
ship by ice under the surface of Mars
base from beneath the planet's surface
so so there's is that a discovery that's
did I miss something we have ice on
under the surface of Mars maybe I've
missed something but that sounds like
there would have to be water and that it
would have to be cold but maybe it's I
always thought of Mars is being kind of
a hot place that's what i was saying
maybe because it don't remember Marvin
the Martian like he had to wear it like
a really short kilt just to stay cool
yeah so it's probably just psychological
it's red and we think red we made it
with fire hot it's true the
multi-faceted oh there's Pluto which is
blue and apparently cold even might be
an attendant fatalism of colors
symbolism of colors dear me I don't know
I know that's all I think that's a long
time in coming along it is all just an
idea at this point it's not like we can
take a three-person trip to the moon and
do a little exploration here they're
talking about taking care of people
tomorrow what's the space station it's
like show show me that we can go to the
moon first and then we'll talk about
Mars I don't know that's it I'll believe
it when it happened yeah let's just work
on the moon spacebase yeah use 3d
printers to make but the study would it
would be amazing to go to the moon and
walk around if that was an option but
they want to go to Mars as they've
always been obsessed with Mars so we'll
see can't blame them it's kind of cool
space travel awesome hey gamers here's
something neat for you have you have
been you know ever into games
alright so games started like this and
I'll start it like this then it went to
this then it went to this now it's this
right so Disney is experimenting with a
brand new technology and you're going to
be able to feel the actual flac of the
ball as you're hitting it in the air it
doesn't actually exist but you're going
to actually be able to feel that or
bullets whizzing by your head imagine
that this is called air flow technology
they're hoping that it's going to take
off it's dubbed air real and the
technology allows users to feel physical
feedback from virtual images without
ever having to wear anything like gloves
or you know virtual reality belts or
vests there's none of that involved how
it actually works is that there is a
basically a system that is connected in
with the virtual reality experience or
whatever you want to call it the gaming
experience that uses puffs of compressed
air and they're blown at different
strengths and speeds and they simulate
tactile experiences while motion sensors
have allowed gamers to interact with 2d
screens without the need for handheld
controllers now they're aiming to make
these virtual experiences actually have
a tactile feel to them Disney was
showing off this technology as they're
experimenting experimenting with it at
siggraph conference in anaheim
california so that could be interesting
but it could also be deadly well I
thinking about the fact that okay so
you've got all these little Jets of
compressed air around your TV or
whatever and you know the kids what peas
dog food whatever they can find that
would fit in those little compressed air
sockets they're gonna be pushing it in
there carrots projectiles folks yeah so
it's like okay anybody want to play the
new Wii 2015 sports by Disney all right
stand here and you're getting shot at by
peas and yeah talk about feeling the
bullets going by yeah that's that would
be my
here but who knows how realistic can it
be what's look like man it's like a very
primitive prototype of true holodeck
technology yeah um I like where you're
going with this well we all know what
happens when things go wrong in the
holodeck you can actually RT you can get
seriously injured yes but this would be
a very confining technology to Moriarty
just in the TV with the ability to blow
on you they should introduce other other
things like smell amazing like Google
Google sniff or whatever it was called
yeah yeah no but maybe you could not
just feel a gun with a bullet right past
your head you would also smell the gun
the gun powder in the aroma of the
sulfur and yeah that'll be kind of neat
yeah what they do that they'd actually
have to shoot you well they would have
to build a holodeck okay incorporating
only so work on that should be able to
walk through my Boris you should be able
to feel the leaves on your fingers all
right is this primitive technology is
this like 2013 we're gonna look back on
this folks and say haha Stevie blue on
him and they thought that was to do i do
exactly love them air in your face I'm
playing soccer I mean hello you feel
that it's amazing you want this
experience try it folks at home that's
it that's it for the news you can get
the full stories at category 5 TV /
newsroom this week the category 5 TV
news room is researched by roy w Nash
with contributions by our community of
viewers and if you have a news story you
think is worthy of on-air mention email
newsroom at category 5 TV for the
category 5 DVD newsroom I'm Becca
Ferguson
thanks Becca all right so through the
magic of television because all right
we're gonna we're gonna go back to our
feature here tonight about virtualizing
this laptop computer to a virtual box
virtual machine through the magic of
television we are able to skip over the
actual time that it takes because let's
be honest it takes 12 15 maybe 20 hours
to create that image on our network it
really takes a lot of time that's why we
pre-recorded tonight for you so that you
could actually experience this and learn
how this is done so we're able to skip
over that time and jump straight back
into the feature so are cloned our image
that's cloning over to that that temp
folder on my own raid server is all done
and there we have it we're at a hundred
percent complete and now the final step
is that it needs to sink that image and
it doesn't take very long to do that as
you see and so I just hit enter and now
the final step is to power off my laptop
computer we're done it got a good image
and again an image is basically just a
copy of the entire hard drive so now
we've got something that we can work
with that image if you will is not just
perfect for what we're doing here
tonight which is creating a virtual
machine this is an ideal backup solution
for a full 100% revert abul position for
you for me for your computer so now that
I've done that with the laptop if
tomorrow my hard drive crashed I could
put another hard drive in and I could
restore the laptop hard drive back from
our network because we have an
up-to-date image of it and it's a full
it's not a backup it's a full image so
it is literally a duplicate of the
entire hard drive including the file
system all the files all the programs
all the network shares all the user
accounts everything is there because
it's the entire hard drive so it really
makes a really great you know one
hundred percent solution for backups as
well if you want to run it you know I
run it when I get a new computer I got a
new laptop you know a couple years back
the first thing I did was I created an
image so that if we fill it up with a
bunch of extra stuff that we don't need
anymore suddenly we can wipe it out and
it's good to go and where we can restore
it back to its original state and it's
fine so that's another use case that you
can use this for mm-hmm so we've
finished cloning that now we just simply
need to create a virtual machine on my
computer so we've got that on the
network we don't need it we don't need
the laptop anymore because we've got our
image ready we're going to use a tool
called virtual box and you you've had
some experience with virtual box as well
yep I have limit linux on my computer so
i use it just to access quickbooks
virtual box has a virtual machine that
has windows XP we did exactly this where
we took our old bill and we called it
our billing computer mm-hmm when we had
our company and we converted over to a
virtual machine so now becca runs
exclusively Linux and the kids use
exclusively Lennox but QuickBooks is one
of those windows programs that there is
no installer for Linux plain and simple
it doesn't run on Linux you can't use it
on on wine very well and there's all
these kinds of issues so we just decide
okay let's virtualize that computer and
here's this scenario where now okay well
Becca's not tied down to Windows she can
run her favorite operating system linux
how do you like Linux by the way it's
great side question yeah the kids love
it they're like why do they run windows
at school so weird doesn't have tox
that's what they say yeah I don't think
they mentioned anything to do with
Windows they just said that they didn't
have tux yeah why don't they have talks
but they know what linux is so that I'm
raising them well raising them well so
now that our virtual machine is on the
network as I'm saying okay we need to
create that virtual machine we've got
virtual box from virtualbox org it's a
free virtualization program so you don't
have to pay for it but it is for
non-commercial use as far as how we're
using it tonight because we're using
what's called the extension pack and
that gives us access to SATA drivers and
two USB 2.0 bus you're going to need
that for for this type of work that
we're doing so get over to virtualbox
org follow the prompts to
load and install it you probably don't
want to install the version that is in
the repositories for your favorite linux
operating system the reason for that is
because that is the absolutely free
version USB SATA these kinds of things
are proprietary their patented
technologies and so they're not
available in the free version you've got
to get the full version with the
extension pack and that's going to give
you all the extra stuff so once you've
got VirtualBox now I've already got it
installed so I'm gold and I'm ready to
go we're going to actually do a couple
of things before we even fire up
VirtualBox first thing is we want to
find out what we want to get ourselves i
mention we're going to go back to
clonezilla org we want to get a copy of
the ISO image that we can boot our new
virtual machine from once it's once it's
time to do so so the first thing we need
to do is determine what version of
clonezilla we used on our flash drive to
create the cloned image so we're going
to bring back up unetbootin on the same
computer and just look at the clonezilla
distribution and check the version that
we used so back to clonezilla it's one
point one point 0 dash 8 so now back at
clonezilla org we're going to go to
download over on the left-hand side
there or downloads and then scroll down
a little ways we're not going to
actually grab one of the stable installs
we're going to go to clonezilla live
file mirrors and we're going to go to
just pick any mirror and we're going to
go to the old stable branch because we
know this is an older version that came
with unetbootin and in fact I find that
the older versions work better than the
current version so there's the version
we're looking for one point 1 point 0
dash 8 so I just want to download the
ISO file to my computer now once that's
downloaded we've got a full copy of the
basically the CD we don't need to burn
it to CD because we're using a
virtualization platform so we're going
to virtualize it let's bring up
VirtualBox and create a new virtual
machine and you call this the windows 7
laptop there we go
and how much ram do we want same as the
laptop for gigs and we're going to just
create the disk and it's going to be a
VDI image just default to find you want
it to be a dynamic disk or a fixed disk
the only reason you want fixed is if you
want to use up a lot of space and
increase performance we're going to go
dynamic so that we save the space
because we don't need to worry about the
performance end of things hard drive
size needs to be a little bit bigger
than what you have I think it's a 500
gig hard drive in there so I'm going to
go 501 and that just makes sure that the
image will indeed fit on our virtual
hard drive so now that we've created the
machine bring up your settings and go
through things like set system make sure
virtualization is turned on here that's
important we want to turn on 3d and 2d
acceleration and increase our video
memory for Windows to be able to utilize
those technologies and then we want to
mount that clonezilla image so as a CD
we're going to browse to the image that
we just downloaded that's perfect and
that actually is just like inserting a
CD into the cd-rom this virtual make
sure you change your network to bridged
mode otherwise clonezilla is not going
to be able to see your network share
which is where we've saved our image and
that's really all we need to do so now
just literally all we need to do is boot
up our virtual machine and start
restoring that image so let's do it if
you have any questions for us tonight
get into the chat room email us live at
category five TVs the best way to get us
tonight here we go so notice because
I've got that CD technically inserted
there it's booting right from clonezilla
I can use a higher resolution this time
because we've got a better system than a
video camera pointed at the screen there
we go so now this again now this is
going to look very similar to what
you've already seen you know what what
we're looking at here everything looks
it's just clonezilla the difference here
is that we're going to be restoring the
image that we created rather than
creating an image of the internal hard
drive so remember everything that we do
here is in a virtual machine I'm going
to follow the prompts just like it did
the first time being that it's a virtual
machine any changes that I make to a
hard drive anything this destructive is
all
going to be to the virtual machine right
so device to image again and samba share
and just follow the prompts just like
before the HTTP change my server address
once it comes up here doesn't take long
see how quick this is to get in 10,000
0025 is my server no domain change my
username for the samba share and the
path which is the share name there we go
so everything mounted perfectly again
and now this time I'm actually going to
restore an image I'm not going to create
one I'm going to restore the the one
that I've already created so again I
want to disable the fact that you know I
want to turn off but it's going to do
anything I like prompt me for anything
so I'll turn off dash c you can go
through this is kind of neat that it
will change the hostname for you
automatically so when i boot up the
virtual machine it'll automatically have
a new host name i don't have to worry
about my laptop now conflicting with the
same hostname so i'll choose one of
those options i'm going to choose mac
address just let it go and that's going
to change the name of the computer on
the network so that it doesn't conflict
with the actual physical laptop i will
just turn that off because we don't want
to be bothered with questions and let
the rest go does everything else looks
good ok
alright choose the first that's just the
warning about encryption if you haven't
encrypted I should have mentioned this
if your laptop was encrypted then you
didn't want to do the mac address change
because that could cause some corruption
in our case it's not an encrypted file
system so we're good to go that's fine
just be mindful of that if you're if the
one that you use to create the image was
encrypted than you can have a problem
what is the prefix of your your new host
name that you want to use I'm going to
probably change it a vm I like to see
that on my network so I know what's
virtual and what's real and it's
automatically detected the image that's
on my TMP share and where do you want to
say that that's my virtual hard drive in
virtual disk so in virtualbox so
everything that is changed everything
that's written to disk every warning it
gives me that says you're going to
overwrite all your files it's ok because
it's just a virtual hard drive it's not
real it's just a file somewhere on my
Linux file system and it is it is
destructive but there's nothing on it so
we just created it just like creating a
file so do we want to proceed absolutely
and that's going to go through so now
this process is not going to take quite
as long it's probably going to be about
an hour two hours to restore the image
again it took whether it be it was
between about 12 and 20 hours I don't
know I ran it over night make sure your
imaging is going to happen overnight and
keep in mind that your computer system
that you're using is going to be offline
during that time this one moves a little
bit faster when it's restoring but again
it's going to take a couple hours at
least but I think that it's reasonable
to say that you could probably restore
that in the night so the thing about the
way that Windows and Linux and
everything works well they're they're a
little bit different a linux machine so
if your laptop was linux say or if i
wanted to image your desktop computer so
any linux machine i could create an
image of it and restore it and move it
onto a virtual machine and boot it right
up
it's going to be perfect and it's going
to work because it automatically detects
the changes and reinitiate seeeeee any
modules and drivers that are needed
windows on the other hand it detects
everything when you first install it so
then it disables and removes things that
it doesn't need which is clever in a way
but what happens in the case like this
we've moved it on to as far as windows
is concerned we've moved windows onto
new hardware so if we try to boot it up
it's just gonna say ah this is not the
hardware I was installed on I don't know
how to read from this hard drive bus I
don't know how to do any of this stuff
it doesn't have the correct drivers
installed everything's wrong so it craps
out it was gonna you know typically
windows XP would blue screen of death
that you're familiar with in windows 7's
case if I tried to boot up just right
now it would just reboot and reboot and
reboot because it's just doing mini
dumps over and over again and just
crashing upon boot because it's not like
Linux we're so that that what I'm saying
there is if you have a Windows Linux
system part me that you want to move
over it will do it just fine and you'll
be able to boot it up we're done for you
we're done at this point it's going to
work and you'll be able to boot up them
you're good for Windows users however
there is there's there quite a few other
steps that need to be taken in order to
get this system bootable we are going to
cover all of those steps next week so
that you can get this system bootable
first things first though what we're
going to do tonight is we're going to
enable something called a I owe a pic
and I jotted it down cuz i knew i would
forget what the acronym is a pic is
advanced programmable interrupt
controllers foo see what i was going to
forget that i don't want to bore you
with really boring technical details but
let's go back in time about 20 years in
computing and 10 years in computing when
if you put in a nice a card any cards in
your computer they were assigned an irq
and that was basically like a number
that said okay here's how the operating
system communicates with this card so if
you had two cards it was okay if you
have three it might say oh I'm out of
irqs I don't have any more numbers to
assign so I'll share the same irq number
with two cards then all of a sudden you
have what's call
irq conflict there's a big problem so
Intel comes along and says okay well
we'll make something better will call it
I owe a pic it's in a more advanced
version of irq system and now we don't
really encounter that anymore you plug a
card and it just works it's a cool thing
but it's only available on its mitts on
modern architecture computer so our
laptop definitely has it your computer
probably has it so because windows came
off of that computer we know that
Windows upon installation would have
detected oh this computer supports io a
pic so I'm going to activate that if we
then put it onto a computer that did not
support that windows will never boot
because it doesn't support the
architecture of the system that was
installed so what we need to make sure
is because we're working with virtual
hardware nothing is real it's all not
physical hardware its virtual but we can
actually make sure that our virtual
hardware supports io a pic in order to
do that all we need to do is bring up
the settings of the virtual machine and
you'll see I believe it's on the system
page on the left hand side here yeah
there it is enable io a pic so by
clicking on that and then hitting ok now
we should be able to double click on the
virtual machine and it won't boot just
yet windows 7 but at least we're going
to get a little bit further than we
would keep in mind that if you didn't
have i oh a pic active and it was active
on your original machine right here is
just going to keep rebooting and
rebooting and rebooting and you're not
going to get any further I think we're
going to get further than that tonight
because of the IOA pic so let's see how
it goes this is the moment of truth when
it kind of sits there like that and
there we go didn't reboot it's bringing
it up we've got our copyright and mouse
cursor desktop wallpaper that's always a
good thing
okay so now the the repair wizard is
actually detecting that hey you've put
this hard drive in a new computer you've
got different hardware now we want to
find out what's going on and we want to
see if we can fix it now chances are
pretty good that well that's there are
there's a small chance that windows
repair tool there may may get your
operating system up and Ryan mm-hmm
better chance that it won't so next week
we're going to actually go through all
the steps that that we need to take in
order to get that system absolutely
bootable so thanks for watching tonight
I know it's very technical it's very a
lot of techno babble Becca's starting to
go yeah the pictures are gonna be great
you watch the website there's gonna be a
lot of pictures of me sit and you're
going ahhhh she's like driftin this way
and that's okay and I hope you haven't
been like that at home maybe you know
the popcorn has helped or whatever it is
and you know that's it's one of those
things where yeah sometimes we have to
get into something technical and that's
okay because we're a technical show to
some degree hmm so some degree it
something for everyone right well
absolutely and but tonight because this
is such a i think what i'm saying is
usually we dedicate about 20 minutes to
the really technical per episode this is
such a big thing to do we've done our
best using magic and Vanda angles you
know editing practices and the ability
to to to piece things together in time
we've been able to skip over a lot of
the time consuming things this could
never happen on live TV because this is
a 20-25 our process so we've been able
to put this together for you in such a
way so it is much more than what we
could fit into a 20 minute segment so it
gets a little bit Kiki so thank you for
hanging in with me tonight and we must
have some questions things like that
don't miss next week when we finish this
off okay and get your questions in live
at category five dot TV and it's always
a pleasure to have my beautiful wife
with me by my side it's been a long time
since you've been on hasn't it mm-hmm
a few years that's I think it was
probably that maybe the second season I
don't even remember now like as gary was
around no well have been that what feels
like you came on we talked about linux i
think it was about a hundred and ninety
year so just before the 200th episode
maybe i'm off no my than 109 who knows
feels like it was a few years ago in one
eye and then you did some you did the
news for us for a little while but that
was a long time ago that's hard to
believe the time flies so much good she
is very active actively involved in the
show folks so if you ever noticed that
you don't hear screaming kids during the
broadcast that's probably Rebecca who is
assisting with that appreciate that very
much what you got for me um I've got
three comments here all right side the
first one is from Danny Harbor hey Danny
and he says Robbie I need to hire you to
fix this problem point linux citrix ica
client error ssl error 61 you have not
chosen to trust the issuer of the
servers security certificate i'm pretty
sure i have you have to copy the dot CRT
file into the folder slash USR slash li
be /i see a client etc etc etc i cannot
find a folder and i need this fixed for
work oh okay well if there's not a whole
lot of detail about what it is that
you're trying to do there Danny it
sounds to me like you're perhaps
administering a patchy server like a web
server and you're trying to get a secure
certificate so that you can get HTTPS
without the error message that it's an
untrusted source for the site if that's
the case it can be done it's something
that you could do but it sounds like
you're following maybe a tutorial
because you're looking for this user
live ice I see a client Keystone certs
and it's not necessarily there in your
system because if you're following some
tutorial and then you're using a
different version of something or maybe
you've never installed a cert before so
there's no you know the folders don't
exist
whatever it's different for every system
really because really it is just a file
and and the the cert file the CRT and
the the various files that go along with
that the key and all that just needs to
be in a folder on your servers hard
drive that is rude accessible but not
accessible to the world not accessible
to your users because you don't want
people to be able to access that file in
such a way that they can read the
contents because it contains very very
private information it's a it's probably
a decrypted key on your server it should
be decrypted because you don't want it
to be prompting for a password every
time Apache restarts so you don't want
people to access it so your tutorial may
or may not be helping you it's really
just a matter of understanding your way
around installing a certificate on an
Apache server or it could be under
whatever it is that you're doing if you
truly need to hire somebody then of
course pop me an email in all
seriousness and and let me know that
that that's something that you want to
do I have been known i've done it before
where have been hired to help install a
cert as somebody was having a very you
know just a challenge with getting a
cert installed on their server and their
client was relying on it so i just
remoted in and sent the bill after the
fact and i and i don't do that
personally i do that through my work so
i can certainly help with that if that's
something that you're serious about so
just pop me another email to let me know
but it's a it's a tough it can be tough
to learn once you learn it it's really
really easy but it's it's complicated
when you're first trying to get into
getting into that kind of server
administration so thanks for the
question though appreciate it hope to
hear from you and I will receive your
money I'm just kidding okay the next one
is from Jay kid hey Jay and he says
hello could you tell me what headsets
you use for the show are they wireless
how do you hook them up to your audio
mixer alright these are apex 575 and
they're pretty decent there they sound
really good
as you can hear and the sound is
fantastic and with I guess the co-host
and you tend to find there a little bit
tough to get them on your ear properly
aren't they a little bit finicky that's
just the way that they are now I've got
mine pretty good but if anyone because
co-host changed you know everybody's got
a different shape ear whatever and it
can be kind of difficult so so it's kind
of like a you want to have one for
everybody but they do sound really
really good these are hard-wired I don't
know if you can see I've actually got a
wire that goes down the back of my shirt
and if I may I'll just show you what it
goes into I've got a hip pack here a
belt pack this converts audio technica
to XLR the apex 575 comes with a bunch
of cables I chose audio technica because
it was easy to get an adapter for the
audio technica style input convert over
to XLR we go into a behringer xenyx
looks like a 1000 to be bored and it's
got the phantom power built in we don't
use a separate power module then it goes
into a behringer ultra miser pro that's
the compressor to keep it so the levels
are good if I talk loud it's the same as
if I talk quietly here in the studio I
was very loud you jumped yeah and then
we've got a BBE sonic maximizer at the
end of the chain that just crystallizes
the sound it's we used to call it you
know in the studio we call it Christmas
it was adding Christmas to the to the
mix because it's just that little
shimmer it's a sparkle like when you
look out over christmas it's just
sparkly and shimmery that's what the BBE
sonic maximizer does can I show you what
it because it's one of those things it's
really hard to explain what a BBE sonic
maximizer does it literally has two
knobs and a button that's it there's
nothing there's no screen there's
nothing to it I'm going to turn it off
just so that you can hear what we sound
like without the sonic maximizer and now
it's off so you hear how the levels if
you're especially if you're listening
with headphones it sounds a little bit
flat back if you give me a sound check
this is what it sounds like with it
turned off okay so now I'm going to turn
back on the BBE sonic maximizer process
and that's just punching it in so here
we go we're back in again that's the BBE
sonic maximizer back on again if you're
wearing headphones
gonna hear a big big difference and you
can be another sound check and this is
what it sounds like with it turned back
on there you go so that's basically our
audio chain it starts with the
microphones they are excellent headsets
they sound really really good if you can
get them adjusted properly mine I've got
it really really good but I'm on every
single week the co-hosts do have a
little bit more trouble with it because
everybody adjust align once it's done
yeah good good so but that's really my
only complaint about the mics like if I
could complain about them but the sound
is exception I like I like them they're
good to us we did hardwired because we
used to use wireless I don't know if you
recall back of it wireless you know in a
studio like this we don't need wireless
so why do wireless you don't need it and
we would have interference from
neighbours portable phones and stuff and
so you know you're in the middle of a
show and all of a sudden you you hear
somebody dialing a telephone and we
never know it until we watch the show
back so yeah that's something we just
wanted to avoid we've got time for a
really really quick when I know we're a
little bit over time but we did a major
feature tonight so I'm okay with that if
you're okay with that so okay so one
more then all right um this is by IBM
Jim hey IBM Jim Robbie enjoy very much
seeing you and your co-hosts each week
topics including web development
security backup strategies graphics and
linux distributions are always
informative and thought-provoking
although I am a Windows user I have been
thinking about converting an old 2000
era pc dell XPS t700 are now running
Windows 2000 to Linux adding a new video
card with hdmi output and perhaps adding
a TV tuner to create a remote system
with short-range wireless control used
as an hdv TV input source for
unrestricted web streaming such as
comedians in cars getting coffee calm
and off the off the air recordings
perhaps video boards with hdmi output
might present PCI compatibility issues
and I'm sure there would be other
challenges alternately just getting a
new low end desktop configured for this
purpose might make more so
if you haven't covered this topic
recently I would love to see a show or
two on this topic thank you and all
those who give their time to the show
Jim Jim I think there are so many
dedicated boxes that are built for this
purpose that you're just throwing away
money on this old thing I tried it
remember we we got a case that was a
beautiful rack mountable had the screen
and everything and a remote control to
build a computer htpc home theater PC
remember that and it's satin storage for
so long because I put a motherboard in
it from an old computer i put graphic
cards in it and it just could not keep
up with HD video these old computers
can't do it Jim you need to have a more
powerful processor in order to do it so
then it becomes ok well why don't you
just go and get yourself like one of
these rikomagic mk802 s that sits above
the TV it's got a built-in webcam and
it's got hdmi out and it's all built in
or better yet you know if you want to
step it up you can get the mk802 IV
which we're going to be reviewing on the
show in a few weeks these kinds of
things are all pre-built Becca and I we
use an iOS device from piva i'll put
links in the show notes refs 1307 we
have as I us as well which are all just
fancy names for their devices that are
pre-built for watching HDTV and they're
just basically mini-computers my IOUs I
love it it's an older generation it's
from you before the Zions but I really
love it it's got a built-in hard drive
and we can just put the shows right on
it and watch it without commercials and
that combined with Netflix from cat5 TV
/ Netflix and we're golden you know so
we don't even need a PVR really because
Netflix kind of provides all our shows
to us but I think you're just throwing
money away it's something like that Jim
to be honest with you because it's just
too old it's not going to it's not going
to power HDTV for you find one of these
boxes that is reasonably priced and I
say that because they're they started
about 60 bucks you can't buy a video
card for that and if you can it's not
going to be
it's not gonna be good enough anyways
yeah you know so realistically they
start so cheap you might as well just
get into one of these units and then you
got the new google system that you know
the plug it into your hdmi it's much
like the like the 802 IV except with a
little less features but then you use
your tablet to control the video that's
up on the screen for example all that
stuff is coming as well so links
everything will be in the show notes for
episode number 307 thanks for joining us
tonight next week Beck and I will be
back we're going to continue our series
on the the virtualization of the laptop
we're going to show you how to get that
to boot up and that will be the end of
that and we'll be back on track with
everything else so Becca thanks for
being here tonight thanks for hanging
out with me baby here keeping the smiles
on even though I'm geekify on you
alright folks have a great week and
looking forward to seeing you next week
thanks for being here see ya
we hope you enjoyed the show category 5
TV broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven p.m.
eastern if you're watching this on
demand or through cable TV check out the
local show times in your area at
category 5 TV and find out when you can
watch live and interact in the community
chat room category 5 is a production of
prodigy digital solutions and is
licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada we'll see you
next time thanks for tuning in
