hi everyone and welcome to new every day
my name is Karen my name is Jen and on
today's show we're going to say wow I
didn't see that coming back right after
this
[Music]
and
hi everyone and thank you for tuning in
again to new every day we are opening up
the book of Acts again and we're looking
at chapter 9 the story of Saul yes and
what's interesting about this story is
literally there are so many instances
where it's like wow I didn't see that
coming like we have to actually
transport ourselves back into just after
Christ's crucifixion the Holy Spirit has
come at Pentecost Peter and John have
been proclaiming the gospel and there's
so many instances in this in the chapter
7 chapter 8 chapter 9 where it's just
like wow
I didn't see that coming and so for
believers during this time it literally
was a little bit of a roller coaster
right there were some amazing highs and
then there were some deep valleys and
then just go wow because when we looked
at the story of Stephen because of what
had transpired like it totally scattered
everyone when I actually led to the
gospel being taken in so many places
that was a low life and so we pick it up
here in chapter 9 and we were realizing
like in so many times there's just like
wow I didn't see that coming and so uh I
want to be reading from the NIV and so
church and verse 1 meanwhile Saul was
still breathing out murderous threats
against the Lord's disciples he went to
the high priest and asked him for
letters to the synagogues in Damascus so
that if he found any there who belonged
to the way whether men or women he might
take them as prisoners to Jerusalem as
he neared Damascus on his journey
suddenly a light from heaven flashed
around him he fell to the ground and
heard a voice say to him Saul Saul why
do you persecute me who are you lord
Saul asked I am Jesus whom you are
persecuting he replied now get up and go
into the city and you
told what you must do the men traveling
with saul stood there speechless
they heard the sound but did not see
anyone Saul got up from the ground but
when he opened his eyes he could see
nothing so they led him by hand into
Damascus for three days he was blind and
did not eat or drink anything in
Damascus there was a there was a
disciple named Ananias the Lord called
to him in a vision Ananias yes Lord he
answered the Lord told him go to the
house of Judas on straight street and
ask for a man from Tarsus named Saul for
he is praying in a vision he has seen a
man named Ananias come and place his
hands on him to restore his sight Lord
and a knife answered I have heard many
reports about this man and all the harm
he has done to your saints in Jerusalem
and he has come here with authority from
the chief priests to arrest all who call
on your name but the Lord said to
Ananias go this man is my chosen
instrument to carry my name before the
Gentiles and their kings and before the
people of Israel I will show him I will
show him how much he must suffer for my
name then Ananias went to the house and
entered it placing his hands on saul he
said brother Saul the Lord Jesus who
appeared to you on the road as you were
coming here has sent me so that you may
see again and be filled with the Holy
Spirit immediately something like scales
fell from Saul's eyes
and he could see again he got up and was
baptized and after taking some food he
were gained strength hmm so much in
there even as we were reading it I find
it interesting that Paul is on the way
to persecute believers which he was
zealous about like he really believed
that he was doing the right thing and
you know what that kind of understanding
that Paul was blind before he was
blinded yes he didn't have an
understanding of what he was going to do
right and he talks about that later in
his letter to the other churches you
know I
is the worst of sinners but he didn't
even realize that God hadn't opened his
eyes and that kind of it can kind of as
Christians give us an understanding or
make a sympathetic to our own
persecutors hmm and you know other
cultures who historically have
persecuted Christians but God has used
that for amazing things but it kind of
it's easier not easier that's the wrong
word it is better to see them as blind
than as malicious right because it's you
know Jesus said Father forgive them
because they don't know what they are
doing listen Stephen said the same thing
forgiveness yes they don't know what
they're doing yeah and what's what's so
interesting is that a Saul or Paul did
not know like when you say he was blind
he didn't know he was blind like you
know non believers I mean not believers
can look at non-believers and go they
just they just don't know they just
don't know what they're missing but they
genuinely don't even realize that
they're missing out on anything yeah
because if they knew they were missing
out on something then they would come to
you and say tell me what is it that you
have because I'm missing it in my life
yes that does not happen very often no
at all and so the sad thing about
blindness is that that he didn't realize
he was blind and I think that's one of
the reasons why Jesus asks in in one of
the healings in the Gospels and he says
the blind man says you know heal me and
he says but do you want to see like do
you want me to kill you and you started
oh well like of course I do yeah but
like the sometimes I think let me I'll
tell you a wee bit of a story okay I'm
ready a wee bit of a story so uh one of
our partners is audible and that's a
online audible books and I downloaded
paid for and downloaded Steven Curtis
Chapman
or if we come between heaven and the
real world and in it he talks Oh
Dietrich Bonhoeffer
the cost of discipleship yes and I have
been purposefully avoiding that book
since I heard about it about 15 years
ago why it's a heavy read it's a heavy
read but it's challenging and I know
it's going to challenge my spirit so
part of me says I would rather be blind
it then know the truth because if I know
the truth I'm going to have to act on
the truth and so there's accountability
there's accountability and so I think
some people like I think that's what
makes Paul so interesting because when
he was healed he realized the truth and
he acted on and so in that in that very
first part you know what is so Wow about
it is that number one he thought he was
totally in the right yes he was totally
in the right and he was coming like he
realised that this was in a new group a
believers rising up who could
potentially be a threat against the
Jewish religion but he was zealous for
the Lord yeah so he wasn't necessarily
zealous for like his own game his only
aim yeah or that they would remain a
nation for nations sake I think he was
honestly zealous for the Lord and this
is where this group was rising up and he
was like wait a second they're claiming
that someone else is God and that's
idolatry that's breaking one of the
commandments and that's wrong and we are
to persecute them and like that so he in
his mind because he had been trained as
a devout Pharisee like he came he had
all the best teachers it's like he would
have gone to all the best schools yeah
like he was an Ivy League Pharisee
yes and so here he is he is actually
doing the right thing in his own mind
the right thing in his own mind so as
you go to commercial break I want you to
think about have you ever done something
that you were convinced
that's right and then you found out it
was wrong hmm if I'll think about that
goes right back to this
Jeff Weston Jemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what are you
alright
you're terrible actor what the swear
acting comes into play I don't know
where our thing you're supposed to act
okay under a really cool website are you
building a really cool website you need
hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
it's sure how much hard drive space you
have how many email accounts how many
domains can point to it well we've got
an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are going to get
unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name for your own com dice to put
that amazing website that you've been
working on on there if you run if you
want to build a wordpress site fine
sign up cat5 dot TV slash DreamHost
still potato the papers on it just don't
do it but hey it's a great deal folks
best deal you're going to find five
dollars and change per month go to cap
five dot TV slash DreamHost
hi everyone welcome back thanks for
staying tuned in to new every day we
just want to say thank you to our
partners and if you go to our web site
new every day TV go to our partners page
and you can scroll through a long list
of partners who have helped make this
show possible and we're so grateful
like we say every time gen we just
really benefit I'm doing this and I
learned so much even just having
conversation with you which is why the
show started
Robbie Ferguson of category-five said
why don't you just turn a camera on to
your conversations that you're having
anyways and I have just so benefited
over these years so well can we just go
wow that was really
yeah and there's sometimes removi
sitting around having a conversation
we're like should I turn the camera
Horace turn the camera on
so anyways while the camera is on you
pose a question to us before we went to
a commercial break
yes asking has there anybody ever been a
time where you were so convinced
something was right and then you found
out no it wasn't and I know for me
personally it usually comes in the form
of a person so I've convinced myself in
my head that that person is totally
wrong or misguided or snotty or yeah
prideful whatever okay and then I get to
know them and I'm like I was so wrong
and and then there was a time and I
actually received a gift and I thought I
knew what it was for sure for sure for
sure yeah
and so I didn't even open the gift
because I was convinced I knew what it
was which sounds so weird because I get
this for opening I know so they gave it
to you you're just like thanks yeah put
in your pocket why can't you remember
how that happened I might have just
shown up on my in my room right like oh
I know who it's from and anyways there
are some German Swiss Swiss friends and
so obviously from Switzerland
chocolate chocolate toffee and huorchi
and so a couple days later is like oh I
would really like some chocolate so I
opened it up and it was a little swiss
cow like a little wooden cow that's one
of their like national like symbol and I
was like no chocolate I was like but I
love cows I'm like I told he might have
missed the boat weeks might not and
opened the gift you prejudged yeah they
judged so have you ever had a time where
you got totally this is this is it and
then you're like whoa like so oh yeah
like and and it's interesting that you
kind of said it has to do with you
judging people and in this case I was at
work and I had to use a piece of
equipment that I was semi familiar with
but there was another nurse there who
was very familiar with it and she was
trying to help me
but I was convinced that the way I knew
how to do it was best for the patient it
was going to was going to work the best
so I did it my way in it totally didn't
work like it was a special kind of
dressing machine and it wasn't work it
blocked it it stopped working and I had
to say I'm sorry like I was prideful and
I thought I knew the best way I was but
I was convinced in my mind but it's
interesting that Paul was or Saul was so
convinced in his mind this was the way
that he needed to stop this
insurrectionist yet if you will yes and
I was just thinking I I heard a talk it
was actually by Todd white and he was
talking about how when we receive
persecution from other people or bad
comments or we see things happening in
the world towards Christians that are
negative or you know people are angry
towards us that is the sound of
blindness then Anna - looks like and
read reference to the story in Luke 18
verse 35 and it was it's Jesus who's
approached by a blind beggar I'm going
to read this story to you and then sum
it up as Jesus approached Jericho a
blind beggar was sitting beside the road
when he heard the noise of a crowd going
past he asked what was happening they
told him that Jesus the Nazarene was
going by so he began shouting Jesus son
of David have mercy on me be quiet the
people in front yelled at him but he
only shouted louder son of David have
mercy on me when Jesus heard him he
stopped and ordered that that man be
brought to him as a man came near Jesus
asked him what you want me to do for you
Lord he said I want to see and jesus
said alright receive your sight your
faith has healed you instantly the man
could see and he followed Jesus praising
God and all who thought praise God - and
he said when you hear people say you're
an idiot
you blow the lab or chirping you or or
being a grass
says that's the sound of them saying
Jesus son of David have mercy on me they
cannot see it and that should compel us
towards love and mercy towards the mat
Jesus had yeah and I was just so moved
by that and enough sips yeah when you
think of that whole idea of spiritual
blindness and just that people don't see
it and yet that's the call for us to be
merciful towards yeah so be the pray for
them and just say Lord would you open
their eyes this is enlighten the eyes
with my heart right yes but a blind
person doesn't know where they're going
so they can crash about and run into
things yeah yeah and what's interesting
is Saul thought he knew for sure how to
go about getting rid of these because he
even and this is what I love about Saul
he is a rule follower he wanted to do
everything just right that's my part of
me is just like yeah I guess that that's
that guy like yeah well I know because
it says that uh he went to the high
priest and asked for letters to the
synagogues in Damascus so that if he
found anyone who belong there to the way
whether men don't even got permission
he even got permission from the high
priests to say yes we recognize what he
is doing what he is doing is right so we
give him your support yeah so even the
high priests were blind and they people
in authority because very important
people in authority can be blind and
they make decisions that are not right
and so as you said that's our call to
say dear Lord Jesus be with that person
yeah he was there with our politicians
who are making choices for us that we
have to live with but they're blinded
because you're making rules they're
passing laws not based on a love for God
but on a love for self and and here you
know Saul is trying his best to live for
God and yet he's missing Jesus yes and
and and it's like oh yeah buddy and I
kind of see that in like my Muslim
friends
who are so devout and like they are
following all the rules that they 100%
believe are true mm-hmm and and I and
that it causes me to love them right
like they're they are doing and trying
their best but they they don't know
right right and so yeah it just kind of
gave me insight into that and so as we
close up here and you're like what
you're not even into the story yet and
we know don't worry for coming back to I
want you to think about where you might
be spiritually blind in your own life or
if you know of someone who might be
spiritually blind because like I said I
don't want to read the Dietrich
Bonhoeffer book because I know it's
going to like touch some of those spots
in my heart and I would prefer just not
to know maybe it's not a phone you can
just listen to it it probably is but I
actually on purpose but the book really
oh yes so I can underline it and make
notes so I can experience it for real
for real that's dedicated channel no
data came in a normally I just buy it on
audible in a way I go maybe we could do
a book review hmm so we want to
encourage you to ask the spirit this
week spirit of the Living God where
might I be spiritually blind
I maybe you don't know who Jesus is and
you need him to take off the blinders so
that you can have a relationship with
him maybe you are a follower of Christ
and there's just some areas in your in
your life where you just shut the door
on purpose maybe you thought well if I
don't know it won't matter
and so that's willful blindness which is
not a good thing either so we're going
to pray and we're just we're going to
ask the Lord so Heavenly Father send
your Holy Spirit reveal our spiritual
blindness open the eyes of our heart
help us to see you and to surrender all
things to you so we can live in the way
that you would have us to live and play
this in the mighty name of Jesus through
the power of the Holy Spirit amen amen
Lord I'm just thinking of my own family
members
and some friends who are so angry and
hostile towards others Lord and I I just
thank you God that that's not because
that's who they are it's because they
are blind and they were made to know and
love you and so I pray God for that you
would open their eyes to the truth of
Christ and your love for them and I pray
that also for the viewers and the people
listening and even now God that you
would further on to pray for the people
that they know who are blind and I thank
you God for the grace that you've shown
us that we can understand the mercy of
Jesus and that we can know you and
experience you and have eternal life and
so we think you is crazy
thank you so much and we are going to
continue that story next week same time
same place we hope that you'll come in
have a great week
see you later and
you
