phishing scams are a really big deal and
what are they I mean let's talk a little
bit about what a phishing scam is
because you've heard the term and you
think oh I'll never fall for
yeah that's an email that you click on
the link and give them your private
information it's not that simple they're
very very tricky yeah they're super
believable they really are and they're
getting more believable every day to the
technology right and means I want to
show you one tonight
that one offense brought to our
attention okay that is incredible with
how convincing it is and it's in fact
been convincing a lot of tech minded
people to click the link and enter their
private information do you know from
experience we'll talk about that but
first category five tech TV has already
talked a lot about fishing on our show
if you go to our website category five
dot TV do a quick search up at the top
for fishing and fishing is spelt with a
pH like the kids say cuz it's hip give
it a go pH I SH ing fishing and one
episode in particular that we that we
looked at phishing scams with was
episode 291 where I and Krista actually
pretended we were hackers and we lit the
room in green light and we and we showed
you our viewers how simple how easy it
can be for one of these malicious users
to create very convincing phishing scam
and so we demonstrated that with the
intention of showing you how easy it is
for someone to do that so that you
wouldn't fall for it right so that you
would see that hey this could look
really really real well unfortunately
the episode got taken the wrong way by
some of our sponsors and you know so we
lost advertisers really yeah we had
angry letters from viewers who said I
can't believe you're teaching people how
to hack I think there's always going to
be people like that though exact careful
because anybody could do it that was our
goal right didn't quite go down that way
but check out the it's episode to 91
25 lat Oliver it's on our website yeah
you can still watch it there but we
cannot monetize it because all
advertising was pulled yeah how
interesting is that okay so that's to
say go onto our website learn more about
phishing and you'll see kind of the
evolution of phishing attacks Adam
Kujawa from Malwarebytes is a wonderful
guy to talk to
and he's been on the show a number of
times to talk about phishing scams and
malware so you want to look up some of
his episodes on our show as well so
getting into tonight's feature we want
to talk about a particular phishing scam
that was discovered or at least exposed
to the general public by by wordfence
and you've heard of wordfence on the
show in the past wordfence is a security
suite firewall anti everything that is
bad for WordPress and this time they
kind of stepped outside of the mold of
being a wordpress security plug-in and
said we really need to let people know
about this particular issue because this
is big even though it doesn't involve
WordPress okay so these are some really
talented really experienced security
gurus that are putting this thing
together and in the post which you can
actually go to cat5 dot TV slash WF -
Phish and the W F stands for word fence
and fish obviously stands for fishing so
what's interesting about the this
particular form of attack or phishing
scam is that it is more convincing than
I have even ever seen and what they've
discovered or what they've exposed is a
phishing attack that really appears to
be entirely legitimate the links look
real yeah nothing's dodgy about anything
on the actual page nothing at all so Wow
so it actually says like Google or
something in the actual bar that night
I'm gonna bring up my gmail account
because I receive this particular scam
from Bell Canada so you actually got it
so I received one from Bell Canada now
it's not Bell Canada
no that's no candidate but I want to
show you how absolutely real
this looks so I'm going to bring up this
this bill and it looks like Google has
still not stripped anything from the
email let's jump over to my laptop
screen here and you can see that here's
oh there's a refund ready for me of one
hundred and twelve dollars and 53 cents
and it looks Wow 100% legitimate okay
thanks money yeah and so most people are
gonna click on the view bill bill like
wait scroll up again that link yeah are
yeah yeah that's my that's my work email
yeah yeah so but the thing is is that
yeah everything looks legit
it completely appears to be from Bell
and in fact when you mouse over any of
the links other than the view bill it
says my my Bell Bell dot CA and it will
actually take you to the Bell website
well now this has become defunct since
it was sent to me and so now when I
hover over the the view bill link I
guess Google has now added some form of
protection to protect its users but the
fact is is that this came into something
that wasn't a gmail account I forward a
bit and on that application it did no
such thing and this was completely
masked so here's what's happening and
this one looked like it was from Bell
which is if you're not familiar with
them they're a telecommunications
company here in Canada and they
basically you know have the largest
market share I'm sure still of phone
lines oh I wouldn't be surprised yeah
Internet service they used to provide
our internet here at the studio they
completely did us over and so to me when
I says and then I switched to Rogers and
that email at first caught my attention
because o bells making good on the fact
that they messed us over right right so
I almost believed it oh my gosh but then
I realized that not more than that
yeah let me tell let's go over the back
billing here Bal it's true but so it I
almost fell for it because they're
playing into a couple of things here one
most people in Canada use bail in some
for yeah so okay we know that you're
probably a customer and even if only
fifty percent of you are
we've got fifty percent of that okay so
already it seems authentic then they are
offering a refund or amount of money to
go back to me yeah so immediately the
the selfishness of being a human is that
oh I want that yeah someone's giving me
something I want that now so some some
may just click on it without even
thinking about that but then there's
those of us who realize that bail
probably owes me money anyways yeah and
that's that's the thing so they're
playing into all these things but the
difference with this particular scam is
the very link that takes you to the
phishing scam right looks entirely
authentic in your browser so free for
years we've been saying look at the
address bar of your browser check out
the address bar make sure that it is
PayPal calm make sure that it is
gmail.com or my Bell Bell CA make sure
that that's the address that shows in
your address bar mm-hmm well fact is
here's the thing it does here's the
address bar from a Gmail phishing scam
using this particular technique and as
you see it says HTTP colon slash slash
accounts.google.com slash service login
question mark service mail and goes on
and on and so on so well to the
untrained eye like my eye that doesn't
look wrong it's not because I'm I'm
conditioned to hate got a look at the
address bar yeah this is Google it says
HTTPS so it's secure accounts.google.com
now a couple quick things that I notice
about that particular screenshot is that
first of all it says HTTPS
this is a screenshot within my browser I
know it kind of makes it look like I've
got to address bars huh there you can
see it so it looks like it's HTTP but
you notice that there's no lock symbol
here and that you know it's not showing
in green because most of the browser's
are going to show you color coded let's
actually go to Google and and see what
it looks like if I go back to my gmail
account what does it actually look like
it says it simply says secure okay so it
is verified then you know that it's yeah
so the real account let's bring back up
that Bell thing and if you look back at
that screen look at the actual Google it
says secure and it has a secure icon to
show that it's locked that it's secure
it's encrypted okay so this particular
one doesn't have that so that's a little
bit of a red flag so what are they doing
how's it working now if it was just the
address bar you'd say okay well that's
not a big deal but the fact is because
you might you might detect that this is
fake anyways right the fact is is that
this is what the page looks like here's
a screenshot okay so it's asking you to
login so it looks looks fine that's
Gmail yeah it looks like Gmail so it
says Gmail in the address bar google.com
it says one account all of Google it
looks exactly the same how easy is it to
spoof Google because they're
purposefully minimalist yeah
so it looks completely legitimate but
what's actually happening here is really
really interesting and and actually
quite frightening from an end-user
standpoint so those two things are why
we might fall for this one mm-hmm it has
it in the address bar we may not have
seen that it's not secure because it
looks secure it says HTTPS and it in the
site itself the the login form is what
we're all familiar with it looks
completely completely legitimate so
you've got that that address up in your
address bar there are two things to
notice here and I'm just bringing up
screenshots from the blog posted at
wordfence
go to wordfence comm slash blog for
their blog learn more about them and
we're gonna talk a little bit about some
of the various resources that that we
recommend but also if you want to get
this actual article cat5 dot TV slash w
F - fish so the first thing that I
noticed in reality here with this with
this link is okay the HTTP colon slash
slash starts after this comma and the
comma just before that says data colon
text slash HTML not used to seeing that
in my browser no not at all
what is that now if you've been doing
any kind of web coding you realize that
data colon that's that's specifying a
protocol so I'm I'm not HTTP colon I am
data colon and then I'm able to inject
any amount of HTML because it's data
colon text slash HTML into anything that
follows that particular protocol it's
almost like making a little notepad and
just saying I want it to look like this
and just typing whatever you want in
that bar sure is so so how far after
going into something like this is it too
late generally okay so immediately right
like if you log in as soon as you click
the link it tells them that you click
the link and it authentic and it gives
them your email address which they
already have but they now know that this
person almost fell for it let's monitor
things yeah that's a little bit of a
checkbox on your account so that's the
first but as far as your actual identity
your security goes it's not until you
actually log in that you've lost
everything yeah everything so we know to
see that data colon text slash HTML at
the beginning of the URL means that they
are injecting something there is going
to be some code but it doesn't look like
code it looks like the website that I'm
going to which is Gmail so if I jump
back to our screenshots and they've been
so good to generate some great
screenshots here I want to show you what
this actually looks like so we've got
the URL in the address bar looks
perfectly legit but then there's a whole
bunch of white space after that URL
which you don't see on your screen
because it gets cut off by the side of
your screen and if you continue on and
you continue scrolling all of a sudden
you see
some JavaScript that JavaScript and the
HTML that follows and it's all up for
skated it's all encrypted and encoded so
you can't actually read it it generates
the HTML output of the Gmail login or
the valve my Bell login or any of these
other services it's not specifically a
gmail thing even though this particular
blog item focuses on the Gmail exploit
the fact is is it could be any any
company oh yeah
any company Twitter's gonna be next
anyone else that gets a lot of logins is
gonna be next now of course they're
gonna target things like your email
service because what happens if they can
get access to my Gmail oh yeah well at
the same time though Gmail is Google who
has who has a YouTube channel who has
Adsense so for example if you're a
blogger even if you don't have a blog
like with Google or anything else if you
still use Adsense somewhere they can get
your credit card information your bank
information not just your YouTube
channel everything else right so it's
everything beyond that so and of course
like if they do a scam with for example
Outlook so like maybe they somehow get
with Microsoft there mm-hmm what
services do you have connected to your
Outlook account right your Microsoft
account so let your Xbox and nothing
else and think about things if they were
to exploit our gmail account I might
have online banking associated with that
there I may have various different
accounts I may have a PayPal account
that I can log into by using the
credentials that are found in my email
or I can reset my password using my
email so one of the first things that's
gonna happen now if I log into this
particular fake form is that it's going
to save the information to the malicious
users database they've hit the fissure
or the hacker if you will I wouldn't
call them hackers per se they're people
generating revenue by tricking people
into giving them their information so
now if I log in they immediately have my
username and password for Gmail or
whatever other service so what happens
is we don't know if it's an automated
system possibly or if it's an actual it
could be a data center with a bunch of
employees getting in there and almost
immediately they're logging into your
account and they're generating new
emails from your email address to your
contacts in order to continue to spread
this malware and really very legitimate
I get an email from Sasha if you're
gonna open it I probably will
well that's the thing they have access
to all your past emails too so they
could always go and get an attachment or
something from beforehand and just say
hey double check this show document for
it's written on the flying it's just one
big long run think about this think
about this Henry you did some drone
shoots for us you did some video and you
sent it to me mmm too big for email
you're gonna upload it to Google Drive
and then you're gonna send me the link
when I click on that link I have to log
into my Google account so if you were to
apparently send me an email that looks
like it's from you now so it doesn't
look like it's from Google that looks
like it's from Henry and it says click
here for the video that I got for you
and I click it and it gives me that
login to Gmail I might fall for it yeah
so now it's getting way too
sophisticated the URL in my address bar
looks like Gmail the login form looks
like Gmail the email came from Henry and
it all completely lost the genom there's
there's another question I have to ask
though as at this stage because I know
on certain services like Dropbox for
example yeah I have dual authentication
settings right yeah so I'm not sure if
we're saving this for later in the show
or not but whenever I log into a new
computer on Dropbox or whatever I have
to put in my full password well yeah and
then I have to put in a number that I
get from Dropbox like they text me a
number sure right to flow authentication
and that brings us to the segment of the
show where we talk about how can you
protect yourself right and that's
exactly one of the ways Henry that you
can protect yourself because as you try
to authenticate to your account it
requires that you now
provide the code from your phone or
whatever it is okay so if I accidentally
fell for this scam and gave these people
my username and password now they do
have it but as soon as they try to log
in it pings me on my phone and says
you're trying to log into Gmail here's
the code something's going on I can go
in and change my password so backing up
a little bit keep in mind if you do fall
for this one of the first things that
they're going to do is change your
password to lock you out of your account
so protect yourself by one knowing the
things that we've shown you here tonight
about how the address bar tricks you
into thinking that you're on the
legitimate website but also two-factor
authentication where available is going
to save you so much grief an event that
you do accidentally fall for single
factor authentication phishing scams and
you do not want to fall for something
that gives access to your information
because I can talk about like a recent
situation that I had today where I went
that is very recent I went and bought
Dave's wedding band for our wedding
yes Congrats so at the story was that
they they said hey if you sign up for
our credit card then then you don't have
to pay it for a couple of months nice
and you can also buy a boat and you
don't ever have to pay for it right
exactly yeah okay exactly yeah but
because I had asked for something
different than what they were
automatically going to give me I had to
speak to their security well the
security was trying to ask me questions
they probably what's this girl trying to
pull exactly this odd number of so they
asked me questions for me to identify
myself route 10 to Kate who I was the
person so they had information about me
and I had to prove to them that I was in
fact me the things they were asking me
were insane I didn't know that much
about myself they were they were not
asking yes or no questions they're
asking things based on specific things
like you've had more than one phone
number in your past
can you please name the two of the other
phone numbers that you've had no way
they asked me which credit cards I've
canceled in the past five years they've
they asked me and they're not fishing
for this information they know the
answer you know the answer how much I
pay tell us every month well I don't pay
tell us I pay Rogers right so they're
trying to like get me they you passed
the test they said well you moved you
moved your address but you didn't change
your address on everything immediately
well what is the thing that you didn't
change your address on it was my visa
Wow right but they knew everything my
god so if they were malicious if they
were not great people instead of super
awesome people that sold me a wedding
band
they'd have my entire history and could
prove to anybody else who was
unsuspecting that they are me because I
didn't even have that information about
me can I ask leading up to that point
because that's an astronomical amount of
private data see and they could just
pull it up on their computer so they I
don't know what they accessed for it
they asked for my driver's license
that's what I wanted to know what did
they need in order to get all that back
story they had was my driver's license
so they plugged my driver's license
number into their computer Wow they
pulled up that it was I wonder how many
other types of cards would give that
down videotaped it because the things
that they were asking me literally like
I never would have imagined that that is
in one set spot of information we don't
ever think we're gonna be the victim of
identity theft but if it's that easy to
get the data on Sashadhar made us yeah
right then that's that's pretty scary
and so here we're looking at phishing
scams and this is one of the ways that
these users try to trick you into giving
information and maybe they can get
enough information to then get all that
backstory and get all that info that
these guys were able to pull up I would
like to say for the record this credit
card thing I am using it only to get the
money for the ring between now and the
two months
I'm paying it all off she's not actually
going into doubt the card it was just
like Oh sixty extra days I'm not paying
this that's perfect that's perfect why
not fantastic fantastic yeah okay so
going back to protecting yourself
one final thought we talked about the
protocol mm-hmm when you go to a web
site you've got HTTP colon slash slash
whatever comm or HTTP colon slash slash
whatever com the S stands for secure and
that means that it is encrypting the
information but the way that you need to
confirm that is by actually looking that
there's a lock mm-hmm that is not broken
that it is secure it's not read it's not
giving you any kind of warnings or
anything like that but the protocol has
to be the very first thing on the
address bar so in this particular case
because with this one you notice that
the HTTPS which is what we would expect
to be the protocol because the HTTP
colon slash slash happens after Dadda
colon text slash HTML comma we know that
the protocol is not actually HTTPS and
exactly and like you said earlier is
that you don't see a green checkmark or
this confirmation of that and it's not
just Chrome too like it's in Firefox as
well absolutely yeah and we're gonna
start to you know it's going to start to
get a little more confusing as chrome
evolves their navigation systems so that
it color eise's things because if with
this particular one it's it's not
sending you to a web site it's using
data in the address bar and if I can
just really stress what that means is
they it's like opening a local file I'm
basically injecting this into your
browser so unless they make some changes
to Google Chrome or Firefox or opera or
whatever you're using it's still going
to show without a red X through it hmm
because it's not malicious as far as the
browser is concerned it's a local data
yeah and I'll just add a little bit of a
Timbit as well a Timbit is that we're
using the entire idea check marks and
X's and I actually prefer that because
on multiple online forms everything else
there
a large percentage of population that is
colorblind so it's nice to have the
actual symbol yeah then the actual just
color because I do know that there's a
large percentage of people especially
online that are colorblind that's good
so this is random but I like how
companies use an actual symbol right
stuff just to color right so if you see
that checkmark instead of just an X or
my concern with this particular one is
yes it'll become accustomed to if it's a
red X mm-hmm we'll know there's
something wrong if it's a green
checkmark we'll know it's good to go but
can they do nothing
you know if it's just a white address
bar it's not going to stick in our mind
subconsciously that there's something
wrong here right yeah so that's where
you've got to be you've got to do your
due diligence be very very careful
Google themselves as a final thought
sent an email to mark maunder from from
wordfence yesterday and they I'm not
sure if they're gonna really make any
changes here's what they said we're
aware of this issue and continue to
strengthen our defenses against it we
help protect users from phishing attacks
in a variety of ways including machine
learning based detection of phishing
messages Safe Browsing warnings that
notify users of dangerous links in
emails and browsers that's kind of what
we're talking about yeah prevent it
preventing suspicious accounts sign-ins
and more so that means you know if
suddenly I've got somebody logging into
my account from halfway across the world
and I was just on it from Barry then
that's really wonder about music quite
often though they just know that I you
they don't they don't necessarily stop
the log in so if they're quick and they
change their password then that could be
a problem as well yeah they go on to say
users can also activate 2-step
authentication for additional account
protection so our resources tonight of
recommendation go to wordfence comm and
again this particular article is found
at cat 5 TV slash WF
fish another great resource for you is
the ESET blog at we live security calm
and as I mentioned at the top of the
segment we've done a lot of shows on
phishing scams so that you can become
familiar with them they're not just for
novice users this is not a concern just
for novice users as tech-savvy folk can
fall for it as well and our website is
category 5 TV use the search up at the
top into a search for phishing and
you're gonna find some stuff
[Music]
