here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
Google's parent company alphabet will
test its drone delivery service in
Finland next year Microsoft edge is dead
seriously
Microsoft is building its own chromium
browser to replace the default on
Windows 10 Google is expediting the
closure of Google Plus after another
security bug for the second time in
history a human-made object has reached
the space between the stars these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere this is the category 5 TV
newsroom covering the week's top tech
stories will be slight Linux by us Jeff
Weston Jemma you're building a brand-new
beautiful website
aren't you your terrible actor what does
where acting comes into play you're
supposed to act okay are you building a
really cool website are you building a
really cool website just because Jeff is
confused doesn't mean you have to be
visit cap five dot TV slash dream host
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
dream host I'm Sasha Rickman and here
are the top stories were following this
week Google's parent company alphabet
will test its drone delivery service in
Finland next year Helsinki will be the
first European location for wing which
has been testing drones in Australia
it's aircraft will deliver packages
weighing up to 1.5 kilograms within a
minute of being an order being placed
several companies including wing and
Amazon are developing drone delivery
services but they have spent years in
development without launching in
December 2013 Amazon chief executive
Jeff Bezos predicted his company's
primary delivery service would launch
within five years however its service is
still in development wing said its
drones had made fifty five thousand
journeys in Australia delivery items
such as medicine coffee and household
goods it said it had chosen Finland for
its European trial because Finnish
people were renowned for being early
adopters of new technologies it has
invited them to share what products they
would like to see delivered by drone
with suggestions including breakfast
lunch painkillers and household
essentials customers will be able to
place an order using a smartphone app
and the drone delivery will be offered
free of charge during the trial period
for drone delivery services to be viable
the technology Giants must show that
their drones are safe and reliable
critics also question whether the public
will want noisy drones delivering goods
in towns and cities but wing says drone
delivery
safer faster and more environmentally
friendly than ground delivery wing is
part of alphabets other vets division
which includes self-driving car project
way mo an internet delivery balloon
maker loon okay okay yeah so wing
interest I like it I love the concept of
being able to get something that quickly
yeah within one minute of order accident
that we're setting on you can't cancel
an artery bad yeah that was my first
thought I'm like a minute yeah like so
it goes in the order goes in is it
somebody on the other end that's going
great yeah like that's just ridiculous
one minute intense I would say you know
you know within like half an hour of
your order being processed like what
happens if there's an error you're right
you can't return it but what I can't
help but wonder though is does this open
the door to you know some guy sitting on
a porch again it's like a nice package
take their advice it's like I'm still in
that yep GPS is gonna help with that
though yeah yeah that's true I mean
you'll see it come down by the Amazon
drones are armed with missiles love this
I wish that we were testing it here well
we should be testing it here because we
have interesting weather I was gonna say
probably couldn't handle Canadian
weather not if they're battery operated
that I would like for it to be able to
handle it and I would like to be able to
order something and have it delivered
within one minute like the time that my
budget it takes off within a minute yes
it'll only take a few minutes I ran out
of toner the other day and had to drive
across town because my project was due
and town is big when you're panicking
and it's close to 6:00 and everything's
closing but had I known a drone was just
gonna deliver it how do you feel you're
excited about toner I'm excited about
breakfast lunch and paying my day come
on guys no the bunch
so you're done
or vlog you're out breakfast lunch and
painkiller it would be I know they
talked about household items but it
would be interesting to see how they get
into things like controlled substances
like would they open the door to say hey
you want to buy your alcohol you know
you can purchase it through us and we're
gonna drone delivery where's the social
responsibility in that like there's
there's a placed on the person
purchasing right but do you think
that'll happen though we'll see maybe
maybe maybe not I don't know but there's
a lot of things that come with it where
it's like how are you gonna handle the
control issue of you know age-restricted
products so does amazon have to start
being that bartender who says look guy
we're cutting you off this is the sixth
beer delivery we've given you tonight
right cutting you off yeah that's
interesting yeah it'll be yeah it'll be
neat to see how it develops for sure I
would like it here already so finish
people finish up your experiment send it
on over live up to your name
Microsoft edge is dead seriously
Windows 10 the software giant first
introduced its edge browser three years
ago with a redesign through a place
internet explorer and modernized the
default browsing experience to compete
with chrome and others while the modern
look and feel has paid off edge the
underlying browser engine edge HTML has
struggled to keep up with chromium
Microsoft is finally giving up and
moving its default Windows 10 browser to
chromium apparently there has been a
growing frustration inside Microsoft's
thanks to edge edges web compatibility
issues and businesses and customers have
been pushing the company to improve
things chrome is now the most popular
browser across all devices
thanks to androids popularity and the
rise of Chrome on PCs and Macs web
developers have been favoring its one
rendering engine to optimize their sites
Google
has been creating chrome only web
services simply because it's often the
first to adopt emerging web technologies
as its engineers contribute to many web
standards Microsoft's rendering engine
has fallen behind as a result and the
company is finally ready to admit this
there were signs Microsoft was about to
adopt chromium onto Windows as the
company's engineers have been working
with Google to support a version of
Chrome on an arm powered Windows
operating system adopting chromium as
the default rendering engine for Windows
10 will end Microsoft's hostility
towards chrome Microsoft has regularly
pushed notifications to Windows 10 users
to attempt to convince them not to use
Chrome and Microsoft pulled Google
Chrome's installer from the Windows
Store because it apparently violated
store policies hello yeah they've been
saying - so if you try to install Chrome
that will warn you are you sure you want
to do this because edge is so much
better yeah
hopefully nobody ever fell for that but
now how I say oh well we're actually
going to switch are you sure you want to
install this because Chrome is better
right
well Chrome or even choice just don't
yeah just like here's the facts they the
user wants to install Chrome but that
aside so we had the discussion last week
about how Microsoft is so dead set in
their old ways yes and think that hey if
we force users to use edge they will use
edge well then the user said you know
what no we're not using edge give me a
break
mhmmm it was a lousy browser to begin
with Oh horrible doesn't support add-ons
or anything and you you want us to use
this No all right if my choice was
between Chrome and edge I would always
pick room always always 100% of the time
always there's never time where I'd be
like oh edge has the edge on this one
never never ever would I ever say that
never
so finally they've given up and said
okay well we're gonna base
I don't know if it's still gonna be
called edge or what but it's gonna be
Chrome at its heart because chromium is
the open source project the powers
chrome and is now going to power
Microsoft's default browser as well will
they call it chromium or Chrome what I
don't find interesting and this is like
a very far offshoot is the fact that was
it not Microsoft that bought github yeah
which is all open source stuff so it's
interesting that they buy github which
is about open source now suddenly
they're going to use chromium as the
base it just makes you wonder if
Microsoft is finally gone okay we need
to release the reins start doing some
open source and see what people can do
with our products become a support
company yeah and just it'd be
interesting to see if that's where
they're going and if so what does that
mean for the future of Microsoft mm-hmm
you know are they going to open up you
know office suite to be open source
based if they don't change their ways
then they will I mean I I hate to say it
because it sounds presumptuous and it
sounds prophetic in a way but they go
down go be found only in past episodes
was this week who just said he's been
saying for years that Amazon will not
last forever it's going to go down
because he said there's about a 30 year
shelf-life on all major companies so I
don't know Microsoft is at that they're
past it well they're there and they're
still holding on to old paradigms and
they need to get out of that and they're
trying I mean I have to give them that
they're switching now from edge to cameo
but again they're making big mistakes
with regards to everything that they do
Windows 10 is the last version of
Windows we're just going to update it
and every single update for the past
four months night so people are losing
faith in the very OS and people are
saying now we needed Windows 11 well no
Windows 10 is the last Windows they need
to just get over themselves and move on
is what they need to do and maybe that's
what they're doing with chrome they need
to just go back to Longhorn No
no job was failure yeah Wow
okay Google is expediting the closure of
Google Plus after yet another security
bug
we knew Google+ was shutting down but
Google has announced that they are
expediting this process since a new
security bug was discovered with the
Google+ API 50 2.5 million users in
connection with a Google+ API
potentially had their name email address
occupation age and other information
stolen in this latest breach Google is
moving up the closure of the consumer
Google+ to April 2019 and closing down
all the Google+ API in the next 90 days
Google says we want to give users ample
opportunity to transition off consumer
Google+ and over the coming months we
will continue to provide users with
additional information including ways
they can safely and securely securely
download the and migrate their data yet
another Google service to add to the
graveyard checkout killed by google.com
for the full list we knew it was coming
I knew when I signed up for Google+ that
it was gonna fail really miserable that
miserable I don't know that I don't know
that I signed up for it
I found as soon as I signed up for it it
was not valid for what I would want yeah
it was very it was obsolete from the
get-go because there was just nothing to
make it community based it felt very
circles - I did have it I did have
Google+ I did have it I think it was a
failed attempt of kind of like creating
a new type of Facebook yeah social media
and yeah everything else I kind of feel
like this is this has been hyped a lot
yeah the Google+ shutting down has been
in the media and we're reporting on it
as well but it kind of feels like Google
is just they're trying to get rid of it
they're trying to and so the there have
been theories and maybe conspiracy
theories but folks who think that Google
is just creating these
exploits oh that's hilarious well that's
a great theory so that people lose
confidence in the platform that they
already don't have confidence in because
who's gonna care just the people who
have their data on them like three well
I've got to get my stuff off three
people everything else in the world it's
like who cares if Google+ has been
compromised so they know that and so
they create this fake hey we've been
hacked again well do this to say is gone
I mean I like to have faith in a company
that they wouldn't build their brand off
insecure products no but they they are
big enough kugel alphabet are big enough
that they can just they want to brush
this one they want this one God when I
get rid of it so they could
theoretically do something like that
they could say that because they're who
cares about that bridge yes nobody cares
about that breach except the people who
have their data on it who now have been
given an opportunity ninety days of
which to get what are usually does
garner like a lot of consumer confidence
like oh they're reporting on their own
thing and shutting it down I like them
yeah you're not gonna fix it because
it's a dead thing yes we're not gonna
put any work into it we're not gonna
dedicate man-hours to that it's not like
they've got marketing people so using
false
PACA exploits it's akin to like saying I
want a new microwave so I'm just gonna
throw this tin foil in the microwave and
hit five minutes mm-hmm it's like Sasha
throwing her things on the floor to get
one to replace was not on purpose I
can't even call them I did it
oh I can't get it replaced no murthy but
you can send me a new one because I
liked it so much they'll go too far down
this rabbit hole then you'll reveal who
we're talking about nobody knows it's
completely inside completely inside for
the second time in history a human-made
object has reached the space between the
stars NASA's Voyager 2 probe now has
exited the heliosphere the protective
bubble of particles and magnetic fields
created by the Sun comparing data from
different instruments abre aboard the
trailblazing spacecraft mission
scientists determined the probe crusts
the outer edge of the heliosphere on
November 5th this boundary called the
heliopause is
where the tenuous hot solar wind meets
the cold dense interstellar medium its
twin Voyager 1 crossed this boundary in
2012 but Voyager 2 carries a working
instrument that will provide
first-of-its-kind observations of the
nature of this gateway into the
interstellar space Voyager 2 now is
slightly more than eleven billion miles
from Earth mission operators can still
communicate with Voyager 2 as it enters
this new phase of its journey but the
information moving at the speed of light
takes about sixteen point five hours to
travel from the spacecraft to earth
by comparison light traveling from the
Sun takes about eight minutes to reach
Earth together the two voyagers provide
a detailed glimpse of how our
heliosphere interacts with the constant
interstellar wind flowing from beyond
their observations complement data from
NASA's interstellar boundary Explorer or
ibex a mission that is remotely sensing
that boundary NASA also is preparing an
additional mission the upcoming
interstellar mapping and acceleration
probe or IMAP due to launch in 2024 to
capitalize on the voyagers observations
while the probes have left the
heliosphere Voyager 1 and Voyager 2 have
not yet left the solar system and won't
be leaving anytime soon the boundary of
the solar system is considered to be
beyond the outer edge of the Oort cloud
a collection of small objects that are
still under the influence of the Sun's
gravity the width of the Oort cloud is
not known precisely but is estimated to
begin at about 1,000 astronomical units
or au from the Sun and to extend to
about 100,000 au 1 au is the distance
from the Sun to the earth it will take
about three hundred years for Voyager 2
to reach the inner edge of the Oort
cloud and possibly thirty thousand years
to fly beyond it Voyager 2 launched in
1977 sixteen days before Voyager 1 and
both have traveled well beyond their
original destinations the spacecrafts
were built to last five years and
conduct close-up studies of Jupiter and
Saturn however as the mission continued
additional flybys of the two outermost
giant planets Uranus and Neptune who
proved possible as the spacecraft flew
across the solar system
remote-controlled reprogramming was used
to endow the voyagers with greater
capabilities than they possessed when
they left Earth their two planet mission
became a four planet mission their five
year life spans have stretched to 41
years making voyager 2 nasa's
longest-running mission unbelievable
this is great this is we they definitely
did not picture this when they put the
spacecraft up into the atmosphere right
and here it is 41 years later blow in
our minds unreal
was it once it reaches the Oort cloud
that could happen I can't see it ever
going through but if it gets there we're
gonna start to see I I hope do we get to
see pictures no does Voyager igniters
it's gonna be data it's gonna be taxed
at it but but that's what I find so
fascinating about this is that it was a
five-year mission it's now 40 plus years
into it
the technology that's on Voyager 1 and 2
and the data that's being transmitted is
so archaic to what we use today but it's
still sending information we're like wow
this is amazing I wish I had digital
CMOS sensors back there oh yeah like
could you like imagine the information
we would collect now if we're even - but
it's just it's neat that we're going
we're still receiving the information 16
hours later it's like sherry come on but
I will say totally you know just
Hollywood eyes the fact that it's still
going and you've got those Star Trek
movies you know feature which one was
that
is that Star Trek 4 with a journal
series stuff the original oh it was so
good but it makes me wonder one day if
we get there are we gonna find these
satellites crashed somewhere oh my
goodness that's it that's how far it got
from oh now it's coming back to me Jeff
I'm sure I saw that that's where the guy
like I saw that I forget is anybody's
you like melds with the Spock
no not for Sarah it's a crewman I forget
his name okay
I don't know here since I've seen that
yeah it's so cool
in reality though yeah I mean away from
sci-fi videos of the the era like this
is sensing data that is further away
from her than anything has ever been and
I think you know will the technology
come that we can then surpass it like
we'll sure we send a probe that flies
well past Voyager 2 and says see yeah
I've got 16 megapixels in an array of
500 sensors and I'm gonna be taking some
pictures of this earth cloud so it won't
be midday will come they could create
another satellite to hit the trajectory
path and go we're gonna like here's a
robotic whatever that's going to install
other sensors on you and you know take
pictures of it yeah maybe rub some of
the the zebra mussels off it's something
like that the interest to see if we have
you know we could have the technology
we're gonna we're gonna update you on
the fly you know it's like a refuelings
but in air just shoot it down it's been
up there for a long time imagine having
a five year lifespan and then being like
extended to 41 years the poor Voyager 2
is probably like one can I retire how's
the anti-malware on there think about
that how hackable is this device it's up
there with technology from the 60s
exactly it's still very cool story
mm-hmm big thanks to Roy double your
national community of viewers for
submitting Sri sauce this week thanks
for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category-five TV newsroom I'm
Sasha Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson
and I'm Jeff Weston thank you once again
for being here with us this week folks I
hope you had a great time I sure have
and I look forward to being here with
you again next weeks I'll see you
[Music]
[Applause]
