you know the stories were recovering
this week in the category 5 TV newsroom
Elon Musk has been forced to step down
as chairman of Tesla but will remain a
CEO Amazon's newest brick-and-mortar
store sells only top-rated products and
Prime members pay the online price in
store while everyone else pays more the
first UEFI malware has been discovered
in the wild it's a piece of laptop
security software hijacked by Russians
and NASA's Kepler telescope has been
sent back to sleep a scientists preserve
fuel for the next data dump these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere
Jeff Westen gentlemen you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what are you
you're terrible actor what this we're
acting comes into play you're supposed
to act I'm building a really cool
website are you building a really cool
website just because Jeff is confused
doesn't mean you have to be visit cap
five dot TV slash dream host to sign up
for unlimited web hosting for your
website with unlimited email accounts
MySQL databases the latest version of
PHP WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host this is
the category five TV newsroom covering
the week's top tech stories with a
slight Linux box I'm Sacha Rickman and
here are the top stories were following
this week Elon Musk has reached a
settlement with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on the charges filed
last week over his abandoned attempts to
take Tesla private private musk will
have to step down as the chairman of
Tesla within 45 days and will not be
able to take up that role with the
company again for three years he'll be
able to remain Tesla CEO during at that
time alongside the settlement SEC the
SEC also charged Tesla with failing to
have required disclosure controls and
procedures relating to Musk's tweets
according to the agency Tesla has
already agreed to settle this charge
both musk and the company will pay
separate 20 million dollar fines that
will be distributed to harmed investors
under a court approved process according
to the SEC an Tesla is being made to
appoint two new independent directors to
its board according to the according to
the agreement the company will also hire
a lawyer to monitor Musk's
communications including his tweets the
SEC opened an investigation into musk
and Tesla in early August shortly after
the CEO abruptly announced on Twitter
that he was considering taking the
company private as at a share price of
420 dollars
musk said that he had the funding
secured to pull off the feat and that
support from investors was confirmed as
well while musk reportedly held multiple
meetings with Saudi Saudi Arabia's
sovereign wealth fund about backing the
privatization effort the SEC argued that
its law in his lawsuit that musk did not
have a solid deal in place and that
therefore his tweets were false and
misleading to investors the first
hearing in the SE C's case against Musk
was scheduled for February the
Department of Justice reportedly still
has an opening an open investigation
into his fate
private private citation a privatization
a contempt and a number of shareholders
have sued musk in court for a losses
resulting in the alleged market
manipulation so whoops this was
arresting yeah this is interesting I
wanted to hear your opinions on this
being so involved in legal matters and
yeah I deal with labour or not okay not
stocks but this is an interesting one
because musk has a history of making
comments on social media that probably
should have been better thought out oh
sure and the fact that he threw this one
out there and when I first saw it I
actually thought it was some sort of a
tweet to do with marijuana because 420
is the number for me I want and I mean
in Ontario they're about to legalize it
and so I thought there was something to
it I guess he met connection because he
made comments not long ago about
somebody smoking dope or something there
was something about he was gonna
privatize it for marijuana there was
something to it so when I saw it I
thought yeah yeah so I didn't think much
of it I thought it was a reaction to his
drug comments from sometime in the
summer I think it was unless I'm mixing
him up with somebody else but I don't
believe it was and so that's what I
thought it was really sure Elon Musk
smokes marijuana well I believe I
possibly it's true so but when I saw
this I was like oh that's it's like some
joke but then when I read this outcome I
was like oh my gosh he actually had this
deal in hand that wasn't solidified I
100% percent think that they're right if
the ink was not on the paper here's what
I think
Elon Musk probably thought that it was
solid cuz why would he tweet it
otherwise but why would he do that but
here's that okay here's my other thought
and I'm you may be thinking this as well
doesn't everybody seemed to be
twittering a lot of things they
shouldn't be tweeting yeah I know my
viewers can't think of anyone who tweets
things that they shouldn't be tweeting
and how come you on Musk
has to be a watch because of the sec
that's right because it has to do with
market manipulation I mean if we learned
anything from Martha Stewart its how to
make decorations out of diapers and how
that you cannot manipulate them are not
in trouble exactly
but I feel as though how come his tweets
are being monitored and not everybody's
tweet security everybody's being
monitored but this is totally different
he talked about taking a multi-billion
dollar company private IBM Elstad on
Twitter yeah you can't do that no I mean
I know you can ignorance is not in a
sense however but the market reacts so
negatively to it though proves that when
we can look at something like that and
say oh that's oh he's silly again or you
know we can look at some I think there's
a that we're in such an interesting time
where we're so social media-based
oh for sure yeah so what's to say Elon
Musk can and I'm just he's the example
in the news story but why can't he just
tweet yeah I could go on Twitter and I
could I could say oh I hate this that is
coming up case in point I think it was
in like spring it was a Khloe Kardashian
made some comment about Instagram I
don't know I don't find like no I
remember reading this like tens of
thousands of people some of my
daughter's Instagram sure because of one
tweet I'm pretty sure was inserted so
when you have a major following but when
you have a major following and you're
such a like you globally know one
individual you gotta be so careful about
what you say all the time yes so who
makes us accountable for that who makes
me accountable to the fact that I have a
lot of viewers that are watching my
Twitter feed and I need to I need to I
purposefully don't get involved in
politics cuz I know it's polarizing and
my views really don't matter in the
grand scheme of things right but the
difference is you don't have a
multi-billion dollar company
I don't have that platform that's for
sure truth be told the stock market I
guess I can understand it in a little
bit because Dave has been doing some
stock market interest things and so I
get that he reads the news every night
and who decides what he's gonna figure
out and what he's gonna buy and what
he's gonna sell and so I mean he's not
on Twitter either but if you were on
Twitter and he had a stock he might sell
or buy because of a tweet
perhaps but isn't it kind of weird that
people would do that I know that's what
makes the stock market move that's also
why every youtuber and even here on
category five whenever we're talking
about cryptocurrency we have our crypto
correspondent on it stated that this is
not investment advice no and if you ever
watch any kind of market stuff on
YouTube you know anyone who's wise is
saying this is not marketing advice I'm
just telling you my opinion yeah this is
why you hear that statement so I wonder
is is it more that there is no
accountability on social media should
there be something in place and maybe
this is an idea maybe this is something
that companies like Twitter companies
like Facebook need to implement and my
thought my idea Jeff is why not have an
accountability feature for individuals
who have that level of a platform so for
example if I become the President of the
United States yeah if I am the president
or the CEO of a multi-billion dollar
company then I fall into this
accountability platform feature okay so
now I can still tweet I can still say my
thoughts I can still say everything that
I want but there's a second level almost
like a two-factor authentication that
has to go through my people or the
people who are are working with me to
keep me accountable so that so you could
be my accountability buddy on Twitter
okay right for words of response okay
George Orwell thought police know no
100% know if you can't post something
until somebody says yes it's acceptable
no I'm not saying
somebody I'm not saying Twitter I'm
saying I'll say to you hey Jeff you've
been working with us for three years now
we appreciate you I'd like to make you
my accountability buddy on Twitter are
you into that because I realize my
platform is too big and I may make
mistakes so now anytime I tweet you get
a message that says here's what Robby's
about to tweet are you cool with that
yes or no I just think maybe Sascha
should be Mike so what happens for you
what happens if what you want to say is
perfectly fine and Sascha goes is my
board of directors then the board of
directors can remove you no the board of
directors should be able to say note
that we're not gonna let that go to
tweet because that's going to affect
market manipulation but they're my board
of directors I'm not saying give the SEC
control I'm not saying give Twitter
control I'm saying give my group but
that's should sue Twitter no no no it'll
never stand up never stand up but that's
why the SEC is there the SEC is there to
make sure that there's no market
manipulation that but Elon Musk is a
human being and one human being who when
he's got his phone in his hands he's not
accountable to anyone
he's talking he's accountable to the
world he's a human and he makes mistakes
and I make mistakes
Shirley shook the hand of somebody who
he believed he had a deal with and then
he tweeted about yes but this isn't the
1920s where your word is your bond in a
man we're in a legal world where you've
got to sign a document
imagine if ABC could say yes or no to
Roseanne's tweets okay but case okay so
fine you want to go with that but here's
the thing people will live and die by
their social media presence in today's
culture and and so if Roseanne had have
been silenced on her tweet you know not
silence just moderated moderated by her
team okay but still by silencing the
fact that they would have allowed that
to tweet to go out but then you would be
that person no I understand that I would
select my wife and my wife would say
this
why I think you shouldn't say that all
right I'd say okay yeah you know what
there I think maybe you're right maybe I
need to reword that okay fair enough but
if that was the case then the opinion
never would have gone it does not agree
with me I don't know the whole rest of
the show is we need to convert him to
believing in them not think is it Pro
Robbie or Pro Jeff no it's just
basically you hate me it's not about Pro
it's about if you're gonna start
regulating what people can say on social
media there's no point to social media
I'm not saying that they should regulary
pre-spanish
understand Jeff I'm saying I can we just
have freedom of thought but not freedom
of speech we just know we need to we
need to wrap up the thought we need to
move on but here's my final thought to
make it clear I'm saying I
Elon Musk can appoint someone that I
trust an accountability partner who
would therefore be responsible and
capable of preventing me from
accidentally saying something that I
really would regret in hindsight okay
where's the button to move this to the
next story the button has already been
pushed please comment below let us know
who's right another brick-and-mortar
Amazon store opened its doors this
Thursday Amazon forests are at a new
location in New York City's SoHo
district the retail giant's new store
only sells products that have been rated
four stars who are above on amazon.com
plus Amazon's own products the company
writes in a blog post that Amazon of
four star is a direct direct reflection
of our customers and in a way that's
true the average rating for all items in
Amazon's four star is 4.4 and the most
items ms items have hundreds of
thousands of online star ratings and
reviews Amazon stocked the store with
customer electronics kitchen and home
items toys books games and more but it
doesn't contain every single product
that has a four star rating or higher
discovery appears to be one of the main
purposes of the
store not only does the store highlight
the most loved items on amazon.com but
the company also organizes them into
specific categories like most wished for
trending around NYC and Amazon
exclusives
as with most Amazon endeavors Prime
members reap benefits in the new store
they'll pay the amazon.com price while
non Prime members pay MSRP digital price
tags list both prices as well as the
amount Prime members save the average
star review for the item and the total
number of reviews over the past few
years Amazon has pushed its way into the
brick-and-mortar space after
understanding its benefits for a
primarily online business the company's
acquisition of Whole Foods gave hundreds
of stores in the u.s. through which
customers could buy groceries and other
household items and through which Amazon
could expand its services such as
grocery delivery and pickup Amazon has a
number of other stores too Amazon book
stores sell only the most popular books
on it on its website and cashier lists
Amazon Go stores acts as the company's
slowly expanding convenience store chain
Amazon Go is arguably the company's most
strategic brick-and-mortar play as it
allows Amazon to track customer behavior
in store using cameras and its mobile
app it's rumoured that Amazon wants to
open 3,000 Amazon go stores by 2021 in
addition to gleaning more insight into
customers shopping habits Amazon forests
are also gives the company another
physical location to showcase its own
devices Amazon 4 star has tables
dedicated to the newest echo and Fire TV
devices brick and store brick-and-mortar
stores give customers the opportunity to
play around with Amazon devices that
they may not have seen in person before
buying on amazon.com currently it's
unclear if we could see more Amazon
forest stores in open and other
locations in the future I like this idea
neat I like this idea I think that
perhaps they should probably have every
Amazon warehouse have an Amazon forest
are at the front of the web oh you
remember the source yes Radio Shack
Tandi they do the same thing yeah the
store in front of the work those of you
who don't live here in Barry where our
studio is you think of RadioShack and
you just think of the little pop-up
stores and the malls and things like
that but here in Barry where it's where
it's warehouse where it's based it's
like a giant warehouse with a store
attached to it it makes so much sense it
makes a lot of sense for you don't have
to worry about inventory mm-hmm I like
the idea of being able to well there's
two two sides to this that I think are
really smart first Amazon is giving
Prime members the the dot-com price so
you walk in and you get the discounted
price which is usually ridiculously
cheap compared to what it's listed as
yeah the list price is always like
ridiculous nobody would ever pay that
the discounted web price is the real
price the one that they say it's
discounted from is like take the MSRP
and add another three hundred points to
it and that kind of thing but by getting
Prime members to come into the store
what is Prime free shipping yes right so
who pays for that Amazon so getting you
into the store now they're cutting costs
huge because everything that I buy on
Amazon through Prime I just get it
shipped to me for free get it shipped to
me for free so I don't even really at
this point I don't really think about
that I like I'll order something that's
a dollar and I'll order something that's
ten dollars and that's a hundred dollars
and they don't get packaged together so
somebody's paying for that Amazon is
paying for that walk into the store they
just cut their shipping fees right out
as well as the workforce mmm I don't I
don't necessarily agree with that their
cash earless stores
well that's Amazon go we're not it was
on four star and Ian Amazon four star I
think because I'm an Amazon Prime member
I know there's a lot of Amazon's to keep
track of so Amazon four star which a I
think that they should also keep it was
on three store cuz that would be great
too but Amazon four star if they had one
say in Barrie say on you know our
popular Bayfield Street wager there
like Sears just closed down do they have
all that space right on so they have
like a warehouse there and they have a
see old target right to make this
topical yeah right so then they have
that and then they have the store in the
front but they have the warehouse behind
your one and then they can ship things
from online orders as well they're kind
of like two birds one stone yeah yeah
but Amazon's going with third-party
shipping like they're looking for people
to pick up the contracts here's what I
like I like that I can go into the store
and I can try the product yeah that's
true I can pick it up and I can see it
and I can if let's say something in the
for in Amazon for is a four star is the
swimsuit that I bought for my daughter
now when I bought the swimsuit for my
daughter I bought three of them mm-hmm
they ship to them to me separately I
didn't pay for the shipping they did we
chose one and we sent the other two back
Amazon paid for the shipping to return
it so think about that for a second I
have not had to go through that process
they haven't had to pay shipping and
return because a lot of folks that's
that's our way to shop now yep you can't
try things on you can't you can't check
it if it works with your devices no
you've got to wait until you get it try
it then return it if it doesn't work for
ya right so now they've done away with
that I think it's pretty brilliant
pretty brilliant think of the diesel
fuel that has been saved Jeff ESET
research has published a paper detailing
the discovery of a malware campaign that
used repurposed commercial software to
create a backdoor into computers to
firmware the rootkit has been active
since at least early 2017 and is capable
of surviving the reinstallation of the
operating system or even a physical hard
drive replacement well the malware has
been spotted previously such research is
the first to show that it was actively
attacking the firmware of computers to
establish a tenacious foothold dubbed
LoJack's the malware is the first case
of an attack leveraging the UEFI boot
system being used in an attack by an
adversary and based on the way the
malware was spread it is highly likely
that it was authorized by a Russians
state-sponsored operation tied to the
cyberattack on the Democratic National
Committee there have been a number of
security concerns about UEFI potential
as a hiding-place for other for rootkits
and other at malware the UEFI is
essentially a lightweight operating
system in its own right making it a
handy place for attackers to hide root
kits that can't be seen or protected
from the system's OS
WikiLeaks vault seven files showed that
the CIA apparently developed an implant
for Apple's computers that use the
predecessor of UEFI but required
physical access to the targeted computer
and a malicious Thunderbolt Ethernet
adapter but LoJack's
is an entirely different animal it was
able to it was built to be deployed
remotely using malware tools that can
read and overwrite parts of the UEFI
firmwares flash memory while LoJack
shows all the hallmarks of a
state-funded attack the developers had a
little bit of head start when it came to
the UFE UEFI pay light payload they
borrowed from a commercial software
product that was purpose-built to stay
active in the computer's firmware
LoJack's rootkit is essentially a
modified version of the 2008 release of
the LoJack anti theft agent from
absolute software known at release as
compute race the firmware module ensured
a software small agents they've
installed on the computer which
connected to an absolute webserver even
if the computer had its drive white
in other words computerize was a
commercially developed firmware rootkit
and another bit of borrowing it the code
in the malicious UEFI UEFI module uses
an NTFS driver to access the windows
desk partition to make changes in
install its agent this ntfs driver was
stolen from leaked software written by
the milan based information security and
offensive hacking for hire company
hacking team so this so really this
russian state-sponsored reek it was a
team
what do you say the UAF I you you want
to trust it like this is the think of
your BIOS when you first turn on your
computer it detects your hard drives and
it tells the operating system what kind
of hardware you have right right so if
they hack that this is higher level than
the operating system itself so it
doesn't matter if you're running Windows
or Linux or whatever you might be
running your computer is basically
infiltrated before it ever gets to that
operating system yeah so now it can
start manipulating things a rootkit
meaning hey maybe it becomes root on
your Linux machine and maybe it has
access to monitoring your keystrokes or
who knows what else they could do okay
so first off I believe it's only for
Windows so far know it's a rootkit in
the UEFI so it can it may be the
infection itself would happen that's
what I means yeah I think it's only like
impacted window so let's say you do a
boot yeah so if you do a boot you get
into Windows and you get that rootkit
malware it installs itself in the UEFI
then you reboot into Linux the UEFI
loads your drivers and everything else
and then infiltrates your Linux system
and becomes root user and does whatever
else on your Linux system because it's
bare the UEFI so even if you wipe out
your hard drive over and over and over
again even if you pull that hard drive
out drill holes through it smash it with
a sledgehammer install a new hard drive
boot it up with a new operating system
you're still infected it's a microchip
built into the motherboard of your
computer what bothers me about this is
if sasha mentioned it was kind of a
throwback to a 2008 issue it's a
commercial software that is legitimate
it's like people from to help people to
be able to find their stolen device
which is fine yeah but that means that
since 2008 at least we've know that this
is capable why wouldn't they have closed
that loophole unless you as the loophole
is by design right yeah
that it is if you build it if you build
the technology it will be used for
malicious purposes surely to be very
careful when we build the technology I'm
talking to you artificial intelligence
that it cannot be used for malicious
purposes yeah you're talking to
artificial intelligence this shows now
for humans and Kepler's resurrection
from hibernation has been short-lived
nASA has put the veteran Space Telescope
back to sleep its back into sleep mode
after it was up and running for less
than a month the probes sent to sniff
out expect so planets that maybe it may
lie in habitable habitable zones around
the stars is expected to run out of fuel
soon launched in March 2009 the Kepler
mission was planned for only three and a
half years when it was preparing for
takeoff however NASA found that the
rocket could carry spare mass and
decided to add enough fuel to last for
10 years it has now been flying for nine
and a half years and supplies are slowly
petering out ground control has powered
Kepler down to a state that doesn't
require any fuel so that the agency can
save what's left for what they call deep
space network time on October 10th
Kepler will be restarted and directed to
point its antenna back to earth in the
hopes that it will be able to transmit
data back home Kepler has found more
than 2600 exoplanets so far a recent
notable find is wolf 503 be a nearby
super earth-sized planet orbiting a
bright star at approximately twice the
size of Earth Wolf 503 B is a
representative of the most common size
of planets Kepler found an account in
the galaxy however since there are no
planets this size in our own solar
system we have a lot left to learn about
planets of this size NASA said hopefully
targets like wolf 503 B can be observed
further with Kepler's successor the
transiting exoplanet survey satellite
launched in April this year
nice yeah does it use lidar
the new one no I don't believe so
because both Tess and Kepler are imaging
satellites so they're they have CMOS
sensors like a digital camera Oh
Kepler had many of them I think like
almost a hundred CMOS sensors so it was
getting maybe it wasn't that many you
know maybe it was almost 100 megapixels
among them okay I don't know too much
about but but so they had a whole bunch
of camera sensors taking pictures so
digital pictures to get light
information so if it sees light it sees
that that's a planet that's a planet
that's a son that's and is it you're
able to figure it out based on the
photography it's basically a really
high-resolution picture lidar on the
other hand is lasers for topography
right right so that would be ideal in a
case like orbiting Mars right right we
want to get the top ography we want to
learn what's under the surface lidar
would be great for that the finding you
know maybe we get out to Jupiter and and
find out what's going on down there you
know that kind of stuff
base x-ray exploration it blows my mind
interesting yeah oh me too and I'm
excited about like what's to come Tess
is an interesting one though
Kepler orbits the Sun mm-hm and is
taking pictures out into space okay and
and so I guess it gets good light and
has this massive array of like
ninety-six megapixels worth of image
data coming back to and you imagine okay
if you've got a 32 megapixel camera like
this is a massive image coming back as
camera and that's that was like you know
that's the biggest camera that they had
in 2009 when it launched or they're
downloading all this data right now that
we don't have right we haven't seen it
yet is that one oh that's right yeah
that's right so that means we're gonna
have all of this incredible that's the
hope if they can get it to broadcast one
last time imagine that they won't be
able to they've got it the new satellite
tests is orbiting Earth Oh
which is the you know I very different
orbit so we're gonna be able to see
things that Kepler never ever saw
and when I say orbiting or if it's Earth
it's not like like one of our satellites
it's way out there do you have it in
Earth and I think it's a bit further
than the moon kind of thing so or into
space distance yeah but it only has four
sensors and when I say sensors like
think of when you take the lens off of
the DSLR and you look inside there's a
sensor that's your imaging sensor your
CMOS and or a CCD and they have four of
those side-by-side so I'm like are they
super high-resolution no they're like 16
megapixels so I don't know what we're
gonna see from this new satellite it
will be interesting it'll be it'll be a
lot and here's how I know that because I
once read in like an Uncle John's
bathroom reader there you go those are
great books random that we have more
technology in our cell phones now than
they had in the first oh yeah like the
first Space Shuttle our phone is more
powerful than the computers that ran the
entire operation right exactly yeah so I
know that no matter what this new one is
gonna be great big thanks to Roy W Nash
in our community of viewers for
submitting stories to us this week don't
thanks for watching the category five
dot TV newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our web
site from the category five TV newsroom
I'm Sasha Rickman and I'm Robbie
Ferguson dad I'm Jeff Lester it's been
great having you here with us a game
this week we look forward to seeing you
again one week from today take care bud
[Music]
you
