here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom in
televisor softs have revealed yet
another Spectre in meltdown
vulnerability the University of
Greenwich has been fined one hundred and
twenty thousand pounds by the
Information Commissioner social
networking giant and market leading data
broker Facebook is once again taking
heat for playing fast and loose with its
access to personal information and
YouTube is launching a music streaming
service offering both videos and audio
tracks in an attempt to compete with the
likes of Spotify and Apple music these
stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere Geoff Weston gentlemen
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website what are you you're a terrible
actor what this where acting comes into
play you're supposed to act
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cat5 dot TV slash
DreamHost to sign up for unlimited web
hosting for your website with unlimited
email accounts MySQL databases the
latest version of PHP WordPress and more
and even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
dream host this is the category five dot
TV newsroom covering the week's top tech
stories with a slight linux bias I'm
Sacha Rickman and here the top stories
were following this week on Monday Intel
and Microsoft disclosed a newly found
variant of the spectre and meltdown
security flaws revealing another
vulnerability in chips used in hundreds
of millions of computers and mobile
devices Intel is calling the new strain
variant for while this latest variant
taps into many of the same security
vulnerabilities that were first revealed
in January it uses a different method to
extract sensitive information specter
and meltdown have
to you to hunt companies like Intel arm
and AMD which have produced chips with
the flaws from for everything from
computers and laptops to mobile devices
the vulnerabilities which could allow
attackers to read sensitive information
on your CPU affected hundreds of
millions of chips from the last two
decades while companies like Intel Apple
and Microsoft have issued updates to
patch the flaws the fixes haven't always
worked as intended sometimes causing
computer problems hackers often scour
online for vulnerabilities that will
allow the Macario to tax the wanna cry
ransomware attack for example took
advantage of Windows computers whose
owners never implemented a Microsoft
patch the newly found variant uses
something called speculative store
bypass which could allow your processor
to load sensitive data to potentially
insecure spaces in the u.s. certs
advisory officials said that the new
flaw would enable attackers to read
older memory values on your CPU the
company said that it hasn't actually
seen this vulnerability vulnerability
used by hackers and that it's releasing
a complete fix for the flaws in the
coming weeks Intel's executive vice
president of security Leslie Culbertson
said in a post that Intel has already
made the update available for
manufacturers and software vendors don't
be deceived by marketing talk however it
looks like the patch will indeed affect
performance while Intel says that they
don't expect the patch to affect
computer performance they have
acknowledged that performance on the
company's test systems dropped between
two and eight percent after applying the
patch the fix is designed to be turned
off by default according to Intel and
it'll be up to vendors to enable it it's
kind of scary a little bit when you
think that so many systems are
vulnerable again still yeah always I
thought they'd fix this they I guess
they don't fix these things so it's out
and they sell them with it turned off so
if you're a vendor or why would you
turn it on if it's going to affect
performance right it should that's it
they want their complaints to be super
fast out the gate right and then oh well
you might want to enable that feature to
protect yourself against this so that
it's you that's making your computer
eight percent slower I feel like there's
gonna be these legal disclaimers where
hey buy this computer that's got these
amazing speeds and then the fine print
is if you turn off these volar or fix
these vulnerabilities you'll actually
lose 30 percent speed capacity years
yikes
yeah they shouldn't it's false
advertising they shouldn't be selling an
unsafe system they should if the patch
is available there should be some sort
of legal obligation to have it the
defaults as on so that you're accepting
responsibility if you turn it off not
the other way around right but then how
do you market a machine and say hey this
is a slow machine but by making it
insecure you could speed it up yeah
get an 8% that's the new turbo button
folks turn off your protections I
remember when the computers had the
little knob for like hyper-threading I
think it was where you'd like
overclocking overclocking that's what it
was where you had a knob for
overclocking yeah I remember buying a
computer chassis that there was a little
knob that I could turn and I could take
my CPU into I think was 120 percent over
wow I've never seen it as a not now I
had the turbo button on my old old old
XT systems was a little you just turn it
and I would I would watch the
performance go up to max about 125
percent Wow so so do we just have to sit
back and wait for patches or is there
anything that we can do to know whether
or not there's role in our ability
especially we are kind of at the mercy
of the manufacturers I mean intel has
released the patches to the vendors
right but the vendors now have to create
the patches to deploy on the system so
whether that means firmware updates
where you need to actually you know
patch your bios or whether it means
Windows updates that break some things
and degrade performance but at least
protect you against this kind of a
threat and Linux is already patched
against it
that's good yeah but that is the thing
we're at their mercy like it's not like
you can just you can't grab a
screwdriver and fix this
no it's an on-chip flaw so it's scary
really yeah if you let it scare you I
mean if you're like let it scary me Jeff
wait should it should scare you but if
you are like if you're being proactive
to search out these patches in these
fixes and you're aware of it you take
precautions to the best extent possible
to protect your data I mean it's just
being conscious there's no need I mean
there's if you think about it everything
in in our world that's internet-based
could be used to compromise your
security in some way or form
nobody is 100% secure so I mean you
could live in fear or you could say you
know what I recognized the fact that I
didn't make this somebody else did and
when there's a human touch there's a
flawed process to it right but the part
that makes me uncomfortable is the part
that they're selling these chips knowing
the patches they're knowing the
protection is there and turning it off
giving the power to the vendors to turn
it on all right different than an auto
manufacturer who knows that there's an
issue with saying if the car will
explode by default but you if you flip
this way well no but I mean like if you
know that there say like a brake
vulnerability there is from a
probability standpoint and does the auto
manufacturer pay to have this recall and
replace these 15 million parts or do
they just let it go and pay out the
insurance but are you saying it's Intel
should recall Intel processors no but
wouldn't that be neat but I mean at some
point they're gonna go it's just not
worth it I mean you see that with
Windows all the time we're no longer
gonna support this and I think it's I
mean I believe Intel's got a list on
where they don't support they're not
even gonna fix it because it's just they
can't fix it yeah but it's and and so
that raises an interesting point in that
are we going to come into this place
where it's going to become a big issue
and then all of these old processors and
they're not even old at this point like
the modern processor are going to be not
supported
because it's susceptible to that right
does it drive you into purchasing
something new yeah oh absolutely we're
always pushed to buy something new right
she's like y2k all over again so in this
case now the new processors the next-gen
processors from Intel in the next
quarter of 2018 they're meant to be
patched against a dynamo if the whole
line is going to be or not but right now
the best thing you can do Sasha is make
sure that your operating system is
up-to-date that doesn't matter if you're
on Mac Windows Linux make sure you've
got the latest version in all the
patches right make sure that your
software is up to date things like your
web browser you may not think oh I need
to make sure that Chrome is the latest
version and if you do then it is also
patched against meltdown inspector so
you want to make sure that those things
are patched all of your software is
up-to-date and boy would a task that's
why I love Linux cos sudo apt upgrade
enter done problem solved
sweet Linux just a little bit all right
the University of Greenwich has been
fined 120,000 pounds by the Information
Commissioner roughly 160,000 u.s. for a
data breach that happened 14 years ago
define was for a security breach in
which the personal data of 19,500
students was placed online the data
included the names addresses dates of
birth phone numbers signatures and in
some cases physical and mental health
problems it was uploaded onto a
microsite for a training conference in
2004 which was then not secured or
closed down the information
commissioners said that Greenwich was
the first University to receive a fine
under the Data Protection Act of 1998
and described the breach as serious in a
statement the University said that it
would not appeal against the decision it
said that it had carried out an
unprecedented overhaul of its data
protection and security systems since
the discovery of the breach in 2016 and
it had invested in both technology and
staff it has also said the fine would be
reduced to 96 thousand pounds with a
prompt payment disk
they understand what they did was wrong
that's lovely
whoops however what I find interesting
about this is they discovered it in 2016
you said and it was 14 years ago that's
a long data trail yeah like oh yeah who
knows what it's been done with it I
think it was just like it was at it was
a block of information for a conference
right I don't think it was expertise and
students or something like that yeah
well I'm not I realize so furious four
years of yeah the information for sure
for sure I just I wonder really about
the fact that we don't know what
information of ours is out there if a
situation like a university has that
like I went to college I went to
university I right so what of my
information is needed information about
my limp
so if say say I say I did have a mental
health issue right theories picturing a
whole new kind of identity theft yeah
I'm Robbie
everything I just I just worry about the
fact like what is it that we can do at
this point other than what by identity
theft protection and even in that case
yeah really I think if you're sure where
it is foolish like I'm laughing about it
but it's not a laughing matter but it is
it's gotten foolish but how much
information like it's it's 2018 so
people are way more security conscious
about their data now than they were five
years ago ten years ago fourteen years
ago I mean like I was looking myspace
the other day somebody mentioned
somebody said MySpace you were looking
at myspace in 2018 but I'm like does
that even still is this like retro
gaming to you sort of but then I
realized like packets like him on mice
myspace account did you know dr. Dre DJ
Robbie F had myspace account here's the
crazy part I was able to log into my
account of my information there you
remembered your password believe it or
not yes back then in time I had a system
for passwords that apparently is stood
the test of time because my brain
remembered it it's not a super secure
password Jeff's myspace no 1 2 3
but anyway when I was thinking about
that going ok how much information if we
already put on the net that I can't
believe I just called it the net that's
a throwback to as well but how much
information have we already put out that
you didn't think about 15 years ago
right but there is information that you
you really wouldn't voluntarily give for
example if there's mental health issues
or physical disabilities that you didn't
want you know disclose we're looking at
an internet back then that didn't have
encryption and didn't have okay so this
is this is like they would put it online
for the staff to have access to like an
intranet that is accessible from home
mm-hmm right oh it's so Airy but then
someone along the way forgot about it
and here we are 2016 realizing Oh what
do you that nobody in 2016 is when they
discovered it yeah so somebody like was
like logging into myspace in 2016 and
they're like oh what other old things oh
there's this old intranet system and
let's check oh oh right right well and
it's funny because like if where we are
right now we're going through an
election for our government and I'm
thinking about like social media is used
all the time to burn candidates and how
much information could be out there from
eons ago they you don't realize it's
like oh I'm gonna run for office it's
like hey did you know 23 years ago you
that's like
right like that how far back are you
gonna be able to claw your data if it's
gone oh you can't to a certain degree I
mean all you could do is protect
yourself and be smart moving forward and
hope that the companies that you've
entrusted your data with are not going
to be sharing it with Cambridge
analytical right but in this case then
would it be beneficial to get something
like identity theft insurance right like
identity theft is the big issue it's
more it is an issue but I don't think
it's a big issue I think it's the
identity marketing that's the big issue
today is you re marketed product I'm not
as weird as it sounds I'm not as worried
about my identity theft as I am about
being categorized as a commodity to be
marketed to Who I am as a person isn't
marketing item I mean the fact that
Facebook has all those categories and
and people are buying me they're buying
my information so that they can market
to me but all my web access all of my
apps everything that I do that is on the
Internet has created a store so to speak
that was definitely scaring me man you
don't know this is the real real reason
why I haven't done one of those DNA
tests like the 23andme I really really
Vlad I know I know but it's the reason
things aren't secure enough yet and I
don't want to throw my DNA out there
we're in a world now that is AI and
machine learning and think about and I
don't we're not going to discuss it
because we're we're not getting into
conspiracy theories but if you think
about what could become of this world
yep with the information that's
available when machine learning and AI
does not sleep right exactly what's that
we're just gonna move on there
eagle-eye yeah check that out blow your
mind I'm into having my mind blown
social networking giant and market
leading data broker Facebook is once
again taking heat for playing fast and
loose with its access to personal
information oh no I thought we were done
never it's our weekly Facebook story
this time it's the Facebook Android app
that is under the spotlight after folks
noticed it it requesting an
extraordinary amount of access
privileges specifically requesting super
user access to a device granting it full
control over a handheld for Android
devices the super user classification
would basically grant an app full access
to the device and data stored on it
researchers who have examined androids
code have suggested it could be due to
the SDKs used by some Neef new features
Facebook has since posted a statement
saying a coding error in one of our
anti-fraud systems caused a small number
of people running the Facebook app and
certain permissions management apps on
rooted android phones to see a request
for additional access permissions we do
not need or want these permissions and
we have already fixed this issue we
apologize for any confusion the
situation is reminiscent however of the
2016 findings that Facebook's app was
getting microphone access for the
placement of ads and comes at a
potentially bad time for Facebook who is
trying to regain trust of its users
after the recent revelations surrounding
Cambridge analytic ah then there done
that yeah it's the security talk right
exactly so is in probably the list of
things of the service terms and you just
agreed to it and now this is like super
user access like it needs access to the
super user account which means it can
install things that can delete things
that can change things can monitor
things that can do everything with your
system once you delete the app does it's
still linked then presumably it would be
gone but but if it had super user access
it could install things in the backend
right but on some smartphones like I
have an Android and I could not delete
Facebook the app itself you cannot
delete it and
sable but you cannot delete so if you
have granted it access at any point I
admit I am a person who just presses
okay
like I don't read through the 27 pages
of the siege are both right so I don't
even have Facebook anymore but at some
point I did accept the terms and
conditions
I cannot delete facebook from my phone
see the app but that brings up a great
idea is if at any point you can contact
the company and say I no longer agree to
the terms and conditions and what would
that have on them that would be an
interesting legal test to see I no
longer agree to this which means they
can no longer do what they wanted you
silently disappear disagreed with
Facebook's license
he's been deleted I was reading this
week that I believe it's Apple is
allowing you to download everything that
they have about you hmm they want to be
transparent in light of Cambridge
analytical and that's exactly it could
you imagine if Facebook's said we're
gonna release all of our information
about you people would just their minds
would explode with all even just seeing
what they do give access to his mind
well I think we did that we did that
yeah yeah yeah but tippy enough right so
just the fact that the fact that they
have even more and that they have access
to everything potentially they have
access to everything on my phone right
even though I witness with these
permission I feel like I'm safe because
I've deleted my facebook but I I know
that we're talking about in the chatroom
but I was thinking about as you're
reading the story have you seen the
movie the circle no watch it okay and
then just replace the circle with
Facebook right okay so I'll never sleep
again yes okay so we've got actual news
yeah we don't have time for any more
stories so
oh that's it that's the news for this
week whoa and that that's what happens
when we talk yeah yeah so we're gonna
talk will bring up the YouTube Music
Store next next week it's not happening
just the I mean it's happening but it's
launching it's launching it has not
launched will it happen Canada in the US
but yeah we're gonna bring it up next
week maybe maybe maybe we'll have some
early access that would be kind of would
be so super cool now can you do your
extra without without the teleprompter
thanks for watching a category-5 TV
newsroom and thanks Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers the first
submitting stories to us this week
slight Linux bias thanks I'm thank you
for watching everybody
she says I'm Robbie have a great week
everybody thank you so much for being
here with us and we will see you next
next week yes goodnight
[Music]
