welcome to category 5 technology TV
episode number 4 17 for tuesday the
fifteenth of September 2015 hey I'm
Robbie and tonight we are going to be
looking at a drone that has a video
camera and what it costs under a hundred
bucks no yeah cool and it's kind of nice
outside so I think we're gonna take it
out oh hey don't want to miss it she's
Krista oh I'm Krista well hey Sasha
what's going on in the news hey Ravi
here's what's coming up in the category
5 TV news room our robotic artist has
been developed which very accurately
creates hand-drawn portraits in as
little as 20 minutes a new president has
been assigned at Nintendo following the
recent death of Satoru Iwata angry
parents of Minecraft gamers have taken
to social media to complain about awful
queues and a lack of things to do at an
unofficial convention Microsoft is
facing widespread criticism for invasive
data collection in Windows 10 the former
former head of the collapsed Bitcoin
exchange mount gox has been charged in
Japan with embezzlement and Microsoft is
paying 400 million dollars this season
to make the surface the official tablet
of the NFL but the league's announcers
still can't stop calling it an iPad
stick around the full details are coming
up later in the show this is category 5
technology TV
starring Sasha dramatis Hillary Rumble
Kristen wells
you
your kid
and your host Robbie Ferguson
welcome to category 5 technology TV i'm
your host Ravi Ferguson I'm Krista wells
and today and every Tuesday cat5 TV as a
member of the tech podcast network if
it's tech it's here and the
International Association of Internet
broadcasters that's cat5 TV / IA ib
awesome hey to the chatroom want to say
hello to everybody who is there and to
our in studio audience tonight we've got
al Peck who is joining us live in the
studio hey man he's he's there that's
his hand we've got a whole ton of people
here so this is an exciting day and
we're gonna be making worth her while
we're gonna be taking this syma x5c one
out into the outdoors and see how it
flies what you're not gonna trust me
with that area definitely not cuz I want
to smart I want to use it for myself
after they're all right so you got plans
you don't want demolishes will see
things see if it's ossified I won't take
it personally that's it all right yeah
cool going to feel a good let yourself
answer some questions I think so let's
give it a go alright thank you for
sending in your questions tonight your
questions is brought to you in part by
our patreon patrons and if you haven't
already figured out how you can go about
using patreon it's a cool way that you
can support us by simply giving 25 cents
per episode and that coupled with all of
the the other viewers who are
participating that makes a huge
difference so please check out
patreon.com category 5 it's an amazing
way to support the show and it's kind of
like a crowdfunding really cool way to
do it because we bring you a new episode
every single week absolutely I'm ready
alright our first question here is from
andy says hi guys thanks for answering
my question a couple weeks ago about how
to stop the sound on the pop-up ad on
your watch live page as amazed when you
told me all the ads embedded into your
web page are silent because the 1i got
definitely wasn't me and it was also
interesting that you suggested my
samsung smart TV may have a virus oh I
had no idea TVs Ravel enrolled to
viruses and I think this might be an
interesting feature for the future
anyway whatever it was i watch the show
live again last we
first time I watched live in about a
month and the noisy added up here so
whatever it was it looks like it's gone
thanks for great show um so that was an
easy one yeah we don't have to answer
that one well but thank you for for
sending that in good to know that it's
working after receiving that email I
went back to if you go to live dot cat
five dot TV which is where you can watch
you'll see that there is actually a
button and I don't know why I didn't hit
me but there's a button to remove the
advertising all right it's as simple as
that so we the advertising actually pays
to broadcast the show and to provide it
for you for free so you know click click
on whatever's there and follow the
directions or whatever but there's a way
to remove the ads as well glad works on
the TV I don't know about getting a
virus on your TV I know rootkits and
things like that but that would be that
would be kind of terrible I remember
when smart fridges were sending out a
bunch of spam really and that was kind
of ironic all the span- BAM they send
out I'm just curious actual spam just
yeah that's an email real spam it
happens it happens folks it's the it's
the Internet of Things right so this is
what we're up against is as devices
become smarter and smarter so your your
phone is where it starts because the
phones are basically the pocket
computers nowadays so and then people
want to be able to add that technology
to the fridge to their toaster to their
whatever and so because they're
interconnected thermostats it's kind of
a scary thought and I'll leave it at
that no I'm just afraid on everyone on n
no conspiracies tonight leave it all
right good luck sleeping tonight
everybody here's one from manga manga
pin sorry if I forgot that wrong um says
hello I like your show very much awesome
it is very helpful for me to learn how
to set up were cast with hardware
especially this video DSLR for Wirecast
I was wondering if you could help me out
since I can only use 1280 by 720 one
is impossible to choose 1920 x 1080 and
Wirecast the message shows Wirecast is
unable to start the USB device i'm using
lenovo lenovo lenovo yeah thinkpad 701 d
s workstation and Panasonic gh2 with a
device exactly like Meg well X I suck
sorry x I 100d usb3 dongle HDMI video
device the difference is the name of the
cable that tells me they changed to the
normal change the normal instead of USB
3.0 this computer has processor intel
core so is he's saying that he's using a
USB to cable with the USB 3 device I did
say Caleb we're just trying to make make
out the email and kind of summarize it
in such a way types usb3 the camera
would would have to be if it's well what
is the camera DSLR is it a does he say
what kind of commonly use um I don't see
that I might not have enough information
to really give you a good answer now
when you're okay 1280 by 720 one is what
you say whether it be 720 so 1280 by 720
of 720p so if you're if you're able to
pull that from your camera that means
you're getting HD at 720p if the camera
won't give you higher than that then
maybe the output doesn't support it you
might have a 1080p camera that on USB
will only support 720p that's quite
common and sometimes over HDMI it's the
same thing you look at say a 4k camera a
4k camera may have the capacity to
record to an SD card in 4k but it can
only stream out over USB or HDMI at 1080
or 720 p because of the limitations of
those kinds of interfaces more common in
the USB end of things and because you're
using USB I wonder if that might have
something to do
with it as far as Wirecast saying that
it can't see the device or can't
initiate the device or whatever maybe I
could see some screenshots or something
that with USB if it's a blue screen and
it can't activate the USB HD camera then
that might mean that you you simply
don't have the USB bandwidth because
your USB bus on the computer say it's
built into the motherboard it might be
being used by your keyboard your mouse
your printer in my case I've got a
touchscreen monitor so it operates on
the USB bus as well so there's all these
kinds of things that could be pulling
bandwidth from your USB so if you're
plugging into a computer you might not
have enough power or bandwidth on your
USB bus in order to use full HD in that
case if because it's a workstation not a
laptop you can purchase pcie card make
sure it has the chip on board a USB 3
card which will give you more USB
bandwidth because it's separate from the
the motherboards chipset so that might
help but I need more information so can
you email us a little bit more and I'll
be happy to give you a hand if that's
possible but I hope that something I've
said has helped you out in some way it's
a good start anyways it's good start
here's a question from Steve Delaney
says hello Robbie hey enlight of absence
announcement regarding their ego tank
liner products I wanted to run something
by you so I run out of ink and can only
afford the black ink till payday such as
the life of printers used a real pricey
windows I can print in black and white
as an option on an inkjet printer can
Linux do the same thing great question
okay first of all I want to talk a real
briefly made mention of the eco tank
from epson what a fantastic idea one of
the you know we try to be eco-friendly
eco-conscious here at category 5 as best
we can look at ink cartridges in your
printer and you might have two
cartridges you might have four
cartridges depending on what kind of
printer you have
and it's estimated that they would take
over a thousand years to biodegrade in a
landfill one cartridge would take over a
thousand years and we as a society are
what the Western world goes through
something like 300 million of them a
year and these are going into landfills
and everything it's like well what is
going on so epson is the first company
that is really stepped up and said okay
we need to change this and they brought
out a printer that has no cartridges Wow
yeah how smart is this so on the side of
the printer is in fact a reservoir okay
the four colors so you've got black and
then blue yellow and see em I can read
yeah CMYK i'm using I wasn't gonna say
Kay I said black black cuz I'm thinking
of the viewers not the graphics also
magenta magenta I was thinking i was
doing those i was translating 90 CMYK
and two turns the music trying to be
easier so with these reservoirs here's
the neat thing if you run out of yellow
ink or you're running low on yellow ink
you don't have to replace all three
colors right what do you do you open it
up and you pour in some more yellow ink
so it's literally just a holding it's a
retainer yeah which is a reservoir of
course and then you have your guard down
such a big worry refill container and
you just refilled oh that's it that's it
goes so that's the epson eco tank and
we're in fact gonna be looking at one on
the show here not today but in the
coming weeks a fantastic idea i love
what epson is doing with that and i
think it's about time somebody stepped
up and said okay we're going to do
something different now your approach is
a little bit different in that you're
trying to switch to just the black
cartridge because then you're not having
to utilize the the color cartridges
because what sometimes we don't realize
is that as you print and my kids do this
all the time well I only printed a black
and white picture so it's only using the
black ink dad a lot because unless you
specifically say I want to use the black
cartridge it's actually combined nation
it colors to create black because it's a
color printer so like photography and
everything there there's no black it
actually combines colors to create black
so you're using your
color ink so on windows as you say in
your email you can select specifically
print using the the black cartridge
that's great so can you do that in Linux
yeah and it's just as easy what I know
probably easier actually I have to say
that on Linux same thing you bring up
your printer dialog I don't have a
printer connected to my linux machine
today but it is simply the same thing or
you go file print and you're in your
program and you can bring up the
Preferences window and very very similar
to the way windows does it so short
answer yeah you can do that and Linux is
going to let you continue to print just
using the black cartridge will be good
to go great question thank you very cool
and now you all know here is another
question I don't know who Oh from Joplin
there we go um says I am trying to
convert my wife into linux from the
horrid windows what flavor convert a
person into linux as much as you like
tuna yeah the next Stepford wife is a is
linux linux based yeah yeah ah says what
flavor never gets sick would you suggest
i just kind of I just kind of went past
anila yeah chocolate sprinkles um yeah I
mean okay first of all you're trying to
convert your wife I'll kid all I want
but have another one is kind of anyway
to say I know what you mean but
realistically I think we have to take a
different approach and instead present
linux as what it is it's a viable
alternative to Windows or Mac and it's
in a lot of cases better in a lot of
cases maybe not right I use video
editors for example and there are some
up-and-coming ones on Linux that are
looking really really good we looked at
open shot together and it's really
coming together and that was a while ago
and they've since progressed since then
right but that's one of the things that
sometimes pulls me toward windows on one
particular system so there are uses for
each so present Linux instead of trying
to convert someone
like to your religion of Linux let's
let's instead take the approach hey
here's here's what it can do here's why
it's great I think a good good thing is
that you know my wife runs linux on her
computers and her so my approach was ok
hun what do you what do you need to do
with it so she needs to be able to write
she needs to be able to use the internet
she needs to be able to use email right
and that's really a lot of the time
that's that's what people are doing
these days that's what they need so if
that's the case then present linux as
okay here it is and set it up in such a
way that she can easily access the
things that she needs to be able to do
so it doesn't really boil down to flavor
it boils down to how can i do the things
that I would normally do sasha i
converted you over to linux a little
while ago and and that was kind of the
approach that I took with you as well as
okay well what do you need to be able to
do how how can we make linux work for
you right and did that did that work
work perfect i use that as it's orange
Zorin OS oh yeah and it I mean it feels
great it's comfortable I haven't tried
anything too crazy but but it does not
everything i needed to do it the reason
we chose Zorin OS is because sasha
coming from a windows 7 background it
was the most it has a windows 7 like
interface you can actually select that
from the the interface selector and it
does look and feel quite a bit like hmm
yeah i really like it that's that's the
approach that i would take and please
keep us posted and let us know how your
wife gets along with with linux awesome
thanks buddy very cool idea of time
let's take the time sounds really long
ago gonna have to bear with me okay
alright this is from Orangemen he says
doin Robby I got from your website
raspberry 3.14 then there's 20 more
that's a raspberry pi should be
raspberry 6.28 like there's no raspberry
pi 3 and then it clicked your solid
jokes today no I'm not this is orange
man I just caught his joke um from okay
now I'm just bought a pie for
yes website yes from your website there
are two things I belong yeah she's deaf
we're not quite cross eyed already Azusa
I one asked you firstly I tell us that
an SD card sorry i thought and st cards
are only temp store medium and okay
temporary storage medium okay and would
be better to find a different storage
medium and back it up could use old USB
sadder drive and plug in on on sorry
there's a bit of a bit of plug-in on of
USB port on raspberry pi ah could we
plug some hope in your understanding the
lingo okay say old 40 gig hard drive i
may have to use power USB port 1 of 1 in
4 out because the current taken from USB
port on raspberry pi can you do this so
you don't lose the operating system I
guess that's the first question on the
USB mm-hmm okay first of all to address
the first statement which is okay the
Raspberry Pi uses a micro SD card how
how can we use that as an operating
system Drive when we've previously
stated that SD is not a reliable medium
for storage of files because you're
going to lose them and so orange man
back it up a little bit to last week's
episode when we actually installed and
deployed volume ii o and with that
deployment what do we do we we installed
the operating system on the card and and
my recommendation was to use the network
or use external USB for the actual
storage so the card is literally just
the operating system and the software
itself when you boot that up it loads
into memory the card is no longer really
doing anything unless you're doing a
read/write operation but realistically
when you're playing it's coming from
your network attached storage is coming
from your USB Attached drive something
like that there's not a lot of activity
going on with with the card that said
you can take that micro SD card out plug
it into a computer and copy the entire
thing to your hard drive and you've got
a backup
and then if anything ever went bad the
only thing really there that you would
lose on volume you know for example
would be your playlists or maybe your
network settings but that's easy to put
back the playlists are really the the
thing that you would lose which if I
recall correctly I think are in / maybe
/a ET c / MPD / playlist possibly / VAR
/ MPD / playlist but you could back up
the entire card and be good to go
anyways and then the next question was
okay so then you're taking a 40 gig hard
drive and plugging it into USB and that
would be a great way to store your music
but i would still boot from the micro SD
card I would still you know you can
trust it enough my point though orange
man is not that you can't trust micro SD
or SD it's that you can't trust it
exclusively it's just like any other
medium I would never put all my stuff on
my hard drive or my laptop or a single
point of failure it has to always be
redundant so if anything matters to you
it needs to be on a redundant medium so
even if you put it all on an external
hard drive you still have a single point
of failure because that hard drive could
crash that hard drive could get pulled
off the desk by the cable and hit the
floor so you need to be backing that up
as well if you if you care about the
data that's on there and that would be
the case with your home movies pictures
all that kind of stuff it's important to
always have a backup of those so it's
not that SD is really the problem it's
that having a single point of failure is
my concern and SD would fail before like
an SSD hard drive for example and that's
usually I would expect there's two
things that'll kill an SD card more more
times than not one is that you're taking
it out and putting it back in again all
the time in your camera right so there's
chances that you can break pins there's
chances that you can zap it when you
plug it into the computer so that's
something that you're not going to do
with your Raspberry Pi you've installed
the OS you've plugged it in you've
powered it on and it's in you're never
going to be taking that out again unless
you want to wipe it again so we've ruled
that out and then the second thing
that's going to kill an SD card is power
loss
during read write operations so this is
when you've got a camera it's got an SD
card and you're at canada's wonderland
and you take that picture of the kids
and the battery dies and you say no it's
the kodak moment and so what do you do
you turn the camera off you turn it back
on and it gives just enough power to get
that last picture and then you get home
and there's no pictures on your card
what happened you didn't have enough
power you made the decision to turn it
back on again and that is another way
that you can kill an SD card your
raspberry pi would be susceptible to
that if there's power going on and off
and on and off and on and off but if
you're plugged into a UPS you should be
reasonably safe from that type of
failure as well so hope that answers
that part of the question have you made
it sound like there's more there's more
the other thing I want to ask is I got a
free copy of Windows 10 there's no such
everybody I you stick around the news is
coming pause for a fact yes yes um you
install on your system and it does ask
you for a project code when what happens
if sorry if it does bang you and have
reinstalled from an ISO copy um like are
we concerned about losing the files on
your computer it's not that is kind of
what he's saying and when you install
Windows 10 that will wipe out your
computer just like installing any other
operating system it will want to take
over the partition I believe that it
will detect and allow you to dual boot
but I'm not entirely sure because I've
never done that with Windows 10 anything
else in that even um yes lezzie lezzies
as you can make an iso or USB stick
version i only use windows because i
develop software and you test windows i
found if i have not got a project code
microsoft will ask you for about was
that 80 pounds to bring one to the
chatroom selected to put a virgin but
like an activation
it's not the ideation so you download
the ISO you've installed it but it's not
activated and it's like my system here
that says activate windows because I did
it and install from the iso windows 10
if you if you install it as an upgrade
so you've got windows 7 or windows 8.1
installed and you upgrade from that
operating system it will use your
existing key if however you boot from a
disk and I so and you reinstall your
windows seven key is now lost because
you've wiped out your hard drive and so
the upgrade process has failed and you
need to purchase a new key so the only
way around that would be reinstalled
windows 7 windows 8 whatever it was that
you had using your original license key
then do all your updates get the service
packs and then go through the process of
upgrading without the ISO all right hey
I hope that that's what you intended
orange man thank you for sending that in
I like the idea of using a USB hard
drive for external storage for raspberry
pi we looked at a cool device that is
available through our shop that Sasha
and I you were here but I I think I'd
put it together did you help with that
one that was the the one where we turned
the laptop hard drive in 20 an external
hard drive that would be a solution
right yeah you did that I just watch oh
that's right yeah and it was it was
awesome so that's that's a good solution
for sure do we have time for one more I
think so is haha are you about to start
the new my time alright alright I hear
ya well thank you so much for sending in
your questions you can email us live at
category 5 TV you should have seen that
look she's eager eager to tell you about
this Windows 10 thing all about that so
Sasha over in the newsroom hey I'm gonna
kill me because that Windows 10 story is
halfway down the list but it's Tuesday
September 15 2015 and here are the
stories were covering this week a
robotic artist has been developed which
very accurately creates hand-drawn
portraits in as little as 20 minutes
will tell you about how it came about
and how you can check it out a new
president has been assigned at Nintendo
following the recent
satoru iwata ouch parents who took their
kids to a minecraft convention or angry
that they had to wait in line 45 minutes
just to get a bottle of water let alone
the time it took for their kids to meet
their gaming heroes Microsoft is facing
widespread criticism for invasive data
collection in Windows 10 the former
collect nor the former head of the
collapsed Bitcoin exchange mount Cox has
been charged in Japan with embezzlement
and with a 400 million dollar
sponsorship Microsoft has surfaced
tablets all over the NFL but the network
and hunters keep calling it an iPad
these stories are coming right up don't
go anywhere you've got mad skills now
hone them learn new skills or improve
your existing ones with online video
tutorials and training from Linda calm
through our special link at cat five dot
TV / Linda learn software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today to help you achieve your
professional goals join today and start
learning will give you this chance to
try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat5 dot TV / Linda I'm Sasha
through made us and here are the top
stories from the category 5 TV news room
patrick tres it has spent six years
building a set of robotic artist whose
drawings are remarkably accurate with a
camera for an eye robotic arm fertile a
robotic arm and an old school desk for a
body the robot called Paul is actually a
former in a theatrical installation
where passersby can stop and be drawn or
simply watch the sketching cyborg at
work as a scientist Patrick looks back
to when he was younger when he was
younger and was a passionate artist but
later life decided to pursue his second
love science he says I programmed the
robot to draw like I do I tend to use a
lot of lines and so Paul does too in
some sense Patrick was designing a
robotic version of his lost artistic
elf can I just thought for a second to
say how sad that is pick a moment I
silence I really wish that maybe he had
been a robot you know to do the work
side of things and then he just be like
he suddenly realizing that I'm never
going to actually be a professional
opera singer so dr. Speights I'll do it
for me I know okay it can take as little
as 20 minutes for Paul to produce the
works and Patrick says people are very
taken with him especially when he signs
his work of art with his very own
autograph the robot was born in a
university computing lab in Goldsmiths
University of London as a part of a PhD
research project if you'd like to have
Paul draw you visit the big draw launch
event at the Weston library in Oxford
this Saturday so cool all right
hopefully you don't have long lines
long-serving nintendo executive tatsumi
kimishima will be appointed president of
the firm following the death in july of
satoru iwata mr. kimishima has been a
managing director at the firm since jun
2013 and joined in two thousand the
company said several new appointments
were part of a large-scale revision of
Nintendo's organizational structure and
the changes will come into effect
tomorrow so that's that'll be an
interesting restructuring Nintendo is
going to maybe come up with some cool
new things about four thousand one
hundred people attended my invention at
the peterborough arena in the UK on
Saturday to meet star players and play
games but dozens of people said they
were in lineups for hours to meet gamers
or get food and are demanding refunds
the event which is not endorsed or
associated with minecraft developer
Mojang's started in Ireland and this was
its first time in the UK one parent
posted on Facebook that she stood in
line with her five-year-old son for over
an hour just for our 30 seconds of
gameplay time on a computer oh
another waited 45 minutes to get a
bottle of water Lisa O'Brien of O'Brien
event management said she did sympathize
with parents she said the lineup for 45
minutes to long due to a large amount of
people who turned up on the day of
rather than buying tickets in advance
she said the convention had never been
done to such a scale before and some
official merchandise did not arrive in
time for the event she said organizers
had taken on everyone the comments and
suggestions and would be meeting to work
out what went wrong adding that a
further statement would be issued on
Monday evening I will say this speaks to
how great social media and marketing is
working lately because people seem to be
more and more underprepared for these
conventions because all like the whole
world finds out about them all at the
same time right they may they may live
and learn in this situation um maybe
they should have started turning people
away i don't know but realistically I
think something like Minecraft where it
spans generations like you or I probably
wouldn't mind waiting in line to you
know meet dantdm or whoever and play the
game or whatever right but when you've
got little kids with you because it does
span the generations you've got a
four-year-old that you're holding their
hand for an hour in line just so that
they can just walk up to a computer and
then walk away they'd be heartbroken yes
I know that as a dad time to start
practicing your patience training it
happened in Toronto there was a mac and
cheese festival in toronto on mac and
she yes I macaroni and macaroni cheese
festival for this yes so that every all
of mac and cheese cooks we're competing
against each other yeah I'm in this
small little community in Toronto and
everybody found out about like my
next-door neighbor went to the mac and
cheese festival but because they were
only expecting everybody in the
neighborhood like kind of like a street
party and like I think it was like
50,000 people showed up and they ran out
of my cheese in with 25 minutes it
reminds me of another story where a lady
had posted on twitter that she was
having a house party and like a thousand
people showed up to this party and
destroy
her house that's a true story it was
fairly recently so I can't actually
fault to convention the minecraft
convention people because it just really
means social media is working very well
for them yes a bit well done all right
big news Microsoft's new Windows 10
operating system has been praised for
improving upon the flaws of its
predecessor but the company is facing
widespread criticism for what some are
calling invasive data collection under
its default privacy settings Windows 10
tracks the way users type what
applications they use their browsing
history and other personal information
Windows 10 also sends a weekly activity
update on children's web browsing and
computer history to their parents some
parents have publicly described
receiving those emails from Microsoft as
creepy while others warned that it could
serve to humiliate teams at a vulnerable
period in their lives I can't even
imagine okay can you know Microsoft is
basically playing the The Advocate you
know the person who's I've been watching
your children I know what they've been
searching for it's so easy feels creepy
because I mean yes they have this
program and the children's information
gets into the parents but that means of
parents information is also being
tracked absolutely yeah like everything
you do on Windows 10 everything you do
on your computer once you have Windows
10 is tracked completely tract is one
thing I used and reported upon okay
they're aggregating it into an email to
parents what are they doing with the
rest of it ah we don't know oh yeah i
forgot no conspiracy Stein yeah no
supposed to be no conspiracy right yeah
got sidetracked users have to actively
turn off the feature to stop the
tracking or at least well I bet you it
doesn't stop the tracking it probably
stops the reporting but on the tracking
you're just not fine where they know
yeah it's free remember
some experts argue that personal
information is the new currency of the
digital age and that the track
everything default settings of
Microsoft's latest operating system are
just the new normal for digital privacy
Microsoft did not respond to a request
for comment but the company has said it
uses the information to improve its
services and insists the information is
anonymized uh-huh yeah okay mark
cappellas the former head of Mount GOx
was arrested last month on charges that
he falsified data about how many
bitcoins mount cox possessed mal
shut down in February of last year after
it found that more than 850,000 bitcoins
worth more than 250 million dollars had
gone missing at the time it closed mouth
Cox was the world's biggest exchange of
bitcoins and handled about seventy
percent of the transactions in the view
in the virtual currency mr. Capella's
also faces charges that nearly three
million dollars in bitcoins was funneled
towards companies he owned a few months
before the exchange closed who the
charges were formally laid against mr.
carpelli zaz the six-week period that he
could be held without charge in Japan
were just about to expire so I guess
there'll be more to come on that
bitcoins have gone missing Microsoft is
still can't stop calling it an iPad the
200 or the 2015 NFL season officially
kicked off on Thursday with the first
game between the Steelers and the
Patriots after NBC returned from a
commercial break the network showed a
shot of Belichick working with one of
the many microsoft surface tablets that
are provided on the sidelines only
instead of talking about the league's
Microsoft partnership announcer Al
Michaels commented on how Belichick was
on his iPad
unfortunately for Microsoft this is not
the first time the NFL is totally
forgotten the name of the iPad last
season the announcers referred to the
surface as an iPad like tablet well
bears quarterback Jay Cutler called them
knockoff iPads I should already called
the surface and I've had in this news
story big thanks this week too sparkly
balls where I w Nash and our community
of viewers for submitting stories to us
if you found a new story you'd like to
send email at the newsroom at category 5
TV for all your tech news with a slight
Linux bias visit visit the category 5 TV
news room at newsroom category 5 TV for
the category 5 TV news room I'm Sasha
dramatis thanks Sasha this is category 5
technology TV i'm your host Ravi
Ferguson I'm christabel's love my teeny
drone teeny drones you can get one of
these from cap five dot TV / teeny
drones what do I love about this one
it's that I can fly it its first of all
it's cheap I can fly it and I can learn
to fly with an itty bitty thing that is
letting me experience and learn how to
fly a proper drone it's got a six axis
gyro and it's it's a real drone but it's
tiny if I crash it it's going to keep
flying looks like it's harder to break
it's a lot harder to break so I feel
more confident learning on one of these
than I would on one of these so having
learned on a teeny drone mm-hmm now I'm
ready to step it up and say okay let's
go to the next level but I still don't
want to spend three thousand dollars are
you with me I'm with you so what we're
going to look at is the syma x5c dash
one not to be mistaken for the identical
syma x5c figure that out you want to
look at it when you get it you can of
course get it through our shop camp five
dot TV / fly but if it's got the the red
X and the black 5c you know it's a dash
one they have fixed the ability to fly
and wind with the dash one model they
look the same it's really hard to tell
the difference if you go through our
website you're going to make sure that
the right one so this has a built-in
720p camera as well it does have the six
axis gyro so what that means when I say
that is that if for example the wind is
trying to make it go like this it senses
that with an accelerometer and it says
okay I got to push down with these
propellers and so it will actually
flatten itself out even though there's a
downward wind on this side similarly if
you if you have it in your hand and you
go like this you'll notice that two of
the propellers will turn off but and
these ones will fire up that tries to
right itself makes it a lot easier to
fly a lot more fun to fly I think as a
beginner because I don't have to worry
so much about crashing makes it a very
stable flight as I mentioned it's a 720p
camera this drone flies really well
we're going to see in just a moment but
it also is under a hundred dollars so
you can't go wrong right we're gonna so
let's let's actually take it right
outside all right let's get this yeah
let's see how this goes and if we're
good as far as technology goes I think
we've got cameras all around us every we
got the Wirecast cam we've got you up
here alright let's go Krista has to be
tethered to my fanny pack I was saying
this is the only time it is cool to wear
a fanny pack is when you're broadcasting
live if everybody wants to follow us out
we'll take it for it looks like a night
fly
this is the new antenna here if I can
show you this once Adam catches up to us
does the new intent i want to thank
everybody who helped us purchase this
this is actually pointed at that tower
across the street you can see it over
there and it has improved our internet
connection tonight very very well i
don't think we've had a single drop out
so should I start running Krista yeah
I'd started a job gonna see if I can
keep up all right so here it is the x5 c
dash one red is forward green is reverse
and i'm not sure because it's so dark
out here how we're going to turn out as
far as video goes but we can take it for
a test flight just to see that it is
going to fly sync up there we go so it's
very stable take it for a fly you
probably just seeing the lights Adam
how's that turning out all right what
I'm going to do i get actually on the
controller here if you can see the
controller in my hand I have a switch
here that is going to turn on the camera
and bring it down just a little ways so
that i can see if if the camera is
turning on there we go it's on so i'm
actually filming video right now in 720p
you're not going to get it's not like
marvin where you've got a you know two
or three thousand dollar drone you're
going to get beautiful quality but it
gives you the ability to shoot some
video it's a lot of fun and the price
point is pretty sweet for when you're
just learning so i can get this going
pretty fast pretty far but we're not
going to do that tonight just for the
sake of demonstration what is the range
on it the range it's a 2.4 gigahertz so
you're probably looking you could you
could go out of sight about a kilometer
or so so great for spying on your
neighbors is what you're saying ah
wouldn't suggest that the x5 c dash one
is available in our shop it's cat five
dot TV / fly and you'll see that we've
also got some other parts
therefore yeah it's it's actually kind
of nice flying this at night because I
can see the lights really really well in
this in the daylight you can sometimes
have some problems with seeing which
your orientation because you can't
really make out the lights when you're
up really high in the sky is super
bright so you can purchase additional
propellers put red propellers on the
front for example and then you'll be
able to orientate yourself a little bit
better at night time this is actually
kind of nice eh that's actually perfect
lighting right now there you go so all
right like I say fly is really nice we
have different options in our store for
example we've got extra battery packs a
charger that will charge up to five
batteries at once and once you've played
around with your teeny drone I think
this is a good next step and this also
kind of rings in today now we're two
weeks away from the end of season nine
category five TV network is growing as
you know we've got lots of shows that
have been starting up and one new show
that's starting this fall is called the
drone zone and the drone zone is going
to take you through training how to
actually fly these things and we're
really excited to be bringing that to
you as well so we'll bring it down just
a quick little demonstration for you as
we go back inside
should I take a picture like that okay
we can take still shots as well let's
take a look I can actually show you the
quality here two of the picture so let's
get it up just a little bit high enough
and I'll get a picture of all of us I
think it's really dark though so hey guy
took a few pictures that's all there is
to it that's the syma x5c and it does it
has an accelerated know if you want to
set it up and fly a lot faster than I
was flying right there I just had it in
kind of a beginner mode so that I
wouldn't crash it live on the air
because that would be and very live that
down so here let me get in then you
follow me there you go on all right good
stuff yeah thanks they go go to cap five
dot TV / fly and you'll be able to pick
that up head back into the studio
welcome to studio D by the way this is
kind of cool to bring in outside the
video al is asking this is al peck
everybody maybe we can we'll go into the
light so that people can sit the light
yeah walk into the light al is just
asking us where the video goes when when
I record and there's actually a little
micro SD card here and for the price
that's pretty impressive because it
actually came with a four gig micro SD
so everything out of the box is ready to
go it comes with one battery of 500
milliamp hours so you get about I don't
know about I think seven to 10 minutes
of flight time on that with recording on
the camera because that obviously uses
some power as well but it comes with all
that and then you can purchase 750ml amp
batteries to get a little bit more
flight time and I just carry them in my
pocket and they switch out just like
this there they are so for under 100
bucks the x5 c dash one is a great
learning drone because I don't feel like
I have to worry about crashing it as
much as I would if I had a
three-thousand-dollar drone so I might
actually get some use out of it I think
so yeah yeah and as we saw their the
video quality now that's the first time
we've taken night shot maybe I should
take an indoor shot so that you can just
see what it looks like
in light you go so there we are so there
we are in light anyways well you can see
it hovers nicely inside outside no
problem great perfect head back to the
set what do you guys think pritish nandy
who this is category 5 technology TV
again welcome to the studio I know we
don't often get a chance to walk around
like this but how cool is that thanks
there we go accessories I mentioned just
and just real quick now I'm repurposing
an old laptop bang I think that works
pretty well quick boo so here's what
I've got there's the charger that we
that we sell on our website it takes up
to five batteries that's pretty cool and
then it comes with some extra props p
crap if you crash damage your props
that's good it's got the prop guards as
well and then you can purchase extra
props for a little bit as well through
us is probably the best way to do it all
right I've really been enjoying it
anyways but there you have it very cool
so it's called the x5 c dash one from
semen it's available at cat five dot TV
/ fly forgot time for any more questions
while we're there was only a comment
love do you want the comment yeah let's
go for the comment and hey to the chat
room nice to see ya alright a comment
from Orangemen again he says dear all i
just found you could run a sec say to
drive on raspberry pi 2 by using an old
SATA to USB two interfaces they are
found in hard drive you can use with USB
to take the interface board out drive
boxcar fly and plug into the state of CD
DVD drive with no power to drive then
plug the
they used lead or the supposed to be us
be quite likely from interface board to
Raspberry Pi which on oh and I've got an
interface to connect the drive directly
to the class coming from orange man as
well which end of cd/dvd drive then plug
power into interface and power up your
Raspberry Pi and ask on desktop do you
want to open CD DVD disc remember to put
DVD or CD in Drive cool well thanks for
the post orange man appreciate that and
you know what I love is that orange man
is one of the many viewers who've gone
to our website picked up a Raspberry Pi
and this is a little micro computer that
Sasha put together on the show and have
been playing with it and here orange man
has taken even further than enough done
on the show and it's a lot of fun to
tinker and to actually build something
and feel like you did it yourself and
and there's a lot of cool projects that
you can do we're going to be doing some
of those on the show and yeah thanks
orange man glad you're enjoying it
having fun should we talk about you for
a minute I work this girl so hard folks
and as you know category 5 technology
technology TV has evolved into category
5 TV network and we've got many shows
that are currently broadcasting we've
got shows that we're expanding to be
broadcasting and that's part of our
growth model and our plans as we move
into season 9 season eight was a bit of
a time of transition as we kind of
developed that the the ability the
infrastructure to do network
broadcasting so that's part of why
through the course of season 8 we've had
kind of issues here and there with
websites or all of a sudden RSS feed
would go down it was because we were
rebuilding the entire infrastructure and
rolling it out across several shows all
at once so you know starting with new
every day and try a buy it the show show
newsroom all these different for a
broadcast coming from our servers so
part of that comes from our graphic
designer who
I guess we've been kind of pumping a lot
of logos your way yeah that's why I
haven't been on air it's our RVs fault
Krista does all our graphic design so
when you see the nice logos the show
shows I guess the most recent flying in
on the intro and everything and on our
website the show show TV that's all
Krista so with that being you know
growing into what you're doing with the
show I don't know if you want to talk to
the viewers for a minute mm-hmm Krista
will so much pressure oh yeah yeah I
have to break the news yeah cuz you just
want me to be the bad guy all right well
um with a led up to it and I said look
I'm working hard behind now as busy as I
cat5 has been getting an end and along
the side actually as busy as my own
businesses thing and getting on I can no
longer / take in a lot of the volunteer
activities that i have been on one of
them unfortunately as cat five so i will
no longer be on areas i will still be a
supporting background individual you
probably still see some my artwork the
logos the whatever Robbie sends my way
how's the drones update diligently yeah
I'm getting annoying emails from Robbie
going is it done yet is it done yet I do
that that happens it's true true story
at the same day I think it was yes yeah
it was I said when do you need it and
then you said is it done yet and yeah
well I'm glad to hear that your business
is doing well and you're keeping busy
yes and we love having you on air and I
guess there's always the opportunity to
come back once in a while but hopefully
that won't be the final say yeah well
here not here but I know if I if I stay
away for long enough and build up enough
suspense people are always happy to see
me back so and there's a lot of stuff of
Krista's done behind the scenes too i
mean there's a lot of work that went
into the studio space with the
renovation trying to teach Robbie how to
drywall yeah if you have not a man it's
on roku you can go on to Roku and go
into extras and special features and see
the studio d build but
very heavily involved in that so we
really appreciate you being a part of
the show and and everything behind the
scenes as well so but I guess that means
is that you won't be around on air for
no sorry for this will make Robbie very
happy I know I tend to beat his ego down
just about every time I'm on I know it's
a lot of fun yeah but yeah we've got a
lot of exciting stuff happening for
season nine I'm excited about what's
coming and you know that we've been
really trying to evolve category 5
technology TV to introduce some really
cool stuff one of the ways that you can
help us is through our patreon support
page patreon.com/lenguin Robbie really
yeah wow what else can we can we talk
about Sasha yeah any we don't actually
run out of topics before end of show
like that's that's all the emails I know
oh well let's let's talk about Windows
10 again that blows my mind actually you
know what blows my mind is the fact that
so many people are gonna download
Windows 10 as a free thing and then
they're gonna I I just it just gives me
the heebie-jeebies but they're all of
their stuff is gonna be very much you
know just I can't put into words how
crazy creepy it is that they watch
everything you do it's the inevitable
thing though I mean like like your news
said it's kind of the currency the going
currency right now on facebook well
Google kind of started it Facebook
really flew with it and now you know
where are we going I've mentioned it on
the show before I think what irks me a
little bit about Microsoft is that
they're your operating system so it's
not like going to Facebook and knowing
okay if i send Christa private message
it's not actually private it's being
aggregated it's being logged as being
saved
being shared it's being sold there's no
such thing as privacy on that platform
yes however I could always closed
Facebook and open notepad and type
something and I can rest assured that
nobody is watching that with windows
because it's the operating system I've
lost that I've lost that layer of being
able to say okay we'll have closed
Facebook so now I'm not being tracked or
watched or monitored well not so much
anymore so that's where it gets a little
bit exim but I love Linux so that's a
good alternative I think mm-hmm as a
question here from SAMCRO 69 yeah says
what Chromebook would you recommend for
linux eyes looking for a cheap
Chromebook I don't have any
recommendations for Chromebooks to be
honest sorry garbe would be a probably a
good guy to talk to about that because
he's followed those quite a bit more
than I have anything else wrong if
that's it Wow Krista people in the chat
room saying they're really gonna miss
you Dennis Kelly it's gonna miss you a
whiskey zero says you've been awesome I
try i'd spent funny i came into the show
it was supposed to be a temporary gig I
came into the show I think it's like for
a solid month or two I was on air with
you must be one episode yeah I was and
it was very at the very beginning of my
career and now we're kind of about the
like the plateau it take off for ya
where things are getting exciting so
it's been a lot of fun yeah and we've
had a good time yes most the time most
of the time yeah if you'd like to you
know if you want to keep in touch with
Krista of course you can email Krista at
category 5 may he and of course you can
email us as well live at category 5 TV
but send your regards to Krista at
category 5 TV as she takes over just
doing graphic design yeah back-end work
yeah you gotta keep the camera for the
pretty people
alright folks will have a great week
it's been a lot of fun tonight I don't
forget to go to cap 5 TV / fly check out
the drones we've got there and the
accessories and let me know how you make
out and once you've got them of course
as I say the drone zone is going to be
starting up we're going to take you
right through and teach you how to fly
those things so they don't have to worry
so much about crashing I have a
fantastic week everybody see you next
Tuesday we hope you enjoyed the show
category 5 TV broadcasts live from
Barrie Ontario Canada every tuesday at
seven pm eastern if you're watching this
on demand or through cable TV check out
the local show times in your area at
category 5 TV and find out when you can
watch live and interact in the community
chat room category 5 is a production of
prodigy digital solutions and is
licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada we'll see you
next time thanks for tuning in
