[Music]
hi and thanks for tuning into the
endpoint security dot CA podcast from
positive e solutions I'm Robbie Ferguson
and through the course of this podcast
combined with our blog we want to
provide you with a free resource to be
able to educate yourself and your staff
about the cybersecurity issues that are
affecting you and your company in 2019
first just a quick bulletin here at
positive e solutions we don't tend to
toot our own horn much but it is great
when we get good news from our company
partners James Chalmers the Director of
Sales at ESET Canada just contacted us
to say and I quote I am very happy to
tell you that positive solutions has
been recognized as our 2018 MVP for ESET
Canada congratulations your ongoing
engagement with us your growth and
general support of ESET has not gone
unnoticed at the highest levels and we
definitely feel positive he is well
deserving of this award unquote we were
recognized at the ESET north-american
partner conference at the Hard Rock
Hotel in San Diego this week so there
you go some industry endorsement that
recognizes the work that we continue to
perform and which we love to do and
ensuring that you our clients stay safe
and secure now on with the show this
week the Internet of Things and the
industrial Internet of Things continue
to usher in new levels of confidence for
consumers and Industry alike but these
come with hidden dangers people smart
home devices like door locks and smart
thermostats make life a little easier
and safer on the home front
while cloud-based devices for industry
save time and increase productivity for
workers around the world their sheer
usefulness comes from the fact that
these devices and tools are connected to
the Internet either directly or through
routers or other devices now this means
that all of these things are
inextricably connected together
so is that really a smart thing joining
me today is Tony an skom a global
security evangelist and Industry
ambassador for ESET Tony was with us a
few weeks back as we laid out some of
the predictions for 2019 Tony welcome
back
Tony a basic question to start us off
today at this point in technology
history so we're at early 2019 as we
record this which is bigger the
industrial Internet of Things or the
Internet of Things and in other words
the industry versus consumer markets we
need to kind of try and define what we
mean by IO IO T and IOT because IOT has
this big consumer market as you just
mentioned but III see you know there's
different definitions out there does it
include smart building smart cities does
it include alternative or I'll be
talking about sensors and automated
predictive technology in manufacturing
oil gas utilities etc so if we took if
we take that latter part just
manufacturing etc i io T has been around
a lot longer if you now have a
manufacturing plant with robots on it
etc you know those production lines have
been using sensors to look at predictive
maintenance for a long time you look at
analyst predictions for 2020 they they
already predict that i io t is about
double the size of IOT but it's a much
bigger industry okay and what falls in
between we we're you kind of alluded to
the fact that you know I IOT versus IOT
and there's some gray matter in the
middle what what falls into that space
well the gray piece in the middle are
smart cities smart buildings think about
an office building today if we were to
build a brand-new office we will we will
put in air quality sensors you will
things that monitor people movements you
know where people are in the building so
you could selectively turn
lights or turn on the heating or on the
air-conditioning and actually saved a
lot of money in fact I think one of the
hotels in Las Vegas actually recently
last year put in IOT sensors into one of
their buildings and purely to look after
air-conditioning so the only
air-conditioning places where actual
people are so for example in rooms and I
think they say I think the last I saw
was they've saved in one building around
2 million dollars a year conditioning
costs so well it means our buildings are
actually generating their living and
breathing and generating data when you
analyze that data you can look at how to
actually increase productivity or how to
increase the environment for employees
and the company and for millennia we've
been saying oh did I remember to turn
off the lights before we left or did I
remember to close the garage door so the
thought of IOT or IOT being able to do
those things for us automatically it
really is the natural evolution of
technology are there particular areas of
in the industry where i io t are really
taking off what example is where you
have manufacturing plants so for example
Airbus the the aircraft manufacturer
used iEARN a IOT devices in their
production line it in Crete it increases
safety it increases production it allows
them to be predictive maintenance on
when they see robotics actually breaking
down so they can actually stop the
production line or take that robot out a
new one in without loss loss of
production so it increases productivity
but they also gave their employees on
the production line
wearable technology to increase safety
so they now the employees actually have
peyote wearable glasses witching also
improves quality because you can see
whether the employee is actually doing
exactly the right thing because in
aircraft design we want to make sure
that they want to make sure that
absolutely the right thing is done
because there are safety is paramount
Wow it's amazing absolutely amazing and
it's run through my head like how much
learning can play into all this types of
these types of Technology and we'll talk
about that in just a moment but one of
your colleagues ESET senior security
researcher Camilo Gutierrez Amaya
recently pointed out how the humble home
router is becoming a hub for home-based
IOT traffic because of this Tony he says
that with lacks password security and
those devices this is becoming a real
serious point of weakness can you
pinpoint in like a similar sleeper
technology in industry that people
should be looking out for looking more
closely at I think there are some big
differences here I mean typically IOT
devices we put into our home you would
want to drag out your smartphone in just
a moment and I love the dog the Amazon
guide to come in and leave your package
so therefore the devices we we use as
consumers we naturally want the product
to share data across the public network
and we don't have the facility to store
the data or now if you move into you
know let's go back to my Airbus example
if you move into a big manufacturer or
enterprise in that way a data probably
never leaves their network a danger is
probably on their servers in their
behind their firewalls and there is a
huge difference here however that
doesn't mean there's not the same
vulnerabilities yeah if you take any
computing device it runs on software
even if it's not obvious that our
software there is software of running
the hardware so ie based in the actual
firmware at the device itself and all
these that you know we all know that
software has vulnerabilities all
software has vulnerabilities and it's a
continual game of updating the software
to make sure those vulnerabilities as
they're found are patched here those
bugs are fixed and add additional
security mechanisms are put into the
devices so if is other similarities yes
are there similarities across the public
network I think those are more limited
unless of course you're talking like a
high track system so in the building
your city I was just gonna say we had
that discussion and and yeah you used
that example of the HVAC system we
talked about there what
and a target and you know those kinds of
things let's let's reiterate that well
you may have a sensor on your HVAC
system where an engineering company who
do the outside maintenance on that
system may actually have a connection
across your network and therefore plot
your company's infrastructure now is
actually connected to the internet so
they can do remote diagnosis maintenance
maybe you know maybe tether heat up and
down was one of the big problems there
is if they've got access then
potentially a hacker commit that can try
and access and is it something the IT
security team I'm thinking about you
know we also they're probably sitting
behind their desks worrying about
customer data machines etc are they
actually thinking about the industrial
room in the basement that's in the
building and some remote diagnostic port
and a hacker potentially could come in
and turn up the heat or more importantly
turn up the air-conditioning and
suddenly make your building
uninhabitable no yeah for an office yeah
it could be really disruptive but now
think of a hospital our dear yeah if you
turn up the heat in a hospital you
probably have to evacuate so it can be
life-threatening as well oh do we expect
to see that they ransomware well my
colleague Stephen Quebec she is to term
this recently seen where yeah so
potentially there is a growing concern
here that actually as you as you put
more of these IOT devices in place that
actually really we're giving attack as a
new place to go and attack our companies
and our our infrastructure yeah and you
kind of you mentioned how companies may
have that data stored internally on
servers so you think about IOT and and
you think well this is not going out on
the internet we fall into that kind of
complacent position where we believe
that we have control over our data
because it's stored in house or it's on
our own infrastructure but when you have
that one entry point it could be just
one entry point it could be that one
computer that we've forgotten about
because you know somebody used to use it
to remote into their desktop at the
office
they have administrator privileges on
the network and now all of a sudden
we've got this entry point I heard about
a company this week that is on the verge
of going out of business because one
server got compromised and then the
attacker was able to wipe out all the
data on all their connected servers
because the server that they were able
to compromise how to access to all of
those other devices as an administrator
yeah everything that company is
destroyed and it's tragic and you just
don't think that that one server is
going to be an entry point for all of
those things that you otherwise would
think are secure because they're on your
internal network yes get that backup
off-site take it away so it's physically
separated from the network physically
separated from the building because we
don't know what types of disasters could
occur Tony as we know the the terms
artificial intelligence and machine
learning are used in all sorts of ways
and I wanted to to touch on this what
steps are being taken to use AI and ml
to chase down hackers in a proactive way
because I think about what could be used
like pattern recognition anomaly
detection those things aren't new but
are there newer developments like say
precognition from the movie Minority
Report for example is a really
interesting subject
firstly let's try to find AI and they're
now artificial intelligence really means
when of machine starts learning and can
create its own algorithms so pretty much
I think everything that's done today is
more about machine learning but commonly
called AI so artificial intelligence but
think about how we here at Lisa we use
machine learning to categorize things as
they come in so we've got all this rich
data from all the endpoints we collect
all the states where we look for the bad
stuff and then we can
start looking to see how we identify new
bad things as they come in and it
becomes more and more efficient the more
and more data you have you should you
start doing predictive could you turn
and say well the person three doors down
for me as in the Minority Report might
one day become a hacker I think we're a
long way from that yet yeah I got a son
at home that I just said today that boy
might become a hacker make me proud boy
but yeah but you also raise a really
good point see you said about the
analytics so if if a company if you
could collect all the company's data
together can you look for the anomalies
in traffic for example you know if
you've got ten thousand machines and 999
of them have a particular traffic
pattern you've got this one that's keeps
connecting to some serving you don't
know about and it's going to some
strange place well you should go
investigate and only the power of data
actually allows you to see that and it's
only in the last I would say three to
five years where data storage has become
low-cost enough available enough and the
skill sets of data scientists and
analysts are out there that you can
actually bring those skills and bugs and
that is a very onerous task for us IT
admins so is that something that we're
gonna see artificial intelligence
machine learning start to take over in
the industry let's be really clear I
think your example actually just then
you might have met somebody you think
could become a hacker if you have
machine learning and artificial
intelligence are great they're
supplemental to human expertise yeah
because yeah you can have data output
but you need an expert to sit there and
understand the outlook all right so what
are your comments Tony even your
thoughts or worries about the industrial
Internet of Things in general and what
recommendations would you want to pass
along to IT specialist and even the
c-suite regarding the impact of IOT on
security in general there are lots of
things go
all these devices around software
they've all got sticky they're not some
of them not built with security in mind
you know their functionality and feature
set in mind you know so make sure
they're actually devices that you're
putting into your environment have been
built with security you know from the
outset not added as a later stage or not
even there at all but make sure that
you're thinking about those devices and
when they're connected to your network
you're making sure they they are not
vulnerable they they are in the right
place in your network yeah
maybe some of them belong in DMZ but
maybe some of them you know she should
have software updated more frequently
who has access to them why would they
have access your dual the features need
to be turned on one of the big things
without any any connecting devices what
where is it storing it's dying sir is it
you know is it passing data back to you
is it also still talking back to the
manufacturer of the device is it is it's
got this other connection understand
where data goes what data is being
collected and who has access to it so
there's lots of lots of consider
considerations in there but let's be
really clear I think we're also on the
cusp of a change in humanity you know we
talk about IOT yeah IOT as being kind of
the kettles and toasters and the webcams
and the locks on our doors
I am ot looking at robotics and things
like that
but when we get cities and buildings
connected yeah when you think about
googling for that your local best coffee
in the coffee shop in two years time you
might actually be saying I'd like to
have the cleanest air in the city and
the best coffee which shop has the best
air quality at this moment soon as I
want to sit outside
there'll be air quality sensors there'd
be pollution census there being water
sensors and utility sensors they're
gonna read traffic sensors there's gonna
be every part of our line will be
connected in fact I think we'll have
trouble escaping it
and yet it's it's brilliant and yet a
little bit on the Arminius side at the
same time
Tony think it is so much man
sorry I interrupted you there go ahead
there is a better
visual sight as well Tony thank you so
much your ongoing insight is greatly
appreciated and it's always a pleasure
having you on the endpoint security dot
CA podcast it's great to be here at
endpoint security dot CA we are
obviously very concerned with the safety
and security of our customers their
businesses and their data but as our
chat here shows the concern can't end
there we have a blog that follows on
from this conversation and you can find
it at blog dot endpoint security dot CA
as always as you know our close
relationship with the experts at ESET
means that we at positive e solutions
have your back so thank you again Tony
for joining me today and thanks to you
for joining us as well stay safe out
there and be sure to visit us again for
the next chapter in our ongoing series
on cyber security for Canadian business
from positive e solutions I'm Robbie
Ferguson
