welcome to part three of helps Asha
build the dream gaming computer thank
you on part one we kind of learned where
you wanted to go with it what your
budget was what your dream is of this
beautiful computer for your soon-to-be
husband eh that's right mm-hmm
great computer in the living room to
showcase to all your friends very cool
so that's what we did on part 1 part 2
week we got started by selecting a
processor we decided you know what let's
take some advice from the chat room and
select our processor first and then
build out from that so this week we've
spent some time back and forth in the
forum in the chat room and and really
got a lot of help from viewers to figure
out ok what motherboard are we gonna go
with what chassis are we gonna go with
what power supply all these kind of
components and even little things like
Garbi mentioning don't forget to get
some thermal paste well it's such a
simple thing and you know well yeah
we're gonna stick a heatsink on top of
that CPU we need something called
thermal paste to make sure that we get a
good seal oh that's gonna make sure that
it runs as cool as possible right
I found you know what I found out what
did you follow I was in the studio was
it last week and the battery from my
bike burned out but can you use one of
those 2032 yeah she's got she's on her
bike and she's like I my lights aren't
working I said well what are they were
chargeable no they're not rechargeable I
got to replace them they're like watch
batteries or something I said well what
are they and so she showed me and they
said cr2032 mm-hmm so I pulled a CR
twenty thirty two out of two computers
that we got just sitting here and I got
a reset my rate controllers fantastic
that's the battery that you and your new
computer's gonna have that battery that
cr2032 maintains power to the circuits
even when the power is unplugged or
turned off so that all of the
configuration settings are remembered
so does it come already or am i ordering
it separate it comes with the battery
it's so good yeah comes on the
motherboard okay so first of all before
we get into a big thanks to all of our
viewers who have helped us out with the
product selection we had Garvey was
instrumental in
in this loved friend NiCad c128 d the
fou Albuquerque turkey
Trevor Hanwell sparkly balls text uh
dear big kitty and so many more I know
that a lot of you helped out in the chat
room can I just say like I've been
reading in late
I've been reading everything I can and
I've been not really understanding at
all and I will tell you each
individually how incredibly smart you
are I am just like amongst two geniuses
because I have no clue what you're
talking about but I'm pretty good I'll
throw 20 100 bucks at that get her a
toaster with lights and that was my
suggestion I really honestly am blown
away by well I what I don't know
and also how amazingly knowledgeable you
are thank you and thank you and it's
been a process we've been back and forth
we we were very very close to switching
to a Rison processor last like Thursday
because it was suggested and we started
doing some research but the foo reminded
me that Rison has some issues in Linux
and a lot of folks are experiencing this
where the Rison processor will seg fault
and that means basically your computer
crashes and Sasha you're going with
Linux we want stability we want rock
solid stability proven tried and true
Intel is that Intel you know no matter
what you think of the company they make
good processors and they are very good
for Linux so so we started looking at
okay so yeah I was very tempted by rise
and I'll tell you why best bang for the
buck mm-hmm more power for the same
price more cores like things like that
real sweet selling points like wow twice
as many cores higher base frequencies
that's awesome for the same price what
but then we started looking at stability
and I started reading you know the
benchmarks look fantastic but then you
start reading about how certain types of
RAM
will cause the Rison to underperform and
there's all these kinds of issues that
hopefully AMD will release a firmware
patch for and nobody really knows when
and so it's just so wishy-washy and not
quite there yet so so then we started
looking at the 77 40 X and the thinking
there is we were looking at the 70 700 K
okay so this is the processor this is
the brains okay we're looking at that
last week and that's what we ultimately
decided on at the end of last week's
episode part to the 7700 K is basically
the end of the line for the I think it's
the 1151 socket the the socket that it
goes in so you think about you know when
you plug in the chip it has to fit into
the socket well this is kind of the last
one so there's no there's no upgrade
path of the processor from this point so
if you ever wanted to upgrade the
processor it you're gonna be replacing
the motherboard as well which means more
RAM and everything else so a Garbi and I
started talking about a chatroom started
talking about it we started talking
about it in the forum let's look at the
77 40 X which is the next line which is
going to take us into a new socket and
that socket is future-ready because it
is basically the new socket so and now
we're looking at the 77 40 which is a
little bit higher base frequency a
little tiny itty-bitty bit faster in
theory than the 70 700k but it's the
base of I think it's the entry level for
this new socket so you can always
upgrade the processor from there but
then we kind of looking at the prices
and things like that and yeah it's
almost on par but there aren't
peripherals available for that socket so
here in canada we know one of the one of
the things we have to look at is we need
to cool this thing well here in canada
there are actually no CPU coolers yet
available for the 77 40 X and it's not
it doesn't come with one so we can't
even get away with using a stock fan
cooler so I looked at Canada computers
none I looked on Amazon none I looked
amazon.com Garbi did as well we found
one CPU cooler
it doesn't ship to Canada so then we
start looking ok maybe this is too new
and then I start thinking well what if
the 7740 you know because it is like
it's newer and what if there are
problems what if there are things we
don't know about and then I start
reading about comparisons and people
still can saying you know go with the
7700 K for now because it's
tried-and-true it's rock-solid it's
proven to be an amazing gaming processor
can do 4k video can do all that stuff
mm-hmm so it's it's known to be good and
so why not go that route so then I said
well but you can't upgrade the CPU
there's no forward path for this CPU
Garbi made Garbi hit on it he got he
made the point when is Sascha gonna
upgrade her CPU really when is it gonna
happen and I realized that you're not no
no no I know you're not like if you want
a faster car you're not gonna replace
the engine you're gonna just sell your
car and buy a new car right if you want
a faster computer or a different
computer five years from now you're not
gonna go through the upgrade process
you're gonna get what's current at that
time so that's you know simply put it
really starts to be clear that the 7700
K is a good choice for this yeah and
good bang for the buck proven tried and
true let's get into it
join me at the forum cat5 dot TV slash
cpu 2017 just like it sounds so cat5 dot
TV slash cpu two zero one
did I say 2014 2017 okay - zero one
seven that's right okay so you'll see
that we have now Sasha essentially
finalized our shopping list but I have a
couple of questions for you just really
get into it now first of all we know the
processor that's all we know
that's that alright good starts as far
as we got but hey mmm what do we need
next we need a computer chassis we need
to put that processor on a motherboard
we need RAM for that mother a
motherboard all this kind of stuff so
first thing we need to look at is the
motherboard right now I had started
pricing them out Sasha and they were
like four hundred four hundred fifty
dollars just for the motherboard and
Garbi said why are you doing that mm-hmm
and then he sends me a link to one this
180 some odd dollars
it's a beautiful board it's again tried
and true the reviews are fantastic no
I'm wrong it's not MSI we were looking
at him at MSI this is actually a
republic of gamer fantastic Oh better so
this is an ro G from assist oh it really
is I don't know why I still had MSI in
my head let's take a look so this is oh
and this is this is showing as more than
I had just said maybe we had switched it
Sasha we have been over so many
different boards and things what do I
have the price at ok pardon me it's 260
299 is what I had priced it at so that
was my mistake when I said 180 I think
that was a different board that we could
have in our best price maybe maybe yeah
yes that's quite possible but it is so
Sasha here's the motherboard so this is
the internal system board for your
computer ok first thing that's the
socket ok so that's where the CPU goes
in those slots at the right hand side
the for them that you see those are
those are for your RAM we've got solid
state capacitors nice good solid
motherboard we've got the GoPro heatsink
actually lights up apparently there's
your CR 2 O 3 2 that the battery there
we've got a couple of PCIe slots so
we've got a x16 why is your Start button
on the bottom of it well you can
actually it well let's see you've you've
probably got yeah you see the LED at the
top right there that says 88 yeah so
that is basically for Diagnostics
during the build if you ever have any
problems it'll show you a code in
numbers and you can power it off power
and things like that's what the case
buttons aren't work it's really for
Diagnostics and it's a powerboard like
it's pretty sweet for the dollars so
that's cool very cool
now it does not come with any onboard
video cards it looks like so good we're
gonna have to make sure that we take
care of something had this discussion
Jeff because she's got a 4k 60-inch TV
yeah you don't want to go with them
we're not going with onboard video new
now but that said we are going with
onboard audio because this one has a
nice built-in sound card and it's 7.1 oh
it has yeah it has optical output
it's got 7.1 analog outputs you can see
them there I'm not sure if we have a
close-up of the back here but you can
see there the the s/pdif out and the 7.1
outputs as well so USB 3 yeah I've got
us there yeah and onboard as well so you
see the headers there so we're gonna be
able to use a case that has top USB
ports like you want it yeah ok so now
we've got an ATX full sized motherboard
well let's get a look at the case so the
one I was really intrigued with I'm just
gonna do a quick search for thermaltake
I use all Thermaltake chassés here I
love them they make some really good
stuff and the first
c22 I think it is yes I love this one
oh it's gorgeous but you see what I like
about a sash it's got built-in LEDs ok
it's already there you don't have to buy
LED upgrade kits and things like that ok
rice is insanely cheap heck seriously so
yeah so then I'm looking at you know so
one of the things that Eric is a concern
for me I have to think of everything for
you thank you she wants to go with Linux
so you when we buy a case that has
built-in LEDs what's the one thing we
can run into a problem with just any
guesses no windows driver software so if
if the case uses an LED controller that
requires software to do it to control it
to change it Sasha said I don't want
rainbow well I say oh you can set it to
just read what if the software was a
Windows only piece of
software so turns out this particular
case has a controller built in that is
button presses on the top so over here
there are buttons that you can actually
press it's a hardware controller you
don't need any software to change the
LEDs so looking at that sash let's get
down here in the images there are some
pictures that I like I like a lot there
we go see so look at all the different
color schemes that you can use with the
LEDs yeah well there's a black one okay
Oh show me black and red show me black a
middle black and Owen red that is nice
so are we thinking of that is a Cylon
right there okay so do we want to take a
look at the black one I think so all
right so let's go back here yeah I mean
if well what what this what would Dave
do WWD D I believe Dave would pick the
black one okay white one so let's pick
the black one
okay so scroll up here and Amazon has
got them all couple together now the
price has gone up 20 bucks to go black
Wow look at that so it's got a glass
side so they're gonna see the inside we
wanted something you're gonna see the
internal components yeah you need to
blow everybody away last side does not
have any screw holes for an additional
fan for the chassis so a fan on the
exterior yes of the case there's one at
the back but there's no outside is that
going to be an issue for the processor
like I know you can get some case deep
this is a full-size case okay so to mid
tower so maybe we should look at a fan
that is going to be cross draft not
blowing out right or blowing and pulling
in right so something that's blowing the
the air across so from the front to the
back yes and then we're gonna blow it
out the back with the 120mm fan that
comes with it there is a place in the
front
as well as in the top for another 120mm
fan okay which you can buy separately
right but so we're gonna look at it
we're gonna look at a CPU cooler that is
going to be side mount I'm gonna show
you what that's gonna look like all
right - cool okay all right so
Thermaltake again they make good CPU
coolers let's get a look at that so
here's one ever had a bad one from
Thermaltake no I agree and I mean it's
120mm fan you can replace it if you want
but this is a 120 mil Thermaltake silent
fan they are so quiet so beautiful so
that is side blow we're gonna call it
it's not pulling the air down it's
pulling it across the fins okay so
that's what it's gonna look like all
right on a motherboard so that should
work quite well on that yes very good
okay what else do we need Ram yes oh boy
which is random access memory yes nicely
five years on the show Garvey said you
know and I totally agree with this
you've got a look at the Kingston fury
Ram this is the high tech fury it is
built for gaming okay
beautiful stuff it has built-in cooling
so it has its own built-in heat sink
because it's gonna get warm because
we're probably gonna overclock this bad
boy you know so you want something that
has built-in heat sinks so here you go
now I know that this is not what Garbi
had in mind yeah but I want you to have
kind of out the gate something pretty
smashing sweet so this is the Kingston
HyperX fury black 32 gig set it's 2-2
Sims now your motherboard can handle up
to 64 gigs so you could buy two of these
sets for four modules and you could have
64 gigs of RAM
these ones run at 2600 66 megahertz
superfast okay so these are good
probably best
yes when I was buying my computer last
year I was looking at this Ram and I
just I couldn't uh I couldn't get the
price
four hundred and seven dollars and 26
cents Asha right so we're talking the
RAM itself is valued about the same as
our processor which is you know the CPU
itself is four hundred and twenty nine
ninety but the RAM is like your
processor the brains of the computer the
RAM is what makes it perform okay
because if you've got bad Ram you're
gonna have it crashing out you're gonna
have problems or maybe just not getting
the speed that your computer is capable
of so having great Ram from Kingston
it's gonna make sure that it's perfectly
capable it's gonna be amazing right so
all right next up we talked about this
storage what we need as far as two
things first of all operating system
mm-hmm so that's gonna be Linux and then
your your data drive
that's for storage that's for your
videos for the game data and things like
that okay so we want basically two
storage mediums I like to do it that way
because then we can use Cheaper by the
gigabyte storage for data and more
expensive but super screaming fast for
the operating system and which is
important software yeah so then we get
the best speed for the dollar right
rather than him pardon me and I excuse
excuse the frog in my throat but then
we're getting the best bang for the buck
with the most amount of storage space
and the most amount of capacity right
that we can get for the dollar so Linden
no pardon me it wasn't Linden it was
let's see I've got notes here loved
friend loved friend mentioned and really
put me on to ok the motherboard supports
m2 m dot 2 m dot 2 as we mentioned last
week is super super fast one gajillion
terabytes per second super fast no SATA
SATA hard drives SSD are limited to the
bus that they're on SATA so you're gonna
get you know my my drives are about 550
megabytes a second
which is fantastic m2 you can get like
almost 2,000 megabytes a second for a
while yeah it's like four times the
speed so they're very very fast but
they're they're more money for the per
gigabyte so we're gonna stick a small
one in there for you Sasha so we're
gonna go with a 240 gig Kingston KC 1000
I believe is probably the one that we're
gonna opt toward it is it's an m2 card
and it's going to give you that storage
but it's only 240 gigs so it's strictly
for the operating system okay
yeah that's five for an OS yeah I think
so so there you go
210 bucks and 59 cents for 240 getting's
super super fast I wonder if it's got
specs here as far as speed goes
megabytes amazon.ca is a little limited
compared to calm yeah calm but so it's
an M - it's like a chip instead of a
hard drive right and it's super super
fast okay so that's gonna run all your
programs your games and steam everything
else okay
then we need storage so we're gonna look
at an SSD Garbi again pointed out that
we probably don't need to go with a raid
as long as we go with a good quality SSD
because SSDs these days have gotten so
reliable now raid is nice because you've
got redundancy if a drive ever fails you
can pull it out and put in another one
don't lose any data
so of course cost is a is kind of a
factor here so we need to we're getting
to our budget now at this point so we're
gonna go with onedrive and I'm gonna
just tell you you need to keep a backup
of things that are important to you
that's that's a given yep and that's
just the way it is so I've been bit mmm
my wife didn't back up her Mac when we
lost all of our photos that happens yep
yeah so do keep a backup okay so I know
that's not part of this budget but get a
backup drive get something that you can
copy things on to so that there's a
redundancy can I wait till our
anniversary
yes yeah it's one computer part per year
yeah take you a while it's gonna take
you a while to fill it up we're gonna
now our the m2 is is from Kingston's you
know it's the business grade super sleek
super fast super reliable module as far
as storage goes now we're going to take
a different approach for the data drive
because now we can get into SSDs that
are built for gaming so we're gonna of
course we're gonna look at the HyperX
savage there's a 960 gig drive that's
available for just under 500 bucks
ok so that is that's a terabyte Kingston
HyperX savage drive for 500 bucks so the
speed of these 4 SSDs are Savage
well we did that one episode where we're
clocking them were we using a sandwich
drive for the less yes we were it was
like unbelievably fast this performance
gain and like if you if you're running a
spinning drive throw one of these in
your computer and you will be blown away
it was unreal I was last season I think
it's possible do a search on our website
kingston yeah
category 5 TV so good so this drive is
screamin fast it's got a lot of storage
for you Sasha
and bang for the buck it's gonna have a
like a terabyte of storage space for you
but it's an SSD so you get speed of an
SSD and a good one and you get the
reliability of an SSD and you've got
enough space to store your stuff ok
moving along we're almost there excited
yes are you getting scared of the price
yes I know but I mean truth be told I
sold my cars we all know right oh good
she sold her car for this folks no
pressure so from the sale of my car I
paid off an outstanding line of credit
right and but then I also had a little
chunk of savings that I knew like I was
going to use in a positive manner I just
wasn't sure exactly the point what I was
gonna do with it so I have it I have the
savings for something like this and who
better to give it to than davon what
better use than building him a computer
perfect if you're gonna get a lot out of
this as well
I'm totally this is a for me for
to entail so as you continue on through
our list now our price is getting a
little high here because it is a really
sweet gaming system just remind you that
Sasha's budget is $2,100 so what we want
to do is you know go to our forum cat5
dot TV slash CPU two zero one seven
you'll see a link there you can go to
donate category five TV there's actually
a drop-down where you can increase
Sasha's budget by contributing to her
wedding as well yeah so we're gonna do
this so don't get scared Sasha when you
see the price it's gonna happen okay so
I know your budget we're not gonna go
over your budget but we are gonna okay
so looking at the graphics processor
speaking of going overboard it's one of
those tough things where you know you
can spend this and it's high to get
because you need VR you need you need 4k
is the big thing right now but as well
be ready for VR as well so realistically
you know starting price is pretty high
as it is so then do you go with just the
base like ten sixty or do you up it to a
10 7 T and better cooling and better
card pay more but it's you know where do
you where so it's finding that happy
medium so that's why we are gonna go
with the GTX 1078 gigabyte with dual fan
and that's Anna soos card as well but
this one is a smash in our budget Sasha
the price point that's four out of five
stars it's the GTX 1074 masseuse and
it's got the dual cooling system it's a
beautiful card it's ready for VR it's
ready for anything that you can throw at
it based on today's stuff Sasha and this
one is the base clock is 1797 megahertz
as opposed to you know stepping down one
card which is still 579 bucks is only
1506 megahertz so you're gonna get a lot
more speed performance out of this one
so there you go so that's the video card
so what do we need to look at here what
what have I
observe with this card of course is the
the interfaces so you need HDMI output
for your TV and there's two of them
nicer vicked okay so having two means
that's VR ready you can have a VR
headset and you can have your TV hooked
up at the same time very cool wait so if
that happened this is might be a just a
dumb question I don't know dumb
questions okay so if you can have the VR
headset on yes
we're not buying a VR have no that's
part of the bill but no future-ready be
ready for it
so if dave is playing like virtual
reality reality game TV like I would be
able to see what he sees on the TV okay
I just want to make sure I didn't watch
him play it's also got DisplayPort it's
also got DVI absolutely you're set yeah
or just you know it's a I'll just get a
second hit set that works too there you
go
that sounds good we can hang it together
and it alter alternate reality power
supply now I like thermaltake power
supplies I use the tough powers and you
know good good quality Thermaltake PS
use C 128 D is like no don't go with
thermaltake pouch my hands they suck
that's what he is telling me no they die
the problem is there is this thing that
happens in computing where brands try to
get all of the markets saturated so they
bring out the consumer line which are
basically garbage they bring out the the
higher-end business line and the gaming
line and those are the good ones
mm-hmm yep but the consumer stuff and I
mean when I say consumer I don't mean
all consumer things are garbage I mean I
mean companies will bring out a two
hundred dollar laptop and a seven
hundred dollar laptop and a sixteen
hundred dollar laptop well guess which
one is the best and guess why Apple is
perceived as being better quality it's
because they don't do the consumer great
stuff so it's not that PC versus Mac
dollar-for-dollar is any different it's
that PC tends to have a lot of junk
lower end stuff yeah so thermaltake is
no exception
you know Acer does it HP does it they've
got all these different lines and
Thermaltake has the entry-level cheap
stuff and they've got the really good
stuff but that said I do want a good
power supply for this system it's got to
be
reliable and what says reliability other
than a 10-year warranty
what says good quality other than 80
plus gold certification and so that is
why I'm actually leaning toward a
Corsair PSU so that's what I've got
Corsairs our MX series they've got the
our MX 850 axis an 850 watt power supply
fully modular everything that I
mentioned their 10 year warranty tells
me that they believe in it it's only 174
bucks and 44 cents so when I say only
it's actually cheaper than what I would
call maybe an equivalent Thermaltake I
have that power supply this is what we
want it is a great house it never failed
you Jeff dude has it ever let you down
you have it is a great power supply and
with a 10 year warranty I mean that just
tells me that they believe in the
product oh yeah some people say I don't
care about warranty I don't need
warranty I mean that's probably me but
when I see a one-year warranty I think
they probably are gonna fail after
heating right when I see a 10 year
warranty I think I'm gonna be replacing
my computer before this thing is dead
yes mm-hmm
guaranteed okay so after the power
supply you know we're getting into the
real nitty gritty here we've chosen her
case I guess the only thing left Sasha
yes mm keyboard and mouse I can get one
for 40 bucks it looks like this whoo all
right so we wanted something Wireless so
that go see I'm super happy I picked
black well I went I changed it to black
I had a white one selected and then I
got the black version instead nice and I
even chose red keys for you they have it
in all different colors but I chose red
I thought Dave might like that Dave will
like that does the keyboard light up the
keyboard does not light up as far as I
know okay how it is Wireless with a $40
price tag and being Wireless and all
that stuff and also the motherboard
comes with a mousepad incidentally
really so you've got all the stuff Oh
for a killer gaming system now don't
forget you're gonna need to add some
batteries for the keyboard and mouse so
keep that okay just grab some you know
eco alkaline zs-- from
hardware wherever you can find them then
you're you're good to go good to go
look good no Bluetooth wireless or no
this would be a USB receiver so 2.4
gigahertz but right it has its own
receiver so all in all now we've got a
$6 thing of Arctic thermal compound
price before tax in Canadian dollars
ready drumroll okay two thousand seven
hundred and two dollars and seventeen
cents tax pre-tax okay but that our
budget is pre-tax our budget is pre-tax
okay
whoo yeah tax here 13 percent and
talking about going up to 14 no thank
you
okay so 2702 we need to knock $600 off
of that just to to meet Sasha's budget
so let's see what we can do for head on
over to donate category five dot TV and
you'll be able to pitch in that way I'm
gonna do the same and we're gonna see
next week what we were able to
accomplish here so thank you right are
you happy with that I am so happy super
sweet yes
sasha is going to build this thing with
her own two hands I'm just gonna stand
there like a boss just being like what
are you doing Hey yeah that didn't go
there you nervous use the thermal paste
you don't touch it don't touch it don't
what do you do with your computers I
never eat well toothpaste I guess I
don't eat okay not thermal paste you're
gonna learn how all this is done Seth
yeah but you basically squirt it right
in the center of the processor just as a
little pea-sized blob yeah and then when
you put the fan down on top of it the
heat sink it will squish it and disperse
it Beauty yeah actually very excited
about this super scared
dave is so excited he doesn't even know
how excited he is yeah
all he knows is that the next time he's
allowed on the show it will get green
shows for him oh yes
that's gonna be fun that's gonna be fun
so this is a wedding gift for Sasha's
husband-to-be and and also incidentally
his birthday and a way that we can give
back to Sasha as well for all of her
contributions here being part of the
show so all right that's that that's how
we do so I have a question yes if we end
up you know if through the kindness of
you know the viewers we end up going
over the price point we can like step it
up even more well this is this is the
dream machine okay we've got the the
great video card we've got the great RAM
and 32 gigs of it not 16 right so if we
don't mean it then we may have to cut
down to something a little lesser but if
I over maybe if we don't know I think we
have money left over at that point well
would be fair I I would just donate it
to this show oh well then go ahead yeah
no I think okay we'll see let's see how
you do we'll discuss it with you
once we far exceed the $10,000 goal
[Laughter]
[Music]
[Applause]
