you
hello it's tuesday March seventeenth
2015 and hearing stories were covering
this week wheels designed to take a car
to a top speed of 1,000 miles per hour
or being manufactured a fix that breaks
everything has once again been issued by
Microsoft and affects mainly users who
dual-boot their windows system imagine
if the mistake of a single isp could
accidentally take down google for the
entire world they can and they did huge
gaming news for Nintendo fans a n carbon
3d is pushing innovation in 3d printing
with the demonstration of their game
changing process which prints items in
10 minutes that would normally take 10
hours these stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere if you would like to
have your very own chroma key green
screen set whether it's to celebrate
this st. Patrick's Day or to have a cool
virtual set like our category 5 TV news
room head on over to cat five dot TV /
green where you'll find all the
green-screen sets are currently on sale
up to fifty six percent off I'm statue
tomatoes in here the top stories from
the category five TV news room the
process of machining the fastest wheels
in automotive history has begun the
aluminum discs will be fitted to the
bloodhound supersonic car which will
endeavour to break the world land speed
record later this year that record
currently stands at 736 miles per hour
Castle engineering near Glasgow is
leading the industrial consortium that
is preparing the wheels these 90
centimeter discs are a crucial element
of the Bloodhound concept and will have
to endure huge loads as they spin at
over 170 revolutions per second yeah
calculations indicate that at peak speed
the wheels will be generating 50,000
radial G's at their rim that's 50,000
times the pull of gravity these there
are parts of this car where if there's a
problem the driver Andy green can simply
shut them off and bring the vehicle to a
stop
but if there's a problem with a wheel
Andy is going to crash and that's never
good at 1,000 miles per hour bloodhound
has to bloodhound has to use solid
wheels to make the record run a rubber
tire would be ripped to shreds that make
sense ripped to shreds instantly once
machined the disks will go for balancing
unlike a standard car wheel this does
not involve adding lead weights to the
rim instead further precision
measurements will identify any
unevenness and sliver of metal will be
removed to hone what is already a state
of near perfection the market value of
each wheel is about a quarter of a
million pounds a little over 370,000 US
dollars seeing at the speed limit here
is 120 Oh No 100 hundred kilometers an
hour we won't need these tires anytime
soon Ravi that's incredible wow that is
frightening I would be I would be so
intimidated by that speed I don't know
what kind of person would want to a
crazy adrenaline seeker yes yeah that's
just not me I mean I grew up and decided
I would go into computer programming
yeah you're not going to drive the car
1000 miles per hour I guess they use
aluminum because it doesn't heat up is
that that's probably like you think
about like the revolutions per second
those even that even though they're
aluminum they're still gonna be
incredibly warm to touch I'm sure oh my
goodness yes and I would think though
also I mean aluminum is this is solid
aluminum right but i would think that at
that speed with that much g-force going
down on the the wheel or is it out
there's got to be some kind of expansion
going on like that's what's his name
Andy green fries a brave man very Wow
brave / crazy this is an important news
story for anybody who's dual booting
right now reports are emerging that a
twice issued microsoft windows 7 patch
is still causing pain for users
some claiming the fix is triggering
continuous reboots the patch was first
issued as kb2 9499 27 and withdrawn and
october due to system faults before
being re-released this week under the
new name kb 303 3929 sporadic reports
across internet forums suggests the
patch is causing pain on the windows
system systems especially pcs that boot
into two or more operating systems
Redmond's initial hope was that the pout
the patch would bring shot to or sha-2
code-signing support for windows 7 and
Server 2008 r2 users whose operating
system did not previously include that
functionality it seems sensible to avoid
the update until Microsoft confirms the
problem and provides a fix for the fix
so Robbie that would affect our viewers
who have a dual boot with like Windows 7
yeah from what I understand I mean
they're saying if it's dual boot
environments or multiple boot
environments so if you have Windows 7
and your dual booting with Linux for
example or multiple Linux partitions and
you have windows seven installed and you
get that update it could watch the
ability to boot up that system so don't
update it's not the first time recently
that we've had these kinds of you know
fixes that break everything which is you
know it's a little bit worrisome for a
Windows user you know what you expect
that those fixes when they're released
are tried and true and they're not going
to break things but instead are going to
fix things I guess we take it for
granted on Linux even though we do get
our updates for all of the programs it's
if we're using a stable distro it's
quite honestly stable so we don't
generally have those kinds of breakages
I guess it does happen even on Linux
though once in a while but it seems to
be happening more and more on Windows
definitely a scary thing so don't in any
way use the fix yet that's a tough thing
hey whatever you do don't update but
always update don't update that updated
yes
and how do you know and what do you do
hold back your cake kb updates and yeah
I good nightmares for a short time
Thursday people all over the world
trying to access Google services were
cut off because of what did research
director of internet analysis Doug
materie identified as a routing leak
from an Indian broadband internet
provider the leak is similar to a 2012
incident caused by an indonesian isp
which took Google offline for 30 minutes
worldwide routing leaks occur when a
network provider broadcasts all or part
of its internal routing table to one or
more appeared networks via the border
gateway protocol causing network traffic
to be routed incorrectly in this case
the Indian ISPs router incorrectly
announced routing data for over 300
network prefixes belonging to Google
these routes were then sent to the rest
of the world and a number of ISPs
accepted them the ISP Hathaway had its
own routes because two or the IC I have
the way had its own routes to Google
because the accompany provides better
speed to Google's cloud for its users
directing traffic to the closest google
data centers that peering is a private
network connection only available to
users connected to their network Oh yep
as a result when the routing table was
accidentally broadcast to the world
instead of just two Hathaways customers
much of the world was trying to access
Google via Mumbai through hathaway
instead of over public internets well so
I wonder how long on Thursday it took
before a Google caught on and fixed it
probably not long nobody notice their
traffic drop signal immediately right
it's you know how quickly does the
change to fix it propagate back I would
take I would think the I don't know if
Hathaway would have to determine the
problem and push out a fixer oh I'm sure
that your google was on the phone with
Hathaway immediately yeah uh we have a
problem here Houston you've broken the
internet you typed google into google
and you broke the internet like
fashion Nintendo has finally succumbed
to the market and is collaborating with
Japanese developer DNA to create new
games for smartphones Wow the gaming
giant said that existing games built for
other Nintendo platforms like the Wii U
and 3ds will not be transferred however
all of Nintendo's intellectual property
will be eligible for development this
could mean new games on Horizon
featuring characters such as Super Mario
Zelda and Pokemon the two firms also
announced plans to launch an online
membership service this fall which will
give members access to their accounts
from across multiple platforms including
smartphones and PCs that's huge for
Nintendo groundbreaking even when I
think about it think they've always held
to the you know you've got to buy our
hardware in order to in order to use it
right now are we gonna start seeing
Samsung you know apps on Android and
things like that that's incredible I
could see it definitely moving to the
apps like just having attended games on
apps oh that would be horrible for me
because i really like nintendo games and
on actual nintendo devices well i
haven't played them in years i had a
super nintendo which was a big deal for
me but i haven't played I don't have a
wii or anything okay but i like
downloading a phone to my earth
downloading a game to my phone that
would be as addicting is super mario
brothers would be home yes no it would
be wonderful wonderful and it would be
wonderful but horrible it's the way it's
amazing that they have finally said okay
now like that's it there really late in
the game I got to admit like they're
finally saying oh the smartphone is
going to become popular well who's going
out and buying a 3ds for themselves
anymore it's you know maybe some kids
have it for sure but I'm not going out
to buy one because you've got it on here
it's gonna waste so much of my time and
going when you love it and I hate it all
no a 3d printing process that harnesses
light and oxygen has been demonstrated
at the TED conference in Vancouver
Canada 3d our carbon 3d said it's
game-changing process could make objects
such as car parts medical devices or
shoes the technique was inspired by
Terminator 2 which in which the t1000
robot rises from a pool of metallic
liquid James woodcock Group Editor 40 CT
magazine said it's not unusual for huge
claims like this to be made but as its
renowned experts working on it it gives
it some gravitas during their
presentation the carbon 3d machine
produced a plastic ball from a pool of
resin in just about 10 minutes professor
joseph desimone told the audience it
would traditionally take up to 10 hours
to print the same thing that's
impressive Wow if anything the
demonstration showed the need for
companies in the industry to continually
work on developing and improving 3d
printing technology that's great i'm
excited for that technology to come come
to light make things more accessible all
across the board you could print really
fast cars and put aluminum tires on them
and get everywhere faster than 100
kilometers an hour for all your tech
news with a slight linux bias visit the
category 5 TV news room at newsroom
category 5 TV for the category 5 TV news
room I'm Sasha through made
