it's Tuesday februari 23 2016 and here
are the top stories were covering this
week could an ad free internet via the
web sites are no longer free to use it
might occur according to the Internet
Advertising Bureau now what if you're a
hack savvy burglar could you potentially
break into simply safes wireless home
security system from hundreds of feet
away yes for just two hundred fifty
dollars what about reading an e-book on
the beach would not be nice to charge
battery yes I think I will very much I
think I'm gonna have to book a vacation
well we're going to be telling you about
a special case for an e-book reader that
charges and gives you one extra day
battery life with just one hour of
reading on the beach I'm kind of pasty
white right about now so I think I'm
gonna have to book that vacation alright
Facebook they're feeling a little bit of
responsibility for people who are
posting suicidal thoughts and they're
going to be doing something about it
will tell you about that coming up in
just a few minutes and lastly shut off
your computer not right now but if
you're going to be downloading a hacked
version of on iOS this weekend we're
going to tell you which one it could be
and how you can protect yourself these
stories are coming up at just a few
seconds so stick around hi I'm Ravi
Ferguson and I love being a vimeo pro
member as a web broadcaster i need an
affordable video hosting platform that's
as flexible as me a pro membership lets
you upload up to 20 gigabytes of HD
video each and every week with no
additional bandwidth restrictions that
means if you produce a show that uses
even up to 20 gigabytes of storage your
limit resets itself the following week
so you can do another 20 gigabytes and
keep doing that week after week now
category 5 with all of our shows use
roughly 10 gigabytes per week from there
vimeo automatically generates all the
files that you need to provision your
RSS feeds roku channel website media
player or even video downloads in
multiple bit rates with no limits on
your bandwidth usage or how many people
can access your files what's best the
price is astonishingly affordable and
for a limited time friends of the
category 5 TV network will receive a
whopping twenty-five percent off the
annual price all you have to do is go
through our link cat five dot TV / Vimeo
and sign up today for your twenty five
percent discount to top it off you get
30 days to try it risk-free if you're
not happy with Vimeo Pro you pay nothing
the deal is only for a very limited time
go to cat five dot TV / vimeo i'm jeff
lesson and here are the top stories from
the fireside category-five TV news room
sponsored by the man cold have you got
the man cold I've got the man cold don't
get the man cold proposals by mobile
phone provider three intend to offer ad
blockers that could have a negative
impact on internet access is what an
advertising body is warned three set the
a blocker is planning to use could block
up to ninety five percent of banner and
pop-up ads the service will roll out
this year but the question is will it be
free three said that their 8.8 million
customers would be able to choose
whether to activate the service and they
also told the BBC that it did not yet
decided whether to charge for the
feature or not in a statement Internet
Advertising Bureau or the IAB said that
the proposal could impact the way web
platforms are funded here's a quote the
IAB believes that ad funded internet is
essential in providing revenue to
publishers so they can continue to make
the content services and applications
widely available a little or no cost we
believe that blocking undermines this
approach and could mean customers have
to pay for content they currently get
for free here's the deal I agree with
them because if you've got a service
that is provided for free likes a
category 5 we rely upon ads and all that
kind of stuff to generate a little bit
of revenue if you block that stuff we
don't get revenue it makes it much more
difficult for us to bring this kind of
programming to you free of charge so
this isn't a great idea three you need
to back off a security system the
in use in more than 200 homes 200,000
homes i should say has an unfixable flaw
it sounds painful this allow this flaw
allows tech-savvy burglars to disable
the alarm from as far away as a few
hundred feet the wireless home security
system from simply safe is marketed as
costing less than competing ones as it's
easier to install and it doesn't use
wires for components to communicate with
each other but according to Andrew zonin
burg a researcher from the security firm
ioactive the systems keypad uses the
same personal identification number with
no encryption each time it sends a
message to the main base station that
opens the system to what's known as a
reply attack in which an attacker
records the authentication code sent to
the valid sent by the valid key pad and
then recycles at when sending rogue
commands transmitted over the same
frequency zonin bird wrote wrote in a
blog post published last Wednesday
unfortunately there's no easy workaround
for the issue since the keypad happily
sends unencrypted pins out to everyone
listening normally the vendor would fix
the vulnerability in a new firmware
version by adding cryptography to the
protocol however this is not an option
for the affected simplisafe products
because the microcontrollers in
currently shipped hardware are one-time
programmable this means the field
upgrades of existing systems are not
possible all existing keypads and base
stations need to be replaced this hack
only costs about 250 bucks and to create
a microcontroller and with a few hundred
lines of code it would make it easy to
communicate with a simply safe base
station with a one time investment out
of the way an intruder would then be
able to hide the device within a few
hundred feet of the simplisafe base
station and wait for the owner to
activate or disable the alarm the
attacker could later root play the
capture pin along with the deactivation
command to prevent the alarm from
sounding during a break-in simplisafe
respited replied in the most utmost
professional manner by brushing the
vulnerability under the carpet saying it
was irrelevant they said the majority of
break-ins are quick forced entry and not
the sophisticated type of attack that
requires diligent planning so basically
what they're saying is don't worry about
it because most break-ins aren't by
sophisticated break-in people burglars
they don't know what they're doing
just ignore it great reply here's a neat
idea paris-based bokeem is working with
son partner to create an ereader cover
fitted with invisible solar panels the
makers claim that just one hour of
reading in good light conditions with
the cover adds an extra day of battery
life to the device the cover was
unveiled last year but it's now on
display at the Mobile World Congress in
Barcelona it's made using a printed
optical network combined with solar
modules that recharge the e-book when
exposed to sunlight the cover will first
be available for booking zone sci book
ocean ebook in early summer 2016 before
rolling out to other vices at this point
though the innovative cover is not yet
known to have a price I think this is a
great idea I'm planning on taking
vacation shortly I would love something
like this because if I'm sitting on the
beach I don't want to have to charge you
know stop and go back to my room and
charge my ebook readers not fun so I
think this is awesome facebook facebook
is at it again they're rolling out a new
feature across the UK to help users who
are feeling suicidal the suicide
prevention tool has been developed in
connection with the Samaritans it aims
to try and provide advice and support to
those struggling to cope with as well as
the friends and family of suicide people
can now report posts that they're
worried about in a more direct way
versions of the tool we're launched in
the US a year ago in an australia in
december facebook said in a statement we
have really strong sense of
responsibility towards the safety of
people who are on our platform here's
how it works people who see explicit
threats of suicide are asked to call
emergency services otherwise people are
asked to flag troubling content on
facebook they then send this content
onto a team who work around the clock
reviewing posts suicidal posts are
prioritized and help options are sent to
those people on Facebook thinking
they're struggling who are showing that
they're struggling to cope I've seen
this kind of stuff on Facebook a few
times so somebody makes a comment and
you like it's not a joke or is there
something to this so I think this is a
great idea it's not often that i agree
with changes that facebook is making so
in this case i say good job zuckerberg
alright let's get our to Linux hacked
iOS iOS is in particular on Sunday was
discovered that hackers created a
modified Linux Mint I so with the back
with a backdoor in it and managed to
hack their website to point to it as far
as the team knows the only compromised
version of Linux Mint the only
compromised version was linux mint 17.3
cinnamon addition the situation happened
on Sunday and it was quickly detected
and fixed so it should only impact
people who downloaded Linux Mint edition
on februari 20th if you still have the
iso file you can check its md5 signature
against the correct ones and be sure to
see if you're safe and if not we're
going to recommend that you read
download and reinstall Linux Mint warns
in the notice divided the eye so if you
burned it to DVD trash the disk if you
burnt it to USB format the stick for
yourself explanatory they go on to say
that if you installed the ISO on a
computer put the computer offline back
up your personal data reinstall the OS
or format the partition and change your
passwords for websites like say your
email big thanks this week to Roy w Nash
in our community of viewers for
submitting stories to us if you found a
news story that you'd like to send us
you can email it to newsroom at category
5 TV for all your tech news with a
slight linux bias there's a category
five TVs newsroom at newsroom category
five TV from the category five fireside
TV news room sponsored by the man cold
i'm jeff weston
