depending on where you're located in
this big old world of ours you may
remember it as either the sega mega
drive or the sega genesis and now more
than a quarter of a century after its
original release in japan it's more
convenient than ever to take these
classic sega games with you my review is
coming right up stick around try it
buying it
try it buy it we try stuff to help you
decide if it's worth buying with her
review here's your host Sasha dramatis
any time during this video visit cat5 TV
/ Sega to buy the product I'm about to
review the second Genesis ultimate
portable game player is stylish handheld
video game player that comes pre-loaded
with 80 games including some of your
favorite Sega Genesis games such as
Sonic the Hedgehog and Virtua Fighter 2
with a stunning and bright 2.8 inch
display this portable gamer is a great
little handheld but that said you can
also plug it directly into a TV for some
big screen fun we tried it on an old CRT
as well as on on modern flat-screen TV
the big screen play is just what you'd
expect from the console version but with
the convenience of being able to unplug
and take it with you that also makes it
something that mom can carry in her
purse to keep the kids occupied during
long waits which saves everyone stress
and makes the world a happy place no
longer do you have to drain your phone
battery to keep yourself or the kids
entertained it's like having all the fun
of phone games without having to
download phone games which is perfect
you just can't beat the tactile
controller feel accelerometers and multi
touch displays do have their place but
if a d-pad and actual buttons is what
you want the ultimate portable has that
retro controller feel but unlike some of
the portable game devices that have been
released in the past it really does look
and feel like add games thought through
the design very well and even learn from
others mistakes let's get to the games
the ultimate portable from at games
boasts that it has 80 games built-in
with popular Sega Genesis games
featuring Virtua Fighter 2 streets of
rage 1 through 3 as well as the Classic
Sonic the Hedgehog one and two games but
as it turns out only 40 of the included
titles are the classic sega genesis
games you remember only 40 that's still
a lot of games but the other 40 games
are homebrew no-name games that nobody's
ever heard of most of which are so basic
they aren't even really were
mentioning simplicity of the 40 no name
games is pretty bad in some cases that
said in a month for 40 filler games we
do indeed find a few gems which still
gives you quite a few playable games
that would be fine for younger players
who may not want a complex level based
game sparkling truffle for example
places for colored mushrooms on a screen
and you use the d-pad to repeat the
pattern played by the game it's pretty
much a Simon clone and while it's been
done before it does add a basic but
playable title to the included games
list there's sodoku and a handful of
puzzle games and another homebrew game
called panic lift which I actually
really enjoyed despite its simplicity
it's a memory type game where you stand
in an elevator and people start joining
you as the elevator Rises you have to
let them off at the floor they've
requested easy at first but eventually
you're dealing with more and more people
in the challenge increases navigation
through the games list is a breeze with
left and right moving you through the
games list page by page up and down
allowing you to select a game from the
current page now back to the real reason
we wanted the ultimate portable genuine
Sega Genesis games as you can see from
the list of games on the screen there
are a fair number of great games we
recognize from the late 80s and early
90s Virtua Fighter 2 is a classic mortal
combat style fighting simulation the
graphics are what you'd expect from a
1995 release date but it's better than
the Double Dragon handheld which we
still really enjoy
everyone knows Sonic the Hedgehog and
all the greats are included in the
ultimate portable Sonic 1 and 2 sonic 3d
blast sonic spinball and even Sonic and
Knuckles no downloads needed no having
to swap cartridges they're a whole built
in you'll also find great games like
echo 12 and jr. come as part of the
ultimate portable the golden axe and
Streets of Rage series are there as well
as vectorman one and two and several
more classics if you're up for a game of
chess that's in there too it's actually
not half bad the AI is fast and
reasonably intelligent however there's
no option to decrease or increase the
difficulty if you're a chess master
you'll find it lacking then again if
you're a chess master you're not likely
playing chess on a 3-inch screen so
levels out for the casual player it's
fun and easy to use and plays really
well to see how children would respond
to the retro gameplay and graphics we
have had some kids give it a go we found
that the youngest liam who's for enjoyed
it but found the game's challenging this
made it heart from to stay focused on
any one game for any length of time but
he still enjoyed flipping through the
many available game titles his
seven-year-old brother Zack and
nine-year-old sister tally absolutely
loved it both went on the big screen and
in the handheld mode these children are
experienced with weave remotes and
computer play having used computer
keyboards for gameplay the d-pad and
buttons were easy to understand for them
and it was a quick adjustment to start
enjoying the ultimate portable however
passing the device on to two other
children who were only experienced using
a smartphone for gameplay they had
trouble grasping the fact that turning
the game controller does not control the
character on the screen those kids are
more apt to get frustrated and may
require a little more time and
assistance to figure out gameplay at
first all in all based on our limited
tests we'd say the ultimate portable is
perfect for kids aged anywhere from six
to 105 years old
the build quality is good but it's
plastic I wouldn't recommend throwing it
or being overly rough with it and I
wouldn't use it in the bath and yes I
believe it will blend that said with
normal use you shouldn't have any
trouble with the hardware it feels good
and solid but it won't stand up to a
hard drop the ultimate portable has a
built in SD card slot and there's a
section in the instructions that
instruct users to visit a special
website to download yet more games to
add to the unit so let's take a look at
that what's this there are only a few
games available for download and if i'm
not mistaken these are already on the
device oh but it says more titles coming
soon how likely is that to happen plus
these are all games from the no-name
games list truthfully I want Sega
Genesis games so if these games already
exist on the system while why are they
promoting the fact that you can download
more games and put them on an SD card to
play seems a little misleading or is it
now let's get a bit geeky for a moment
the manufacturer shows us by providing
these downloads that we can download
some of their homebrew games and run
them the games are distributed in dot
bin format and the instructions are
provided on how to import those dolphin
roms therefore we can make the deduction
that even though they're being
purposefully vague that you if you
happen to have a backup of games that
you've legitimately purchased stored as
dot bin roms the ultimate portable will
play them hood download and play legal
copies of your favorite Sega Genesis
games but I wouldn't recommend it here's
another great thing about the ultimate
portable you don't need to buy batteries
for it even though the price is
reasonable a rechargeable battery is
included and it even comes partially
charged for immediate out-of-the-box
play you can have hours of fun without
having to buy expensive batteries a USB
cable is provided which allows you to
charge the device by plugging it into a
computer or USB charger you can easily
pick up a USB charger for a couple of
bucks that will plug into a normal
power outlet for easier charging without
needing a computer if the battery should
ever lose its ability to charge a single
screw opens up the compartment allowing
you to easily replace the battery at low
volume the sound is acceptable but if
you crank the music up to 11 you'll
definitely notice the sound becoming
distorted and unlike in spinal tap the
distortion is not wanted to fix that
there's a headphone jack which offers
perfect sound at ear bleeding volumes
without bothering your friends if you're
into big sound you'll also be interested
in big picture now don't get me wrong
the built-in screen is excellent it's
fast there's no ghosting even when Sonic
the Hedgehog is running at top speed but
sometimes we want to plop down on the
couch and make our games larger than
life the ultimate portable lets us do
this by providing an AV output jack now
the cable isn't included but we sell it
in our store for a few bucks no big deal
and certainly worth getting while
connected to a TV the volume knob on the
ultimate portable still controls the
volume but the sound comes out of the TV
so if you have it too loud on your
handheld you will encounter some
distortion you can turn it down a bit on
the handheld and use your TV volume to
adjust it from there the picture and
sound quality when connected to the TV
is about what you would expect from a
retro game system it's just like you
remember it it looks and plays great
seeing Sonic the Hedgehog 2 on a 52-inch
screen brings tears to my eyes it's fast
responsive and surprisingly the picture
looks pretty decent the ultimate
portable game player is a great gift for
the retro game fan but also works very
well for younger children who would
appreciate the portability and number of
games while not being too caught up on
the retro 16-bit graphics
the ultimate portable includes 40 Sega
Genesis games and 40 bonus games and
costs well under $100 it allows you to
load an SD card with roms and play them
on the device it lets you play as a
portable free of wires or connect to a
big screen it's playable right out of
the box and you get everything you need
except an SD card if you want to load
roms and an AV cable to connect to a TV
get the ultimate portable as well as
optional accessories from our online
shop jump right to this product at cat 5
TV / Sega want more of my reviews check
out try it buy it at category 5 TV I'm
Sasha dramatis thanks for watching
you
