here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
Burger King now has its own
cryptocurrency in Russia the whopper
coin the pepper robot has demonstrated
its ability to perform a funeral in
place of a Buddhist monk a nasty
firmware update butchers Samsung Smart
TVs so badly that they have to be
repaired and DJI has announced the bug
bounty program to pay hackers to report
exploits these stories are coming right
up don't go anywhere
Jeff Weston Jemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what are you
you're a terrible actor
what does where acting comes into play
you're supposed to act
ok I'm building a really cool website
are you building a really cool website
you need hosting one of the things about
a hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
that's true how much harddrive space do
you have how many email accounts how
many domains can point to it well we've
got an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cat5 dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are gonna get
unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name so your own com dice to put
that amazing website that you've been
working on on there if you run if you
want to build a wordpress site fine
sign up cat5 dot TV slash dream hosts
just don't put that of the papers on
just don't do it but hey it's a great
deal folks best deal you're gonna find
five dollars and change per month go to
cap five dot TV slash DreamHost I'm
Sachi through made us in here the top
stories for the week of August 30th 2017
according to New York magazine who
published the story based on a Russian
news report the Russian subdivision of
Burger King has launched its own
cryptocurrency aptly called whopper coin
for each whopper burger customers
purchase they'll receive one whopper
coin in a special
currency wallet while the coins wider
use is unclear some reports suggest that
the Whopper coin will be accepted as a
method of payment at Burger Kings across
Russia Burger King has reportedly issued
1 billion whopper coin tokens to date on
waves platform though it is possible
that there will be more to come
according to reports Burger King Russia
is now accepting Bitcoin as a form of
payment so a burger paid for in Bitcoin
would be like it would cost like point
zero zero zero zero three one four nine
good I like this used pie anyone else
craving a whopper right about now like
yeah Jeff is I wonder if this is just
specifically that like let's do
something crazy just to really get a lot
of news outlets to cover yeah whopper
coin is that what they called it yeah
it's no it's no different than any
incentive program at all really except
that it's cryptocurrency it's getting
them free viral promotions right like
crazy but it's kind of neat I like that
they're going that route and it's
interesting you know raises some
questions that it's only Russia but
we'll see what happens here in Canada
and around the u.s. when the robot
apocalypse apocalypse comes robots will
be able to say a prayer over your
remains thanks to Japan's Softbank this
week at Tokyo's international funeral
and cemetery show softbank's pepper
robot demonstrated its ability to
perform Buddhist rich funeral rites
through third-party software designed
for the tasks draped in traditional
Japanese funeral garb pepper not only
presided over a faux death ceremony it
also chanted Buddhist sutras taking over
the usual role of a human monk during
such ceremonies so far pepper isn't
actually performing any real funeral
rites but Japan's nasai echo developed
the funeral soft software as
it's the funeral software for pepper as
an alternative when a buddhist monk
isn't available or when the family can't
afford the much more expensive human
practitioner the service will cost about
four hundred and fifty dollars versus
the thousands of dollars usually spent
for a human Wow so this this is where
robots cost less than humans and now can
I don't know how I feel with this and
this is weird for me to say because I'm
really Pro robot all the time yeah do
you have any opinions on this one you're
big on robots and yeah it's it's
interesting I don't know
so they actually perform the rites they
don't say that's it is really
interesting how that would affect the
more the older generation but I wonder
if that's kind of the target or the goal
is to reduce the cost of funeral
services in order to I mean because I
think because it's it's something that's
so related to things that are so
emotional and so human bringing that
into it it's more it would be more
appropriate I would think in like a
shopping mall or like at a checkout or
something like that but I feel like it's
such a interesting contrast moving it
right into something so deeply yeah
spiritual exactly it's yeah I feel like
it have to be for the right person and
the right families like that's my wonder
like Millennials and forward yeah maybe
that's it but would it be like me a
little bit it's and it's funny because I
really think that robots are like super
awesome all the time but for my own
personal funeral I hope it's a person
they do yeah yeah I think some things
deserve that human touch we're gonna
hear about this in a week folks
this one Jeff wins okay I do have a good
example of what robots can be used for
so stick around and we'll we'll talk
about that in just a couple of minutes
okay
owners of Samsung Smart TVs say their
swish sets are basically unusable after
being after a bungled firmware update
the update was so bad it looked as
though people it will require people to
send or bring their televisions back to
base to repair for repair to correct the
issue pardon me people posting on
Samsung UK's Support Forums report that
an update released on August 8th
rendered many newer smart sets such as
the 50-inch Ultra HD and 49 inch 4k
displays entirely unusable judging from
the dozens of complaints the gear
functioned as expected prior to getting
the most recent firmware upgrade from
the South Korean Giants after that
software is installed the smart
televisions are stuck on a single
Channel the remotes don't work the
volume can't be adjusted or in some
cases they're just totally inoperable we
saw this last week with the smart door
locks and it's a terrible situation for
end-users don't install firmware updates
and you'll miss out on security patches
and potentially be vulnerable to exploit
or other threats do install the updates
and your device might be bricked so is
every Samsung TV now going to be at well
no it's not it's not a risk to every TV
it's it's a it's a select patch but the
fact is this we're how do you even have
confidence and we're seeing this more
and more because computers are getting
their updates automatically devices you
know you pull your phone out of your
pocket and it says these the this this
and this has been updated I never asked
it to but it did it does it and is it
gonna break things people bring in a
Windows 10 computer that won't boot
anymore because Tuesday's updates made
it so that their computer wouldn't boot
yeah and what do you where do you do you
turn off the updates I don't think
that's the ask probably not the answer
right there should be maybe a trial
update done like at the Samsung base
perhaps maybe maybe it's a better
testing before they roll it really keeps
learning this lesson they make mistakes
in their time recently oh my goodness
did we go there yeah so planning about
explosions and losses right so all you
need to do is a little bit of testing I
would say well I need to do folks
bending to a public pressure as more and
more drone hackers break into their kits
Chinese firm DJI has now announced the
bug bounty program security researchers
academic scholars and independent
experts often provide a valuable service
by analyzing the code in DJI zaps and
other software products and bringing
concerns to public attention said DG
eyes director of technical standards
Walter Stockwell in AK and quote this
comes on the heels of a hat of hackers
discovering hot patching frameworks
hidden inside DJI zap which it removed
last week in particular DJI is
interested in bugs pertaining to safe
flight or a data privacy payouts will
range between one hundred and thirty
thousand dollars depending on the
potential impact of the threat
conscientious drone hackers are invited
to email bug bounty at DJ DJI calm with
details of flaws and fails big thanks
this week to the Albuquerque turkey Roy
W Nash in our community of viewers for
submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom and don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category-five TV newsroom i'm
sasha dramatis for the last time
ever we'll be introducing Sascha Rickman
in just a few weeks yes Wow it's upon us
folks all right well this is category 5
technology TV welcome to the show I'm
Robby Ferguson I'm serious I'm she's a
Yamaguchi nice to see you nice to have
everybody here and now I mentioned I was
going to show you a good use for a robot
have you heard of the da Vinci robot no
no okay now this I'm going to show you
clip it aired about a year ago but it's
just now really making its it's making
its rounds on social media and things
like that
so imagine use case for robots and then
watch as the da Vinci robot sutures a
grape
oh wow okay so speaking of good uses for
robotics and thinking about micro
surgeries and the intricacies Wow and
how much easier it is for somebody to to
heal quickly and be able to leave the
hospital quickly right yeah if you just
needed simple stitches you could just go
to like the the stitches kiosk in go to
like an automatic machine where you drop
in some coins and then that's how
DaVinci works oh my goodness I'm
picturing it like like the robot claw
that comes down and grabs the toy like
yeah oh my wow this is really taken a
turn but there you have it so there's a
finish ladder and sizing just so
intriguing but let it use for robotics
yeah so you know I think there are some
good some good use cases in in I mean
you're looking at it right now so not
everything is is perfect look at that
Wow from the Vinci Surgery inside a
bottle it's so interesting where
technology is these days when we go back
to the news item about those TVs
breaking down because of you know
updates but then on the other hand you
have these machines that can do a better
job than you know the human with the
shaky hand or you had a late night it's
really interesting that it's just all
over the place it depends on where you
are on the map exactly where the
benefits coming in and then there's all
those risks popping up as well and I
think about how how miniature the
surgeon can be and with those kinds of
robotics and so precise yeah that you
hear about I hear a fair bit about micro
surgeries these days we had a story
about a 3d printed heart it was on all
one piece 3d printers actually work it
works and it's only good before I mean
it hasn't been used in human yet but it
only works for about 30 days yeah but
really would bridge the gap if you're
waiting for it right so I mean most of
the time these things are amazing and
then your TV gets bricked or your phone
explodes
[Music]
[Applause]
you
