welcome back this is category five
technology TV now Sasha you were away
last week but we got a great look at
these power locusts headphones we put
them on the dummy head so we could hear
how they sound and it sounded right and
they sound great I mean these for the
price are exceptional but one of the
things that I love about these so these
are obviously Wireless right ready watch
episode number 566 if you're curious
about them but they being Wireless also
have a built-in FM radio which is live
works alright it's you know what what FM
radio works perfectly anymore
I don't know but what I love about it
what FM radio is not what sold me on
these headphones 4.2 EDR is and the fact
that it has a built-in micro SD card
reader so if you don't have your phone
handy or you don't want to use your
phone's battery you put an SD card in
there follow your music so this would be
great on a flight perfect on a flight
yeah if they say turn off your wireless
devices bap in an SD card or just keep
it in there you can switch between FM
radio SD card and bluetooth just with
the push of a button so easy quiz nice
but Jeff asked the question will file
formats what file formats yeah does it
support and of course I didn't know the
answer because I didn't have these it's
not in the specification surprisingly
right so it wasn't on the box or
anything anyone ever saw the box it was
it was in bubble wrap and in the case
that they provide it may have been in
the instructions I didn't think to ever
but we're gonna do something even cooler
tonight okay
so what I did just before the show Jeff
to answer your question is I sat down
and I recorded an audio clip of me for
every file format the goldwave support
[Laughter]
new repository on github so you can use
this for your devices to test
compatibility with various file formats
if you go to github.com slash cat 5 TV
slash audio test so here are the file
formats that I created Jeff are you
ready for this I think that's a yes
eh-eh IFC AIFF au flack iff m4a ma t mp3
mp4 video just because you have that
very random question of will it play
video well yeah I don't expect so I
don't play the audio from your
headphones weird huh huh okay after mp4
and we've got I made a AG file
I made an ST SDS file we're getting into
obscurity SMP snd from back in the day
gold weight can even save a text of
audio yeah and I was like what the and
so I looked at it and it's it's actually
like a representation of the audio that
you can open in gold wav or any other
supporting player
there's no way in headphones are not
gonna support this Jeff but carrying on
I said I would do every format we've got
VOC we've got Vox we've got wave we've
got WMA and we've got X a C okay any
guesses which ones are going to be
supported no mp3 for sure yeah I'm
saying
and before wave okay so we've got mp3
and WAV he thinks mp4 video is going to
be played by a pair of headphones sorry
sorry I'm looking at mp4 but that's not
what I meant
the m80 sorry ma T I think it'll play ma
tease em forays I was I'm thinking WAV
mp3 m4a that's what oh maybe
no I don't flack it would be nice of a
play dog button really if it lays mp3
I'm happy right that's all I care if it
plays mp3 I'm happy okay I've loaded all
of those files on to this headset what
why do I feel like the file itself is
something comical no it's just me saying
this is a WAV file this is an mp3 okay I
was going to be set up for something
yeah in hindsight that have been a good
idea my kids love it when I replace
their music at nighttime I use a
Bluetooth player yeah so I'm in the
other room and all of a sudden it
changes to fart sound
rip-roarin in the other room okay this
is an mp3 this is a WAV file this is an
mp3 oh way what okay
now I you listen I heard nothing say it
out loud this is an mp3 this is a WAV
file this is an mp3 okay yeah all right
now Jeff you might say that you're
disappointed I'm gonna say no this this
meets every need that I have this is an
mp3 this is a WAV file this is an mp3
this is a wait what do you think really
really that's it huh
so I said as long as it plays mp3 files
I'm happy right absolute you're happy
yeah I'm happy
at one point should we let them in on
what we just heard or we just gonna let
it in post process yeah that's just WAV
and mp3 those are the only two formats
that I'm pretty stoked I'm shocked that
they wouldn't have had more I'm not and
I'm not disappointed either because mp3
is all I care sure enough because
realistically now I would have probably
liked em for a just to be a little more
future ready but I'm not gonna reconvert
all my mp3 files to em for a right I
tried at one point switching to augment
to do that like I want to be open-source
I want to be like community minded as
best as possible
how painful was that it just was not
worth the time it was not worth it like
it did there was no compatibility out
there it's true and it's a shame but it
is true so the world is still stuck on
mp3 definitely even though technically
the format is dead that's no longer
supported by the the people who patented
it it still works
what's wrong with wave like I feel why
did that pop takes a lot more space yeah
because it's lossless so a WAV file is
like a raw audio file from Windows that
is you know they use them in studios and
things because it doesn't lose any
quality mp3 is a compressed format so
you know that 40 megabyte file becomes a
3 megabyte file got it and so it takes
up a lot less space so on my 16 gig SD
card I'm gonna be able to fit a ton of
CDs and mp3 format yes absolutely would
fit only a fraction of that if it was
wave got it
[Music]
[Applause]
