welcome to the show everybody it's nice
to see it is episode number 580 and
tonight we've got she's ooh the hot dog
yeah Magoo T with us and we've got Sasha
I'm just gonna say rickman that's right
then you'll know then you understand all
the way from Hogwarts tonight flew in on
the broomstick and I'm Robbie as of 20
years ago 25 years ago perhaps I don't
let smite be what I would have looked
like tonight this week we have a
microphone from Amazon that is so cheap
it'll blow your mind but could it be
good enough we'll have to we've also got
an unboxing of a nano PI m4
microcomputer stick around our live
recordings our trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
Technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream wire cast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 TV slash TPN and the International
Association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash ia IB welcome to the show
everybody I'm Robbie I'm Sasha
and everybody but you didn't recognize
her nice to see ya very chill yeah it's
like a chill hot dog yeah like it's a
hot dog everything's like gonna be
related to hot dogs today we can think
we got it we got it
throw that in you just got off school
alright I'm in house Slytherin of course
been well I've been well happy Halloween
everybody
yeah by the way if this is your first
show like who's this
furry nerd this is what I would look
like if if God didn't take my hair away
I suppose and if you came into a lot of
money and a lot of money hope
everybody's been well hope you are
having a wonderful week be safe out
there if you're watching this on
Halloween night if you're watching it
afterwards well save some candy for me
thanks everybody for supporting
category-five TV we've seen an increase
in our patronage and that is one way
that you can support category 5 pretty
cool go over to cap 5 dot TV slash
patreon and through that it's as little
as one dollar a month that's all it
takes to support category 5 TV and with
that because we have so many viewers the
more people who are giving $1 a month
the stronger we can be the faster we can
pay our bills the more we can improve
things around here with the show and
that is greatly appreciated so we do
have a patron only discord chat channel
within our server so that's kind of cool
as well if you're a patron you can gain
access to that and then you can chat
with other patrons and and it's it's
hush-hush and super top secret but
there's also the vlog right
there's insider information behind the
scenes many times a week we're posting
things specifically on the patreon page
that our patrons are able to gain access
to so check that out it's cat5 dot TV
slash patreon it's super fun to be on
patreon I like the things so I won that
I'm on the flip side but I love doing
the vlog I love being interactive with
with the folks that are supporting us as
well
category 5 TV season 11 is available as
a bit torrent file and we hear bit torn
we think who is that illegal or is that
okay
no BitTorrent is a technology that
allows many different computers to
distribute files so of course that has
been used for illegal distribution of
things that people don't have rights to
but here at category-five TV we have the
rights to the video and we want to give
it to you for free so
we've utilized that technology to allow
our viewers to become what's called a
scene so basically you download the the
file and then it shares it with
everybody else so it's a really great
way to support category 5 TV in that you
are helping to share the the video
around the world in full HD quality
which i think is great
so season 11 is thereit's torrent dot
category 5 dot TV Shizue this could be a
fun show it got a lot planned we've got
a microphone here that is available on
Amazon for only $16
I hear you've got a way that we're gonna
maybe try it out and see if it's really
worth that little yeah something in my
mind like the cogs are turning you got
an idea yeah well we'll give you some
time to kind of think about that and
we're gonna take a really quick break
when we come back I have a nano pi M for
now Marsh man was here last week and
surprise he pulled this out of his
pocket and said this is for you
what a great guy he is a great that was
really kind of him and I can't wait to
unbox it it's a six core a single board
computer again I'll refer back to a
Raspberry Pi just because everybody
knows what a Raspberry Pi is so you
think about that but it's six cores it
has up to four gigabytes of RAM so
significantly more powerful than a
Raspberry Pi and we've got one to unbox
tonight so stick around we'll be right
back
[Music]
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cap five
dot TV slash shirts
all right welcome back as promised we
have the Nano PI M for today and get one
of these a cat5 TV slash nano pi this
one was contributed to category 5 TV by
marsh man we thank you marsh man very
much for sending this in or bringing it
in to us actually making the drive you
drove eight hours to bring this to us
folks
and here it is let's get into the box
this is a rockchip rk3288 and it has a
quad core as well cortex a53 up to 1.5
so a total of six cores and look at that
first thing I notice is it has a ton of
little micro resistors in everything
else but look at the flipside you don't
often see that where wow they've in
order to cram so much into such a small
form-factor
they've double sided this SBC so there's
the rockchip rk3288 six force GPU and it
will run up to 60 frames per second in
4k on the bottom here we've got a
microSD slot for the operating system
now there isn't a standard emmc port on
here but there is a port here and I'm
not sure if that's proprietary or just a
different interface but it's not the
standard emmc port but it does support
emmc you just need the either an adapter
I suppose or a specific module for the
nano PI it has dual channel I mentioned
a little earlier tonight that it has up
to 4 gigabytes of RAM you can choose
whether you want to gig or 4 gigs so
even their base model has twice as much
RAM as a Raspberry Pi 3 B+ its 1866
lpddr3
Marie it has native Gigabit Ethernet so
that's going to give you a gig
connection to your router and it is a
dedicated chip as far as I understand
and we've got four USB 3.0 ports so
we're looking at a little SBC here that
is like screaming fast it's USB three
and there's four of them it also has a
USB see over here that can be used to
either power it or you can use you can
use your OTG connecting cables and
adapters and things like that if you did
that I suppose you'd have to power it
over the GPIO and speaking of the GPIO
it's a 40 pin so Raspberry Pi style it's
also got you our SPI and a whole bunch
of other connectors here as well if you
want to add some kind of sensors or
things if you're a maker and you want to
build this thing up you can do that it
has a stereo headphone jack which also
doubles as a microphone input and of
course audio also goes out over the HDMI
if you're using an HDMI monitor plugged
into that and then I guess the only
other thing I notice here on the board
is this two pin connector here which
looks like real time clock so it's got
an RTC chip built in and by adding a
battery there even when your SBC is
powered off or disconnected from
electricity it will still be able to
remember that the time as you as I
mentioned the USBC connector is used for
power and so that means the board is
five volts and it would like a three amp
power supply and as far as accessories
go now I mentioned that your you know if
you want to go emmc
well we've got to get a specific type of
emmc we're not gonna be able to use our
standard card but one of the things is
really impressive about this one is the
heatsink
this is available for an additional
seven bucks but look at that solid
aluminum that's the heatsink folks now I
mentioned that the CPU is on the bottom
so this is going to go right on there
and that's what your SPC is gonna look
like march√© man has fired one of these
up and said you know what it actually
the heatsink gets pretty warm
so it just goes to show that hey with
this much power this thing is gonna
generate a fair bit of heat so you may
want to consider getting yourself the
heatsink now there's some thermal pad a
thermal pad here so that's going to go
on your processor and that is going to
create a thermal connection between the
heatsink and the CPU make sure that if
you've got fingerprints on it like I
have we're gonna clean that off with a
little bit of alcohol and a clean wipe
or something before I put that thermal
pad on there and then that's gonna go
right on there I can't wait to fire this
thing up and check it out we're gonna be
doing that on a future show see how it
how it performs we'll do some benchmarks
and some gaming and and see how that
works but that is the Nano PI m4 it's
about 65 bucks and another 7 bucks for
the heatsink and you can get that a cap
5 TB slash nano pi that is a very cool
computer I love it I love that heat
thing I love the single board computers
are getting like look at the power of
that thing and it's super small 4 gigs
of ram for 3.0 USB right I feel like
what is my computer I don't think my
computer has I'm sure yours does a bit
of a beast but it's it is like this yeah
that's right something I can put in my
shirt pocket yeah that is incredible all
right we've got to take a really quick
break and OH
when we come back we're gonna unbox this
bad boy and maybe see what what she
sounds like
don't go anywhere
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
PNH photo/video ebay or amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching welcome back
everybody now as somebody who's been
broadcasting for many many years and
before that I was a recording artist at
home so you know that was the whole
trend of home studios becoming the thing
so my wife and I had an extra bedroom
that we converted into a little bit of a
sound studio it's basically a computer
and a microphone and a windscreen and
and so I remember what it was like
getting started and having to buy an
expensive microphone having to buy an
expensive windscreen an expensive shock
mount all these kinds of things that
really really add up plus having a
computer that can have enough power
processing power to do it all and make
it sound good
and now we live in a time when things
can be done so much cheaper right but
we're never quite sure like well the the
expensive stuff still exists is the
cheap stuff any good faith into
something that's inexpensive in case it
might you know sometimes as we found
with fake SD cards on Amazon right
perfect example sometimes when you see
those bottom dollar prices youth you
know that's garbage that's why I don't
buy that that's a red flag it's new
trash
but then something like a microphone
well is the sixteen dollar microphone
really gonna perform adequately I know
it's not gonna perform as well as a 300
or a $30,000 microphone but is it going
to perform adequately for our home
studio for a podcaster if we're starting
to do some music recording and just want
to get kind of started without having to
break the bank could a sixteen dollar
microphone from Amazon actually work and
sound reasonable yes we don't know yeah
you don't know but you put your money on
it so there's our first contribution for
tonight anyone else want in on this
we're up to twenty dollars I think we're
gonna have to test it first of all I've
got to get it out of the box and so I'm
gonna I'm gonna jump over here there we
are folks
the newer newer how you gotta say it
right newer and w88 too so this is only
sixteen dollars on Amazon my friends
let's get into the box and see what it
comes with so when I was on Amazon
looking for a cheap microphone this came
in as pretty much the cheapest one that
you can possibly get cheesy sixteen
dollars for this and now it's a
condenser microphone so it does require
phantom power and you'll see some
reviews on Amazon that will say oh it
has so much noise and all that those
people don't know what phantom power is
I guarantee you have to power this
microphone so you have to have a special
kind of mixing console that has power
for this microphone so if you plug it
directly into a computer it's gonna it's
not going to work you're gonna have to
crank it up which is going to generate a
whole lot of noise because it doesn't
your computer doesn't provide power to
the microphone
this is where I think that confusion
starts because they have provided an XLR
to 8-inch microphone adapter this looks
like it would be compatible with a
laptop computer so you plug it into your
laptop computer you plug this into the
microphone and you start testing it and
it sounds like garbage well your laptop
computer does not provide phantom power
something like a zoom h4n it would
provide phantom power over this cable
however this is pretty much useless to
the average user because you may not
have that device so you have to have you
have to have a preamp for this that has
phantom power so watch for that
you're gonna need if you don't already
have it you're gonna need something to
work between this and the computer so
you can get fairly cheap like $49
preamps so you're gonna need one of
those anyways here at the studio of
course we've got preamps here so it
looks really nice it feels like it's a
metal microphone and w88 too from new
air newer it looks like it has a mic on
the back but it actually doesn't but it
has the pop screen right built into the
microphone see that
so that's further your pap√† so that they
don't pop the microphone make a big pop
noise for sixteen dollars remember this
kit okay we get everything that you see
here comes with on it's a sealed bag
comes with a shock mount now I use a
rode nt1 microphone this would be
perfectly compatible with that so you
can use this with any studio microphone
you just pop your microphone in here and
what that does is it absorbs some of the
vibration that's going to be on the
floor from you moving your feet things
like that as this sits on the stand so
that piece in and of itself is worth
more than I paid for this kit which is
pretty impressive so even if I just
wanted it for that and then I've got the
extra extra microphone to use because
who knows how this is going to function
right
specifications wise I mean they do boast
that it's 20 to 20,000 Hertz
it's a unidirectional cardioid pickup
pattern so what that means if we look at
the head of the microphone so I'm gonna
be talking singing voicing into this
part here with the pop screen and so the
polar pattern is going to be in this
shape so it's right in front of it
anything behind it it's not going to
pick it up because the polar pattern is
going forward it's unidirectional
cardioid polar pattern so that's gonna
work really really well even it I think
in our studio here where we've got some
fan noise and things like that we'll be
able to cut that out fairly easily
certainly in a home studio environment
that works really well I'm gonna move
back to the studio set here bring a
couple of pieces with me I think the
most challenging aspect of that
microphone is the name microphone that I
brought I'm just gonna call it the NW
eight 8/2 it's a really yeah it's it's a
funny funny name for sure that it's a
brand that is available on Amazon and
they have a fair number of pretty good
little devices it's pretty miscellaneous
it's located made in China stuff but
they have pretty good products so no I'm
just thinking the curiosity is could it
possibly be good enough to use this is
the question right this is the question
the question
so we can tighten that up you see that
now the shock mount moves around yeah so
I can adjust that perfectly based on
where my stand is position and then
that's just gonna pop right in there pop
screen is that what it's called up here
yeah on the microphone itself so as I'm
laying down from fat rhymes it's not
gonna take the recording videos right
it's just a little bit in like the more
expensive ones the ones that are like mm
like box Anna sure right yeah big flat
thing right yeah and you can buy them so
that it clips onto the stand and it sits
in front of the microphone but that's
another $20 to add to the kit this one's
got it built-in and there's sixteen
dollars for everything now it doesn't
include the stand obviously this stand
is my own so you will need a stand you
can put it on a desktop stand if you
want as long as it's got the ability to
screw into a mic stand I did notice that
in the box there I don't know if you saw
it we can probably see no we can't
there's a little black piece in the box
that will adapt this to the two
different sizes of mic stand so it came
with that adapter as well should we give
it a try I think I'm going to just kind
of put this right here and I need to get
a cable and we'll need to turn off your
headset microphone because everything
that you're gonna hear is going to be
from this microphone all right good good
okay all right I'm gonna I'm gonna
disconnect all of our microphones so
you're not gonna hear our headsets
anymore everything's going to come from
this as soon as I plug in that cable
yeah all right so now okay
sure and I'm gonna disconnect mine
because we're gonna plug into my mic
cable here
testing testing 2 4 6 Mic Check 1 2 3 5
4 3
aims when you put them all together then
you got a lot of game you don't have to
worry but the quality of sound it's
gonna be great if it's coming from the
ground
gonna start small but we're gonna stand
tall we're gonna say it right
start with the mic we're gonna start
small but we're gonna stand tall one's
gonna say you're right gotta start with
a mic what Suzanne my ex and soundless
you like that sound that you like sought
to start with that bun voices and mites
and things that you like got a sound
that you like gotta start without
don't got a mic then you got no sound
and if you ain't got no sound then you
can't be found well if you don't like
this Mike a sixteen dollar buy won't be
too hard on your wallet
so hey give it a try more importance
that your Mike is that as a rapper
you're alright that your lyrics are
important and what you mean is out of
sight gotta say what you want gotta say
what you like and to do those things you
need a dang good but we've gotta start
small but we're gonna stand tall gotta
say it right we're gonna start with the
mic we've gotta start small but we gonna
stand tall got a singer right
voices and might extend things that you
like that sound that you like gotta
start with that mic voices and bikes and
thing that you as you like sound that
you like you gotta start with that mic
Oh was that worth $16 please send your
comments through yeah comment below I
think it's a great starting point for
sure yeah what a world we live in
yeah very cool you can get yours at cat5
dot TV slash mic check it out it's only
16 bucks or so so let us know what you
think it's actually were gonna jump over
to the newsroom you've got your stories
all ready to go sure do alright here are
the stories were covering this week in
the category 5 TV newsroom the problems
with the windows 10 October 2018 update
just keep on rolling in as users are now
complaining a faulty zip file
extractions broken fonts and iffy
brightness controls Linux founder Linus
Torvalds has returned from a month of
reflection to his job as chief developer
of the widely used operating system
Dyson the uk-based company best known
for its vacuum cleaners has chosen to
build its new electric car in Singapore
and a 16 year old boy from California
was the surprise winner of the grand
final at the classic Tetris World
Championship in Oregon these stories are
coming right up don't go anywhere
this is a category 5 TV newsroom
covering the weeks
snake Linux bias Jeff Westen Gemma
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website what
aren't you your terrible actor
what does where acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay are you
building a really cool website are you
building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host I'm
Sasha Rickman in here are the top
stories for following this week the
problems with the Windows 10 October
2018 update just keep rolling in as
users are now complaining of faulty zip
file extractions broken fonts and if he
brightness controls the infamous file
deletion bug and blue screen reports
have drowned out other issues somewhat
so allow us to present a roundup that
could have been titled should have kept
the testing team on a the issue with the
zip file extraction first appeared in a
reddit thread as users queried some odd
behavior when files were being copied
out of an archive previous versions of
Windows would show a warning if those
files already existed in the destination
in Windows 10 20 80 no 9 nothing it's a
pretty nasty issue a user could copy a
file out of an archive assume the copy
was successful and then delete the zip
file however if a file with the same
name already exists Windows 10 would
have silently done nothing less severe
but highly annoying for affected users
is a problem where some Unicode Unicode
characters are failing to show up
correctly software featuring certain
characters will instead see plain
rectangles it looks like there's a
problem with font substitution linking
or file back in Windows 10 where the
operating system replaces missing
characters from one font with those from
another except in version 1809 this does
not seem to be happening reliably in a
simple test in notepad for example it
has been demonstrated that
18:03 is able to use a star character
18:09 shows a rectangle for the same
font some apps such as office appear to
be unaffected but other windows apps
that depend on the OS to perform font
substitutions are struggling and finally
an issue in 1809 is causing the screen
to fail to dim or brighten as the user
presents the hardware keys on the
surface go and possibly others as the
dell XPS has also been shown to have the
issue a restart appears to fix the
problem briefly as does disabling and
re-enabling the graphics driver some
users have reported success in manually
installing drivers from Intel most are
suggesting rolling back your OS to 18:03
but if you're unable to do that
unfortunately you'll just have to wait
until Microsoft fixes these new issues
and hopefully their fix won't cause your
computer to blue screen this has been a
rocky month for Microsoft with updates
on Microsoft Windows
October's been a little rough for
Microsoft I think what is really
frustrating about this from a user's
perspective is that it's really
difficult to turn off Windows Update in
Windows 10 it's impossible it kind of
seems that way because you'll turn it
off and then it will re-enable itself
and then you'll find a new registry key
that you can turn off and it will
re-enable itself that's what we found
it's also hard to trust updates when
it's an update that causes the problem
right like so if I have an update that
is an issue and then they say ok we have
a fix for this update and then they do
another update and it causes another
issue which is you know something that's
been happening which which issue do you
prefer yeah do you prefer to have your
files deleted or and blue-screen
to be honest like this whole font
substitution thing that could be a
pretty big deal if you're printing
documents that have you know very
particular character and I use Unicode
on occasion I think where it would
really be noticeable is if you were
using foreign characters so you know we
think of the example of you know little
graphic characters like like a web ding
or something like that but
that's not really a big issue compared
to if you're using foreign characters
that are a part of a particular font set
and the substitution just turns them
into squares we encounter that now with
French characters here in Canada so that
can be very very frustrating
Quebec you think of Quebec with the
accent over the e well that's a unicode
character right so I'm gonna put my hot
dog hat on right now all right to ask a
simple question so what's the 1809
versus 1803 what's all of that so 1803
is the update for Windows Microsoft
Windows 10 that came out in April its
yeah represents yeah yeah exactly so
18-point own are 1809 sake point 1809
was released early October yes when
Microsoft released it it deleted files
on people's computers and broke profiles
so then they pulled it three days later
they re-released it and said okay we
fixed that but then it blue screamed HP
computers so they can boot their
computer yeah so then they re-released
okay now you're losing files when you
extract a zip file or everything else
unicode and brightness control is not
working right can you imagine if you
aren't robbie and you haven't backed up
your files in a hundred different places
and then you delete a file thinking that
you've extracted it properly and if it
could just be really frustrating and the
other place that that's annoying is a
lot of us these days use LTE internet so
we pay for the bandwidth that we're
using so if I download a giant file and
extract it and expect that it had
extracted because it looked like it went
through and then I delete the zip file
and maybe it was too big for my trash
bin so it just is gone yeah oh now I got
to download it again and I have to pay
again for that download so it's a whole
you know the Microsoft doesn't seem to
think about that when they rolled out
the Windows 10 update they didn't care
that it cost me $400 to get it through
my LTE connection right exactly
too bad they don't have a testing team
probably would be a good idea I would
say mm-hmm
Linux founder linus torvalds has
returned from a month of reflection to
his job as chief developer of the widely
used operating system mr. 12 at 12 ads
stop-stop stepped back pardon me from
heading the core development of linux
following accusations of bullying and
rudeness
he sought professional help to curb his
abrasive side and to develop empathy
with the Linux community his return
comes as Linux coders adopt a code of
conduct the conduct that seeks to make
the community more welcoming mr. 12 had
told Torvalds Torvalds if we just edited
in such a way that every time you say
mr. I say Torvalds said he was not a
people person but was taking time off to
develop his the interpersonal skills
required by their role as the Linux
figurehead before taking the short
sabbatical
mr. Torvalds was known he was known for
giving forthright feedback often in the
form is have expletive filled emails to
contributors mr. Torvald said he doubted
that he would ever be cuddly but could
improve the way he handled people the
code of conduct adopted by the larger
Linux community asks developers to use
welcoming and inclusive language be
respectful of differing viewpoints and
experiences it gracefully accept
constructive criticism focus on what is
best for the community and show empathy
towards other community members it also
lists unacceptable behavior which
includes sexualized imagery and language
as well as trolling and personal attacks
it calls on key developers including mr.
Torvalds to police the code and live up
to its standards mr. Torvald developed
the first version of the Linux operating
system while studying at the University
of Hull in ski Finland in 1991 since
then the free OS has become hugely
popular across
and in many industries I wasn't ready
for it but it's Helsinki I find it
amazing that a man who has inspired so
many yes has to back up and is like I
know he's he claims not to be a people
person and I understand that but but
when you think so he's an abrasive
person that's his personality type right
and he's possibly got anger issues and
things like that yeah but he as that
person has inspired thousands and
thousands and thousands of other people
to have a very big community mindset
maybe maybe it's like he has created
something and because he gave it away
for free he's inspired people who are
really more community minded and more
friendly to work with it and it's hard
to know that's the thing I feel like
with people who have achieved a lot
within society though they tend to get
idolized and then maybe yeah he's small
and I'm not saying that that's small but
any aspect of their personality that
isn't in keeping with a great leader
thing gets really skewered and I'm not
I'm not saying that he shouldn't be like
repair repaired I'm not saying that I
think that probably more appropriate
like he should probably just find
someone else to do that kind of work
that that's possible yeah because it's
just not his forte right yeah he's doing
some harm right yeah he likely didn't
have to develop his empathy very much
while he was busy developing an
operating system that is rockin people
like you just meet some people and they
don't have that capacity they just have
a completely different way of looking at
people and so it's difficult to change
just using sure training or a two-week
seminar or something like that I feel
like it's that's the challenge yeah I
think it's important for us as Linux
using community as well to realize and
in any community you don't have to be a
stellar person to be really good at
something right and he did it didn't
ever I think it must be hard on him
right now because people are coming down
on him because of his personality type
right and I may not agree with it and I
may not mirror that type of behavior
maybe sometimes when the kids are being
bad but well I I feel like he probably
didn't intend harm even in when he was
sending those emails like it wasn't the
fact that he's just aggressive response
like reactionary response exactly but I
don't think that he liked his actions
and his intentions didn't meet up
completely in my in my mind I'm thinking
so think of that quote so Sasha just
said his actions and his intentions
didn't line up when he created Linux did
he intend for it to become the world's
most used operating system and and for
him to be the figurehead of this giant
community organization right I don't
think that was his intention and he's
kind of kept out of the spotlight in
that you know he's very much a
behind-closed-doors kind of guy but
cross him right and he'll show his true
colors I would say really lucky for him
Linux users the community of Linux users
they're they're so warm and so
empathetic and so supportive that the
fact that he stepped away for a month
and worked on it himself even if he were
to show some like future blunders and
maybe failings in that regard he'll be
forgiving you know I mean as long as he
practices some of the tools he's been
given yeah I think it's important though
that we not expect someone to change who
they are I I want yeah it's good though
that they're laying out policies and
saying okay we're not gonna have sex ISM
we're not going to have people being
treated poorly or being reprimanded for
like even if someone made a mistake
right I mean we can't react like I'm a
little bit of it like a delicate flower
when it comes to feedback you have to
really sandwich your criticisms with
like a positive than negative then the
positive or else I just come away
feeling like ridiculously wounded and
I'm it's and it's not intentional
probably by the person exactly some
people are just like you did that wrong
and it's like right
what do you mean I feel like I could not
be mr. Torvald yeah
personal assistant - oh sure yeah a good
job first so we'll see how he does in
the next in the while but let's not be
too hard on the guy like we're all human
and we all have our own way of handling
things and if that's the kind of person
he is unfortunately we just kind of stay
away and let him stay away
let him stay away let him kind of work
behind closed doors because he's good at
what he does it's really good at what he
does
the company will break ground on its new
factory in Singapore later this year
with the first car scheduled to roll off
the production line in 2021
Dyson said the decision was based on the
availability of engineering talent
regional supply chains and proximity to
some key target markets cost was not a
consideration Singapore is one of the
most expensive territories in the world
to do business and space for
manufacturing is at a premium in the
city state dyson has not yet revealed
what kind of batteries its new car will
use or whether or where they'll be made
dyson continues to develop both
solid-state and traditional lithium-ion
batteries in parallel the company
currently has 1,100 employees in
singapore 1300 in malaysia 1000 in china
and 800 in the philippines
yet another manufacturer bringing out
electronic cars yes and I am I have said
it before I'll say it again I'm so
excited to see what the Dyson car will
look like cuz Dyson vacuums it's a world
it's actually kind of fun and
tongue-in-cheek that it's a not your car
which is very clean and Dyson is a
cleaner known for its cleaning
interesting that they didn't in any way
consider I'm sure I'm thinking they
didn't in any way consider the expensive
aspect of Singapore Singapore yeah
all these other companies are going to
these other right go where it's cheapest
where Labor's cheap where rent is cheap
or leasing is cheap no let's go to the
most expensive place in the world right
to do manufacturing what's it gonna cost
for me to buy myself a Dyson car oh good
thought yeah yeah they're expensive
vacuums they're expensive
yeah that's true but they're good
vacuums I wonder what the purchase of a
car if you get a Dyson vacuum very cool
maybe you could hook it up to the
exhaust pipe there is no exhaust pipe so
they've utilized that as a that central
vac Jack that's perfect
I sixteen-year-old boy from California
final of the classic Tetris World
Championship in Oregon the iconic block
stacking computer game is 13 years older
than him
Joseph sat Sayle dethroned seven-time
tournament winner Jonas Neubauer
the young man had only started playing
as a hobby after watching the
championship in 2016 Wow he plays for a
couple of hours each day on an original
1985 Nintendo Entertainment System
console hooked up to an old CRT TV
rather than a modern flatscreen he said
that he prefers using the old fashioned
monitor because there's less latency
which is a tiny time difference between
the controller and the visual he said my
friends are like what is this guy
playing and like a retro gaming
evangelist explains to them that Tetris
is easy to learn but can take years to
master mr. Sayle intends to take part in
the competition again next year 16 years
old yeah I love it retro is making a
comeback I am so bad at Tetris I want to
be good at it
I love it so much I am just like I'm a
panicky button mashers on category 5
technology TV last week we we've created
our own Tetris machine I know do I go
it's like a it looks like a smaller
version of a Gameboy but you can put
gameboy games on a Nintendo
Entertainment System games so I actually
have the original Tetris in NES on
that right and I've been playing it
along with dr. Mario oh wow because both
of those are fantastic it could be the
next champion I'll work on that I don't
know Sascha
it's an easy game to learn but it takes
years to master I wonder if it plays
with the music on definitely yeah you
have to you have to I think so yeah
oh if that's part of the competition
like if they have that like to be
amazing I gotta watch that yeah I'm sure
it's online
what was that that was just that movie
and I loved it so much nose ritual
reality Oh ready player one yes right
right so I feel like this is he's that
guy right that it's just the master of
retro games at an incredibly young age
when the game itself is you know like 13
years older than him and how old is he
he's 14 is that 16 he's 16
right that's crazy my kids like my
daughter is our oldest and she's 13 and
and they're really becoming more and
more into retro games and and not only
retro games like from our childhood but
they're also playing games that are made
to look like our retro games like
undertale for example like it looks a
lot like a game out of the early 80s
right something you play on ColecoVision
or something like that so they're
bringing it back not only the retro
games but the styles of retro games
minecraft was another good example it's
very much like in like a late 80s Early
90s kind of look to it right beyond the
like lens flares
yeah but blocky and pixelated and just
everything's based on a grid system
instead of you know some fresher newer
games and yeah see what else comes out
congratulations and you're like playing
VR so it's like but I bet you there'll
be some VR games that end up looking
exactly like that like I could be
amazing if you could play D&amp;D in Virtual
Reality in like 2d right space
so like everything is there in 3d but
it's a 2d character exactly that's
that's gonna happen now probably already
has happened I won't like it up oh yeah
I want to see that I will play that okay
on the opposite end of that spectrum
like a while back I was buying a CD
player for like just like a portable CD
player and I went into a Sony store yeah
and I was like that's the one and it was
actually like an exhibit from like the
1900 I went into an antique shop and
there were things in the antique shop
from my childhood I was talking to Dave
the other day I remember the end of 8
tracks
I remember the beginning and end of
cassettes records have made a comeback
yeah good it's coming and CDs are a
thing of the past like I feel like
everything I know and now we're seeing
more and more stores pulling CDs from
the shelves DVDs even DVDs are being
pulled from the store shelves right we
have a 3d TV and they are like extinct
now we have yeah we went to the store to
buy some 3d glasses and the guy said
like you might as well buy up the whole
stock because we're not there there are
no more 3d TVs being manufactured that's
a thing is it because people are
switching to oculus rifts and things
like that where you can actually look
around that like in movie theaters
because they have 3d as an option most
of the time but most of the time it's
not really doing very much at all it's
very subtle it just kind of went in it
was like yeah I want to see you like
starts going by my head like while I'm
watching a movie but now it's like it's
just kind of an additional feature that
you pay more for ok
I love ours I found though though like
with the more recent movies you like you
it's depth in the 3d screen versus
things coming out at you
right when you put the right okay I feel
like you can see further so you see like
the horizon looks like you're looking
out over the horizon which is neat yeah
I wish they I wish that the technologies
wouldn't just be bygones
yeah but Tetris lives on Tetris lives on
bugs
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight linux'
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our web site from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson and I'm
cheezy thanks everybody for being here
with us this week that's all the time
that we have hope you've had fun and we
will talk to you again next week see ya
[Applause]
