welcome back this is category five
technology TV and tonight we are looking
at the wise cams now we've got the wise
cam v2 and we've got the wise cam pan
now both of these cameras combined are
gonna give you a very affordable
surveillance product it's a smart home
device and we unbox these last week so
if you haven't seen it yet please go to
our website category five dot TV or
click cap five dot TV slash Weis and
you'll be able to see that video as well
but in the unboxing videos we don't hook
them up and we don't actually get to see
how they work so over the past couple of
days I've had a chance to hook these up
and experience you know what what
they're like to operate right and I
gotta say especially at this price point
I'm really impressed okay
these are 1080p smart cameras so smart
home cameras right that are comparable
with a much higher priced device so this
is the v2 and as we saw in the unboxing
video it's just a basic stand but it is
a very clever design so that you can you
can articulate it in many many different
ways but what else is very interesting
about this is that it is magnetic so
anything that you have that is metal it
will stick to so we found that you can
actually stick it to corner beading
right through the drywall or through the
through the so that's a pretty strong
leg yeah absolutely it's pretty good
certainly you mentioned about a fridge
and being able to so look at how I can
articulate this so I can put it like
that right cameras pointed out and it's
looking and perfect yeah so I mean
magnetically that's cool now these guys
come with a little steel plate mm-hmm
now I called it a magnetic plate last
week technically this is not magnetic
this is just a piece of metal the the
magnet is actually built into the base
of the camera itself with some
double-sided tape hmm I can now take
this and I can stick it up on my wall
and put that where I want to have
surveillance and now I can take this
camera and stick it to that magnet and
now it's got the ability to hang on the
wall right it's a really easy
installation process but because it's a
magnet I can then take it off the wall
and it's just a little circle yes yeah
and that's not ugly right oh it's
actually quite nice it's a brush steel
with the Y's logo I wonder do they sell
extra ones of those they do yeah you can
order more but they come with it as well
so but if you want you want to be able
to move it around exactly sure yeah you
can you can buy extras if you like
should we actually get a look at how
these devices operate love that me too
me too
okay so again if you haven't seen the
unboxing yet we did kind of get into
what each device has as far as
peripherals and things like that you
want to get a look at that and the link
is below as well one thing Sasha that I
wasn't too sure about is each device has
interestingly so this is the this is the
PTZ model so this is the wise cam PTZ
it's a pan tilt zoom right we're gonna
look at the specimen like we're gonna
actually try this in the app in just a
couple of moments so you're gonna get to
see what it actually does but it has a
USB port on the back right so I thought
well is that for like a USB flash drive
or what is that for but that doesn't
really make any sense because it has an
SD card reader that you would insert
your SD card into and that's what you're
gonna be storing the data on for the
camera itself so what could that be
turns out this USB port is a daisy-chain
port for power okay so each device comes
with one of these power bricks mm-hmm
but do you want to have one plugged in
at every camera especially in a case
where you've got say two or three
cameras in a pretty close proximity to
one another right so instead what I can
do is I can in the back of the camera I
can plug in the power cable for the next
camera the second camera so now this
camera is being powered by this camera
and this camera is being powered by the
wall wart that's perfect not cool so
this camera is just booting up now I'm
gonna put this on top and I'm gonna just
kind of point it our direction and I'm
gonna bring up my smart phone here and
let's see what what we see I just heard
it click so it's just about ready to go
so
click on wise - ok and it's going to
connect in if it has finished booting if
it hasn't finished booting I can go back
and let's take a look at the PTZ camera
which is finished what is really really
cool about the PTZ now I'm going to use
my finger sash okay and I'm just going
to drag with my finger and you're gonna
see that the the camera let me put this
where you can actually see it on on set
so I'm gonna put that right there I know
it's not perfect but this it's gonna
work so this is the PTZ camera okay so
in the app you see the app there on the
right hand side of your screen and
you're looking at the back of my
computer screen I'm gonna just kind of
I'm just gonna drag with my fingers
hasha yeah and see what I'm doing is I'm
actually turning the camera and moving
up a little bit now Jeff was wondering
about the zoom capability right I'm
gonna pinch zoom you ready yeah see that
so I'm actually pinch zooming just like
you would on a photo ridiculous so that
is them yeah but that's digital zoom so
it's not actually moving in on an
optical apparatus it's it's digital zoom
on a 1080p canvas so it but you can see
that the quality that's fantastic right
that cameras $38 and it has PTZ and can
you be at work
yeah anywhere huh let's reconnect okay
there you go
so so the camera is connected to my
Wi-Fi right and I can be anywhere with
the app and I can see the camera just as
you're seeing it there on the screen I
can also see things like if there were
events that have a have happened there
are events at the bottom here and you
can see there are currently no events
because I haven't set up any triggers
for events let's look at wise to which
should be booted by now there we go so
wise to this is a stationary v2 camera
and so this one you're just going to
point it where you want it to be and
that's what it's going to look like so
that's like the wide view of your office
or something like that right
it works very very well for that purpose
and you can see there on the screen the
dots that's how it looks it a game
features pinch-zoom can do that but
otherwise it's not pan tilt zoom it's
just so you can't turn it like you can
with the pan but you can you can zoom in
on it and you can set up all the other
options so these are great we had the
discussion last week about how Jeff's
neighborhood he's concerned about the
fact that people are breaking into cars
right so these little guys for 25 bucks
apiece
you can plug these into something like
our USB charger for our phone right and
put this on the dash of your car even
two of them daisy chain together looking
out each window and then if someone
creeps up how's the quality on this if I
was to be looking inside your car right
okay but then you say well it's probably
gonna be dark if anyone is going to
break in right it would be so okay you
you look into there I'm gonna step off
the set here and I can actually see my
phone right now but I'm going to head
over here and we you know we don't have
anyone else to do this but I'm gonna I'm
gonna kill the lights
and Sasha behind you there's another
light switch to kill the final light you
see you there yes kill that for me and
we're gonna see okay so now it is
pitch-black in the studio right now
other than your laptop screen okay can
you see yeah you can see you can see
yourself on the changes in the room
itself it's pitch black right yeah if
you well folks can see that folks can
see that oh yeah oh yeah no it's quite
turned on and you see how cool so now
that yeah it's the night vision has
turned off so I just wanted to show you
how the night vision works yeah it turns
on as soon as the lights go out or as
soon as it's dark and then now it's not
obvious either right like this nothing
glowing right so if you could hide it in
a discreet spot especially if they're if
they are getting car break-ins because
nobody's going to break you guys grasp
that for a second what sash is saying I
mean sash is trying to
explain this but the infrared of a
night-vision camera is usually
pronounced right you can usually see the
red light yes with these cameras I don't
know I'm going to point this directly at
your camera so that you can see and
we're going to turn off the lights again
okay so that on the right hand side
you're gonna still see the the view but
ok Sasha ready go so can you guys see
the screen is so bright all right but
how crazy is that
so with that you don't you don't
actually see any light you don't see any
infrared I love that it's so discreet
yeah speaking of discreet though it is a
box yes I like what they've done with
this the design of it is a little bit
boxy and it's not something that it's
not a spy camera it's a surveillance
camera exactly this is not something
that's gonna be hidden somewhere so
indiscreet that you're worried about
that right it's a surveillance camera
exactly like it speaks to spike you you
notice it mm-hmm right but if but again
like for Jeff's particular situation it
wouldn't occur exactly yeah so I great
view there of the back of my laptop how
do you like that okay let's go through
the settings in take a look so on this
camera let's go through event recording
so we've got detecting of motion check
we want to record if that happens
detecting sound I don't want that
because there may be sound that is not
necessarily somebody breaking in but you
can turn that on and now it will start
recording to the cloud anytime there is
sound I'll explain that in just a couple
of moments and then you saw push
notifications as well detection settings
this is important detection zone you
need to specify the detection zone if
you want to use that the notification
service that if there is motion it will
detect it and it will alert you so if
that's off it won't alert me now with it
on it will now alert me if there's any
motion within that box I
change that box okay so justify there
you go
see that on the right-hand side of your
screen brilliant all right okay so jump
back and sensitivity I can adjust that
sound sensitivity if you want it's there
as well
alarm settings if the smoke alarm or the
co2 alarm goes off do you want to be
notified yes yes advanced settings this
is cool you've got night vision Auto or
on or off okay so I can actually
forcibly turn on night vision like that
so night vision mode and then I can
click on this icon up at the top right
to change that as well okay back in
advanced settings I've got local storage
so this is important understanding the
SD card functionality so I've got it set
to continuously record on a 16 gig card
it's showing as 15 gigs and it's
formatted fat32 now the SD card
functionality that's where it's going to
record your video to write the cloud
functionality it's going to record
little clips when there are events to
serve like 10-second 14 second Clips so
if there's movement so if I'm in my
office and somebody's moving around in
the studio it will record a 14 second
clip to alert me that there's motion and
then I can see that on my phone and I
can Oh somebody's moving around in the
studio right it's just this little clip
that's uploaded to the the cloud
absolutely free for me to be able to
view it on my phone now within the app
because I have an SD card installed I
can actually load up that camera and I
can go view playback and I can see now
right now because we just connected the
camera I can there's nothing there but I
can actually see in the timeline any
motion that's been going on okay
anything that's been happening on the
camera brilliant how hard is it to
connect a new camera super simple okay
and I wanted to actually show you how to
do this because I think this is
important yeah so what I'll do is I'm
going to daisy-chain another camera here
okay I've got another v2 which I'm going
to plug into the back of this one so now
have three cameras daisy-chained
together which is the maximum on a
single power brick I should say
and I'm going to plug this camera in
here okay so now it's just powering up
okay should be yep I've got an orange
light on the back there okay okay
once it starts flashing then I know it's
finished booting and in my app on the
right hand side here I'm going to click
on the plus button and then it asked me
what type of camera I want to add which
is the wise cam and it says okay well we
need to push the button on the bottom so
on the bottom here I'm just gonna touch
that little button okay I need to hold
it in maybe it's really awkward
oh it's still booting okay Nick step
three is press and hold the setup button
until you hear the prompt ready to
connect and it will okay
orange light is solid so I'm just
waiting okay maybe daisy-chaining is not
perfect let's see I'll try booting it
again
I do find the pan takes a little bit
more power
okay so daisy-chaining probably the v2
together is a little better than a pan
into a v2 into a v2 right so I may not
have quite enough power if that's the
case then I'll just unplug the other v2
and we'll try then let's see here there
we go okay it's flashing let's try again
find the button there it is and I'm just
holding it up so you yeah there's not
not quite enough power there I can tell
so I'm gonna I'm gonna disconnect this
one so the daisy-chaining on the like
the provided unit so these are a
thousand milliamps or one amp right so
they're not very powerful adapters you
can put a 2 amp adapter on it you could
buy a more powerful adapter and you'll
be able to power more cameras so they do
say that it's gonna power 2 we just saw
here tonight that to the or they say
that it's going to power 3 I think it's
only going to power two realistically
I've got the pan okay because I'm
powering all three cameras off of the
same power brick right now once you were
to set it up you could do the 3 no
problem where is it does it take extra
power to set up no well no but if you
have a more powerful than you do brick
this one's only one amp yeah so get a 2
amp adapter and then maybe you can add
three or four cameras ok we just found
that one of these at 1 amp is not enough
for 3 cameras even though they say it is
that's what we wanted to hear so now on
your screen you see I'm gonna hit next
and then it asked me for my password now
what I'm actually going to do is I'm
going to remove my phone from the screen
because I wanted to tell you this
because I've seen I've seen some people
on on YouTube that have been showing
their their color code the QR code i
reverse-engineered so i'm just holding
this QR code scan so it just scanned a
QR code from my phone and now i'm gonna
bring back up the phone and it's
connecting to now that it's scanned that
that code so i reverse-engineered the QR
code and it actually contains plain text
of my networking settings
it's base64 encoded it just said setup
completed the the QR code contains
base64 encoded plaintext settings for
your Wi-Fi network so you don't want to
show that to anyone it's private
information and that's why I've masked
it here tonight so I'm gonna assign this
a device name I'm going to call this
wise one okay as I've just simply named
numbered all my cameras there we go
and finish setup so now there we've got
wise one and I gotta click on that and
now we've got three cameras all
connected now wise two is off because
I've disconnected the power now let's
see if it comes up
oh you wise here comes there it is
alright so there you go okay so now back
to settings because we were looking at
settings what else do we have in
Advanced Settings we've got the ability
to turn on and off the camera status
light so that somebody doesn't actually
see that the camera is on you can rotate
it 180 degrees so if you hang it upside
down you can actually rotate it so that
it's upside down basically that's gonna
fix the orientation if that's the case
you can add a timestamp watermark by
default that's on I'm gonna turn off the
why's logo do you want to record sound
yes I do and then go into local storage
and see what's happening here okay we've
got again it's detecting as a 15 gig
card that's a micro SD card that I have
inserted into the base of this
unit that's just a 16 gig microSD which
will give me about a day day and a half
of continuous recording on that card
okay any questions at this point so far
so good so far so good that's it how
it's secure like nobody could hack into
your camera
yeah well this camera is now tied to my
wise account so it's connected to my app
there's no web access to that particular
camera it's all part of my app and it's
an encrypted connection all that all the
communication between my app the camera
the camera in the cloud it's all
bi-directional encrypted okay end to end
it's an encrypted connection so as it
posts videos to the cloud it's in a
private section for this camera for this
account and it's encrypted so only I can
open that if I remove that camera and
sell it to someone else they don't have
access to this either jumping back here
let's see if I have any events no so how
do I get events so if I open my wise-1
cam go into settings and go into
detection settings and turn on my
detection zone now I've got a detection
zone so there will be movement detected
on that camera so now if I bring up more
and then hit motion tagging now let's
see what happens if I start moving
around I'm going to turn on motion
tagging there we are so now if I walk
right it sees that there's motion it's
not putting a box necessarily right
around me but it should should detect
both of us there you go there we go cool
right
we've got the ability to do time-lapse
video which is kind of a neat little
bonus and that's that's really it for
the v2 the v2 is more basic than the pan
let's bring back up the pan right there
we are and this one again I can move
around so I can actually move that
camera see there see how it's physically
moving boggles my mind yeah so now I'm
gonna click on that this one has more
stuff motion tracking
check this out so now it's gonna see the
motion and it's actually gonna follow me
oh hey hi and it's gonna actually kind
of follow me I'm not moving it following
me digitally so the neat thing about
that is if you have it set up in such a
way that it's pointed at a particular
area for detection and then it sees
someone walk in it will follow them
right but then if they walk off now 15
seconds later it will revert back to the
original position so how do we change
that we go into our advanced settings on
the for the pan this is only the pan we
go into our detection settings and
change our detection zone and here we
would actually pan it to where we want
the detection zone to start see that so
let's say this is our detection zone
that's where it's going to always
default to so now even if it moves
somewhere else
it'll just after 15 seconds of no
movement it will come right back to this
position watching the door rightly or
whatever else and then to take it one
step further we can set up various
points where we want to be able to move
the camera so that is part of the pan
scan feature let's see if we can get
into that is the microphone good enough
to use for a podcast no no who was
saying that it's okay for sound uh it's
got bi-directional audio you see on the
app there on the right hand side of your
screen I've got voice and sound so so I
could actually if I push the voice
button hi we're getting feedback now but
you could hear it's like it's tinny it's
like bad speakerphone quality the sound
is not is not the selling point but it's
nice to be able you know if someone
broke in you could you're saying if yeah
absolutely so that there's something
about that that is pretty cool
let's see what else we have right motor
controls we can change the speed look at
that the rotation speed of the camera
and within that is the pan scan settings
which is a little bit nested I didn't
like that it was so hidden in there but
let's so let's press the first one and
set now click on the second one and move
that to Sasha okay and set okay click on
the third one I'm just going to kind of
control it here zoom move up and set and
then the fourth one let's just say it's
going to be looking at the roof can I do
that that's a no that's about as high as
it goes off of the desk set how about
that okay so I have three shots set up
one two three four I should say four and
let's move that back over here and set
okay so if I save that and then I go
back here and I click on more and then
pan scan it will actually move between
those shots
yeah hey here we go Oh I have a question
from the food as well do all the cameras
need to be on the same Wi-Fi like or can
one be at work one at home and one
tumor-like can you have them set to
different Wi-Fi networks but controlled
by the same app yes yes
yes you may good because when you scan
that QR code it's scanning the network
settings for the network that you're
currently on put these in all different
locations yes and then be able to access
them for many right ok so like if you
wanted to have one at the studio and so
and have one at your work yes absolutely
have one just watching your favorite pen
network like it's anybody touching that
yeah so there you go the the second
camera is not connected first camera I I
feel like maybe the daisy-chaining is
not very good right I really kind of
feel that way folks pan tilt zoom one
that's fine yeah it maybe has a lot it
takes more power I think so I think from
that
yeah daisy chaining these guys here I
don't think that seems good to me
together yes but not the pan right that
one seems to be ok
absolutely the final thing that I would
want to test is how these operate
powered by just a battery right okay so
I've I've done that let's take two of
these okay and I connect two of these
together to my cell phone charger
because I want to know if I were to put
this in my car and leave it kind of
overnight or whenever will it will it
work okay
there you go both of them are powering
up on the battery no problem these are
both just plugged in I'd probably want
to buy a couple of shorter cables for it
cuz it's a little bit flimsy right there
you go so think of one point at each
direction on your dashboard of your car
and just powered by a battery pack how's
it look
Oh Oh there's a parent yeah there's the
first one and second one try again try
is it powering up both of them have a
light
so I've got one absolutely which one is
that can you use the daisy chain from
the one you have I probably could yeah
try power cycling it says so so that's
not perfect I mean we're experiencing a
couple of little issues here and there
but I think because we're live also that
that's a part of it mm-hmm but it
obviously works very very well and for
the price point so each of these being
twenty five dollars and I'm doing
something that you're probably not
supposed to do yeah but at twenty five
dollars apiece
right I'm not afraid to try stuff and
goof around with it and and plug it into
battery packs and plug it into and hang
it off of fridges and whatever else
because I can put these anywhere and
they're just twenty five bucks and if
for some reason the power is not good
enough then I can grab another power
brick or something like that right like
I don't know that we have like a huge
security risk where we live it doesn't
cost a lot of money and wouldn't it be
nice to just have it for when we go away
right to just
I mean we're not gonna have a problem
but it would be really nice if there
were a problem like oh but say the smoke
alarm went off I would like to know that
for sure right so we'd love to hear your
feedback if you've got a wise cam don't
feel like because hey maybe you know
like I could I could mess around with
this and I could get the second one
going no problem I'm plugging it into a
power brick maybe it doesn't have enough
power I don't know right but I'm not
afraid to experiment and to try things
like that with these because of the
price point at thirty eight dollars for
a pan tilt zoom in and I'm messing
around with it and fumbling with it
whatever I hung it from the roof this
week just as an experiment I've got a
little quarter inch threaded thing
hanging from the roof and I hung it from
the roof and I inverted it 180 degrees
and I set it to pan around the room and
and let me know if there was movement
and it worked fantastic beauty the one
thing other than you know the couple of
little blips here the one thing that I
did have trouble with was formatting the
SD cards within the camera didn't work
so on my computer I formatted them fat32
because you want fat32 not X fat not
NTFS take an SD card this 32 gigs are
under
and format at fat32 and these cameras
will handle it and that's what they like
they say that that's the most reliable
file format file system for these
particular cameras and that's gonna give
you the best reliability I mean you want
to stick with what is supported right so
beyond that I really haven't had any
real issues right and I can tell you
that I'm gonna have all these up and
running and it's not gonna be a problem
at all they're just but I'm probably
gonna plug them in separately and I
think yeah yeah I mean not I like the
idea of the daisy chaining it's not
perfect but I write in a pendulum maybe
if I put on another power adapter a
better power adapter
yeah something that's 2 or 2 amps you
can really do a lot better yeah perfect
mm-hmm so 38 dollars or $25 that's all
cost he kind of got a sense from our app
what what it takes to get that up and
going and you can pick those up a cat5
dot TV slash wise I absolutely do think
that they're great I want to get that
across
at this price pie it's fantastic yes it
records to the SD card as you saw in
either continuous or on event so
continuous means it's going to be
recording all the time and once it fills
up it's going to record over previous
days recordings on event means it's
going to take up less space because it's
only going to start recording when it
senses movement or sound depending on
your settings that's kind of cool if you
if you want to get like a week's worth
of video instead of a day and a half
right so but the advantage to having
continuous recording is when the events
go off you've got that 14 second clip on
the cloud that shows you on your phone
this is the you know something's
happening now you can go to the SD card
and say okay here's the whole video of
everything that happened during
moment exactly so you can see more than
just that 10 14 seconds which would be
the event itself
[Music]
[Applause]
