hi the welcome to new every day my name
is Carrie my name is jen and on today's
show we're talking about weeds are
dangerous be right
[Music]
hi welcome back thanks so much for
tuning in we're on the road and we're
going to continue our solar series we've
been on devout the parable of the sower
and how Jesus talked about how there are
different soils people's cards are
represented by different types of soil
so the rocky soil which we spoke about
last week and this week we're talking
about the weeds
right and so last week we said that
rocks are dangerous and one of the
questions that we we ended with with was
wire rocks dangerous and we said well
simply because they impede the root
growth from going down and drink getting
to the water and the nutrients to
actually support life in the tree and so
we ended with the big question of one of
the rocks in your life what are the
rocks in your life and what we didn't
tell you was a keyword is like what is
the secret to getting rid of those rocks
that's right we didn't talk about that
and so and this is kind of in a review
portion but also a different way of
thinking of it because you're like
there's a secret to getting rid of the
rocks what's the secret weapon dun dun
dun duh Georgia break just kidding did
you know that if you if you have rocky
soil and you're finding it hard to get
the rocks out if you put in a little bit
of water the water will actually go in
and loosen up the rocks and so in you
know to get rid of the rocks in our own
life those mindsets those that sin
if we ask the Holy Spirit to reveal them
he will and then as he says this you're
struggling with this you're struggling
with this or this is sin or have you
seen this right then we have a choice
than to repent and say God thank you so
much for revealing that to me would you
take that and would you lift that out of
my life and then would you fill it was
truth from your work that I can build my
own life on that that's solid yeah but
solid rock of Jesus Christ work versus
the rock of our sinfulness which causes
major problems I knew you asked us to
think about what some of those rocks
were Jen and I did do some thinking on
it
I had talked to you about this before
but for me one of those mindsets was
that if someone asks something that like
ago I would like double booked myself
right I say yes to someone even though I
know full well I'm not able to fulfill
that commitment but i'll try and like
Finn angle something and try and do both
for two people at once all right I don't
want to give the whole truth for fear
that it might hurt someone's feelings or
they might think less of me right for
example but that's what it proves
actually was that in conversation with
you and and this is the joy and
privilege of friendship is that we can
help each other
as people is that you said well if
you're not being honest like well how
can I trust you to say one thing over
another thing and so I think if thinking
about this parable related to me that
that's an area that I need to work on
like why do I actually feel that way get
that over to God as a little need to
speak truthfully and honestly yes
and so we also talked the flip side of
one of the rocks and our own lives can
also be unforgiveness and so you know in
that conversation with Carrie then I
have a choice right then I have a choice
to hold on bitterness to say well I
can't really trust what she's saying or
I say Lord as an act of my will I choose
to forgive Carrie and would you help me
you know to trust would you help me to
extend that free and that's so this is
you know and we talk about friendship a
lot and how important it is and because
it's like ironing sharpening iron and so
you know for but the person on the flip
side it really is an opportunity and
need to ask yourself this has someone
asked for forgiveness or you see them
genuinely moving forward in there and
and are you holding something against
them saying oh but they used to do this
right and so that actually impedes the
way that you see them versus like lord
give me a fresh eyes to see them as you
want to see them and so it's very
interesting house in can come in and it
affects relationships in general whether
it's from a side of someone needing to
repent and say they're sorry to the
other side of repent of of having to
extend forgiveness
I noticed a tendency in myself and I
don't know about you but when somewhat
something a friend or family brings up
an issue I just want to like ignore it
run away change the subject like move on
forget that it's happening but there's a
reason they're aversive of this parable
and Janet talks about persevering yes
through trials yes that actually causes
I can't remember it offhand me well it
produces maturity right when we
persevere it produces maturity and so
it's like oh like am I willing to do the
work to get rid of the rocks because if
i get rid of the rocks and the roots are
going to go down deeper and i'm going to
be stronger for it or sort of like well
no I just wasn't happy where I'm happy
where I am I am happy to remain shallow
which is like and then we can get on
discontent in our heart the game not
growing in the lord it's like well are
there some rock so that are stopping us
so that's a really long review to say
ask a holy spirit to reveal and then
have the courage to repent and if you're
struggling with repentance just say Lord
I don't know if I want to repent but
would you help me because I know that
this is wrong but I kind of like it and
it feels good and all these other things
are going to happen if I work genuinely
repent but I need to grow and room with
my relationship with you like it it's
all of these things and you just asked a
little
to help you like ask the Lord and so
here we are Rock rocks are dangerous
because they impede we'd grow our root
growth so weeds are dangerous and
one of the things that I read or watched
as I was getting ready to talk about
this is it keep the weeds away from the
flowers and it's like why would why
would they say that because I did a lot
of research as far as weeds and rocks
and whatever what do the weeds actually
mean well when you think about if a weed
grows up in your garden number one it's
taking the nutrients from the soil
through their root system so there's
less nutrients and less water from the
root perspective to go into that flower
but also they tend to grow bigger and
stronger than flower than the actual
flower right so then there's shading it
so they're not receiving the Sun for
photosynthesis and the external sources
of nutrients and so and the weeds are in
can be invasive like they don't have
necessarily any natural predators to
come in and kill them and they do seem
to grow more easily than the vegetable
or the flower that you want their
opportunistic they just jump in and take
over less parasite yes like they compete
right for all the exact same things that
the flower needs or the plant needs
right it's competing for water it's
competing for Sun is competing for
nutrients and because it doesn't have
the
the Predators it's going to succeed
right right so what what does the
parable actually say that the weeds are
so it says the one who has received the
seed that fell among the thorns is the
man who hears the word but the worries
of this life okay and the deceitfulness
of wealth choke it making it unfruitful
so
it makes it unfruitful so they've heard
it they've received it right they're
starting to grow even like there's a
measure of fruit being produced because
they are actually growing but the
worries of this life and the
deceitfulness of wealth
those are the weeds yes so what are the
worries
on this life
the things I've only pertain to this
life
interesting what are the worries of this
life and on that note we're going to
take commercial break
hi I'm Robbie Ferguson and I love being
a vimeo pro member as a web broadcaster
i need an affordable video hosting
platform that's as flexible as me a pro
membership lets you upload up to 20
gigabytes of HD video each and every
week with no additional bandwidth
restrictions that means if you produce a
show that uses even up to 20 gigabytes
of storage your limit resets itself the
following week so you can do another 20
gigabytes and keep doing that week after
week now category 5 with all of our
shows use roughly 10 gigabytes per week
from there vimeo automatically generates
all the files that you need to provision
your RSS feeds roku channel website
media player or even video downloads in
multiple bit rates with no limits on
your bandwidth usage or how many people
can access your files what's best the
price is astonishingly affordable and
for a limited time friends of the
category 5 TV network will receive a
whopping twenty-five percent off the
annual price all you have to do is go
through our link cat five dot TV / vimeo
and sign up today for your twenty five
percent discount to top it off you get
30 days to try it risk-free if you're
not happy with vimeo pro you pay nothing
the deal is only for a very limited time
go to cat five dot TV / vimeo hi and
welcome back to new every day we're on
the road we're talking about the parable
of the sower and how
can be dangerous and I asked the
question for our break well what are the
worries of this life because the Bible
identifies that the weeds that choked
out our growth are the worries of this
life and the deceitfulness of wealth
so what are the worries of this night
so what are the worries of this life
we're going to pause for a second
you have something
let me get back to us see these are
moments where I wish that there was some
interaction between you and I like a
ride explorer yeah this is a backpack
yeah so what are the things that you
actually worried about ah relationships
like friends family it's interesting we
were watching storage wars last night
and I had never really seen it before
but as they opened up those storage bins
all I could think about was wow there's
a lot of stuff in there and and people
worried about not having it so they
stored it away they didn't even give it
they stored it up for you know future
use and yet here it is they couldn't
even keep it and I hate that's being
auctioned off as being auctioned off
tonight possessions possessions are
worried in this life relationships are
worried in this life having enough money
to pay for things right only stability
comfort and even i want to say those
introspective questions like will will
will I please other people will I grow
up to honor and you know to fulfill my
dreams like those are some i want to say
deeper worries usually the first set of
Rory's is as they're going to be food on
the table right you know is there going
to be clothes on my back those are the
very basic basic worries but
and the like am I going to be happy and
my late wife and he was with her
longtime boyfriend and then he they were
talking about marriage but that she said
and we're really going to be happy in my
whole life
I want to see him probably not Rob
doesn't happen but these are the kind of
things that that people worry about it
they worry about their kids or the kids
going to grow up okay or is my job and
still be there and they seem legitimate
in the time like when I when I have had
when I'm worried about something it's
usually like the welfare of a family
member yes and yet Jesus says in Matthew
6 31 to 33 do not worry saying what
shall i eat and what shall we drink or
what shall we wear for the pagans pagans
are people who don't know Jesus as Lord
the pagans run after these things and
your heavenly Father knows that you need
them but seek first his kingdom and his
righteousness and all these things will
be given to you as well as like we don't
want to take care of it he's going to
take care of it so we actually we allow
the things of this world this life to
create a state of unease like that kind
of that worried right and
it's like our face can get distorted
when we were you like you know what I
mean we start thinking at all by Marie
line four yeah and don't get too don't
zoom in but they caused us to take our
eyes off of Jesus and we've become
fruitless because we've allowed the
worries those leads to come in and
shadow us right and if we're shadowed by
the weeds so I'm just going to put my
hand down look I can't my eyes can't see
you but I can see my hands right and
really that's what happens is those
weeds come in and we get focused and
fixated on those rather than on Jesus's
and it's like no we get rid of those
things focus on Jesus because that
passage from math is very clear like how
much more will God look after it like
he's gonna he's gonna look after it and
it also says that it is the
deceitfulness of wealth right so what is
what point is we've talked a lot about
about capitalism like just between the
two of us yeah and with other friends
and what
pursuing wealth can be at the expense of
someone else Wright State fulness of
wealth will be like I'm going to have
more more material possessions
consequently better relationships I'll
be able to use what I have to have
better friends poster friends but in
truth usually the acquisition of wealth
especially if it's not done
in the right way can be at the expense
of other people and expensive
relationships expense of your health yes
I look at some people you know even my
aides on my own friends and they're like
workaholics and they're so unhealthy
physically because they're just working
working working to have money because
they want to have a certain house and
who
at my expense right because it's the
deceit wealth is not the problem wealth
means just to have an abundance right
and Jesus said I've come that you would
have life in life like the phone
depending on your translation it says
I've come that you might have a life of
abundance so abundance isn't the problem
having a lot of something isn't the
problem it's the deceitfulness so what
are they how do you how do you interpret
that and so it's like because I have
this money I'm going to be happy like
self-sufficient self-sufficient I don't
need community and only con I don't know
how to communicate God because I have
this money I'm going to be happy because
I have this money you know it's that's
the deceitfulness I have money so I've
no worries and yet money does not buy
lasting relationships money does not buy
peace of mind like often the more things
we amass the more things we have to look
after like we've even thought I've
thought about buying a house and I'm
like ah cutting the grass shoveling the
snow what happens at the furnace blows
what a new windows new roof and I'm like
if I don't have that and I don't have
worry about it every butter and I can
focus on other things that I feel called
to and and so it's that it's like well
if I have the house everything's gonna
be good if I have the car everything's
going to be good it's like we rely on
those things
the deceitfulness of those things
there's nothing wrong with having a
house there's nothing wrong with having
a car it's when we start thinking that's
going to be an all my needs that's going
to meet all my needs and the Lord is
like no like that's not going to meet
all of your needs i am going to meet all
of your needs and those things crowd up
and they cover us from taking in you
know the nutrients like well the Sun
right yeah the Sun can't get through
because we've allowed those things into
our life they choke it out when you
think about being choked literally it
can feel like you can't breathe and how
often have you been worrying about
something like I've been in a state of
such worry before where it literally
feels like I'm choking like are you
going chest pain and and it's like okay
that's not what God called us to do so
wealth deceives people worries like
deceive like its own and it makes
promises like if you need this I mean
not if you have this you'll be fine like
wealth makes deceitful promises that's a
good way and so you know how do you know
if you have weeds in your life well one
of the first things that you can do is
say ask yourself this question okay if
something bad happens what's the first
thing you do
Oh
like do you worry about it like are you
one that's it what do you do like if
something bad happens like like the car
breaks down not the cars been breakdown
we just have it be in the car it's not
gonna break down yeah to be honest
I think sometimes I don't take as good
care of possessions because I think well
you know what I could get anyone
and mine and I immediately went well
securing a CAA oh yeah well I couldn't
just get new car but that I can't work
but yeah like it's what we have seen
carrie has CAA you know we could call
someone to come and get us Carrie could
get a new car it's like being like I am
assurance care of us yes rather than
stopping and saying you know what God is
going to take care of us I have been a
good steward you know looking after my
car I'm going to trust that God is going
to look after us and it's like when
things happen like when you go to the
doctor and you get that report what is
the first thing that you do is like do
you start to worry and you know or is
like God you got this so you know what
is the first thing that you do when
something happens often shows you if you
have leads in your life I've never
thought about that yeah it's like you
know if something break it's like oh
yeah I have money and it's like really
is that the right response or is it dear
Lord God show us what to do
and
so it says I lift my eyes up to Hill
hills this is Psalm 12 1 &amp; 2 a 1 21 1
and 2 I left my eyes up to the hills
where does my help come from my help
comes from the Lord the maker of heaven
and earth
and it's like okay where do we turn to
when things happened yes when things get
hot but I was reading in the Old
Testament that and like an Ezekiel when
Israel was going through trial they
wanted to be free from
the influence of Babylon and the enemy
and they look to other nations yes that
have asked me for help instead of
turning back to em they look to Egypt
they look to Assyria the mood for help
but that was deceitful like the
deceitfulness up there possible help
because they were worrying and since you
got a turn to other people yes
and they take my bro so it's like the
main question to ask out of this is you
know do I have any weeds well what do we
do when we find them that's a great
question I'm sincerely asking
what do you think you should do and
you're like Jen we're not going to
respond but
I you know when I think about what
should we do about the weeds when we
find them or how do we know if we have
weeds is like it goes back to the same
idea with the rocks Holy Spirit would
you show me where I'm relying on things
other than God to provide for my needs
would you show me where I've been sucked
into the deceitfulness of well thinking
that it's my no Katri just show me where
i'm worrying about my friends my family
you know where I'm going in life work
I'm worrying about tomorrow would just
show me and then would you help me to
truly walk out Philippians 4 6 and 7
which is to not be anxious about
anything but in everything with prayer
and petition with Thanksgiving present
your requests to God and the peace of
God which transcends all understanding
will guard your hearts and mind in
Christ Jesus and so it's like word
search my heart it says Jeremiah 333
says called me and I will answer and
tell you great and unsearchable things
you did not know
so it's like okay the Lord will actually
raise it up like if we ask him says he
will tell us great and unsearchable
things so things that we cannot find on
our own he will raise them up he will
show us things that we did not know and
then we say god I'm so sorry for
allowing the worries and the wealth the
deceitfulness of wealth to shadow my
receiving from you my connecting with
you and then asking God for the help for
help to turn to Him and to receive from
him and so we encourage you today to say
to pray we're going to pray the Jeremiah
33 prayer so heavenly father we call to
you
we trust that you will answer we trust
that you will tell is great and on
surgical things we did not
for the purpose father God that you
would reveal to our hearts the worries
the sea fulness of love that we have
allowed to be stored up there
to receive your abundance we want to
walk in your focus we want to walk in
your freedom
help us Lord we pray this in the name of
Jesus to the power of the Holy Spirit
thanks so much for tuning in and we look
forward to seeing you next week same
time same place a new everyday TV see
you later
