welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode number 525 the second
episode of season 11 it's nice to have
you here tonight sasha is going to be
starting to get the cabling going on her
new computer say they can actually wire
that up and Sasha yes I think we're
gonna plug power into it and just hope
beyond hopes it doesn't explode what
else have we got tonight we've got
you've got news stories you want to tell
us about those yes so here's what's
coming up in the category 5 TV newsroom
it's official if you have if you had a
yahoo accounts in 2013 it was
compromised Apple is investing a seer
investigating a series of reports about
battery problems with some of its new
iPhone 8 plus phones invidious at CEO
says Moore's law is dead claiming GPUs
will soon replace CPUs in the near
future you may be able to eat a robot
that will heal you or provide nutrients
and don't mess with Amazon a couple is
facing up to 20 years in jail for
stealing over 1.2 million dollars in
merge from the online shopping sites
stick around the full details are coming
up later in the show
this is category five technology TV
[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only the
solid state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream wire cast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku cody
and other HLS video players for local
show times visit our website category 5
TV TV is a member of the tech podcast
network if it's tech it's here cat 5 TV
slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash iai beat welcome to the show
this is category 5 technology TV I'm
Robbie
I'm Jeff I'm Sasha how you been hope you
had a great week this is episode 2 of
season 11 episode number 525 want to say
first of all welcome to all of our new
viewers especially if you're watching on
channel 33 in the high desert in sunny
California nice to have you here also
anyone who's been joining us through the
website giving a lot more views on
YouTube we really appreciate you joining
us as well mm-hmm speaking of YouTube
brittany marie sent us a comment you
want to give that one yeah so says first
season 11 rocks great work with the new
graphics package and adds redo the show
might need to come with a user warning
though it would be great to get a heads
up to put on your solar eclipse classes
before you go to the one of the tight
hand model shots on Sasha oh oh it's my
new ring looking forward to season 11 I
think I thought that you were going with
the the forehead like lens flare you
know when you're watching Star Trek the
lens flare to create the effect before
the show goes live always powder my nose
right so I think I could just like lend
you some little powder here thanks buddy
yeah yeah that'd be a great idea
you know I thought it I thought you know
what does a bald guy do in a studio set
it's either makeup or you can actually
get some special lighting that is
diffused in such a way that bald people
can use it really huh so that it's bald
people what does it do to the non bald
people gives them skin cancer you're
useless questions Terry right hey we're
only one-third bald whoo oh uh three of
us I'm like what do you mean I'm 100%
who's Harry
I said Star Trek and so I want to go
back because the segue is gone now we
owned it have you seen Star Trek
discovery yet uh no have you have you
know here's the problem I can't get it
you can't get it I don't have CBS all
access or even on their website has the
first episode I you need subscriptions
for those and I don't have any you need
it on their website I think it's just
freely available the first episode I'm
sure I try to require a subscription oh
come on no I maybe it's all accesses
five bucks a month I spent enough money
on other subscription services if you
watch if you're watching this in the
u.s. you can pick it up on Netflix
that's right it was on Netflix I would
have already watched it yeah so what I
okay yeah so we said this is worth
getting CBS all access for so we're
gonna do it and that's all that we've
used it for thus far well is it worth it
that's the question okay it's Star
Trek's like this is legitimate Star Trek
so it's worth it in that we feel like my
wife and I feel like we're supporting
the franchise right just the same reason
that we went to see the movies even
though they were not well-received you
know I
they were okay as a standalone thing but
they were not Star Trek plain and simple
they had a different feel they were not
in line with Gene Roddenberry's vision
if you were an original series or the
next generation especially fan then it's
not in line with that at all
that's true but they had to bring in a
whole new set anyway we're getting off
topic so that's talked about your shoes
so the the TV show Star Trek discovery
we've been really really excited about
it and it really does feel more like the
movies than Star Trek they've changed a
lot of stuff to make it feel like the
movies Klingons are not Klingons
there's subtitles to read in order to
follow the conversations that Klingons
are having oh we're okay and kind of
cool
I do know Stu the actors they did a
fantastic job of carrying that but okay
so when you think about it the plotline
of Star Trek discovery though this is
before they had the universal translator
so technically timeline wise yes yes
you're watching it before they had the
technology to translate for them so
really you're seeing it from the
perspective of the discovery crew okay
okay where they won't give it that I'll
give it that so that's what it was not
sci-fi and this was not suspension of
disbelief technologies that actually
don't exist then I'll give it that
right so we were looking and hoping for
a Star Trek to carry us through because
it's been a long time since we've had a
good Star Trek yep I'm a next generation
baby
Saru up on the Starship Enterprise NCC
1701 D Captain jean-luc Picard is my dad
so you know this is this me yeah
they raised me buddy yep well that was
my first childhood crush you had a crush
on the crush yeah oh yeah nice we had a
big surprise though when we saw Star
Trek discovery and it was not what we
were hoping for okay and then why
we saw the Orville Oh Lavar Val we saw
the Orville this is Seth MacFarlane
we're watching this which feels like
Star Trek yes it does it feels like Star
Trek
we know that Seth MacFarlane is a big
Star Trek next generation fan original
series man he made an appearance or two
on the next generation so to have him
making a spoof we were expecting is
something else but right the spoof ended
up being really good it's not a spoof no
I mean there's there's elements of spoof
enos there are quick very minimal it's
almost like if we were to thrust real
people into the next-generation universe
right how would that be would they be
the stiff morally perfect people or
would they be a little bit on the witty
side a little bit
you know fun-loving and mm-hmm flawed
slightly flawed anything with Seth
MacFarlane has some sort of flaw though
and that's what's funny about it this is
the guy who made Family Guy
yes and continues to so my wife Becca
and I are sitting there watching the
Orval where it sees episode 4 mm-hmm
there are five in total so far as we
broadcast this and I looked at my wife
and I said you realize Family Guy is
paying for this the special effects are
amazing the gifts are amazing the
costuming is amazing and the videography
and production is it outstanding even
the script was really well done
outstanding yeah tastic somebody said to
me we'll SEPA sewed three was not as
good as episodes 1 and 2 and I said well
here's what here's my perspective on
episode 3 and I won't give you any
spoilers my perspective is they took a
real risk to show us that the Orville is
not just a slapstick spoof yes they
showed us that it is pushing to be
something like Star Trek The Next
Generation yes moral uprightness against
racism and equality for all people
regardless of gender or sexual
orientation or
that's what it it shows which is very
much in line with Star Trek The Next
Generation and so then see you know
seeing my comment they say you know what
I think you're right yep episode three
they showed us that they're not just a
funny spoof it's true so we watched the
the new Star Trek Discovery we watched
Star Trek
we watched the Orville and the Orville
is coming out on top right nice I when I
saw the first episode of war ville I was
expecting something not unlike the other
move he did thousand ways to die in the
West I haven't seen it
okay and I was like okay I expected it
to be something like that where was kind
of cheese okay
well family guy that's what yes acting
more of that yeah but I was pleasantly
surprised to the point I turned off the
episode it was one of those moments
where you sit there going but I actually
enjoyed that I have you seen that way I
need to watch it tell us what you think
it's Orville versus Star Trek discovery
which one feels more like Star Trek to
you if you're watching this on youtube
or through our website comment below
otherwise send us an email go to
category five dot TV and you can find us
by clicking on contact us
alright we've got to get into it folks
Sasha are you ready okay last week's
actually finish kind of putting together
the computer yes so we've got this thing
let's clear some space here Joe if I may
all right and let's see if we can do
this so this is part 8 you know we are
going to if memory serves me correctly
we're gonna connect the power
yeah and close the case and power it up
we're connecting the power powering it
up there's the power supply there I know
see I've missed the unboxing well I was
here for the unboxing boxing but I miss
like old put it yeah so Jeff there you
go can you folks see that at home
it's a beautiful built is you know what
Jess
you could watch the parts of the series
that you missed I know I could do it
cat 5 TV slash CPU 2017
that's where you go that's right alright
Sasha this bag here yes is chock-full of
these modular cables right so as we get
into our eighth part realizing that hey
we've got a wire this thing up that's
really all we're gonna accomplish
tonight it takes some time we're gonna
get this thing done so all these cables
come with the power supply because it's
a modular power supply excuse me while I
crush down behind a desk there we go oh
by the way Jeff wore green today thanks
I said no no do not wear greens and do
not wear green and he I misread that you
know what I completely misread it yeah
yeah there we go all right so this big
stack of cables there you have it so I
need all of those no that's the beaut is
that anything that you don't need you
can emit that's right so it doesn't use
up space in your child
ok it's not a bunch of cables to tie up
look at all those keeps these sewn
inside keeps a clean keeps the air flow
high it's beautiful ok alright I have
the same power supply in my computer at
home this is the 850 X from Corsair love
it absolutely love it because I only
need the cables that I need keeps my box
so clean air flows much better it's
awesome nice can we what we're gonna do
because Sacchi you've got to be really
hands-on with this and we're on a green
screen tonight where we're actually on
multiple cameras and Sasha can't just
walk over here so we're gonna fade to
black and when we come back Sasha and
Jeff are gonna be swap Aroo welcome back
Sasha where are you that's funny
so I gave the bag we elevated your
camera a little bit to make you a little
bit can't believe how much we crash back
down to reality in one show just like
that ok so are you ready to get going on
there yeah
what we're going to do here is just
basically wire it up alright that's all
we've got time for and that's all we can
do but if you're following along the
series this is a great opportunity for
you to see how just normal everyday
folks can build computers we're not
computer builders we've never done this
before I haven't built a computer in
years and you've never done it I have
never done it so this is brand new to me
and so I need all I can see the guidance
all right
that's what I'm here to do but I'm not
here to give guidance as a professional
computer builder by any stretch and it's
really just comes down to hey you know
what anyone can do this as long as you
kind of have an idea of what you're
looking for what you need and and can
you know be reasonably good with your
hands and gentle with it so sack a
couple of things here right so first of
all this is your power header 24 pin for
the motherboard right that's gonna come
off the power supply these guys here you
see all these cables yeah those are for
the case so these are different pieces
of the case HD audio so that's how you
can plug in headphones like that we've
got USB so that's already port 2.0 and
then we've got a USB 3.0 right here so
these are all things that are part of
the the actual chassis the case ok ok so
your motherboard came with if I can find
it here there it is what's called a pin
header and this is going to make it a
little easier for you to to connect all
these things so do you want to just open
that up
certainly all right so what we need to
do is basically connect all these things
to the motherboard where they go so the
pin headers are part of like the power
switch and the LEDs and things you'll
see this right well labeled so you need
to find and line up these guys usually
the labeling is going to go on the
outside so it's positive and negative
but I'm already lost ok on your way ok
speaker this is round 4 power power LED
which is light
diode so this no Pat oh this one here
no that's the reset switch so this is a
reset switched and we don't see any
reset no this is turn it over you see
reset Oh
reset okay so that goes there there are
two
okay so reset goes this way no no goes
flat looking at Oh like this yes got it
holy moly see this is why we budget
eight weeks to this maybe that way
cuz that's you know I'm so sorry things
just so yeah it's just gonna plug right
on oh I'm just being too gentle sure
don't be too gentle folks yeah okay so
that's your reset switch with the ground
and okay so now we've got a power switch
which is on this side yeah that's your
power switch oh yeah okay see how that
goes
yes yeah what else can you get on there
let's see what other cables we've got
these are USB and audio here we go power
LED power light emitting diode these are
the lights oh good the hard drive LED
alright so this one here positive goes
on this side and negative on that side
exactly yeah just line them up all right
so this header just makes it easier
because then he can just plug it right
into the motherboard so easy yep you can
do it out something like just easier to
get that okay next one is what this is
the HDD hard drive okay
hard disk drive that stands for case
it's a nm - great alright with that if
that actually shows em not to activity
or not
ok so we've got to find where the header
goes on your motherboard let's see and
don't forget now should I have a ground
on here cuz ur
we have not plugged in the the fan yet
so don't forget we need to put the fan
on the header' I'm going to just do that
right now real quick if I may
okay so that is just right down in here
we learned that last week we just want
to make sure that that's on the
motherboard so the when we fire it up
the fans gonna go right okay so the
headers what have we got
what's the header look like okay so we
see kind of how the pin looks so that
shows me there you go it's called panel
on the motherboard it's only gonna go on
one way so Sasha do you want to go ahead
I got in yeah
and it's only going to go in one way
yeah because there are pins that are
missing from the right and they're
filled in on the header that was easy
was it easy yeah fantastic
look at that folks it's got the headers
on there okay so now we've got to find
USB three which is this bad boy that's
how fast USB say find a port where you
can plug that in alright USB one Oh USB
three that is not it it's only gonna go
one way because there's a kind of oh
there's a ticky boo on it a ticky Bufo
let the technical phrase yeah all right
she's in okay we've got USB and front
panel audio HD audio and USB there you
go are they also over here I don't know
I see a USB header there okay so we got
we've got another USB three header
chassis fan header we've got whole bunch
of stuff this guy in here gonna put the
USB up there yeah okay oh wow sasha has
never done a computer built but it
pretty much other than me just lending a
hand here and there and giving a little
bit of advice from what little
experience I have she's done this whole
build so this is really the final touch
hey Jeff like just getting the wiring
finished oh yeah and and then we're
ready to fire up the wiring is the part
that I always love when it comes to
builds tedious
you just want to turn it on yeah well I
having trouble with this one what's
going on it only goes one way right okay
so look at the pin pin assignment and we
see that there is a pin that is one away
from the edge but the one that you're
trying to plug into has not the same pin
assignment so that port is not
compatible with this front panel okay so
let's just uh oh maybe I just tried to
plug in the wrong one
I did and that would explain it plugging
HD audio into USB good call
holy there we go that was easy
alright what else have we got can you
find the HD audio we could look at the
the manual of oh but they're gonna be
around here somewhere
okay we've got whole bunch of stuff
there it is oh you see you yep okay you
get that alright alright there we go so
that's the front panel audio boom it's
on so we're gonna tie all these down and
make it look nice and all that kind of
stuff later okay so the chassis fan oh
this is the fan on the back of the
computer right mmm that needs to be
plugged into the motherboard so you're
gonna need to untwist that and find a
chassis fan header which I see two of
them down there Oh see there's a couple
over here okay go Sasha go go go
I feel like if you would never make in
one of those survivor shows yeah it's
like I don't recall survivor building a
character twist tie this is TV take off
the twist tie okay so if you're new here
I see fan yeah that's nice and close you
could probably left the twist tie on
actually that could have saved five
minutes off the show oh oh goodness sad
right big hands do this how many weeks
do we budget for this - oh I'm kidding
you just they do hope to fire it up and
stir
installing the software next week okay
okay are you on yes okay fantastic okay
this is done this is the motherboard all
the headers so that when you push a
power button and all that kind of stuff
it's going to actually power up that's
the key thing right okay now we've got
to get this up Sasha sorry I need to
upstage you with your computer okay
let's take a quick boo at this guy here
so the headers on the power supply
itself right these are going to power
the motherboard and all the peripherals
by running the cables through the back
of the case so it hides it it hides it
yes okay so we've got to find the right
one so this is SATA no they should be
marked
I know these these kind of things but
SATA is your harddrive header right for
power this is a molex molex we do need
because I saw a molex adapter here
sticking out of the challenge
most likely the LED lights right that
was my guess
or it could be no there is no chassis
fan in the top so that is going to be
the lights which are the most important
piece in my opinion especially that was
a big thing that they've wanted right
yeah exactly
well we suspect that he does because he
wants the coolest of cool exact right so
what I want you to do sash is grab that
molex and feed it out through one of the
grommets just so that it's it would not
matter which one well just yeah the one
that's closest and hide it away so you
see that that's gonna hide that molex
away so that when we plug it in here
it's gonna be in the back of the case
right see so it's very cool on little
wire where does that plug in so this
plugs into the power supply right so I
just need to get in there mm-hmm and
find peripheral there we go peripheral
peripherally that tons of them so I'm
just gonna have to wire in those kinds
of things so we're gonna take a really
kind of quick go at this we're gonna get
it done really really fast
through the magic of television we're
gonna speed things up and then we're
gonna we're gonna be ready to go
super
PCI Express is the graphics card okay
okay on part seven so the graphics card
needs supplemental power and if you fire
up the computer and there's no video you
know that you've missed this particular
cable this is what is going to give that
graphics card power so again we're gonna
go out through a grommet Sascha right I
can do this hands-on a little bit right
oh absolutely
push on that just so it looks like you
did it all right so we've got the power
for the motherboard is this big fat guy
okay you do this one this is the most
important because this is the power for
the actual little motherboard itself the
computer okay okay so I have to find
where it goes in here first yeah so it's
gonna go out the probably the same
grommet I would think that's a good one
it's well situated these ones here are
blocked by the motherboard so you're not
gonna be able to go out those ones okay
man now let's make sure that you've got
the right I don't know yeah I don't know
if these are oh if it matters which side
you have well they looked the same
yeah they look the same on on both sides
so except this one's got an extra clip
so this is the power supply side all
right okay and then in here where do i
plug that that's gonna go in for the the
actual ATX power something so this right
here if that looks like the 124 pin ATF
ah there you go yep he says it right on
I'm seriously doubting my abilities he
just needs to go right in there okay and
and I don't mind lending a hand I just
want you to be like yeah please Dave
please dad this is this is sashes build
and I don't want to be too hands-on with
it it's just you know it is a little
tricky sometimes it's tough to to do
when you can't get at it let's yeah here
okay so let's get that one on here now
in this case could it have been like
is there enough wiggle room to hook up
the power supply first and then secure
it yeah you absolutely could Jeff but
there's a lot of room in here that I can
you know even meet with my sausage
fingers you got it I can get in here no
problem you you get in here no problem
good - she's just yeah we just got to
get that to clip in and for those who
are watching this and you're just
walking in and saying what the what do
these guys do when they don't learn how
to build computers you are absolutely
right this is an experiment in proving
that even if you are not a computer
builder even if you're just a normal
everyday person that is just wanting to
build their own computer just for fun
that you can't you can do it you can
absolutely do it
so that's on okay we're gonna flip this
over here notice how gentle I'm being
with your baby thank you mm-hmm now
there's the 24 pin header on the
motherboard there right it's only gonna
go on one way but you want to line it up
the right way and there we go perfect
that's the power for the motherboard
couldn't have done it better myself so I
think we've got everything set as far as
power goes I believe yeah we've got the
all the headers on for the fans we don't
need a hard drive power supply because
we don't have a hard drive we're using
an MDOT - right okay so when we
come back we're gonna plug this in we're
just gonna turn it off we're gonna hope
that it doesn't explode do ya a fire
extinguisher and if you have a fire
extinguisher and we have coffee we're
ready to rock
I can throw the cup Cup don't go
anywhere folks when we come back we're
gonna see it either go up in smoke
or light up one of the other was there
are two options that's it don't go
anywhere
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category-five TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching welcome back
great job guys yes now Jeff you switched
back yes are we ready I think so I've
plugged in a power cord into the power
supply
they're just gonna plug the power cord
into an outlet I did okay fire that oh
this is the power switch there's lights
now the power is oh look at that Aries
power to the motherboard oh the start
button is illuminated Sasha it's like
starting engine okay Jeff do you want to
have the honors yes ready
but I feel like Sasha shree no no I'm
gonna do it one oh that's cool oh you
switch the colors right yeah yeah we're
gonna we're gonna pick red at some point
what I do I want oh oh look at that nice
so when you push the button it just
Christmas oh there's your red perfect oh
it's off this is the first c22 from
Thermaltake so the case came with all
these LEDs it looks nice so that's of
course it's not gonna actually boot to
anything because we haven't installed
any software yet right there's no smoke
things are moving the Analects burning
fans are spinning don't even hear it no
it's very very quiet it's super silent
we've got air flow going the correct
direction so I'm feeling a good airflow
coming off of that Wow
yeah things that don't need to be
spinning or not spinning they spin up as
things get hot that looks fantastic
Sasha congratulations thank you thank
you all next week we're actually going
to plug it into a monitor mm-hmm we're
gonna start installing some software
we're gonna get Linux on there we want
to get steam on there I don't know if
we're gonna be able to get everything on
there all at once but at least we're
gonna get it up and running yes as a
working computer yeah that you built
Sasha built that so check it out folks
in the meantime that's all the time that
we have for this feature for tonight
make sure you go to cat5 dot TV slash
cpu 2017 to follow the whole series and
see how we selected the hardware why we
selected each individual component and
how it was assembled mm-hmm so don't
miss out on that cat5 TV slash cpu 2017
over to our newsroom
Sasha terminus standing over there
eagerly this is like all you today
that's right Here I am
got the stories I do she's got the
stories here are the stories were
covering this week in the category 5 TV
newsroom it's official if you had a yeah
cows in 2013 it was compromised bull is
iPhone 8 plus phones in video and videos
CEO says Moore's law is dead claiming
GPUs will soon replace CPUs in the near
merch from the online shopping site
these stories are coming right up don't
go anywhere
Jeff Weston GEMA you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what are you
you're terrible actor what this where
acting comes into play you're supposed
to act okay are you building a really
cool website are you building a really
cool website just because Jeff is
confused doesn't mean you have to be
visit cap 5 dot TV / dream host to sign
up for unlimited web hosting for your
website with unlimited email accounts
MySQL databases the latest version of
PHP WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat 5 TV / dream host this
is the category 5 TV newsroom covering
the week's top tech stories with slight
linux bias i'm sasha Rickman and here
the top stories were following this week
Yahoo is revealed that the major
security breach in 2013 compromised all
three billion accounts the company
maintained
that's a three-fold increase over the
estimate it disclosed previously the
revelation contained in an updated page
about the 2013 hack is the result of new
information and the forensic analysis of
an unnamed security consultant
previously Yahoo officials said that
about 1 billion accounts were
compromised with Yahoo maintaining
roughly 3 billion accounts at the time
the 23:13 hack would be among the
biggest ever reported yahoo officials
wrote in the update we recently obtained
additional information and after
analyzing it with the assistance of
outside forensic experts we have
identified additional user accounts that
were affected the report goes on to
reveal the jaw-dropping truth saying
yahoo has determined that all accounts
that existed at the time of the August
2013 theft were likely affected the
information has taken the information
taken in the heist may have included
users names email addresses telephone
numbers dates of birth passwords scram
passwords scrambled using the week md5
cryptographic hashing algorithm and in
some cases encrypted or unencrypted
security questions and answers so that's
a big deal oh yeah so Dave had a yahoo
account at that point
this is Sasha's husband Dave right so
now that hey your data was compromised
we know that your data was compromised
right well it's I mean until he watches
this episode right yeah and he won't
know that because before it was just one
in three children may have been ok so if
you had a yahoo account in 2013 or
before so when I signed up for it as a
kid and then never cancelled it and I
did all of my email all of my the the
information that is connected to that
account so let's
think about what that means I sign up
for online services mm-hmm when I do
that I provide my email address as a
means of connecting to that service so
if I ever forget my password what do I
do
I click on forgot password and it sends
right he-what a link to reset your
password by email right so if the user's
email account was completely compromised
this assuming yahoo being the email
account at least that aspect of their
services then any malicious user could
create a script that does forgot
password on all these different services
PayPal online banking Twitter Facebook
and gets that email sent to that email
account and then is able to compromise
the account so then all of a sudden the
account is locked the first thing they
do is change your password and that's
done right so how do you protect
yourself like how in the future now like
you had a yahoo account in 23rd right
what do you do now there's so much
potential for what could be compromised
and even just thinking of okay what was
my yahoo password I can't even remember
but was it the same password that I used
for my online banking right I don't even
remember my what my yahoo email was I
just know I had one right but it was
connected in some way to your sonali you
had to provide personal information be
it your address or your phone number in
order to activate that account and there
are emails in the inbox right that are
connected to you so how do you protect
yourself well first of all you've got to
change your passwords so hey if you had
a yahoo account back in 2013 and any of
these questions are relevant to you if
you're thinking maybe I did use the same
password somewhere else or maybe I have
some services connected to Yahoo you
need to cancel that connection yes your
email account on all of your like if
Twitter points to your yahoo account
change it to Gmail or whatever it is
that you're using now and change your
password on that service because you
don't know somebody may have already
done the forgot password routine
and not done anything about it right it
might be a benign thing where they are
accumulating logins and passwords right
right and then all of a sudden they hit
that's you know zero day if you will you
know you don't see it coming and all of
a sudden boom 10,000 accounts are
compromised how did it happen
they've been working at it for four
years right right okay so if this ever
happens again yes should I just have
like an email address that is just for
those things like how do you protect
yourself because say email gets hacked
again mm-hmm do you jet like can I just
have like a random email address that's
not linked to me and any other it's
going to be like use it yeah so the fact
is is you just need to realize that your
email is really a central hub of
information about you right so if you if
you ever suspect that there is something
malicious going on you need to
immediately change your password do
whatever it takes to make sure that your
services that are connected to that
email account are updated to use
different passwords for example change
your passwords it might help to just
always be suspicious and just change
your passwords frequently yes yeah it's
certainly there is something to be said
for that
kind of security through but but then
what happens if if you get into a
routine I've seen this in businesses if
you get into a routine of often changing
your password people tend to fall to
simple passwords like adding a 110 to
the end or two or three this is how
people get you know why is password 1 to
3 the most popular password because
people don't like to have to constantly
change their password right and if you
get into that routine you will
eventually fall to the fact that oh I
already used that password oh I already
use that password okay I'm just gonna
add a 1 to the end right and that's
where I become no did we not cover is
either a news story or something a while
ago I'm gonna say maybe 6 months ago
about the strongest password you can use
is actually like three random words
essentially what that feature that
you're describing was covering is what's
called a password recipe right right
password recipe is used to create strong
passwords that you will remember but
nobody will ever be able to figure it
out and computers even can't hack it
very easily at all right so that's what
you want to look at so if you're not
familiar with password recipes get on to
category five dot TV and do a quick
search up at the top for password recipe
he's busy
thank you over the last six weeks six
reports have come to light which show
the new iPhone 8 plus phones splitting
apart soon after they start to be used
in all cases the battery inside the
phone has swollen rendering the phone's
unusable it is not yet clear whether the
swollen batteries are a few isolated
cases or indicative of a bigger issue
the first report about the affected
iPhone 8 plus came from Taiwan phones
with a similar problem and they have now
emerged in Japan China Canada Greece and
Hong Kong in a statement Apple said it
was aware of the reports and was looking
into what might have caused the fault
Apple's problems follow Samsung's
experience with its Galaxy Note seven
last year hundreds of faulty Galaxy Note
sevens were reported as faulty soon
after the device launched the scale of
the failure prompted Samsung to recall
and discontinue the handset the problem
was traced to a design flaw analyst Sam
Jaffe says battery bloat typically
happens at the end of a battery's useful
life explaining that having it happen
soon after a product line launch is
troubling so hmm
the Samsung problem similar to the Apple
realm was a battery problem right yeah I
call it a design flaw that kind of makes
a design flaw they explode exploded
apples is bloating is bloating just one
step below exploding like are we going
to expect it if you take a lithium
polymer battery or some battery that
expands
under use in a very very tiny shell
because we are consumers and we demand
tiny so get a big battery large capacity
little tiny shell small form-factor and
you've got a recipe for disaster
so what could happen like okay so say my
battery's blowing my phone's becoming
unusable I don't know exactly how that
how that looks but if I was to try and
squish it could I I could I make that
can I make it like even more dangerous
trying to you know drill a hole to
relieve the pressure yeah not smart no
you can't push it it's not like it's
spongy did you ever have a blackberry
no okay blackberry batteries were
notorious near end-of-life for bloating
but because you can pull the battery and
replace it it wasn't that big a deal
people like a home about who's getting
bloated so they pull it out and put a
new one in you could tell it was time
right it happened with my BlackBerry's
all the time but in this case it's built
into the case you can't do that right so
but yeah it absolutely it's dangerous
what are some ways that you can prevent
battery bloat then like in this case
obviously it's happening as soon as the
design yes as soon as the phone is used
it's bloating the battery but so look at
you know like I have a case on my phone
so this is going to make my phone warmer
and it's less heat dissipation than if
it was just the aluminum body or
whatever it is right so that heat causes
the battery to expand right during load
so if you're watching videos for example
or playing games games are you know they
have 3d so they use a lot of resource
power and and draws a lot of battery
power and causes heat right so what can
you do what can fly if it's a problem
with the device itself then there's not
a lot you can do well I would say the
first thing is the iPhone eights are not
that old so maybe return it under
warranty well exactly you've got a one
year warranty with Apple and if Apple is
recognizing it as a design flaw it makes
me wonder if they'll provide an extended
warranty on that not that it's been
announced but it makes me wonder if it's
something that there be considering
because there will be a legal liability
factor if they go thorry your one-day
posture one year and then the battery
explodes and somebody gets burned you
know there's going to be legal battles
that come as a result of it so you know
I think at some point you're gonna see
Apple say okay we'll replace your
battery for free under warranty I think
about these stories with the galaxy note
7 where you know people had burnt
pillows and things because kids you
think about it so I'm talking about heat
being one of the problems one of the the
things that caused this so you've got a
kid who's playing video games in bed
right and then mom or dad come up the
stairs and what do they do they shove it
under their pillow right and or what if
you didn't generates more heat using
like a white noise generator while you
sleep right on your phone on your phone
and it's just constantly running and
you're not thinking anything I don't
have it under your pillow get an
external speaker yes as soon as you in
case that under a pillow or something
like that there's no way for the heat to
dissipate well there are some apps that
will measure like if somebody doesn't
have you know like a SmartWatch you can
get apps for your phone that you stick
under your pillow for the purpose of
measuring your sleep cycle you can tell
when you move and all that that's not
great if that's the case right because
you're shoving it under the what do you
mean that the phone itself is hello it's
not a device no it's the actual phone so
if the purpose like you're what you're
trying to do to keep battery bloat from
happening is keep your phone cool mm-hmm
so you take the case off is there
anything else you can do can you do some
sort of attachment where it dissipates
right could you attach something to it
that would help no no no I really boils
down to just knowing that hey certain
apps are gonna run your device hot yeah
I find for example when I use a VR
headset with the LG g3 it gets really
really hot because the processor just
goes crazy now that device my device the
g3 will turn itself off if it gets too
hot that's annoying yeah smart feature
right and maybe you know maybe there are
apps that can be added to these other
devices the
would assist with that if you're a
battery developer for phones come up
with something really good because the
last two years are a bit tough and this
yeah this is the what it really boils
down to is we can start getting into
politics and stuff like that where we
can say you know how do you want to make
change stop demanding smaller thinner
bigger capacity because the the
manufacturers have to keep up with
consumer demand right and if consumer
demands has it has to be this that's
what happened with the Samsung's yeah
they was trying to push the envelope of
technology too far too fast see I'm
waiting for them to deal with this kind
of stuff I'm waiting to see solar panels
so to speak on a phone on the back and
underneath the screen of the phone so
that you can have smaller battery
capacity but it's always charging with
energy and everything so you can just
put your phone down on a table and it
will recharge assuming that you have
that technology I'm sure yes very cool
Jensen who a founder and CEO of Nvidia
said at the GPU technology conference in
Beijing that Moore's law is dead because
it cannot keep pace with advancements in
GPU design Moore's law is the
observation made by Gordon Moore
co-founder of Intel in 1965 that the
number of transistors per square inch on
integrated circuits had doubled every
year since integrated circuit was
invented more predicted that this trend
would continue for the foreseeable
future
however the pace is slowed down a bit in
the subsequent years but data density is
doubled approximately every 18 months
Wang says that since the CPU transistors
have grown at an annual pace of 50
percent the performance has only been
enhanced by 10 percent he believes the
GPU will take over
according to hang the top 5 ecommerce
sites in China have already accepted at
vidya Volta GPU architectures to support
cloud services and hgx based GPU servers
have been deployed by both Lenovo and
way
Huang claims nvidia gpus are the perfect
solution for AI based application
suggesting he believes GPUs are set to
play a larger role in certain aspects of
computing rather than replacing desktop
CPUs completely he showed faith in
NVIDIA GPUs and claimed that they will
be able to replace CPUs in the upcoming
years
okay so just but for anybody who doesn't
know GPU versus CPU what's the
difference what yeah one character not
even like it's just like that is the
difference used to CPU and then just add
that and it's GPU that is the technical
term and now everybody who has no clue
what they are going CPU is the central
processing unit the brains of the
computer the GPU is the graphics
processing here yes let's go back in
time a little bit Jeff okay think about
computers the evolution of computing the
CPU the brains of the computer was used
for things like doing spreadsheets yes
running an operating system and doing
those kinds of thought processes didn't
need a whole lot of power realistically
in comparison to say 3d graphics so if
you're just doing spreadsheets and
Microsoft Office and surfing the
internet the CPU is the central
computer you've heard of like dual-core
and quad-core now hexa-core computers
and things like that so you've got Wow
eight cores on your computer that's fast
that has a lot of power right lots of
threads going in you've got you know
eight cores that's gonna give you you
know several threads to go you know so
thought processes of the brain so we can
think about more than four things at
once right but not more than 10 I think
right but it does it fast so
perceptively it happens quite quickly a
GPU was built for graphics originally so
think about gaming and how gaming has
pushed too
like 3d and now virtual reality and the
real push is there to create really
really fast what graphics right right we
want high frame rates if my kids don't
have 60 frames per second on minecraft
dad's gonna hear about it so I remember
what I was excited about 30 30 would be
awesome yep okay so think about this so
think about your four core computer
processor mm-hmm that's the CPU yep now
think about a nvidia card you just put
in a ten seventy in your new computer
right
the 1070 has over 1,900 cores Wow just
get your header right up for a second
yeah they built this to be screaming
fast 3d graphics and virtual reality it
is extremely fast because it is a
different target of what it does but now
it's evolved to the point where they're
creating architectures based on this GPU
platform to allow executable
applications on this platform to tell
you like AI like AI would be a perfect
example okay because AI has to think
really really quickly in order to be
responsive like a human otherwise you're
waiting for it and it's not realistic so
by using GPUs we now have not just eight
threads of information that we can think
about at one given time very very
quickly Alvia we have thousands upon
thousands of threads right that can be
thought about by that processor at any
given time sort of reminds me of like
right brain and left brain they're two
different components of the computer so
but one was built on the brain was built
for what they call the soul right the
gaming you know the power the where it
gets its power from but now that you can
now run things on the GPU like a server
mm-hm mm-hm
and I do my rendering in blender on the
GPU and oh my goodness is that ever fast
right compared to CPU C and ridiculous
and that's why you wanna have a really
good graphics that's why we didn't cheap
out on the graphics
no right it's all it's almost become the
most important component I remember it
for the longest time it was the
motherboard and the CPU were the two
like the two components you put all your
money into now it's like I could spend
five hundred bucks on those two combined
but I got spent six hundred on just the
graphics yeah just because of how
important it's become and we did it may
sound like science fiction but
researchers are closing in on the
creation of an ingestible robot that can
perform a variety of functions from
within the human body the International
Conference on intelligent robots and
systems in Vancouver earlier this month
researchers from Switzerland presented a
prototype of a gelatin based actuator
actuators are the components that allow
a mechanism to physically move so while
doctors can already insert machines like
pacemakers into your body
those are stationary and also require
invasive surgery it's unlikely that the
gelatin robots are very tasty but they
would have a wide variety of
applications the researchers in their
paper explained that the components of
such edible robots could be mixed with
nutrients or pharmaceutical components
for digestion and metabolism metabolism
potential applications are disposable
robots for exploration digestible robots
for medical purposes in humans and
animals and food transportation where
the robot does not require additional
payload because the robot is the food
researchers write as well fully edible
robots would help to study how wild
animals collectively behave the robots
could also take a role of animal prey to
observe their hunting behaviors or a
trained protected animals to do
predation and of course once medical
components are mixed into the edible
composition the robots could help
preservation of wild animals or heal the
inside of the human body so neat that's
a lot to digest
okay so anybody who's watched the show
long enough knows that when it comes to
robots I'm a little bit skeptical but
okay so it's a gel casing which should
be disliked it's not a gel casing it is
gel what made up right but that's
digestible so when it comes to the metal
components Oh like yeah are there here's
the fact is that they and when I say
they scientists don't apples yeah folks
that are in the know with this stuff and
that are researching this stuff have
been developing digestible biodegradable
electronic components so we're talking
resistors and capacitors that are
digestible right so they're not made of
metal they're made of other organic
compounds so that makes sense if that
makes sense but the fact is is you give
yourself a Raspberry Pi microcomputer
and it can do a lot of stuff but it
doesn't I'm not eating my right doesn't
yeah it doesn't do any physical movement
right there's no physical movement an
actuator is required in order to do the
physical movement so what we now have is
something that can take these edible
components that could make electronic
things like you said you can get a
pacemaker but somebody has to open up
and put it in right so instead let's say
here's the pacemaker which has no
mobility of its own and make it mobile
make it so that it can walk its way into
your heart right just have like a little
nano robot that can just go in and maybe
heal your heart maybe your heart just
needs a little bit of extra these these
these edible components though are not
mobile don't put an actuator on it now
all of a sudden they become a mobile
yeah where would it store the infant
like it's collecting information
potentially if it's for health purposes
where does it store this information
how'd it like man how do you cover it
still really early in the
kind of the announcement phase of this
technology but I think you know there
there are technologies like Bluetooth
and being able to sync to a mobile
device or something like that is that
possible with organic technology I don't
know could it be like we've heard of
Microsoft using DNA strands to store
data i I would say I love this idea for
a lot of reasons when we come to like
using it for human healing and that sure
I don't love the idea of changing
anything in wildlife like I don't know
so what are you just I don't know I feel
like we can make I guess the we can
consent and they can't so even if it's
an endangered species hold on hold on
you're concerned about impacting
wildlife with a gel robot that would
heal with them when when you look at all
across the globe
no no all of the ecosystems and animals
we've destroyed and you concern about a
robot kind of mixed up here so yes ok
talk about predation think about
domesticated or not even domesticated
but think about a center that helps
animals that are either endangered or
perhaps they've been injured and they
bring them back to health
now that animal is now acclimated to
human contact it is able to it's not
able to go back into the wild because we
know it will die because it will become
the prey right I made the logically if I
get it you know if they were to get to
create edible robots now as a vegetarian
you can appreciate this now we have a
prey that is programmable that the
predator this human acclimated animal
that we're trying to bring back to
predator
instincts can attack this robot and eat
it and it can be digested and it can
have nutrients but they're not actually
affecting other animals in that process
and acclimating them back to predatory
instincts so that they can be re
replaced into their original habitat
that's just one idea it's an interesting
concept I am all-in now it's not like
they're that they're feeding animals
these they're like becoming otamatone I
don't parasitic strange robots no all
right a couple in the US have admitted
stealing goods from Amazon valued at
more than 1.2 million dollars by
repeatedly pretending that the items
they ordered were damaged in the post oh
no a couple from Indiana have pleaded
guilty to postal fraud and money
laundering the couple faces fines of up
to $500,000 as well as prison sentences
of up to 20 years do not mess with
Amazon according to a local newspaper
the Muncie Star Press they used hundreds
of false online added identities to
order popular tech gadgets from Amazon
including Samsung smartwatches GoPro
cameras and Xbox Xbox video game
consoles the couple then contacted
Amazon's customer service department to
report that the items have a had arrived
damaged or were not working and Amazon
sent out replacement products for free
they then sold the merchandise to
another individual who resold the
products to an unnamed firm based in New
York the couple and their accomplice
were eventually caught after a joint
investigation conducted by the US Postal
Inspection Service Indiana State Police
and the Internal Revenue Service hmm Wow
so yeah what kind of trail would they
have to leave like to get caught well
yeah must have had to be backwards
it must have been that they found the
New York final sale place and then went
backwards maybe you think so the fact
that the Postal Service is involved
makes me wonder if well these folks
would have been receiving a lot of
packages right one point two million
dollars worth so would Amazon if it said
they're gone hmm
we have 800 customers all living at the
same address like or something maybe
even still like that would flag you to a
certain area is getting a ton of I mean
sure like even if you lived in a place
like New York City to turn around and
say you know there's 800 accounts all
having the same issues with tech in New
York City where this has never happened
before like that would be a flight with
some sort sure that aside though I mean
you think about their delivery system
when they're bringing it by air and they
got drones and stuff but and how much
more so are people gonna be tempted to
grab that drone and run away with the
product mm-hmm right I never thought of
doing this I never even thought of
returning anything I was on but I bought
a juicer yes and it was a lifetime
warranty juicer so I could have easily
contacted the manufacturer and and just
replaced a part but I asked Amazon and
they said no boson makes it easy
yeah Amazon said well do it this way
it's been within 24 hours of you
receiving the product just return it no
problem I've returned things weeks later
and they yeah anything and everything so
if it's that easy to return it so who's
who takes the fall
it's the sellers so you think about
Amazon you think oh that's a great
online store well no it's really an
online shopping mall let's say because
the sellers that you're buying from are
other companies and they're selling
their products and products that they
warehouse to you as basically a dropship
kind of arrangement with Amazon Amazon
is the storefront and they are pushing
out their products so if I buy a product
as let's say I'm this malicious user and
I buy that product and I claim that it's
broken and they send me another one
now that company is down
Amazon always favors in the in favor of
the buyer not the seller so I can make
up any nonsense you know something
something was broken and they'll replace
it
that's Amazon's policy it's all right
buyer is number one and it's fantastic
as a consumer to be able to have that
kind of service but it really can burn
in a case like this where hey if I was a
seller that would knock me out of
business
right so I sent my juicer back yeah but
I wouldn't have had to is that the way
is that the case of a you've sent him
back for what / why why did you send it
back I returned it and then just bought
a new one is there something wrong why
there was a part you needed to replace
yeah there was a part it was a part that
was broken okay so I could have so that
returned it that's different than buyer
remorse by Errol Morris is getting the
juicer and saying hmmm I kind of wish it
was pink right and returning it for that
reason now they can't sell it again they
can't sell it as new because its users
too now but this couple would get
doubles of each thing so how did they
how do they not have to send back that's
my question did I not have to send back
my juicer but just did out of honesty
because it was broken Wow right yeah I
don't maybe you don't have to I know
that I have had a case before where I
ordered some pillowcases they were
coming from China they it's it took a
long time yeah I've heard and then they
sent me another order well then I had
two of them right right hmm and I have
had similar instances happen that
happened with a mouse for me great it's
like I'm not doing I don't do those
things for out of them but now that you
make it yeah I'm like yeah that has
happened where something doesn't arrive
so then how did they change their policy
in a way to add that extra level of
difficulty detection for the seller
right I know that I OtterBox used to
have it so that if your phone case was
broken they would replace it no
questions asked as long as you took a
picture of the broken brace and centroid
yeah so maybe that's the case maybe you
take the picture of whatever it is
proving that it's not usable yeah and
then you don't have to return it because
it's clearly not usable okay I bought a
product for our dog and the company that
we bought it from actually sent the
wrong thing so I contacted Amazon and
said the wrong product was sent and it
was it was arrived directly from Amazon
it wasn't from the like the private
retailer and the response I got from the
individual I was talking to was okay
well just throw that one out we'll send
you the proper one yeah and I'm like
just throw it out you don't want it back
it's not worth it this is this is kind
of the case right so there needs to be a
way that saves people yeah get you
thinking caps on
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories us this week thanks for watching
the category-five TV newsroom don't
forget to Like and subscribe for all
your tech news with a slight linux' bias
and for more free content be sure to
check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman Thank You Sasha
this is category 5 technology TV and
hope you've enjoyed yourself tonight we
are flat at a time but really looking
forward to being here again with you
next week and I hope you can join us now
I want to say thank you for those of you
who have been supporting us through
patreon you'll see the links on our
website category 5 TV but it's a really
great way that you can support category
5 we do this we offer this as a free
show for you and we hope that you enjoy
it and we love to interact with you but
it does cost a lot of money so that is
one way that you can pitch in in a fun
way with some rewards there to make it
worth your time and we look forward to
having you as a part of our patronage at
patreon so thank you very much to those
who are doing that yes that's all the
time that we have YouTube
great stuff tonight thanks so much for
being here Travis
I'll see you say next Wednesday night
good night
