welcome to category five technology TV
hey Jeff hey hey we've got data traveler
to thousands to give away Oh dad a
traveler mm it sounds like a like a
really good book out of the eighties DT
mm it's coming your way we're gonna be
telling you how you can win one of these
they say USB flash drive that is
encrypted with hardware encryption and
you can only decrypt it with a passcode
that you set also this week
well it's March Break yep yeah about
family you're thinking about our family
and keeping them safe online mom so
we're gonna be looking at how we can
build our very own Internet filtering
device that's gonna block some of those
things that we don't necessarily want on
our networks not worth didn't we're
coming at it as the from the approach of
two dads of young kids but this will
work really really great in an office
environment as well if you want to blog
stuff from coming up on corporate
computers sure why not we're gonna do it
using an xu4 so a single board computer
but it will work on any single board
computer you can throw at it and it's
absolutely free just kept the hardware
you're good to go so we're gonna show
you how to do that stick around this
category-five technology TV a live
recording is a trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
Technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players where
local show times visit our website
category 5 TV category 5 TV is a member
of the tech podcast network if it's tech
gets here cat 5 DV / TPN and the
International Association of internet
broadcasters cat 5 TV / ia IB well
welcome to the show everybody nice to
see you this is episode number 599 I
know it's exciting $5.99 what crazy Wow
how you been my man oh good yeah good
it's the March Break here yes it is you
know kids are having a blast they are
but he's off school we still have to
work for some crazy reason yeah I got to
pay the bills yeah I guess that's what
it is
yeah we're good yeah yeah good good glad
to hear it I'm well I'm doing great the
kids returned home from Grandma and
Grandpa's today so looking forward to
seeing them it's been a few days so but
took the opportunity to take my wife out
to a nice dinner and all done yeah yeah
it was it was very nice so I noticed
that sasha is not here sasha is not here
I was just about to say sasha is in
Whistler BC yeah so if you are in
Whistler BC well and just look at the
mountain and if you see a girl coming
down the hill on her butt just might be
Sasha just might be sad I hear she's
doing pretty good
actually I believe she's in the showroom
I saw her Oh there for a little bit well
I take it back then okay
oh yeah no she's doing great oh yes Pro
Buy Now a pro by now although I would
expect oh and she is in the chat where
she says it's awesome here hey yeah I
would expect that being in Whistler like
the basically the capital of
snowboarding for for Canada yes yeah
you're gonna have some pretty major
Hills some pretty amazing mountain
a little bit of high we'll call it a
hill so yeah that would be above my
capabilities that's for sure see I I
just don't have the money to get out
there oh yeah so you know kids really
kind of get in the way of it's true it's
true I mean folks say like yeah what my
kids say well how come we haven't been
to Disneyworld because there's three of
you that's two of us
yeah I'm speaking of my capabilities
today at work I was asked would you be
willing to or capable of soldering this
this circuit board for us nice yes and I
said no it was it was surface mount
circuitry and it was a very very small
chip and I feel confident that maybe I'm
about there that I could desolder that
chip and move it to the other board and
resolder it on I do have flux now and I
understand why I have flux which is
really important that's a good episode
however I said you know what maybe six
months plus come back to me with that
same question I said don't this is not a
blanket response I'm not saying no I can
never do this I'm saying that's it right
now I think it's best that we hire the
pros take it into the to the folks that
do soldering day in day out and let them
do it
it was through-hole I'd feel a lot more
confident now I'm doing fairly well with
through-hole soldering I mean I say
fairly well I'm doing well it's it's
working out I haven't destroyed anything
lately
well it's good and the things the things
that I solder are working and and that's
good that's good although I'm excited to
find that there are a lot of SBC
manufacturers out there that you can
send them your your diagrams your your
CAD files and they will actually print
and solder your your s pcs for you not
your s pcs your your your your PCBs o SP
sheet PCB that's kind of cool
yeah yeah so you can actually so this is
something I'm gonna be doing on a future
show I'm in the process of creating my
own PCBs in CAD I'm learning it it's
really new to me so it's taking the
project from the circuit
the prototype right which is on a
breadboard and then transitioning in and
into CAD and then sending it away to
have it manufactured professionally and
it's like that just puts my soldering
capabilities to shame because they like
they use machines to etch the card right
like a professional manufacturing
process but it's really affordable
really I'm shocked there are companies
that will do it for $2 so yeah so I can
create and design a circuit board and
they will actually print it and and
create it for me for two bucks now
there's power in bulk ordering like you
order if you order ten of them you're
gonna save on shipping I think it's like
six little bucks to ship so you know
your first board is gonna be 18 bucks in
here if you're not if you're not paying
attention but hey maybe if I get it
right the first time and figure out how
to work the CAD stuff then I can order
ten of them at the same time that would
be neat oh that's something you're gonna
find on category-five TV maybe in the
next year exciting have you done that
has anyone in the community ever tried
that or or gotten into that kind of
thing I think that's kind of the next no
the next phase for me I I wouldn't feel
confident doing some of the really fine
surface-mount stuff yeah or the double
double sided double layered boards like
that's just that's beyond me I think of
like those little pills that you can
swallow that like does all the
diagnostics in your system and I'm
thinking this is not a real thing Jeff
well there's there's pills that you can
that they will diagnostic pill yeah for
your digestive tract a little camera and
stuff and I'm thinking someone had to
make that that's crazy
yeah I am not familiar with this
technology other than in like the last
year and a half or something like yeah
yeah it's pretty cool amazing if real
yeah very easy if really do not want to
solder that yeah a quick check in on our
BitTorrent seed server from a couple
weeks back looks like we are now seeding
all 11 seasons of category 5 technology
TV in addition to that also NEMS Linux
receiving that including the new cue cow
to virtual appliance plus the VHD and
the OVA
so those are all being seeded from our
seed server that we created just a
couple weeks back now if you're
interested in building your own seed
server on an Odroid hc1 it looks like
this that's all there is to it
all you have to do is go back to our
episode of category 5 technology TV
episode number 597 we walk you through
the steps in order to create that and
we're doing a lot of really exciting
things with those boards the HC one in
particular is a lot of fun because you
can do a lot with that little Home
Server and it just kind of is something
you can stick in a back room with an
Ethernet cable and it can be a torrent
server or whatever else and tonight
we're learning to turn an xu4 which is
what is at the heart of an HC one right
we're gonna learn how to turn it into a
home DNS server as well so that we can
block content that we don't want to be
on our home networks Before we jump into
it today though make sure you do
subscribe to our YouTube channel and
also click that bell in order to receive
notifications whenever we post anything
new Jeff mentioned before the show that
he got a notification I thought you two
didn't say we're live and we're here and
it was really trippy it's like category
5 is live and he's like oh I better look
up exactly yeah yes all right let's jump
right into it oh god we are looking at
the xu4 today and we have looked at the
xu4 in the past you and I have looked at
it we've done a lot of fun stuff with
we've built it into a big chassis we've
done all that kind of stuff but this
week we're working with just the board
just that board okay but the first thing
I want to do with the xu4 from Odroid is
I want to determine what type of media
I'm going to use okay this week what
we're gonna do is we're going to create
a DNS server which is using a software
called piehole p.i - hol e alright it
sounds obscene but it's not it's
actually a black hole for DNS entries
that you want to block that you can
place on your own network and the high
aspect is it was really designed for the
Raspberry Pi right but we're gonna learn
how to install it on a completely
different system and why would I want to
do that why wouldn't I just go with a
raspberry
hi Jeff any any guesses well quad-core
maybe because the Raspberry Pi is only
quad-core yes yeah you got with the four
is it eight cores
that's right sure but a DNS server
doesn't really need a whole lot of
processing power consider this we're
looking at this is not a proxy this is a
DNS server right those who understand
what that means know that what I'm
saying is is that traffic is not going
to flow through this device so the the
Gigabit Ethernet
that's tape abilities the Gigabit
Ethernet capabilities of the xu4 while
beneficial and will actually speed
things up it's not really the selling
point versus the 10 over 100 of the
Raspberry Pi but definitely a good
upgrade is gonna impact performance but
because we're not passing through data
we're just requesting DNS information
trying to remember all the does it have
to do with like the specs of the Odroid
it does it has to do with what I
mentioned it right at the top here we
have to determine what kind of storage
we're gonna use right that was a hint
right totally missed that raspberry pi
is limited to a pretty slow micro SD
card slot okay so SD cards as you know
while fantastic and they're getting
bigger and they're getting better
they are comparably unreliable yes when
you compare them to SSD storage or emmc
storage and those other types of storage
medium in this case yours is hooked up
to an SSD well the hc1 is we're not
using an hc1 today although this could
right we're just looking at the board I
think it's an important I think it's an
important fact to say we could do this
on an hc1 we could do this on a
Raspberry Pi we're choosing to do this
on a no droid xu4 we could do this on
pretty much any of the pine 64 boards I
mean we could and they also have that
advantage but what I'm looking for out
of the X you for this week is that emmc
capability I'm going to be able to use
an actual emmc storage card instead of
SD so I've got that ultra reliability
plus the performance boost that
provides pine sixty-four boards they
also offer the MCA MMC capability so
this is not something that you have to
use an ex u44 it just happens to be what
we are demoing tonight but everything
that we're gonna learn here can be done
on an xu4 on any of the pine sixty-four
boards on an ax soos tinker board on a
Raspberry Pi this is where we're at with
single board computers we can just you
can use whatever but we're looking at it
and saying okay we want emmc so what are
we gonna that just rules out Raspberry
Pi yep okay because we want reliable
storage why does it matter this device
is going to become our DNS server for
our network be it for home or for your
office we want to block things that are
not wanted within our network that is
advertisements Jo I'm gonna circle back
to that because this is gonna have a
performance performance boost on our
network as well but also pornography and
things like that things that we want to
block from our office network or you and
I are parents we're parents of young
kids we're really thinking about it with
March break and the kids are home and
they're on the computers a lot and it's
so it's like it's something that we
really want to protect our kids from and
and that's that's as simple as it is so
but in an office network in a home
network these are all good things as
well so we're gonna do that with these
devices but we need them to be ultra
reliable because if it ever goes down
we're going to have the perception that
our internet is down okay a DNS server
is what resolves domain names right DNS
is domain name server so when I type
google.com it first goes to a DNS server
and says what IP address should I be
routing your traffic to and then it goes
out to the Google server via the IP
address now if my DNS server is down I'm
gonna type google.com and it's gonna say
I don't know where to go page not found
right okay so we need it to be ultra
reliable that's why we're staying away
from the Raspberry Pi and instead we're
going with emmc storage so again pine 60
for Odroid Xu fours any of those kinds
of boards that support the emmc cart
it's gonna be a lot more reliable and
therefore much better suited for
something like what we're doing here
today which is mission critical for my
network I don't want people calling me
up but while I'm at work and saying you
know my wife or my kids saying
Internet's down oh no it's not the the
Raspberry Pi has gone offline or
something like that or the SD card is
corrupt and that's why you need MEMS to
let you know it would let me know Emma's
Linux comm all right so now I'm just
gonna jump over here where we've got
that xu4 and let's let's get to it so
you know how an SD card works Jeff yes
obviously the SD card just kind of plugs
into the side there right next to the
HDMI that is an option on the xu4
however as I mentioned we want to use
the emmc but it's not accessible in this
case so I actually leave the screws out
of these cases I'm not really keen on it
because I like to be able to access my
emmc so I actually just kind of unsnap
it and then I've got access oh by the
way this is the real-time clock that I
mentioned on episode number 598 that's
the battery for the real-time clock so
that's a little accessory that you buy
for 6 bucks and that will keep your time
there's the emmc port Jeff yep that's
where I'm gonna plug in my quote unquote
hard drive alright so an emmc it kind of
looks like an SD card but it goes snaps
onto this USB reader which I use to
flash it the same way I do with an SD
card but it's not an SD card it has this
connector on the bottom and that's going
to connect it directly to the Odroid xu4
or whatever other emmc capable SBC that
you're using and it's as simple as that
so that's the hard drive Wow
the only other thing with the xu4 that I
need to make sure is see the switch here
this determines what your boot device is
so you can see it's it's either SD or
MMC make sure that you select that
otherwise it's not going to boot because
we don't have an SD card in and there's
the SD card slot right above there as
well
so that's really all there is to do in
that now I should mention I've already
preinstalled you saw me take this off of
the USB adapter I've already pre imaged
using at you're never extend stretch cap
five dot TV / nev it's a free download
and that is the debian stretch install
that i prefer for my Odroid device okay
so we'll bring that over here and plug
it in right here at the desk let's jump
back over on the camera and that's all
there is to it so I've got Ethernet and
power Jeff that's all we need that's all
right yeah that's it yeah because the
hardware is already in it yeah I've
already flashed so remember that's the
first step I need to flash Mavericks
Debian image so it is just a base Debbie
and install Debian Linux on a little
device like that that who can't fit that
on on their network looks right it's got
Gigabit Ethernet it's got a power
adapter that uses a barrel plug it does
have USB 3 and everything else that you
would expect and this particular one
this is the Odroid Xu 4 Q which is the
quiet model Q stands for quiet and
that's the one with the heatsink rather
than a fan which is just one less thing
to fail yes I'm all for let's just lets
rule out the ability for things to fail
let's make it really bad and these
things are fantastic ok so I'm going to
first of all you need to determine the
IP address now that it's booted
presumably it is booted it's connected
to Ethernet and everything is lit up
right I do that by because it starts up
as DHCP if you go into your router look
at the DHCP pool and you're gonna see
one called Debian stretch and that is ok
my Odroid
because I've booted it with Debian
stretch and that's that's what it's
called on there so I'm gonna jump over
to my computer here I have to do there
we go
I've got a nice little close up window
and I've connected to my Odroid xu4 so
I'm at 10.00 dot
first thing I want to do is I want to
type date
I see that it is March 13th and the time
is correct and so that tells me that the
real time clock is holding its own it's
still set from the last time I booted it
right and I don't have to reset anything
but that's an important step you have to
do that first make sure that your data
is correct because if it's wrong you're
not going to be able to install anything
because all of your SSL certificates are
going to fail because the date and time
are going to not match up with the SSL
certificates so I'll jump back to that
window here so next step is apt update
this is going to download all the
repository information just make sure
that everything is up to date make sure
that your computer your xu4 knows what
packages are available to it now apt
upgrade is going to upgrade the
underlying distribution mine says that
it's already upgraded and then apt dist
- upgrade will make sure if there's any
new kernel or anything like that it's
going to download and install that for
me
if you received a new kernel and things
like that make sure you reboot next just
type a reboot because I'm logged in as
root
remember with Mavericks image the
username to log in via SSH is root and
the password is all lowercase Odroid
that's out of the box you can change
that all right so let's let's get right
into it so this is this is just a debian
stretch it's running for point one four
and I want to turn this into what they
call a pie hole okay again it's a DNS
black hole so that when we request
google.com it's going to respond right
rather than my ISPs DNS server so if I'm
visiting a web site and it has something
that I have personally said I'm object
objecting to that like an advertisement
it will block that okay but not by
traditional means but by saying page not
found right ad not found right so think
about that for a second what that does
for your network so this has an adverse
effect okay if we block all
advertisements at the DNS level whenever
I bring up a website that is ad heavy
and it goes to download all of those ads
a
additional ad blocker will still
download all those ads but then will
stop them from displaying correct a DNS
system like this instead will simply say
ad not found now not found it never
downloads it does that work only for
websites or does that work for ads that
are processed through your network on
other devices other devices in apps if
you've got app apps that are heavy on
ads things like that it will block those
because it's blocking them at the DNS
level right so that app is going out to
the to the web and resolving to sites
that serve up these advertisements and
then blocks them before they actually
download so the adverse effect that that
creates is that your internet is
perceptively faster because you will be
amazed at how much ads and tracking are
happening on the Internet it really is
and this is a double-edged sword because
we are ad revenue supported right and so
what I'm about to show you is
potentially going to cut out our ad
revenue is there a way to allow certain
ad streams yeah however where does the
ad revenue come from category 5 TV you
can whitelist our website category 5 TV
ad revenue isn't generated their ad
revenue is generated by media net by
Google Adsense those things so you're
blocking Google Google Adsense not
category 5 TV so even if you whitelist
us you're still not gonna see ads on our
site because we're not the ones who are
hosting the ads that's true yeah so so
as I say a double-edged sword consider
that as you as you make this change on
your network but I think that you know
there are you know hopefully other ways
to monetize more patreon there you go so
keep that in the back of your mind all
right so let's get let's get to the next
step so we need to actually install
piehole so first thing I want to show
you this is not a step that you need to
take but I do want to show you what this
is I'm going
go to install dot pi - whole dot net
it's going to redirect to an installer
script that's hosted on github I don't
ever need to see this I just wanted to
show you that oh this this resolves to
the Installer so we know that install
dot PI - whole net takes resolve to the
Installer script right with that
knowledge armed with that knowledge we
can now grab that script so let's do
that let's type W get - capital o for
output to this file name and I'm gonna
save it to slash temp slash call it
whatever you want I'm gonna call it
install dot s H and then I go HTTP colon
slash slash that's why our date and time
are very important because I'm
connecting to a secure server if I
didn't have my correct date and time
it's gonna give me an error install dot
pi - whole net and now it's downloaded a
file called /tmp slash install so if I
open that file it is that script that we
were just looking at in our browser so I
want to create I want to make that so
it's executive o CH mod + ex install dot
sh so now it's executive all I am in the
temp folder but you can type /tmp slash
install dot SH here in the dot in the
slash temp folder I can just type dot
slash install dot SH and now as route
I'm gonna run that and it's going to
take me through the install installation
steps for pie hole on this bare bare
bones Debbie and stretch system and I
say bare-bones because you really want
this to be a pure vanilla Debbie and
install reaiiy is the reason for that
Jeff is because if you've been using
like someone will say well why can't I
install this on NEMS or why can't I
install this just on my computer well
your computer and and these kinds of
things they already have DNS stuff
installed and and DNS routes set up so
if you try to install them you're gonna
be removing packages that are possibly
critical to your OS or other
applications and you're going to be
you're going to be possibly damaging the
so I'll start with the vanilla install
and then we know what's gonna work so
the Installer will transform your device
into a network-wide ad blocker okay the
pie hole is free but powered by your
donations visit pi - hold on net slash
donate in order to contribute to this
particular product the pie hole is a
server so it needs a static IP address
to function correctly keep this in mind
now we know that we are dot 1 4 4 on my
network because it was given out by DHCP
so it's going to detect that and it's
going to automatically configure that ok
this is interesting where do you want to
get your upstream dns from so this means
where will the pie hole get the actual
DNS information from do you want to
Google where do you want it and so it
comes with a bunch of options here the
interesting thing about this Jeff is I
can choose open DNS ok and with Open DNS
it has other filters that I can add to
my DNS so it can supplement my pie hole
in order to I hate using that term shut
your pie hole there Robbie by selecting
open dns I can actually go to open DNS
and let's see open dns dot I want to say
org let's just be sure Open DNS dot org
yeah so you can actually log into this
site it's a free service and then you
can do things like blocking gambling
sites doing so it can actually
supplement the device that we're
creating it can help to make it even
stronger so I will in fact choose open
dns because that will be a fail-safe for
piehole relies on third-party lists in
order to block ads notice that the
terminology with piehole is all about
ads we talked about what we can also
block things like pornography we're
going to show you how to do that using
the same system but out of the box it is
strictly an ad blocker right so you
don't have to block pornography but
we're going to show you how to do that
at its base it's just going to block ads
for you just like I've already described
I want to subscribe to all of these
lists that's fantastic I'm going to hit
and okay enter it we're gonna block ads
on both ipv4 and ipv6 etting x' as a
static address so it's actually gonna
take what the DHCP server gave it
10.0.0.0 and set that as a static
address now my router hopefully is smart
enough to know that that address is
already taken don't assign another
device to that IP address if this device
has turned off for any given to any
amount of time because 144 is obviously
within my DHCP pool which means my
router might give that address to
another computer so you want to make
sure that this is either always-on or
set up what's called a reservation in
your router that's the safest bet but in
this case I'm gonna say yes let's use it
and it's actually giving you that same
warning read the warning okay
do you wish to install the web admin
interface on yeah I want to be able to
admit this thing do you wish to install
the web server yeah I want to be able to
actually get to my in man in our face do
you want to log query's yeah I want to
log it I want to know what's going on in
my network you may not need to but maybe
you just want to block it not log it
that's fine too we're using a MMC so
we're not afraid to write things to the
disk right show everything hide the
domains whatever you know you make the
the choice based on your needs as as
dads of young kids our needs may be a
little bit different we want to know hey
kids what are you doing on that site
right now you said it for show
everything so nothing's being blocked no
no no no show everything in the logs Oh
privacy thing this is like do I want
privacy within the logs keep in mind
this is my server only I have access to
this my wife has access to this if I you
know I'm gonna hook her up with access
to it of course in a network of an
office environment only those who are in
the IT department have access to logging
in that's that web interface how verbose
are the logs
this will show like what computer was
accessing what website because I've left
it as show everything
it's going through it's installing PHP I
really don't have to think about it it's
just doing its thing it's going and
going hmm and when we come back from a
really quick break we're going to be
able to actually take a look at this
we're gonna set it up in our router so
that this becomes our only DNS server
for our entire network and we're gonna
learn how to use this to block
pornography as well it's optional but
we're gonna learn how to do it stick
around for a limited time get your hands
on limited edition shirts from the
category 5 TV Network these high-quality
shirts are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official network shirt today
cap five dot TV slash shirts
[Music]
welcome back everybody before the break
we learned to turn an Odroid xu4 or any
single board computer for that matter
into an ad blocking system using
software called pile pile makes sense
yeah it really does yeah it's clever in
a way yeah it's clever in a way
now while the commercial was rolling
there that we had this pop-up oh it's
done Oh make it show it says configure
your devices to use the pie hole as
their DNS server using 10.0.0.0 that's
my IP address for the pie hole device
right ok so there's something very very
important on this screen I want you to
observe its Robbie's DNS server password
ok I'm gonna write this down it's a
capital W the number 8 RPC - well that's
easy
- 3 - 3 that's the admin web page login
password it says I can actually access
that by going to 10.0.0.0
admin now I have a question about that
yeah I know it's your home network IP
but it's not listed as an HTTP is is
there an issue with that
no because it's internal it's not access
from outside ok all right
HTTP signifies that it is an encrypted
connection right so but it's only an
internal it's not something like you
know you're at work and you're not you
know logging in talking work alright
yeah ok you could use HTTPS but then
it's going to be a self-signed
certificate which then leads to people
saying well why am I getting warned that
this is not a trusted certificate what
kind of a self-signed so keep this
internal you don't want your DNS server
outside unless you wanted to share it
but you don't need the administrator
interface on port 80 that's true port 80
is the administrator interface don't
open that up to the web but you could
share your DNS settings DNS server
settings with like family members allow
them to use your DNS IP address
that's that's not for this discussion
that could be done but no there's no
concern there Jeff okay so it's done it
says its installation complete see in
the red at the top there so let's zoom
out a little bit and let's actually
visit that IP address so 10.0.0.0 dot
0.144 slash admin here we are Jeff we're
in let's login all right it's asking me
for my amazing password which is w8 RPC
2-3 remember me for 7 days please don't
have to answer that every single time
all right I'm in so we can see that this
is up and running we're good to go we
don't need to memorize it there we go
nice we can see graphs we can see what
is permitted what is getting blocked and
everything else
nothing is currently being blocked but
there are 112 thousand three hundred and
881 websites that are currently on the
block list that means that those ads
will be blocked right so let's go to and
that's a low number though it's pretty
huge when you consider like these are
the ad servers I would have thought
there would have been more though it's
like you could just block Google Adwords
and you've basically just cut 90% of the
ads out of all of the internet that's
true really realistically right
Microsoft's media net is another one so
those are all part of it let's let's go
to something like speedtest.net i want
you to see this here's a great site that
is a good example of a site that see how
long that took to load right look at all
the ads right so that's a site that has
a lot of ads but it's a service that we
all like to frequent whoa but why didn't
it get blocked I've got a pile all set
up did you not activate it well no it's
active it's running it's up and going
you can see on the screen if we look up
at the top right top left here active
right oh is this because you didn't set
your router to make your date I didn't
set my DNS
so on my Windows machine here I can
actually go into my terminal CMD on
Linux going to your terminal and type IP
space a on Windows it's IP config slash
all and I get all my IP addresses here
and if I find my neck I can see that the
DNS servers that I'm using are google
8.8.8.8 8.8.4.4 those are Google's DNS
servers so they're completely it's
completely avoiding my piehole entirely
okay
it doesn't even know that that exists as
a DNS server so let's let's make that
change I'm gonna actually bring up my
router why would I do this because
that's your router and everything goes
for it everything goes through a Jeff
would you would you want to go to every
computer and change the DNS settings or
core to every phone or every tablet that
ever connects you Network various
internet connected devices at home and
and a never to go like the kids bring
home friends and connect your Wi-Fi
whatever right but so by setting it on
the router this is the endpoint that
goes out to the Internet so anything and
it here's the other thing
it's what serves up your DHCP your IP
address and your DNS information to all
of your computers so by changing it on
the router as soon as the device
connects it gets the DNS information
from the router so let's set it on the
router so that it is for all of our
network yeah so for me it's dd-wrt for
you it may be different it depends on
what device you're using and and it's
gonna be different for every device but
here on my setup screen I'm trying to
get this centered for you folks there we
go I see static DNS and what is it
Google 8.8.8.8 so I'm going to change
this 10.0.0.0 and get rid of my
secondary so I need to set that to
0.0.0.0
and it allows tertiary as well I just
want the one
DNS server so now all of the DNS is
going to pass through dot one four four
I'm gonna save that record to my router
here we go
now it's important to know that my
computer is already connected it's
already got its IP address so it already
knows its DNS records it's gonna take
some time for that to flush it's gonna
take some time for it to read get the
new information so you can reboot all
your computer's restart all your devices
and it will probably come good but some
of them cache things right so this
change is not instantaneous on the
entire network no this is something that
ok now it's set now everything here
forward is going to be connecting
through this right device it's going to
be using it for its DNS let's see if I
can just simply I don't know if I can
maybe I can just restart my network
connectivity I'm gonna turn off my Wi-Fi
alright and turn it back on again which
is going to reconnect to DHCP see that
at the bottom there and let's hope that
that's all it takes
there we go let's go into CMD ipconfig
/all ok what is my DNS server it's still
Google see so my my computer's still it
still knows that ok IP config slash
flush DNS let's try now now we have a
question in the chat room Oh maravilla
and he's wondering should you have your
like the Google DNS as your second DNS
server that without the pile ever goes
down no ok your your piehole already
knows to go out to open DNS in our case
or Google if that's what you said if
your pie hole goes down it's best just
have it go down if you have secondary
and tertiary DNS set in your router then
it will just choose your computers your
devices will choose one of those three
oh so it's not like a sequential thing
oh no no it's it's going to be just as
traffic as flowing it's gonna be
grabbing DNS settings from wherever so
one minute something will be blocked the
next minute it will not be blocked ok so
we want to avoid that scenario
altogether let's see if I'm able to get
DNS yet I'm still not seeing the DNS
refresh on here so for the sake of the
show I'm going to manually configure my
DNS but keep in mind this is not a
requirement because I've configured it
in my router my DHCP will start serving
that up for me in some time I don't want
to get into how to flush DNS on every
system because it's it can be very
complicated it can be a little difficult
on some devices so let's let's avoid
that altogether so I'm gonna fade to
black
and you come back so again I didn't want
to show you the process of doing that
because that's not one of the steps that
we need to do for the sake of the show I
wanted to expedite things by pushing
things along Marsh man in the chat room
was mentioning maybe we need to restart
our router that's another thing that
could kind of expedite things because
maybe it's still serving up values from
the previous DHCP settings right but
know that as devices start connecting
now because I've removed those old DNS
settings and replaced it with my new DNS
settings it's going to start dishing
that up the other note I like I use
mikrotik at the house and and on much of
my many of my networks mikrotik are
great routers but I actually had to
change a setting which I made note of in
the DHCP client settings you actually
have to turn off use Pierre DNS because
it will do just what we were talking
about it will supplement your DNS
setting right with default options from
your ISP so then it will sometimes block
ads and sometimes not block ads ok yeah
so let's let's get a real quick look at
our computer here so I've got my
settings are now set I've manually set
it but you don't necessarily have to do
that we're just expediting things let's
go back to speedtest.net
and it's done loading oh look but wait a
minute where's the word the ads but did
you notice how much quicker the web was
it was like instant it just came up the
service still works just the ads are
gone that's great yeah so that is
fantastic you know it does work I'm I'm
getting bullish yeah yeah
now we have a question in the chat room
and I don't know something you know the
answer to it's from you you ghurabaa
sorry I said that wrong hi is it
possible to create some groups for
example some users will see the ads and
others or not is that possible with this
software that I don't know the answer to
Arthur sorry something maybe to get into
the pie - whole net forums into their
community and ask those kinds of things
I haven't dug that deep into it yet okay
fair enough so alright we got that far
to the hole yep exactly so so let's get
a look at the interface here let's jump
back to our pie - whole interface and we
can see already it's blocked 65 Wow what
that's quick we brought up one website
and there was only four so more thought
so we thought but what did it actually
block like we can actually look at this
now it blocked this who knows secure us
dot I am worldwide comm z b ZD double
click net that's Google Google Analytics
so tracking the ad services for Google
ad services for Google scorecard
research calm double click net more ads
Google tag services Google tag manager
so all these things are being blocked
just from that one hit 65 blocks just on
speed tests I feel like I just on that
one site I feel like we should be
loading you know like one of those
Facebook oh yeah you could like do the
experiment do the experiment at home do
the experiment at home and see how it
works for you so
that in its this is complete this is
done mm-hmm this is now ad blocking for
our entire network because every time I
go to a website or that website tries to
load assets it's going through my DNS
and blocking things before they're
downloaded so it's faster it's saving
bandwidth it's gonna make things a lot
better that's right so now the next step
as we promised was how can we now take
the pie hole device and use it to
protect our family or perhaps our
corporate network from stuff that's
illicit that we don't want them to be
accessing right so we're using the
example of pornography it might be
things like illegal downloads it might
be other you know whatever else now
we've also used open DNS as our like our
actual source for DNS so we could then
log in to them and change as I mentioned
things like we can turn off gambling
sites we can turn off social media we
can get really down to the nitty gritty
but here with our internal device we're
going to block pornography by simply
adding to the available list so if I go
into settings you're gonna see block
lists here and my block list right now
out of the box all have to do with ad
blocking okay but let's get one that
blocks all well if the block list does
nothing it'sit's just a list of
pornographic websites and then our
piehole is going to look at that list
every time anything happens on our web
because it said our DNS server and it's
going to block anything that's on that
list right so anything that is deemed to
be to fall into that category so I'm
gonna grab this from github so I'm gonna
head on over to github.com slash and
Chad Mae field oh I already have it
I guess I've already been there on my
laptop that's great and there you have
it Chad Mayfield slash my - piehole -
block list and the links as always will
be below so if you're watching this
online make sure you check the
description below and you'll be able to
grab the links directly so here we're
just going to go into his folder called
lists there are two lists here Jeff okay
pie block lists porn all lists yep pie
block list porn top 1 million list
so hop one mill not one million so it's
not the top one it's not 1 million sites
right what did what he's done is he's
taken Alexa results not elec sorry I
didn't mean to set off your your devices
oh not that's not the word I was looking
for but did it did what do they call it
it is yes it is ok why did they name it
that I have no clue I know it came first
so it is I'm not gonna say the word
again but the word that just triggered
all of your smart home devices that is a
ranking system on the internet it's been
around since AltaVista days and it is
indeed called that so what he's done is
he's compared the list of all known porn
websites to the top 1 million websites
in the world again said ok well if it's
not on the top 1 million it's probably
never gonna come up in accidental
clicking around the internet so let's
just go with the one top 1 million it
might be 10,000 sites but it's going to
be like the top ones that it will block
like it's the most likely you don't have
to block all because that's probably
overkill and it's certainly if you're
doing this on a Raspberry Pi that's
gonna be a performance hit on your DNS
server on an xu4 on a rock pro 64 you're
probably not gonna feel it especially if
you're using emmc but it would suggest
that you start with the top 1 million
list it's gonna it's going to give you
the the best bang for the buck now I
don't want to click on this and have a
list of bad websites come up on your
screen so I'm just gonna I'm just going
to click on the first option and then
I'm going to click on raw can i zoom in
here would that be okay maybe well I can
so on github well let's just do it let's
let's zoom way out
it's a sensitive subject there we go oh
can I do it oh but now it's all right
dad all right so I clicked on the list
and now on the right hand side oh there
it is okay I'm gonna click on raw okay
that's fine whatever okay now grab that
URL okay and then paste it back in here
under block lists in settings now save
now as that has been added yes notice I
push save and not save an update I
wanted to just show you that it's going
to get added that's fine so normally you
would hit save and update now in this
case I'm going to update it myself so
I'm gonna go tools update gravity and
gravity being the list of block domains
so now because right now nothing is
being added until I update gravity so I
click that button and it goes through
that list and it creates all of the
entries for the DNS server and now if
anyone on my network using the pie hole
as my DNS server tries to access any of
those sites that are on that list it
will block them excellent it just stops
it it just page not found okay problem
solved perfect any other things that we
could use pie hole for oh man you
mentioned like games and yes okay so is
I mean I don't know it will this do
specific times of blocking things or is
this all the time like the reason I ask
is like we homeschool our oldest and so
there's been a lot of his educational
programs are online yes so we don't want
to block those websites and we don't
want to block his ability to research
but I've wanted to block especially I
hear where you're going with this you
want to block education during it after
hours no is gaming so during school
hours
okay the inverse of what I was thinking
but like he uses a lot of dot IO web
sites okay and plays a lot of those
games timers no okay however as you saw
here Jeff in my lists if I go into block
list I can disable that save and update
okay so I can actually turn off a list
at will okay right so create a list
create a list of sites that you don't
want your child going to during certain
hours and enable that list at certain
times of the day and then save an update
and you'll be good to go now if it's
just a short couple of sites that you
want to be able to do click on blacklist
and let's let's do it let's go
what's one slither dot IO yes right and
then we'll add that so now slither EO is
blocked apparently let's find out if it
really is so I'm gonna go into my
terminal command prompt here on Windows
and do get close up for you now let's do
a DNS lookup slither dot IO and then the
I'm just gonna put the note 144 that's
the IP address of my server right
nslookup pardon me not DNS lookup I'm
thinking DNS and it's lookup what does
it resolve to the IP address is 0.0.0.0
it does that page not found if I try to
go there in my browser slither dot IO
this site can't be reached what what
excellent okay so so now if I remove
that now let's go back oh sorry I just
hit the delete button next to it I
apologize I had the wrong screen up so I
had it here okay now so right now it's
as it was now I'm going to delete that
okay now go back to my command prompt
and let's run that same command nslookup
slither dot IO and notice it's resolving
an IP address now I'm going to move that
up on your screen so you can see okay
okay so now we're actually getting an IP
address so now if I go there in my
browser it comes up okay see how quick
that was yes
it's loading loading blocked all the ads
okay so you can you can do block lists
like that you can add things to block
list or create your own list put it on
github and then like link to it or put
it on a local server and link to it that
way you can absolutely do those things
now will this work for things like
like games that have to access to the
internet so for instance say like World
of Warcraft okay if you knew where World
of Warcraft you could block the server
that it's connecting to yeah yeah okay
all right yeah unless it uses an IP
address because remember this is DNA
that's right domain name resolution
which most things on the Internet on the
World Wide Web use DNS right okay all
right so really the sky is the limit
really is yeah I mean get creative with
it look for lists that are for you know
the things that you want to be able to
do but really it comes down to okay so
we learned a little bit about how to
protect our children from illicit things
on the internet things that you know
that just come up by accident sometimes
too like sometimes we're doing downloads
and all of a sudden there's an ad that's
really offensive and and and the kids
have even brought it to my attention
sometimes where there is an ad that's
really kind of obscene
it may not be pornography but it's
something that is offending to them Ren
but I really is a dad don't want them to
have to I just don't want them to deal
with that right you know what I'm saying
so so I'm able to block those things and
and that's a good thing and make my
internet faster and use less bandwidth
exactly and reduce the amount of
tracking that's happening on me now this
won't stop say like built-in ads on say
like a YouTube feed or something this is
just ads on a web page
yeah well stuff oh no it will play the
video ads so what I mean like you're so
you know the ads that are all
surrounding it right yeah but the video
ads yeah this is not a 100% all ads gone
forever kind of thing this is this is
blocking all the main kind of ads that
you see all around the web you like we
saw in speed test there right just as a
good example okay right now and this is
just incoming this isn't outgoing right
for like say for instance you go to
Amazon and you're looking for you know
flux capacitors next thing you know you
all your ads have flux capacitors from
Amazon this only blocks the incoming
data not outgoing ad no idea what you're
talking about if they're on ads if
they're on one of the blocked ad servers
it's blocked
no I yes I I meant like the data you're
sending out for the purpose
of like specific a specific ad targeting
this doesn't block that information from
going out to the service it just blocks
it's coming into you yeah okay everybody
I think you're overcomplicating DNS no I
understand that I just from the
capabilities of the software I'm just
trying to point out it's only incoming
it's not outgoing this is a DNS server
so every time my computer or any device
on my network tries to access
such-and-such calm right so Amazon ads
com whatever it will block it it doesn't
happen so if any site is tracking me or
serving up advertising and is on one of
the list that I'm subscribed to it will
simply be stopped right there's no
transaction there because it never
downloads it never gets outside of my
network so if what you're asking is when
I go to a website and that ad normally
would actually track me just from the
request so yes add something dot-com
slash Robbie's computer tells it that
hey I'm actually accessing it from
Robbie's computer because it's shared
that information during that request
well the request never happened because
it got stopped at the DNS level so
before it ever left my network it's
stopped that's why the internet seems
faster with this versus the traditional
ad blocker the traditional ad blocker
will will download the ads but then
won't display them this will not
download them will not even allow that
transaction to take place okay because
if it happens at the DNS level make
sense I hope that helps it does yes all
right cool check out more at pi - whole
dotnet and of course you can get all the
links for everything that we mentioned
right there below Jeff we're gonna head
over to the newsroom dude we are here
are the stories were covering this week
in the category 5 dot TV newsroom
billions of records have been breached
and you may be part of it
even if you've never heard of the
service that was compromised efforts to
recover millions in crypto cash from the
digital wallets of a man who died
without revealing passwords to access
the
have hit a snag the wallets have been
found to be empty sorry Amazon
Philadelphia has banned cashless stores
have a Windows Update that is messing up
Windows 10 now it will automatically
remove and block itself to allow
Microsoft to fix the problem these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere this is the category 5 dot TV
newsroom covering the week's top tech
stories is like Linux bias Jeff Westen
GEMA you're building a brand-new
beautiful website what aren't you you're
a terrible actor
what does where acting comes into play I
don't know you're supposed to act ok I'm
building a really cool website are you
building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap 5 dot TV slash
dream host to sign up for unlimited web
hosting for your website with unlimited
email accounts MySQL databases the
latest version of PHP WordPress and more
and even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV / dream
host
Weston and here the top stories were
following this week billions of records
have been breached and you may be part
of it even if you've never heard of the
service that was compromised
have I been pend informed us that 763
million one hundred seventeen thousand
two hundred and forty-one people have
had their records leaked by a company
called verifications IO Andrew Martin
CEO and founder of cyber security
company Dinah risk has since revealed
the true number of leaked records is
much higher exceeding two billion
records an unprotected MongoDB database
was discovered by security researcher
Bob Tishchenko having cross-referenced
the data sitting there in plain text
with the have I been pawn site the
Shenko was able to conclude this was
fresh to the market new information and
not just a dump of previously breached
data as has been seen with the recent
collection one leaked after doing some
more investigative work Tishchenko was
able to track the database back to the
verifications io enterprise email
validation service you're not alone if
you've never heard of verifications IO
but you may still be a victim this
company validates bulk email lists for
companies wanting to remove inactive
addresses from newsletter mail let's the
Shenko says that although not all
records contained the detailed profile
information about the email owner a
large amount of records were very
detailed that detail included
commonplace breach data such as email
addresses and phone numbers but went far
beyond the basics as well information
such as dates of birth mortgages
mortgage amounts and interest rates and
social media accounts related to the
emails in question but it doesn't stop
there you can also throw in basic credit
scoring data company names and revenue
figures as well apply the basics of good
cybersecurity hygiene which means being
alert to phishing risk applying more
skepticism than usual to unexpected
emails text messages social media
communication and events snail mail that
wants you to check a link open open an
attachment and so on
if threat factors have got hold of this
data then it provides all the ammunition
they require in order to appear like a
trustworthy organization in their
communications yes sure not
I mean if they know your name your
address your email address where you do
your banking because they have your
mortgage yeah then they can appear as
the bank yes call you up and say you
know hey this is this Robbie Collin from
Royal Bank and you know we've we've
we've got a problem with your payment
this month that's whatever it could be
right yeah so all of a sudden phishing
scams play into into it but it can be so
convincing oh for sure
it's it's you know recently my wife was
subject to theft with her debit card
transaction really kind of stuff okay
and so thankfully she found out what she
went to use her debit is it a now can I
ask is it a Visa debit is that how it
took place because that I you know what
I think it was okay I think it was a
views of diet was wondering if that
opens up a whole new realm of it being
able to compromise a debit card because
before it was pretty difficult it was a
Visa Debit and all of the transactions
were under $100 but they wiped at the
account well thankfully we've been able
to overturn it but I mean with a breach
like this I'm going did they get the
information from that yeah what other
information is down there and so now you
know it's like I I'm one of the billions
of people on earth maybe my information
is in there yeah think about that for a
second thinking of Visa Debit so this is
a debit card that has the visa logo on
it yeah you think that's a great
convenience feature my visa has a per
transaction limit yep and it has an
actual cap on my credit right so you
can't exceed it and if you tried it
would just negate the transaction and
say declined right my debit card on the
other hand which now carries a Visa logo
can be used as a visa but it can empty
my account that's right until I hit zero
dollars in my account maybe I also have
overdraft maybe it will bump me to minus
a thousand dollars in my account and
then I'm looking at going what yeah
where'd all the money go right where'd
all my mom my millions of bitcoins go
so when you think about that so if I'm
shopping online and I think oh wow this
is convenient here's an idea
I can use my Visa Debit to make a
transaction online because then I don't
need to use my credit card right it
seems convenient but now if their
database becomes compromised or
something
oh not directly related to the story but
you know your life story thanks so you
think about yeah it's this information
can be used to compromise your accounts
and everything right well and the fact
that it had mortgage information I'm
going to Kay was it bank's websites that
were compromised or is this collected
from some sort of information no they
weren't compromised Jill but the data
obviously came from somewhere the data
came from the banks who who put in your
contact information to be weeded out
from from databases to make sure that
they're legit right fair enough but why
is why would the mortgage information be
on there who knows Equifax has that
information and do we trust Equifax yeah
no no please don't
we have no choice more exact and
something like verification I oh we have
no choice yeah our data is shared with
them by the companies that we do trust
yeah and so if I've trusted to the
Canadian government my personal contact
information which I presumably have
because I have no choice and then
Equifax who they give all that
information to screws up and I actually
I had a tax bill the Queen put me it
through collections this was like okay
it's maybe two fifteen years ago put me
through to collections for millions of
dollars Wow millions of dollars Jeff
million I've never seen millions of
dollars I've never gone into debt for
millions of dollars but like that
information if if you're not on top of
it and all of a sudden you're you're
toast but this is information that I
have no control over yeah because it's
the government or your bank or whoever
you know
everybody's got a bank if you've got a
mortgage it's scary yeah you know I will
say is as I said you know use more I'm
reading you know use more like awareness
I'm like that's it I feel kind of
validated that I'm such a skeptic it
would be a stress case and and you
mentioned in the news story like so I'm
saying like there's no hope there's no
hope you can't control it you can't stop
it even if you want to stop it and say
no I'm not giving you my email address
they can already get another other means
so if there's no hope to stop it what do
we do we've got to be smart when those
phone calls or letters or emails come in
and recognize the signs that hey this is
not legit if I get something from my
bank
I don't phone the number on that
something no I never I walk into my bank
and I talked to the bank manager or the
teller and I say hey can you look at my
account this says that I'm overdrawn
five thousand dollars and they're gonna
look at it they're gonna know you're not
you've got ten billion Bitcoin right
right so that's the way to do it is to
borrow a Bitcoin if only if only Jack
alright efforts to recover millions in
crypto cash from the digital wallets of
a man who died without revealing
passwords to access them have hit a snag
the wallets have been found to be empty
the discovery was made by a firm
appointed to oversee quadriga CX after
the death of founder Gerald cotton it's
expected it expected to find the wallets
full of 180 million dollars Canadian
that's about 137 million dollars u.s. or
105 million pounds in crypto cash
deposited by the coin exchanges
customers mr. cotton who died in India
in December had sole responsibility for
handling the funds and coin passing
through the site the master key to
unlock the wallets was held on mr.
Cohen's laptop but he died without
letting anyone else know the passphrase
to unlock the device most of the digital
casts that cash that customers had
deposited with
exchange was supposed to be kept in cold
storage to prevent it from being hacked
or stolen the cache represented the
virtual currency holdings of a hundred
and fifteen thousand put quadriga CX
customers mr. Cotton's death forced the
closure of quadriga CX and Auditor
Ernest and Jung was appointed to wind it
up its investigation has secured access
to mr. Khan's laptop but also revealed
that the digital wallets had been
cleaned out months before he died in a
report on its discovery Ernest and young
investigators said they did not know
what had happened to the bitcoins that
they had expected to find in storage
however the company said it found
evidence that mr. cotton had fourteen
other user accounts created outside the
normal process that may have been used
to trade on quadriga CX exchange Ernest
and Jung is now trying to gather
information about the training done via
those other accounts to see if it can
somehow trace much of the crypto cash
past through them a reward of $100,000
has been offered for information about
where the exchanges cash has gone that's
nuts
that has I can't imagine the stress of
the staff that are involved in that oh
for sure Bitcoin though it's the fact
though that he had this one exchange but
then there's 14 other accounts within
his own Exchange right so is this a case
of bit like digital cryptic when
laundering is it just bad practice was
he trying to you know skew the market
somehow I think Jeff probably good
practice and just didn't expect to die
and so okay the coin are somewhere
crypto coin repo currency are not
physical coins these are digital
transactions they could have told that
those accounts were empty obviously they
knew the Bitcoin addresses they could
have told that just by looking at the
blockchain you can say the balance of
you can you just can't track where it
went and how it how it transacted as far
as the people involved goes right but if
you know the wallet address you can see
how much money is in there and you can
see what
is transacted on that wallet but it's
good practice for anyone who knows
cryptocurrency to to have offline
wallets cold storage places that cannot
be traced because they've never been
connected to anything so when I receive
crypto cash or crypto currency it's
pretty much immediately transferred to
an offline wallet that nobody has access
to right and if I died what would happen
to that it's a good question and he
probably just never asked himself that
question because he was young yeah yeah
younger than me that's crazy
um so maybe it's just that so maybe
it'll be found on a piece of paper
somewhere he has to have it somewhere
but if if he's smart
anyone who's living would have their
cryptocurrency so secure that it could
never be recovered mm-hmm so what if
this is gonna be like a lawsuit
situation so I should back up to the
last story where I joked that I had
billions of crypto I don't so don't come
killing me let's and if you do keep me
alive because I'm the only one who has
access to the wallets and I can show you
that they're practically empty yeah but
just a bad scenario yeah like I feel
like that story just every day something
new comes out it's like Oh went from bad
to worse to absolutely horrific it's
like how low can this one go it's just
like well then there are real people
with real money involved in this they
have lost out on their money yep and you
think cryptocurrency is not really money
robbed you well where did that
cryptocurrency come from they're
probably not miners these are investors
that's right these are folks who have
bought into what in exchange and that
exchange cost them money scary yeah
scary scary all right
sorry Amazon Philadelphia has banned
cashless stores last week Philadelphia's
mayor signed a bill that would ban
cashless retail stores the move makes
Philadelphia the first major city to
require the brick-and-mortar retail
stores except cash besides Philadelphia
the state of Massachusetts has required
that retailers accept cash since 1978
the law takes effect July 1st and will
not apply to stores like Costco that
require a membership nor will it apply
to parking garages or lots or to hotels
or rental car companies that require a
credit or debit card as security for
future change charges retailers caught
refusing cash can be fined up to two
thousand dollars Amazon whose new Amazon
ghost stores are cashless and culus
reportedly pushed back against the new
law asking for an exemption philadelphia
lawmakers said that Amazon could work
around the law under the exemption for
stores that requiring membership to shop
there but Amazon told the city that a
prime membership is not required to shop
at Amazon go stores so its options are
limited a top official in Philadelphia's
Chamber of Commerce said that the ban
will prevent Philadelphia from
modernizing with the rest of the country
cashless companies argue that cash slows
down transactions when change needs to
be counted and creates security risk for
employees locking up at the end of the
night supporters of the new law however
say that not accepting cash hurts poor
residents who may not be able to afford
or qualify for a credit card or who want
to avoid fees that come with changing
cash into a prepaid debit card
additionally privacy advocates say that
being forced to use a digital form of
payment to buy things as a de-facto
requirement to share records of their
purchases with third party companies a
new york city councilman is pushing a
similar measure and new jersey's
legislature has also passed a bill to
require storefronts to accept cash
though the governor of the state has not
signed the bill yet this is an
interesting turn in events because for
so long I feel like retail has been
moving away from cash right and
regulators are saying they can't yeah no
I mean it being able to accept cash is
different than saying you know we won't
accept cash because I mean I I would
think that Amazon could in their stores
put in some sort of a machine that
allows you to drop cash in that's just
stupid well sure it is that's just
stupid it's how they can get around it
but if nobody's gonna use it then at
least it gets them by that rule think
about the cop
for a it's Amazon their riches anything
but but so who cares about the cost
right but really so now a rule Allah has
to make them accept cash so now they do
have that problem no okay well where
does the cash go well it's got to be
collected and it's got to be counted and
this guy so that's neither here nor
there so that's so it's a perfect
opportunity for Amazon to say well you
have to have a Prime membership so it
wasn't us that made that decision it was
the regulators right right so now the
the buck has passed and you have to have
a Prime membership in order to shop at
Amazon go that is an option and that's
what I could see happening if the
regulations stick because that's the
best option and it gives them a way to
just say well it wasn't us right we
didn't make this rule but we have to
enforce it it's the law so you have to
pay your $10 a month to be a prime
number I wonder and again I haven't seen
the law so I don't know how it's written
but I know like with banks you can walk
walk in and they'll have a machine that
you just dump all your coins in and
automatically filters you see that in
grocery stores and stuff yeah but I'm
wondering if Amazon put something like
that in one of their stores that then
loads that cash equivalent on a card hmm
so then you could say look I have that
smart - yeah it loads on to an Amazon
card that you can then use for purchases
like a gift cards fuse and preloads the
gift card well yeah
yeah I wonder if that would get them are
interesting because then they still
don't need anybody and it's just a
machine that does the work for them sure
you know what you know what I like about
your idea Jeff is that okay so the
regulators and critics are saying well
what about the poor right well I can
take a couple pockets full of change and
drop it on here and it'll load up an
amazon cash card that's smart so now I
now I can shop with my card and I used
cash but there say no you can't because
you're not paying by cash so I think you
could get around that saying yes you are
paying by cash wouldn't that be a cash
to load the credit that'd be a great
option but I think to that okay so if if
it's the
fees of converting cash into prepaid
debit that are hindering for the poor
why doesn't the government say okay well
that's a problem let's address that
issue because big banks on the
government but I have so I have twenty
bucks here's my twenty bucks I want a
card
okay well now your twenty bucks is only
sixteen bucks what that's crazy no give
me my 20 bucks on this card
especially if I'm reloading it hey first
time sure charge me two bucks right pay
for the plastic and keep me from
throwing it in the garbage because hey
it's bad for the environment charge me
two bucks the first time but every time
I reload it just reload it for me mm-hmm
don't charge me fees for it that's the
regulation that needs to change it's
interesting yeah very interesting
you heard it here it's very interesting
if you had any doubts just play it back
yeah I have a Windows Update that is
messing up your Windows 10 now it
automatically will remove and block
itself to allow Microsoft to fix the
problem I know 10 is not exactly the
definition of simplicity Patch Tuesday
always seems to introduce new problems
the latest being a crippled game
performance and the underlying behavior
of the Windows 10 update process will
melt your brain the latest development
in the Saga isn't actually the
introduction of troublesome updates
though this time around
Microsoft is removing them automatically
and without any user input in a
microsoft support page discussion a user
asked why we recently installed updates
removed and here's Microsoft's official
response to ensure that your device can
start up and continue running as
expected Windows will also prevent
problematic updates from installing
automatically for the next 30 days this
will give Microsoft and our partners the
opportunity to investigate the failure
and fix any issues after 30 days Windows
will again try to install the updates
right now this process of Auto removing
problematic updates appears to focus on
startup trouble and Microsoft says it
will only execute this measure once all
other repairs have been attempted what's
certain is that Microsoft
will not only delete the updates it
determines our preventing normal OS
operation it will also block them from
being installed for the next 30 days
microsoft says this will give ample time
for it and its partners to investigate
the failure and fix any issues and that
neat I like this but at the same time I
go why why put out an update that's a
problem as the developer of an operating
system yep names Linux I can understand
how it can be very very challenging as a
developer now they're huge I'm small but
as a developer to account for every
potential problem everybody who has
built their own PC everybody who's using
a computer that has three burnt out
capacitors next to the CPU how can i
account for those issues it's really
really tough and that's fair yeah but I
feel like that again personal opinion
that Microsoft continually puts out
updates that quite frankly are flawed
sure like how many people do system
updates on their Mac's or their Linux
machines and everything works well
usually right more often than Microsoft
Microsoft keeps screwing it up but
here's what's different Jeff on my Linux
machine yep
I'm told when there's an update and I oh
great there's an update I'll just wait
right
okay well I'm it's Saturday night I'm
gonna be watching a show let's run that
update right Microsoft is its update
time reboot see and I think that's part
of the issue mmm Microsoft should not
force an update until say 30 days later
that way allows people who want to uh
say just stop forcing well there's that
but again it comes down to control but
with that control they're making a lot
of big mistakes Jeff and and when they
make those mistakes there everybody
feels that we lose some confidence in
the company yeah but I can understand
where they're coming from they want to
make an appliance like operating system
it just keeps itself up to date
everybody who runs Windows 10 always has
the latest and greatest well that sounds
great in
theory but in practice it's like stop
stripping away my rights as a user and
and allow me to make the decision to
update if an update if if an update is
going to screw up my computer let me
stop it exactly yeah as simple as that
yeah and I wonder what happens if the
update itself negates the ability to
uninstall the update like what would
happen in the only it's like this will
self-destruct and you only have ten
seconds to remove this update yeah Jeff
we talked a little bit about
cryptocurrency tonight let's jump into
what coin gecko says about crypto this
week this is as of 1800 hours Eastern
Time on Wednesday March 13th 2019 we're
gonna call this a fairly fairly level
like the calm before the storm week okay
for to name it anything everything is
pretty much just where it was about a
week ago Bitcoin itself I mean it gained
six dollars and 81 cents us but its
value is three thousand eight hundred
and sixty seven dollars and thirty nine
cents so what's six bucks it's pretty
much just where it was a week ago
similarly litecoin only gained eight
cents right I mean so and its value is
fifty five dollars and thirteen cents a
theory um is at 131 dollars and 66 cents
losing five dollars and 23 cents versus
last week Manero is at 49 dollars and 61
cents again very very minor being gain
of 41 cents US dollars ooh in crypto
coin per crypto coin the little guys
stellite and turtle coins stellite is at
one point five four ten thousandth of a
cent gaining a whopping 0.04 ten
thousandth of a cent look at a hair
under a microscope slice it down the
middle then slice it again and again and
again and that's how much uh that's how
much we gain turtle coin gained 0.01 ten
thousandth of a cent sorry my friend I'm
waiting for turtle coin to just become
worth
$1,000 per turtle coin I mean we've got
a ways to go at 0.78 ten thousandth of a
cent
even if - never happening even if turtle
coin was a baka coin penny I would be if
it was one penny Jeff if it was one
penny I'd be happy yeah yeah that would
be great just imagine all of the Nerds
that would rejoice it's very easy to
mine the smaller cause I love Yertle
coin you can get tens of thousands of
them in a week yes it's ridiculous
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from
category-five TV newsroom filling in for
sasha Rickman
I'm Jeff Weston and I'm Robbie Ferguson
good times we've got to take a really
quick break stick around
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequents
by using the links on our website visit
category-five TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching
I'm here with Colleen and we're on the
ski lift up to the top of Whistler so
I've spent an hour so far I'm still not
super great but I'm having a good time
if you're having a good time to buy
thank you to everybody who has pitched
in this week with regards to our server
upgrade need we need to replace our
broadcast system we've ordered a couple
of the parts we've got some here in the
studio that are ready to go we still
need more so if you're able to pitch in
please visit donate category-five dot TV
also thank you to our patrons those who
choose to support us on a regular
recurring basis it's as little as a
dollar a month it's a great way to
support free family safe content and all
the great things that come forth from
category-five TV we appreciate you for
taking that on you can find out more at
patreon.com slash category-five Jeff in
my pocket is my dad a traveler to
thousands in my coat it's in your coat
with my keys oh well of course yeah of
course these things are great like I do
so do you find like you carry it
everywhere and I have a new confidence
in this because it's encrypted yes it's
safe I I brought it to work and I show
my supervisors I'm like hey check this
out because we deal in legal contracts
oh yeah and I'm like wouldn't this be
amazing for all of our staff and she's
like yeah okay seriously how much are
those we gotta get them and then I told
her like I don't think I have a budget
for that oh she doesn't have the budget
for it no mmm some of you have the
budget for it so please go buy one at
cat5 dot TV /dt mm but they're amazing
if you don't or if you just want one for
free make sure you send us a ballot
because we still have more to give away
so all you have to do is email contest
at category-five dot TV what do they
need to send us name country so we just
so we know where we're gonna be sending
it just make sure in the subject line
you say Kingston giveaway and you're
emailing to contest at category five dot
TV and you could win a data traveller mm
just to reiterate if you don't know this
is a USB flash drive
that you decrypt using a keypad it's
encrypted so you cannot open the files
or access it in any way unless you know
the key that you set sorry all right
it's a great device fantastic device 64
gigabytes is what we're sending you so
make sure you cast your ballot and get
in on that shows over thank you so much
and make sure you join us on Twitter we
are at category 5 TV or you can
personally follow me at Robbie Ferguson
are you on Twitter he's like I don't
remember we really got to get you guys
open like into social media here but I
am active at Robbie Ferguson so if
you're on Twitter please follow me say
hi and I will say hi back
we're also on YouTube of course category
5 TV or if you prefer to watch edited
down versions of the show so these are
just the little snippets that we do you
can check out Linux tech show and we
have a hot link at Linux tech show comm
that'll take you right to our YouTube
channel we're also on roku channel store
we are on Plex or Kodi you can get the
channel plugins from our github
github.com slash cat 5 TV we're
basically everywhere is what I'm saying
of course we bring it all together on
our website to make it easier for you to
find everything it's category 5 dot TV
so that's the main one you gotta
memorize and until next week we will
hope that you have a great week we'll
see you then 600 episode 600 next week I
can't believe it
yeah I hope to see you here see
everybody
[Applause]
you
