welcome to category five technology TV
they're back CC and this week we've got
a great show for you we looked at these
great headphones last week yes Jeff you
had some great questions I judge them
was what format does the micro SD card
slot support we're gonna actually tackle
that tonight and answer that question
also we have a stream deck here and if
you're not familiar with it it allows us
to do things like zooming in and zooming
out but it is basically a fully
programmable hot key system that
supports up to 210 hotkeys it's amazing
if my math is correct
210 buttons Wow right there and we're
gonna show you how you can set that up
and we've got more information about the
stream deck for you tonight stick around
we've also got fewer questions am just
gonna be a jam-packed show lots going on
and we have a lot of fun stick around
we'll be back
this is category 5 technology TV
[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 TV slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash ia IB you know Sasha if
you're gonna act silly while we're
reading that you can't knock over the
standee he was number 567 can you guys
believe that we're here I can Wow yeah
and this is an exciting week because
it's like vacation week next week
vacation week for me and then for you
it's this yeah this coming so next
week's show is gonna be pre-recorded so
if folks watch there is a brand new
exciting show coming next week but it is
going to be pre-recorded because around
a campfire so bye oh yeah yeah we're
next week as well no way yes why am i
working because last week yeah you had
last week off my friend it was epic how
have you been it's so nice to have you
here hey I want to say thank you so much
for your support over the past little
while it is well tonight as we record
this episode it's the 1st of August and
the bills are paid sweet we're all
volunteers here folks so your
contributions really really help us to
be able to do what we do and to be able
to keep on top of things
for example buying things through our
affiliate links yes if you go on to our
website category 5 dot TV click on
support us and then there's shop with
our partner I know see I'm getting the
look right now really easy because I
made a purchase today and completely
brain farted on using the affiliate
links oh did you I did oh right but now
you understand how I trust me I know how
it works I've spent many dollar bills
thanks using affiliate links but this is
one
you know what's neat about it though
Jeff what you're gonna make that
purchase anyway you made the purchase
anyway I did so all you have to do is
just if you go through that link a
portion of the sale goes to supporting
category 5 TV exactly yeah it's a it's
like that that's all there is easy peasy
I can do it I can't fortunately I wish I
could but is against the Terms of Use
but you could if you order through me
that's that sneaky and this episode ever
yeah we have to delete that and we'll
talk after the show so in case you're
new here I'm Robbie hi I'm Jeff I'm
Sasha
and we are volunteers here category 5 TV
and love being here and after 567 weeks
of this so we're still having a blast
and tonight is no exception to that
we've got a great show Jeff had some
great questions about this set of
headphones from Power loge last week yes
last week we're gonna look at those
again very briefly this week just go
answer one of those questions okay also
we've got that stream deck which we're
gonna be looking at tonight and we have
no need for this at home but like I want
this at home you wait and you'll
understand in a few few minutes time
what this is all about and how we use it
in our broadcast here big news this week
did you hear that who I has the sold
Apple yes a smartphone market no yeah
number two
so I phones have been bumped off of the
top two and they've been there for years
Samsung has been number one consistently
Apple number two now all of a sudden
Chinese manufacturer Hawaii has taken
over the number two spot and bumped
Apple far into right but Apple was
number one at one point I'm fairly
certain that your Zagat's been years ago
years ago and then Samsung came in when
Andrew it started to grow in popularity
but now the fact that they're number
three soon I bet you you're going to see
that they're number four because they
just don't stay current they stick to
their niche market I think
the problem to me about Apple phones and
devices in general is that they they
practice planned obsolescence and they
try to tell the consumer what they want
rather than listening to the consumer
and hearing what they want and that's
what I like about Android smartphones
and things is that there's you know a
lot more flexibility there you know a
lot more features but that aside show me
is number four now so this is another
Chinese manufacturer Appa who I've never
dealt with his number is rounds out the
number five a lot so that's three from
China well four if you include Apple
from China because most of the
manufacturing that's right yeah leaf
still happens there and then Samsung
from North Korea South Korea Sophia
[Laughter]
that's awesome like good for them
show me make some really cool devices
I've never used any of their devices
they make a pretty good bang for the
buck alternative I would say to like a
high-end Samsung phone they also make
some lower end stuff sure you can get
something that's equivalent to the high
end Samsung's for a couple hundred bucks
cheaper really show me so that's all
right yeah so I guess it's no surprise
that they're working their way up the
top five what maybe we can have it on
the show and you could show me Oh Jeff
yes you owe the viewers an apology what
did I do now that's right you owe them
two apologies what last week
you came down on the Xu for like as if
it had bad nap no no no no no I got a
faulty device that's not what I said
droid I just said I can't figure it out
I have gone over everything and I can't
think of are you admitting that it may
not be the Odroid but it might be you oh
absolutely
cuz it's you of course it's me so put
that so I'm saying I couldn't figure it
out I don't know anybody in apology it's
cool my baby so okay what did I do wrong
you made a sound like the net working on
this baby wasn't working No
so JIT it wasn't working I plugged it
into my network at home yes I fired it
up right now it was slow to boot like it
kind of hung up there on the bootloader
and so I yes started wondering I wonder
if the SD card is either faulty or maybe
has a compatibility thing I mean this is
a 128 gig what is this so micro SD no I
know but is it like off name no it
doesn't have a brand name on it
regardless I kind of at first suspected
hey maybe it's got a bad SD card right
but then it finally booted and I had
full networking and everything so I saw
it in my DHCP table is sh2 it and I
accepted the certificate I logged in his
root without Droid is the password right
great I did a sudo apt update and so not
tha less and then overnight I ran a dist
upgrade for you and it it upgraded the
whole operating system so then what
could have been my issue at home because
like I tried going in to find all that
stuff it was coming up with nothing and
at one point my network was seeing it
but then it wasn't seeing it and I
switched say your network was seeing it
how was my router like it was showing it
up you see people yeah and but then it
disappeared yeah and so I swapped out
the cable that I was using and wondering
ok maybe it's an odd cable yeah the
network cable and I used the one that
I've been mining cryptocurrency yeah
yeah you mentioned that something but
there was still nothing now so so what
did I do wrong then I really don't know
but I mean it's possible that your
router was dishing out like what how did
you try to connect to it like what did
you do the IP address no I I had um I
had it plugged into my TV like I used
the HDMI cable so I'm looking at it up
on the screen I'm booting it on I it was
all right there like the device TV Oh
network cable and was a flashing lights
flashing lights everything because I was
using it like the device itself worked
yeah because I was able to use my the
controllers for the the retropie was
like I had them well hardwired in the
only reason I found at the internet
wasn't working is when I went to
put in the wireless dongle to do an
update that's what I realized oh I've
got no internet so I have no clue what
I've done or what's wrong with my system
at home but it's not recognizing what's
active it makes no sense to me so I've
been pulling my hair out for weeks so
plugging it into my network at home
worked you say Wi-Fi dongle this isn't
Wi-Fi is it no no sorry I meant
Bluetooth Bluetooth yeah so you're
plugging in Ethernet yep try a different
port on your router yeah it doesn't
really make sense because you plugging
it into where the minor was plugged
right but if you have like a bad DHCP
table restart your router look up just
to see that maybe maybe maybe it's
holding onto an old lease that is
conflicting somehow I don't know Jeff
it's an anomaly my friend e you're on
you for was screaming fast and worked
really really well I'm glad it worked
for you I appreciate that thank you but
I don't owe anybody an apology I didn't
bash the Odroid I just said it wasn't
your beta sound though Ethernet wasn't
working so I'm wondering if the device
itself is actually just toast folks get
your votes in by way of comments so just
below Jeff last week on every odd number
566 did he make it sound like his old
Roy had a bad Network all this and I'm
so grateful I was not here for episode
for those of you who aren't familiar
with it it's like a Raspberry Pi
alternative but it has eight cores its
fastest cut Oh screamin chops the exam
it's got HDMI output Gigabit Ethernet
true gigabit ethernet and they're great
I mean the ethernet works and everything
and I did I did find that the retropie
ran the games a lot faster than on the
Raspberry Pi I can't wait to see that
I know mmm we do have to take a really
quick break last week we were looking at
these great power locusts headphones and
Jeff raised the question well what file
formats can they play because it's got a
micro SD card reader who usually is it
well I don't know we're gonna find the
answer tonight I could stick around
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today
count 5 dot TV slash shirts welcome back
this is category 5 technology TV now
Sasha you were away last week but we got
a great look at these power loka's
headphones we put them on the dummy head
so we could hear how they sound and it
sounded great and they sound great I
mean these for the price are exceptional
but one of the things that I love about
these cities are obviously Wireless
right ready
watch episode number 566 if you're
curious about them but they being
Wireless also have a built-in FM radio
which is live works alright it's you
know what what FM radio works perfectly
anymore I don't know but what I love
about it what FM radio is not what sold
me on these headphones 4.2 EDR is and
the fact that it has a built-in micro SD
card reader so if you don't have your
phone handy or you don't want to use
your phone's battery you put an SD card
in there full of your music so this
would be great on a flight perfect on a
flight yeah
if they say turn off your wireless
devices bamp in an SD card or just keep
it in there you can switch between FM
radio SD card and bluetooth just with
the push of a button so easy wise nice
but Jeff asked the question will file
formats what file formats yeah does it
support and of course I didn't know the
answer because I didn't have these it's
not in the specification surprisingly
right so it wasn't on the box or
anything like that
saw the box it was it was in bubble wrap
and in the case that they provide it may
have been in the instructions I didn't
think to ever does anywhere gonna do
something even cooler tonight okay
so what I did just before the show Jeff
to answer your question is I sat down
and I recorded an audio clip of me for
every file format the goldwave support
new repository on github so you can use
this for your devices to test
compatibility various file formats if
you go to github.com slash cat 5 TV
slash audio test so here are the file
formats that I created Jeff are you
ready for this I think that's a yes okay
ifc AIFF a you flak iff m4a m80 mp3 mp4
video just because you have that very
random question of will it play video
well yeah I don't expect so I don't play
the audio from your headphones weird huh
okay after mp4 and we've got I made a
aughh I made an ST SDS file we're
getting into obscurity SMP snd from back
in the day gold weight can even save a
text of audio yeah and I was like what
the and so I looked at it and it's it's
actually like a representation of the
audio that you can open in gold wav or
any any other supporting player there's
no way and headphones are not gonna
support this Jeff but carrying on I said
I would do every format we've got VOC
we've got Vox we've got wave we've got
WMA and we've got X a C okay any guesses
which ones are going to be supported
no mp3 for sure yeah I'm saying
and before wave okay so we've got mp3
and WAV he thinks mp4 video is going to
be played by a pair of headphones sorry
not I'm sorry I'm looking at mp4
Scizor but that's not what I meant okay
the m80 sorry ma t I figured a play ma
tease em forays I was I'm thinking wav
mp3 m4a that's what oh maybe no I don't
flack it would be nice if I play dog
button really if it lays mp3 I'm happy
right that's all I care if it plays mp3
I'm happy okay I've loaded all of those
files on to this headset what why do I
feel like the file itself is something
comical no it's just me saying this is a
WAV file this is an mp3 okay I was going
to be set up for something yeah in
hindsight that would have been a good
idea my kids love it when I replace
their music at nighttime I use a
Bluetooth player yeah so I'm in the
other room and all of a sudden it
changes to fart sound of rip roarin in
the other room okay this is an mp3 this
is a WAV file this is an mp3 no way what
okay now I you listen I heard nothing
say it out loud
this is an mp3 this is a WAV file this
is an mp3 okay yeah all right now Jeff
you might say that you're disappointed
I'm gonna say no this this meets every
need that I have this is an mp3 this is
a WAV file this is an mp3 this is a wait
what do you think really really that's
it ha ha so I said as long as it plays
mp3 files I'm happy right absolute
you're happy yeah I'm happy
at one point should we let them in on
what we just heard or we're just gonna
let it in post-processing
it's just WAV and mp3 those are the only
two formats that I'm pretty stoked oh
yes one of them right well done
I'm shocked that they wouldn't have had
more I'm not and I'm not disappointed
either because mp3 is all I care sure
enough because realistically now I would
have probably liked em for a just to be
a little more future ready but I'm not
gonna reconvert all my mp3 files to em
for a right I tried at one point
switching to augment to do that like I
want to be open-source I want to be like
community minded as best as possible how
painful was that it just was not worth
the time it was not worth it like it did
there was no compatibility out there
it's true and it's a shame but it is
true so the world is still stuck on mp3
definitely even though technically the
format is dead that's no longer
supported by the the people who patented
it it still works
what's wrong with wave like I feel why
did that pop takes a lot more space yeah
because it's lossless so a WAV file is
like a raw audio file from Windows that
is you know they use them in studios and
things because it doesn't lose any
quality mp3 is a compressed format so
you know that 40 megabyte file becomes a
3 megabyte file got it and so it takes
up a lot less space so on my 16 gig sd
card I'm gonna be able to fit a ton of
CDs and mp3 format yes absolutely I
would fit only a fraction of that if it
was wave got it yeah that answers the
question all right we've got a question
that came in from googly oogly on
youtube Lee boo believe me how in the
world do I change my pencil color in
GIMP a valid question hmm
this really put me in my place because
it's an honest question
where and it was commented on one of our
beginner guides to GIMP right when I
realized oh my goodness we have never
taken it down to the base is that simple
right and and I and I say that in
absolute recognition of hey you've never
used it before how do why do I expect
that you know this right
Suz me in a nutshell yes okay so it's
almost like we need to have like
beginner 101 classes well and this is
this is good I just happen to have GIMP
2.10 point for coming up on my laptop
here it comes
I screen they got a writer they got rid
of the wolf though how what he was I
used I thought he was wolf I used to
love to say that wolf what it loaded
okay so let's get right into the very
very basics it changes with every
version I know but still okay so first
of all I'm gonna create a new file this
is gonna give me a canvas to work with
we're working in pixels and if I want a
1080p file so say this is something that
I'm gonna be using as a desktop
wallpaper that's gonna be fine 1920 by
1080 hit okay and there is my canvas now
you see that it's a little bit of a blue
color that's because my background color
is actually this kind of tinted blue so
I'm gonna show you how to change your
foreground color for your paintbrush and
tools like that and your background
color so over here I'm gonna click on
the color there see how I just kind of
clicked on the square that's in the
background and I can change my
background color to any of the colors of
the rainbow
with something like eleven point six
million colors right if you have the RGB
number you can enter that up here are G
B if you have the accent the HTML
notation you can enter that here like
white is ffffff or if you want red it
would be ff0000 right cool so if you
have that notation or if you know that
or you can just drag so find your
spectrum here remember I'm working with
the background so if I find say some
green and I find like a deep green here
and then I hit OK now my background is
this deep green color and if I right
click and go edit fill with background
color now that's the color of my canvas
but what I want to do is I want to
actually fill it with white so let's see
if my foreground is white right now it's
not it's fifi Fifi
which is just a little bit of a gray
white so I'm gonna go see what I did
there I'm just dragging this tool here
which takes me right into the corner up
here and that gives me full white so now
if I right-click and go edit fill with
foreground color now it's completely
white so now if I change my background
to my foreground and my foreground to my
background by clicking on this little
arrow up here now my foreground color is
green and again I can change that any
way I like
so say I want it to be like an orange
color so I can go over here to the to
the spectrum and then bring it up into
the orange that I want and then grab my
tool which is going to be working with
with the foreground color so this is a
painting tool but you see that it's
quite large so what I can do is I can
actually change the size by dragging
here or entering a number so now watch
see how I've now taken that down to 6 so
I can change that to be a little more
you know like a pencil and there is a
pencil tool too so you can grab that and
it looks like that and it operates very
much the same way you can change the
size and that will change the actual
brush size of your your pencil okay so I
think that that answers the question at
hand the next thing that you'll want to
learn how to do so if I fill this in
with white again so filled with
background color now and then I'm gonna
select none because I just select it all
because I do that I don't have it watch
what I can do here I'm gonna go right
click and layer and then new layer and
then I'm just gonna say okay leaving
this as a transparency layer so here's
the fill width we're just gonna leave
that transparency okay now I have this
kind of layer here and I've got my white
background layer so on this empty layer
I can now do my drawing okay
so I'm not going to actually draw
anything I'm just using a touchpad on my
laptop but just to show you now if I
turn off the background layer you can't
really see it but it's still there so
now what I can do is I can actually
change the background color
let's use something like a pink fuchsia
and fill that in and the orange stays
that stays where it was because it's on
its own layer see that
so I'm highlighting the layer that I
want to work with and then changing that
layer however I want so in a case where
you know I'm drawing a person or
whatever this is really starting to look
like spongebob like an evil one okay so
say that's what I did but I wasn't happy
with it now I can actually just turn off
that layer or start again or you know
once you've created something where
you've got layers upon layers I think
about like you've drawn the body and
then you create another layer for the
eyes and you're not quite happy with the
eyes so you can scrub them out without
affecting all the other layers yes if
that's what you wanted to do so tonight
we've covered kind of creating our
canvas changing our foreground and
background color plus change in the
color of our actual canvas background
and creating layers so that we can add
things on top of that you have as many
layers as you want you can you can have
an infinite number of layers on the GNU
image manipulation program so here now
if I wanted to make the body separate I
could create yet another layer and okay
and then start working on the BOD all
right all right look at me I'm an
artiste
don't know where my daughter gets it
from it is not for me so now I can turn
off the body layer or I can turn off the
head head layer and I can in fact name
these Sasha just by double-clicking and
I can call this head body so that when I
get really going I don't get confused
which is which right so now I can also
do things like hey let's fill in that
head so let's use the magic wand touch
it and then right click and fill with a
different color so let's pick a
different color here yellow make it
yellow is it spongebob very okay edit
fill and see what I've done there gray
and his SquarePants
no not really huh not really but it's
about what we learned here not the
artistic deaths of my drawings I thank
you
that's the GNU image manipulation
program also called the GIMP you can get
it for free at gimp.org and thanks again
to googly oogly for calling us on the
fact that we haven't really touched on
those real basics I'd encourage you if
you have some basic questions please
send them in to us and we will approach
them just like this I know I'll add Lee
will gladly teach you what we are able
to teach that's what we're here for
we're here to share what we know it's
all about the education that's it that's
it we do have to take a really quick
break when we come back we're gonna be
taking a look at the most incredible
hotkey device that has ever been devised
I'm talking the hotkey device of our
dreams yes stick around
[Applause]
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
pmh photo/video ebay or amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching welcome back
this is category 5 technology TV now as
broadcasters we love making it easier
for us to switch camera angles
don't you think Sasha I think so I
absolutely agree and totally part of
that process especially in a studio like
this or if you were webcasting from home
or any you know any type of scenario
where you need to be able to switch now
having something like this device is
just amazing right now
full disclosure we have a broadcast
system that is Telestream Wirecast
powered right this is only a controller
so this will control anything but it is
not a camera switcher we make it look
like a camera switcher right because
that's the buttons that I programmed in
Sasha might want this on the desk at
work and turn this into all of the
buttons that you use in your
chiropractic software for example you
might want this on your computer at home
so that you can all of your video
editing or anything else that you do you
can program every single button on here
to do anything that you want so maybe I
do need it at home so I'm gonna actually
push a button here to get in a little
bit closer so
I can show you the stream deck so this
is what it looks like to us tonight so
we have camera shots for all of us and
we have a wire cast button down here
that allows us to start and stop
recording start and stop broadcasting
and even turn on and off our computer
monitor that we use to be able to see
ourselves and then I can just navigate
did you notice
Sasha that when I push the Wirecast
button yeah it brings up a folder I've
programmed it to bring up a folder we're
gonna actually be looking at that in a
moment I'm gonna push the wide shot
you're gonna see how it switches back to
our normal camera and it's instant it is
instantaneous we've used Bluetooth
devices keyboards and things like that
in the past example pedals for a while
and it just there's a delay yes
sometimes you got to push it two or
three times not the case here but you
also notice on my Wirecast button it has
a wire cast logo mm-hmm and I'm
eventually gonna go through and the
Robie button is gonna have a picture of
me Sasha's button is gonna have a
picture of her and it's gonna make
things a lot easier for me to okay to
look down and know what I'm pushing
instead of seeing the robotic laces yeah
it's just a robot looking thing so let's
get a look at how I actually set this up
and just keep in mind I do want to
circle back to the folder height okay so
so basically this is our Telestream
Wirecast system with the stream deck
software up on the screen and all I want
to do is I just want to drag a hot key
onto there and you see in the live
camera view that it instantly creates it
I'm going to create one called Robbie
and look at me down in the bottom there
on Telestream Wirecast
I've assigned stream deck to control-t
so now in Telestream Wirecast I simply
want to match that up so I'm gonna go
into preferences and in my keyboard
shortcuts I'm just gonna create one for
Robbie you can call it whatever you want
and the hotkey is gonna be ctrl T or
shift T pardon me
now I assign that to my shot and if I
click on any other shot now watch what
happens I'm going to go and actually
push the button on the stream deck and
watch the yellow grid that goes around
my image watch there see that as soon as
I push the button that yellow border
goes around the the shot showing that it
is now the active shot so next up what I
probably want to do is start programming
all of my different shots in Telestream
Wirecast to be compatible with the
stream deck and it's really that simple
you just have to assign a key and and
then assign it to the stream deck so I'm
going to assign shift I as my standby
button and I'm making that global you
see that so if Wirecast is not in the
foreground it's still going to work so I
assign that to the shot for standby and
then back at the stream deck I create
another hotkey see how it popped up
there instantly and this is just our
standby and shift eye and now it's done
its assigned so now if I go back to
Telestream Wirecast and I'm just gonna
jump back to the stream deck here push
that button see the yellow border push
my button there's the yellow border
moving down to my shot push it again and
it bounces around instantaneously now
there's something else that's really
really cool about the stream deck and
Telestream Wirecast and how it can work
together and that's that Telestream
Wirecast has some hotkeys assigned
automatically by default to things like
recording see that or in our case maybe
we want to create a button that is for
turning on the broadcast there you go so
now we can grab and we know control B so
let's let's do that so I'm going to
create a new button here for a hotkey
and this is going to be O let's make it
a hotkey switch and now it's going to
show if we're live or not when we toggle
that button
so I'm gonna call this broadcast and
then assign the key for both t1 and t2
it's gonna be the same thing we're just
pushing it once and then again now we
don't have to assign that oh I just have
to okay so what I'm doing here just so
you know so you see how I had the I left
Wirecast in the background yeah and then
I had the editor in the foreground and I
pushed the button the reason for that is
because I'm not currently broadcasting
right so I want the icon to be in the
off position right off state right now
when I go back to tell a stream Wirecast
and I push that button again watch up at
the top a little bit to the left not
quite the middle when I push that see
that broadcast icon lit up mm-hmm now if
I push it again it's gonna wrap up the
stream and there it's off Oh see that
and on the switch on the button on this
stream deck the icon changes from off to
on and I can visually see that I'm
broadcasting or not so you can
understand like you're able to just
program anything that you want with this
let's look at the folders now sash I
said this is important to me let's
create a new folder for this and we're
gonna actually call this Wirecast it's
so easy like this took me five minutes
to figure out and I didn't look at the
manual I can now browse for an icon and
I'm gonna just jump into my resource
folder in Telestream Wirecast
installation folder and I can crew I can
create an icon on the not just on the
screen but on the actual screens that
are buttons like we're talking about 15
little screens that are touch buttons
and each one can be individually and
dynamically changed so I'll just use the
Wirecast icon I think that looks good
watch how quickly see how it changed up
on the camera now if I push that button
the Wirecast button it opens the folder
and now I've got the broadcast or not
broadcast watch the broadcast icon in
Wirecast as I do that right now I'm
broadcasting and switching cameras go
back let's turn off the broadcast and
watch there it's off see that how cool
is that now with the folder Sasha I said
that I really love the folder feature
right there are 15 buttons on the stream
deck 15 buttons and each one can be a
folder okay so we've got 14 sub buttons
on every single one of those 15 buttons
we're talking a cumulative total of
basically this thing has 210 active
hotkeys it's amazing if you code it that
way
that's incredible nobody probably needs
that many but consider I can have one
for Wirecast that's a button for
Wirecast I can have one for office suite
I can have one for whatever but then
take it one step further I can create
profiles in the program that controls
the stream deck right and each profile I
can assign to a different application so
as soon as I open Wirecast
it automatically loads the Wirecast
profile into the stream deck as soon as
I open Atlas it loads the Atlas profile
into the screen onto the stream so it's
really unlimited now if 15 buttons is
too much for you so you look at this and
you think okay this this is really
really great for a broadcaster like
Robbie and we'll get into focus there 15
buttons 200 and 210 active hotkeys in
folders maybe it's too much for you now
they have just released the stream deck
mini which we also carry and the stream
deck mini has only six buttons okay so
six with five in the sub folder so
you're looking at 30 active hotkeys
that's more than enough for
your desk at home or whatever it is that
you're doing so you have to check out
stream deck I'm I have to say I'm
entirely pleased with this Jeff you've
got for two weeks now yeah it's been
amazing as a companion to Telestream
Wirecast it's been fantastic and you can
see how we've utilized it there it's
instantaneous camera switching for us
but it's not limited to broadcasting so
I want to stress even though it's called
the stream deck even though I am using
it as a streaming interface because I
can program any of those buttons to do
anything that I want within Windows 10
or Mac OS I have no limitations on what
it's capable of so that's cool it's my
own creativity the question will come in
is it compatible with Linux
unfortunately at this point not yet and
that's because the driver software has
to be loaded on the computer and it's
only available for Windows and Mac
however I did notice that somebody is
working on a node.js interface for it so
that it will become compatible with
Linux eventually but it's not there yet
and it's unofficial so it's not like
something that you program and plug in
and it's going to work on any computer
it's something that the driver is
actually running on might Telestream
Wirecast computer and when I plug it
into the Telestream Wirecast computer it
loads and connects and allows me to
interface with it I'm glad you mentioned
that because as you were going through
the presentation
lych in in the chatroom happened to
notice that you had a very weird looking
version of linux on your screen yeah
cast requires by their Microsoft Windows
or Mac OS I don't we don't do Mac here
so it had to be a Windows broadcast
system that we use so that's what we're
tied to and so this is a perfect
companion for that so if you have a
Windows or a Mac machine this is an
amazing interface check it out at cat5
dot TV slash stream deck and if you come
up with any clever ideas for what it can
be used for we would love to hear from
you let us know what do you think love
it love it print that on a t-shirt love
it pretty sure it already is that's the
McDonald's t-shirts
I'm loving it yeah yeah yeah well Sasha
I'm gonna let you take it away we're
gonna jump over to the newsroom all
right let's here are the stories were
covering this week in the category 5 TV
newsroom amazon has reported
record-breaking quarterly profits helped
and arise by online sales and demand for
its cloud services Google's sister
company way Moe has announced a trial in
which its self-driving cars will ferry
shoppers to and from nearby Walmart's
stores to pick up their groceries
children could be banned from owning
drones weighing more than 250 grams
under a new proposal from the Department
for Transport in the UK and a
competition helping to drive the
development of futuristic Hyperloop
transport systems have been won by
engineering students from Munich these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere
Geoff Weston Gemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what aren't
you you're terrible actor what does
where acting comes into play you're
supposed to act
ok I'm building a really cool website
are you building a really cool website
just because Jeff is confused doesn't
mean you have to be visit cap 5 dot TV
slash DreamHost to sign up for unlimited
web hosting for your website with
unlimited email accounts MySQL databases
the latest version of PHP WordPress and
more and even a free domain name
registration it's less than $6 per month
so sign up today cat 5 TV slash dream
host this is
a category-5 TV newsroom covering the
week's top tech stories with a slight
linux bias I'm Sasha Rickman in here the
top stories for following this week
Amazon has reported record-breaking
quarterly profits helped by a rise in
online sales and demand for its cloud
services profits hit a record 2.5
billion dollars in the three months to
the end of June about 12 times more than
it made during the same period last year
sales rose by 39 percent to fifty two
point eight nine billion dollars
slightly less than analysts had been
forecasting in response to the report
amazon's shares jumped more than three
percent in after-hours trades last
Thursday at the firms lucrative cloud
service division Amazon Web Services
sales were up nearly 50 percent on-year
to year to six point 1 billion dollars
Amazon is also starting to attract more
money from advertising revenue from the
firm's
other category which includes
advertising more than double to about
2.2 billion dollars retail sales in
North America were healthy as well
rising about 44 percent to almost thirty
two point two billion dollars
recruitment slowed in the quarter Amazon
is also starting to reap the benefits of
previous infrastructure investments
allowing for less rapid spending growth
Amazon is expected to account for
roughly half of online sales in the US
this year are you kidding me half of all
50 percent of all sales yes are gonna be
on Amazon which is amazing and
interestingly enough I read in our
article today about Jeff besos besos
besos however say his last name he is
now worth I think was 150 billion
dollars which is 50 times more than was
it Bill Gates was double what Zuckerberg
is valued at like he's he is nobody in
the US has been valued at 150 billion
before that's doing well that is doing
so well good something's working with
Prime let me tell you so I am
surprised because I love Amazon so much
I can use it all of the time I don't
love to go to the mall so it makes me
think to myself like is this the death
of the mall I think a lot of things that
death of them all yeah but I mean it's
the fact that Amazon is so diversified
that's what that is what I humming even
more so pharmaceuticals food yeah like
they literally are controlling
everything and it's a great business
plan for them and they've done it
smartly like a lot of companies their
whole thing is we're just gonna go buy
this and we're gonna buy that company
then we're gonna take this over which is
wonderful but then you've got the debt
load that comes with purchasing it
Amazon while buying certain companies
has done things from the ground up and
they've said we want to go into this
area so we're gonna create the ability
for our company to do that and inventing
it in a way that works for them which
severely cuts down the costs of getting
into that market and then when you've
got the brand power of saying hey it's
Amazon like they've done a phenomenal
job but yeah it's it's gonna kill retail
and as Sasha was saying they've taken a
smart approach of invest now mm-hmm grow
reap the benefits later right that's
exactly what they're doing and that's
where they are now real think about so
is it the death of the shopping mall
mm-hmm Wow I guess there's there's a
culture to the mall right so would it be
but but it's true that I can't I can't
walk into our best mall here in town and
find a men's clothing store anymore that
carries reasonably priced men's clothing
right and really it's most it's all
there's very few men's clothing stores
left most of the things that I want I I
wouldn't even know where to look for
them yeah but for Amazon right but also
I mean you take it a step further you've
got you know the physical
brick-and-mortar stores but also I've
been seeing a trend of online retailers
are moving away from their websites and
are now going to posting stores on
Amazon because
that's where the business is they'll
take the the loss of the massive markup
of Amazon right but now they're saving
on their web fees and all the back end
and all the kind of stuff and then any
sales that come through it
Amazon's dealing with the security and
the privacy issues all they have to do
is supply their product Amazon as
opposed to dealing with all that
themselves
I mean think of how many companies just
with the UK changes on privacy or
probably won't it's a good thing I'm on
Amazon but but I mean when you think
about that the fact that everybody's
saying oh we're just gonna go through
Amazon they really are just a hub that's
what they do you're getting the products
of somebody else it's not like it's
Amazon's I mean there are them all and
their stores inside firms right but I
mean eBay kind of started that trend
right and Amazon just said that's great
but look what we can do and did it so
much better right and the foo is even
saying Best Buy has an eBay store yeah
you know to put the example out there
yeah and it makes sense not to say bad
things about Best Buy cuz I've bought
stuff from them before but on their
online store every single time I've ever
bought something my car's been flagged
for fraud oh really
yeah every single time that's by 6's
Linda wants to know like what happens to
the fitting room well really with
Amazon's return policies I don't like oh
yeah there's something to be said about
going in trying something on looking in
the mirror saying oh yeah that looks
good or well put that one back and get a
medium right but with Amazon for example
we bought my daughter a bathing suit and
we just bought four of them and doesn't
work we returned the three that what
I've always have done is check the
comments because the comments most of
the times people are very clear
especially when it's clothing on how it
fits so they'll say I bought a medium
I'm usually a medium it fits really
small right and then you know okay wait
now I need to change but you got to look
because if it's around Thanksgiving I
think to myself I wouldn't if I were
going to start out my life as an
entrepreneur and I wouldn't think to
myself hey I'm gonna open a shop
at this point I wouldn't I wouldn't
retail I would not buy like I would not
buy I might open an Amazon store I would
completely sell my things on Amazon
there's the there it is yeah makes sense
right on the flip side Google's sister
company way mo has announced the trial
in which its self-driving cars will
ferry shoppers to and from a nearby
Walmart store to pick up their groceries
for now the pilot is being restricted to
four hundred plus members of its early
rider program in Phoenix Arizona the
trial indicates how the tech giant
thinks the autonomous vehicle could be
deployed if and when they exit the
experimental stage the only word on
pricing so far is a promise to offer
participants discounts when they order
goods via Walmart's online grocery
pickup service as part of the deal the
Walmart partnership was rumored after
shoppers spotted way mo marked parking
spots outside the store earlier this
week in Phoenix Arizona some suggested
that the tie-up could offer an
alternative to Amazon's prime now quick
delivery service the announcement comes
two days after way most chief executive
tweeted that its cars had driven a total
of eight million miles on public roads
which is double what if Talley had been
in November OKC not raises
unintentionally an interesting point in
that okay they're trying to compete with
the prime now service and maybe that
would be the death of them all the the
if you will yeah the capability to get
online order something and have it there
that day right every time right that
could be so retailers like Walmart have
to come up with because they are
brick-and-mortar we have to come up with
a neat way to do this because Sears
tried to do an online store it's all
failed but it wasn't just big we're not
gonna get into the economics of Sears no
yeah and really tough like who goes to
Walmart online and buys things on their
website now well here's yeah without
comparing at Amazon first okay so say
that here's where my immediate reaction
is to this story I think to myself okay
these way more way mo cars are in
Walmart's parking watcher I'm gonna go
online at home and I'm gonna order
something and then that car is gonna
come get me bring me back to Walmart I'm
gonna pick up the groceries and I'm
gonna go back to my house why can't you
just bring me the stuff just deliver it
just deliver it why aren't you a
delivery case to take a different get
like a different spin and say okay well
they're trying to get in on that
like quick easy convenient kind of
marketplace but with the
brick-and-mortar aspect right so they're
not doing the warehousing thing that
Amazon is doing they're trying to make
it easier for you so in Phoenix where
you know the the transit system is taxed
and it's hard to get around well isn't
it easier to have an autonomous vehicle
come to you pick you up take you there
because it's not for somebody like me on
their way home from work and right you
know I'm not gonna do this but a good
example that comes to mind is for
example my daughter right she's 13 right
now if if I wanted my daughter to help
with the shopping I'd have to get in the
car I'd have to drive her to the store
we'd do the shop to get it here we could
sit down together on the internet do the
on the app and do the orders and then I
can give her the order and say okay see
you in a half hour right the car just
comes never come and get her and it will
take her there is like a taxi service
and so there's a convenient way I guess
and I'm not an infirm person per se but
somebody who can't drive somebody who
can't who doesn't have dependents taking
care of them that can drive them to the
store I guess but why can't I I just
feel like it's wasteful to not not be a
delivery yeah it's not for me and now I
like it and I want more of this I just I
feel like I want it to be a delivery
service if it's gonna aren't if the cars
are already going to be there I think
the value though is there are certain
things that you could buy online but
just aren't the same as having the
ability to get picked up and go grab it
ie like produce I like if I was to buy a
box of oranges on Amazon
it shows up say the next day or even say
it same did same-day delivery I can't
verify what it is that I'm getting until
it arrives as opposed to being brought
to the location and then go sorry those
bananas are too far gone I want
something's got a little bit of green to
it right in berry we have click and
click and Collect
so you shop online you drive to the
grocery store you park in a specific
parking spot and they bring it out to
you but you don't check the produce oh
oh do you yep are you doing that yeah
it's so it's super perfect for everybody
I think yeah because you set your time
you say I'm gonna be here at this time
you go that way it sounds handy for me
coming home from work right and it saves
you so much money and impulse shopping
which is why I love Amazon because
Amazon I do not impulse shopper I do
being what to buy children could be
banned from owning drones weighing more
than 250 grams under a new proposal from
the Department for Transport in the UK
they would only be allowed to fly
devices heavier than that if they were
owned and registered by an adult it is
the latest in a series of proposals
designed to crack down on snooping fears
and near collisions with manned aircraft
if approved it could form part of a
draft drone bill a consultation on the
proposals is now underway with the bill
due to be published later this year in
an Associated report suggests the age
limit should be set at age 18 years
since many insurance policies are not
accessible to those younger that would
still be three years below the minimum
age applicants must be to be granted an
airplane or helicopter air line pilot
license the consultation does however
suggests that under-18s could operate a
drones flight controls if they're being
supervised by an older individual the UK
government has already passed
legislation that bans drones from flying
at heights above 400 feet and within
one kilometer of airport boundaries and
based on new rules that took effect on
Monday pilots caught breaking these
rules could face unlimited fines or up
to five years in prison
unlimited fine how do you have an
unlimited fine it's like oh so you did
this you're 5 million dollars that's it
that's it
I suppose it varies depending on the
infraction and I mean you're gonna have
legal case laws it goes you've done this
I'm charging you this then the next
judge is going to go well this person
did this and so you know and you set a
precedent then you have it so along that
vein Jeff I think they're still
establishing it just mean we haven't
really sent right what's the maximum
fine right now we don't know because it
hasn't the worst hasn't happened yet so
let's put something in place that makes
it so that hopefully the worst never
does happen I need I need for that to
happen because I imagine damaged no need
for the laws to be in place because I I
know she's a terrible pilot you're a
boundary-pushing right is that kids and
maybe some adults but kids especially
will always try and see how close they
can get to this you know right but but
here's where I haven't a bit of an issue
is has anybody ever tried to control a
16 year old like there's no way like a
teen might be a little bit too late for
the parents to still be the ones getting
hot right I think it should be like 16
or 15 sure that's kind of you know
that's details but think of this okay a
drone that can exceed 400 feet in the
air yeah it's gonna be a bigger drum yes
so let's put something into place this
is just you know if I if I was in
legislation this is how I would think
let's put something into place that
makes sure that the drones that are
capable of that don't fall into hands of
irresponsible 14 year olds that are dare
you to go up to 600 feet yeah but fly
through the airport but I mean like on
the drone zone we've reviewed some
drones that got significantly higher
than 400 feet did we not
any that we did have geofencing so as
soon as you hit it stop caps it okay
okay and that makes sense right I would
rather see them put regulations in place
that say you know uh you know these
types of drones you're limited to this
these types of drones can only be
purchased with a license ie like gun
sales in Canada you need to have a
license to purchase a gun so I mean
you're gonna go out and buy a BB gun you
don't need a license because the
likelihood of you killing somebody with
a BB gun is significantly less than say
thirty out six right so I mean if you
can't have a drone that has the
capabilities of going beyond that four
hundred feet then you need to have a
license license to purchase it something
like that regulations all that kind of
stuff part of it
I'm all for regulation I love regulation
I love having rules and boundaries and
boxes to stick in
but I can't help but wonder in this one
and it's exactly what you said people
like what's that line okay I just push
it a little bit but as opposed to
joining this like the Autobahn if I
don't have the drone that can do that
it's not capable of it it's not able to
get that high because I'm not licensed
and so I can't buy it can you get it if
you can't buy it stop a black market of
drone sales from right exactly it's
gonna affect Chinese imports and
gearbest and everything I just I think
that it my big hiccup on this is really
just the age I think to myself between
the ages of say 15 and 18 that children
are generally already pretty good at
acquiring whatever they want and hiding
it from their parents I don't think the
parents should be responsible for
hardheaded Rolo it's like where'd you
where'd you keep that you know foot and
a half wide drone my sock drawer really
stretching now folks yeah early
stretching now a competition helping to
drive development of the futuristic
Hyperloop transport system has been won
by engineering students from Munich the
Hyperloop idea involves passengers and
pods traveling at very high speeds down
sealed tunnel
the competition saw student teams from
universities around the world gather in
California to put their prototype pods
through their paces
the idea for Hyperloop which would see
pod speed through a sealed tunnel to
reduce friction or air resistance has
been around for decades and was flushed
out by technology entrepreneur Elon Elon
Musk
in 2012 he suggests that pods could
travel along the system's tunnels at
speeds of excess of 1,000 kilometers an
hour
critics have voiced concerns about the
potential costs of building a large
Hyperloop and whether its technical
demands can be met Musk's SpaceX company
has run a series of competitions to
drive development of the concepts the
winning teams pod hit 450 kilometers an
hour on the 1.2 kilometer test track run
by the SpaceX aerospace company the
competition aims to refine the
technologies that could underpin the
super fast transport system the win is
the third in a row for the Technical
University of Munich team this is a cool
story oh yeah cool yeah I want it I
still every everything like this just
takes me to Mars and I'm like this is
Elon Musk's thing right and he's working
on getting to Mars so you just have to
wonder like is this the motivation is
this part of yeah absolutely there's
always the original Total Recall
and everything else you know like so
yeah I was thinking like under ocean
travel like in thoughts that's what I
was thinking with it anything I mean you
think a thousand kilometers an hour how
quickly are you going to be able to
cross the globe right it shrinks the
world it makes us that's faster than
plane travel yeah when you think about
it that and to think that the
competition has already exceeded 450
kilometers an hour right in their test
track yeah which I'm pretty sure is more
than a typical commercial jet plane is
it yeah I think so their test track is
1.2 kilometers long and take long
57 kilometers it's like oh we're done
okay okay
it's top done with this though a few
questions like from a safety standpoint
there's a few like you reading the story
in two things are coming to mind a
crashes Oh like even at 457 kilometers
an hour like something goes wrong you're
toast
you're not finishing your journey the
second thing I would argue same with
planes though and we already do that
okay continue yeah fair enough
the second thing is sound barrier if
they want to get up to a thousand
kilometers now you're gonna break the
sound barrier but what a sound barrier
Jeff oh is it kilometers or miles I
think it's like 750 miles so that's
faster than Coloma 343 m/s okay so maybe
they won't break it that you decided
because this is a thousand kilometers
speed of sound in kilometers that's
smart but okay so that so then that
moves that right concern okay so here
here's where I got excited so Dave and I
just recently went to Newfoundland we
spent a week there I loved it I want to
move there we will move there I want to
be able to get back to the satellite
studio don't ya right so could you
imagine if it was easy to get from the
island to the mainland right yeah look
at he split it would be perfect I
wouldn't in the Caribbean anything get
from like from island to island right
away I just feel like even getting you
know across the pond and going to Europe
from North America if you could really
do that in a Hyperloop situation we
could have all of our viewers in one
spot there you go yeah everybody just
come on over for the show exact that's
crazy I I fear though as you mentioned
accidents it just seems to like
airplanes it's pretty tough for an
average Joe person to get up to that
height to cause any kind of ruckus
outside of the airplane of course they
have things in place mechanisms in place
in order to stop people from getting
onto airplanes that would cause problems
right but on the outside of
the airplane it would be really tough to
get on the outside now a Hyperloop is
something that's on land or goes across
land or goes under it would be a lot
easier I would expect for somebody with
malicious purposes to break it or to
interfere with it because it's on land
it's it's easier to air access right I
see your point
now depending on what kind of margin of
error there is in a gap between the
walls of the Hyperloop and the tube
itself that could negate a lot of right
potential crash resistance I mean if
you've got maybe say a foot on either
side all you're gonna do is kind of
ping-pong around you're gonna have some
whiplash but maybe not enough to you
know kill people all right if there was
an earthquake or something yeah I mean
like I have to account for that yeah I
mean it you know pipe breaks that stick
it out in the middle like you know so
that makes me think because I was I was
always picturing the Hyperloop and I
should look up what these things
actually look like in their picture like
a train on a track I'm picturing like a
hovering train inside of a tube that's
right but I'm not picturing what's
outside of that and you're making me
think that this could be like a like a
shock absorbing outer lecture think
about a shock mount on a microphone yeah
like on a studio microphone right and
how that microphone sits inside of that
shock mount and could be moved around
within that shock mount and the shock
now never moves right so something like
that holding the the tube would make it
virtually impervious to better social
options yeah an earthquake and things
like that so that you wonder hmm
chatroom is saying that Hyperloop is
typically for shipping things not people
will be used for people that will change
but that is a an interesting idea when
Amazon takes deliver to the UK in one
hour same day you can bake a cake here
and before it cools it'll be there
absolutely makes sense that companies
like Amazon will get in on that
yeah for sure make guaranteed they'll
use it for people the fact that we've
already got maglev trains that are going
at crazy fast speeds over and you know I
think it's Japan or China you know
somebody's gonna go
let's transport somebody because it's
gonna make traffic issues go away oh
yeah imagine being able to bypass all
the traffic going to work I can get from
here to my office six minutes and if
they don't suppose an hour-and-a-half
yeah and if they don't do that Jeff you
know somebody's gonna put themselves in
a shipping container
these have been awesome news stories so
big thanks to Roy W Nash and our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight
olynyk's bias and for more free content
be sure to check out our web site from
the category-five TV newsroom I'm Sacha
Rickman thanks Sasha I'm Robbie Ferguson
Geoff Weston it's been great having you
here this week folks I hope that you
have a wonderful week do you keep in
mind I am here next week but these two
we've given them the week off guess
who's going to be co-hosting with me mmm
she's adorable
if you owe your why my wife Becca is
going to be here and we are hosting the
show together I'm gonna be looking at
NEMS Linux which is Midas
oh you're finally showing it and finally
showing we're not here one point four
point one make sure you watch from home
so we've already pre-recorded the
episode so that we can have the week off
and we're really looking forward to that
spoiler let's be here well it's gonna be
amazing and we're gonna show you how to
obtain it how to get it up and going how
to use it
just the basics get it up and started
right from the get-go with this free
distribution that allows you to monitor
all your network assets so if you work
in IT or if you're just a hobbyist who
has a great network at home and you want
to know if a hard drive is failing nems
Linux is definitely something you want
to check out so that's happening next
week on the show so be here even though
I'm not here I am here and there is a
show it's just that we already did it
you haven't seen it yet but you will
next week when you're here so take care
you'll see a thigh
