here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV news room
kayla is now illegal in Germany the
founder of Florida marketing firm who
use illicit tactics to send spam email
has been sent to jail bill gates thinks
the government should tax the robot to
take the jobs of human workers
february's critical update to Microsoft
Windows has been delayed despite its
urgency and using google and using
machine learning Google's Project loon
is moving quickly to bringing Internet
services to areas where it was
previously unavailable these stories are
coming right up don't go anywhere now
here's another great way you can support
the shows you love for the category 5 TV
network by shopping gear best that's
right down cat5 TV / gear best it's an
online store for the geek streak in you
or the loved ones well of course I mean
especially your loved ones right because
cat 5 gb / gearbest quite frankly has
all of the greatest tech gifts that you
could ever hope for at rock bottom
prices because that cell phones you bet
you cap five TV / gear vest has a wide
assortment of unlocked android cell
phones and tablets global compute
consumer electronics those like a great
gift absolutely from high-tech watches
to action cameras headphones even
virtual reality headsets cat five dot TV
/ gearbest has you covered they
literally have it all Jeff literally
really it's like a super store right
from the comfort of your own share add
your computer through the interweb
yeah I there's no way they have it all
through it's just a bunch of random
electronic test me what about clothes
yep both men and women fashionable
apparel at rock bottom SuperDuper prices
kinda like this well look at this coat
what do you think it's a slimming mock
leather jacket I love it it's available
for less than thirty dollars plus free
shipping a cat5 da TV / gearbest yeah
all right you kind of got me there Wow
any other questions for me Jeff now that
winter is past flying season do they
have any good deals and save your own
cups oh my goodness well check this out
dude they have everything check out over
500 various groans and not only that
they're available mark down by about
thirty two up to sixty-three percent off
the regular price love it what's website
again while you're going to find
gearbest on our partners pages for any
of your favorite category five TV shows
like new every day category five
technology TV the pixel shadow but of
course if you want to shop absolutely
right now and you want to go straight to
the site all you have to do is visit
cat5 TV / gearbest that's easy catch
five dot TV / gear back that's right
happy shopping I'm Sasha through madison
here are the top stories for the week of
februari 22nd 2017 remember the kala
doll we reported on during episode 481
well it's now illegal in Germany to sell
the talking doll and that's just the
beginning a German government watchdog
has ordered parents to destroy the
internet connected doll for fear it
could be used as a surveillance device
according to a report from the BBC News
the German Federal Network agency said
the doll which contained a microphone
and speaker was equivalent to a
concealed transmitting device and
therefore prohibited under German
telecom law in dissent in December last
year privacy advocates said that the toy
recorded kids conversations without
proper consent
violating the children's online privacy
protection act thank goodness for them
the Act themselves yeah kayla uses a
microphone to listen to questions
sending this audio over Wi-Fi to a third
party company that converts it to text
this is then used to search the internet
allowing the adult answer basic
questions like what's a baby kangaroo
called as well as play games in addition
to privacy concerns over data collection
security researchers found that Kayla
can easily be hacked the dolls in
secured Bluetooth connection can be
compromised letting a third-party record
audio via the toy or even speak to
children using its voice mmm so bad the
Electronic Privacy Information Center
has said that toys like this subject
young children to ongoing surveillance
without any meaningful data protection
standards one researcher pointed out
that the doll was accessible from up to
33 feet away even through walls using a
bluetooth-enabled device there is
nothing scarier than the Ahmet the
imagined threat not even imagine that
the real threat that your children could
be like talked to from somebody this all
has its own voice I almost think like a
Chucky or something out of yeah let's
play you know it's going to sell at
least is your life at least this with
dolls voice and not like the voice of
Lucifer yeah because that was you know
sweetened innocent or children they'd
probably like offer up any amount of
information to a doll that was talking
to it that yeah very point yeah I got
your parents home do you have a dog
things like that right so it can be very
scary I want you to watch the code that
mummy puts into the you know the pink
our thing there's four members you
remember them and tell them to me later
you know oh I hope you want stuff like
that not well at least there is laws
against it at least this one has been
caught I mean like when I was a kid I
had bingo the bear and there was Teddy
Ruxpin and that girl yeah and bingo was
like the knockoff oh it was like the you
know and i loved it i had that thing for
years me being the little hacker that i
was I
built an AC converter for it and made it
so I could plug it into the wall because
I was tired of the batteries getting run
out here I am like the size of my
youngest is during the wall everywhere
with you and you're okay yeah compatible
long but they were so benign I'm so
innocent because like you'd squeeze his
mouth and he would say pre-recorded
saying well it's what every networks so
right that was it there was no Wi-Fi
there was no bleach exactly no
artificial intelligence or even you know
text to speech was like dr. Speights
though back then it was not anywhere
near where we are now so yes they can
type in things that's a scary thing so
i'm waiting for all those videos to hit
YouTube of people blowing up their Kayla
dolls no that'd be awesome slow mo guys
fantastic Wow okay a marketer who used
stolen email accounts to collect more
than a million dollars by spamming
people has been sent to prison for four
years Timothy Livingston who's 31 was
handed the 48 months term after he
pleaded guilty kit two counts of
conspiracy to commit fraud in connection
with computers and access devices
with electronic mail and aggravated
identity theft the sentence was handed
out on Thursday by Judge William J
martini in the New Jersey district court
where Livingston pled guilty to the
charges last year based in Boca Raton
Livingston ran and operated a marketing
company called a whole lot of nothin LLC
which specializes in sending out bulk
emails for clients the US Department of
Justice said Livingston's clients
included legitimate businesses such as
insurance companies that wish to send
bulk emails to advertise their
businesses as was as well as illegal
entities such as online pharmacies that
sold narcotics without prescriptions
what the clients did not know or chose
not to ask was how Livingston was able
to send out so many emails the marketer
had an arsenal of botnet controlled
accounts and compromised servers who use
to help send out the spam runs without
being identified or detected by spam
filters he would then collect the
commission every time one of his junk
mail messages was converted to a sale
Livingston's co-defendant Tomasz shemal
res of new jersey also admitted writing
the malware used to infect and control
the botnets by the time of ington was
finally caught it is estimated his
spamming network was able to rack up
around 1.35 million dollars in
ill-gotten gains he will have to forfeit
all of that as part of his plea deal oh
well I would hold yeah I say this this
is one of those scary people are smart
and businesslike appeared like a
legitimate business except that it was
called all about nothing but yes but it
appears legitimate and I met people
kidding name yeah hey you know what
flashy signs gets them every time right
billionaire emails and obviously it had
enough a lure that people who were
legitimate businesses and also
illegitimately this is felt equally
comfortable using him right yeah I don't
know okay Bill Gates the co-founder of
Microsoft and the world's richest man
said in an interview friday that robots
that steals human jobs should pay their
fair share of taxes right now the human
worker who does say fifty thousand
dollars worth of work in a factory that
income attack then you get income tax
Social Security tax and all of those
things he said if a robot comes in to do
the same thing you'd think that we tax
the robot at a similar level well mmm
gates made the remark during an
interview with quartz he said robot
taxes could help fund projects like
caring for the elderly or working with
children in school quartz reported that
European Union lawmakers considered a
proposal to tax robots in the past and
the law was rejected well I understand
well I would think that by taxing the
robots you'd be taxing the people who
own the robots but at the same time
where do you draw the line though
because it's like are you going to tax
like an auto pilot over there
plain are you can attack Siri or aren't
only going to tat like tag certain
industries or like I was like other ones
that replaced the humans but until white
point like yeah taxing the ATM could it
be thinking humanoid so like anything
like I can I can think of like in a car
plant for example like the robots
putting on doors and stuff sure yeah
because like you know the kado industry
is a big thing right now and politics
and all that stuff but it's like you
gauge it we're going out on the line
like that in how you engage it how do
you say X number of jobs have been
replaced when especially when you think
about the transition of industry and how
industry is going to make the transition
to robotics as operators and Anatomy
facturers and well these jobs that are
being created for these robots never
existed for humans because it didn't
exist yet right i mean there's the job
of making the robots and there's the job
of the maintenance of the robot yeah
right there's jobs at the robots create
not only just take away sure but i like
i can't imagine what you're what they're
saying is that the taxes would then have
to be paid by the owners of the robots
yeah right so then the owner of your
robot is paying there's a good idea but
yeah it's a neat idea as far as
personalized you i don't but it seems
like a really slippery slope as again it
says you have to define how you want to
do it like again are you going to tax
court anna for being on your computer
for helping us scheduling welcome
cocaina i don't want that excited
anything microsoft but yeah i'll go see
your hacks on that guy I understand
taxis are fairly unavoidable but I got
you like being a robot should get you a
pass on that or are you too you too
though you save so many people and
you're going to tax r2d2 and c3po now
right I mean like they've helped save
the galaxy a few dozen times and now
we're going to be charging tax right
same with data from star trek right and
are they taxing okay so they're saying
that as a robot that's replaced a human
that was making fifty thousand dollars a
year but then if the robots running 24
hours a day whereas if you
when was running exactly 10 hours a day
well now are they all the segments in
Slate that and I are more attacks it
does that come from yeah but I guess
they're manufacturing the same amount or
more stuff so but you mentioned data but
data in the show did kind of operate
like a human but we're nowhere near that
our jobs are not being going to be
replaced by data like androids knock on
wood I mean Bill Gates famously say we
only need 640k right a high memory but
you know there's oh really bound to be
wrong eventually but ya know Gatewood
might be wrong on this one ya know bill
game his company Microsoft yeah okay so
this is this is something that he's
wrong about there we go you know one of
the founders but yeah he's not really in
charge anymore that's all it offers for
me Microsoft has delayed the release of
security update that would have fixed
the vulnerability cyber thieves are
known to be exploiting the fix would be
released as part of Microsoft's regular
monthly security update for its Windows
software in a blog it said a last minute
issue had got in the way of the updates
being sent out as usual the delay is
thought to be related to changes
Microsoft was due to make to be the way
updates were delivered the februari
update was scheduled to include a patch
for a problem with a part of Windows
that handles particular types of file
transfers the bug was first reported to
Microsoft in September and code to
exploit it is believed to be available
to malicious hackers the flaw is present
in most versions of Windows and could
leave users open to attacks let hackers
crash vulnerable machines Microsoft has
already delayed releasing the file
transfer fix because it wanted to
include it with other updates for the
same Windows subsystem that it
previously planned for februari februari
was also when Microsoft was due to break
its security fixes into two one for
windows and the other first browsers
getting the separation and testing
systems to work reliably is believed to
have caused to delay no date has been
given for when the delayed update will
be
delivered the fat just mean that people
are still free to go ahead and exploit
right yeah technically yeah right yeah
if they're if it's active in the wild
then I guess the fix is endowed thing
right never really net they've got to do
it soon though but one commenter was
like well it's typical Microsoft style
once they know a bug is out in the wild
they wait two years and then they patch
it that's right hmm okay written it
better news reached researchers at
Google say that they are years closer to
rolling out a network of huge balloons
to provide connectivity to rural areas
the project loon team part of the
company's X research lab said that it
was now able to use machine learning to
predict weather systems it means the
firm has far greater control over where
its balloons go making it possible to
focus on a specific region rather than
circumnavigating the globe clustering a
small number of balloons greatly reduces
the cost of the idea Google's captain of
moon shots Astro teller told reporters
he says we can now run an experiment and
try to give service in a particular
place in the world with 10 20 or 30
balloons he said rather than the
hundreds needed previously oh that's
incredible real users will be able to
use the system in the coming months he
added but he did not specify where the
initial rollout would take place finally
a little bright spot in the newsroom
that is great so could activity like in
places that just would never otherwise
do you think of like third world
countries and take it like that that's
where our mind immediately goes at the
same time though is that like being a
pilot myself I asked at what altitude
like are these like very a high of 11
150 thousand feet above airliners
because if there are 20,000 feet that's
below airliners it's like I don't want
to be flying around and say no I'm giant
it's going to be way out there where you
can tell you like a stratosphere yes but
yes I think about and we've had this
discussion before I believe but think
about areas that are ravaged by some
kind of
real disaster right well I thought where
infrastructure goes down as all of a
sudden now our cell phones and our
internet no longer works where we are so
we can put these up and if it only takes
eight or ten of these balloons and all
of a sudden infrastructure is at least
in some way shape or form back exactly
like emergency calls can go out
communications restored very cool okay
thanks for watching the category 5 TV
news room don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category 5 TV news room
ambassador me
[Music]
