welcome to new every day I'm Lawrence
Cruz this is Jeff Weston and we are here
on show episode number 151 and today
we're going to be talking about giving
God our yes
what does it mean we all know the word
yes but what does that mean for our
lives what is involved with giving on
our yes and if we do give God our yes
what are we deal with it and what's he
going to do with us
that's what we're going to figure out
today this is new every day
with Jeff Weston and Lawrence Cruz
we've got a fantastic show again for you
this week but my goodness wasn't last
week fantastic we had missionaries Jeff
and renata Walton they're missionaries
to Malawi Africa and wow what a show we
had with them it was so good to have
them with us absolutely absolutely and
if you happen to miss the show you can
check us out on demand you can get us
through a website new every day TV you
can go to youtube find us there you can
check us out on Facebook pretty much
anywhere you can watch on demand we're
there so you want to check us out catch
past episodes maybe previous seasons and
let us know what you think yeah I'd like
to hear what you think and we would love
your comments to come in and any number
of ways you pick your preferred method
and Jeff and I would be thrilled to hear
from you I personally like homing
pigeons okay all right okay so we're
gonna move on from the pigeons
now here's what what's going on today
last week with Renata and Jeff they were
talking about how they said yes to God
to go into the mission field become
missionaries and so we want to explore
that today what does it mean to give God
your yes because that's one of those
things where so often people like yes
God whatever you want for my life I'll
do it but we don't necessarily think
about the impact of the word yes well
incredible Henry Blackaby some of you
know of him he writes a book on
leadership which is fantastic he's also
got a course called the will of God
knowing and doing the will of God okay
and I'm telling you what he says that
every time God speaks to us or
encourages us to do something it always
produces a crisis of faith that's true
and it's almost like you what God was
that you go yeah it was and now you want
me to what and every time there is this
yeah it's gonna require us to get out of
maybe what's just so familiar and to do
something that maybe we wouldn't
normally do but it's the yes to our god
that's so exciting
absolutely and when I think about people
who have said yes I mean so many figures
in the past I think of somebody like
David Livingstone everybody knows David
Livingstone this guy who decided he was
going to go you know be a missionary to
the wilds of Africa never came back
nobody knows that happened to him but
that was a calling that he felt God put
on his life and so we did it and then
you look at the Bible and probably the
one story that as a father I struggle
with the most going I don't know if I
can give it is Abraham oh my goodness
like I'm sorry I don't think I could
take my firstborn son Walter and I
sacrifice him right but he did but he
did he went through the motions no
thankfully the knife didn't drop and God
provided the ramp right if you don't
know the story you better check it out
right but that is a true test of faith
and giving God your unreserved yes okay
and how about his son well true for the
longest time I thought in my mind's eye
that it was a little kid no that Abraham
was taken he's a teenager for pete's
sake
ah and he's carrying the supplies being
obedient to his father and even as
Abraham is saying yes to God even to the
point of taking a knife because he knows
that God has asked him to do this his
son is trusting his earthly father and
and not like he's submitting to he's
saying yes what an incredible crisis of
faith absolutely but he said yes yeah
yeah and God came through as he always
does this is just a second here I see
that you're willing and now you watch
and see what I'm gonna do - well he's
the father of our faith absolutely and
it's funny the last couple of days I've
been listening to the prophets yeah like
the book of the prophets the
the last 40 like 15 books in the old
times a friend's sushi guy oh ho man he
brings some life to the scripture yeah I
mean Isaiah and what I came out several
times is how God said and of course I'm
paraphrasing but yea I have caused this
trouble to come upon you yeah so that
I'm glorified it's that you'll know God
Wow and that really stretched my
thoughts doesn't go on yeah when we when
God needs to get our attention sometimes
we do have that crisis but sometimes
it's so that he is glorified and a lot
of times that does come through with our
yes
yeah and God puts us through those tough
situations and you know what do you do
what happens when you give God your yes
and what does that mean at the end of
the day it means everything
you can't give God your yes and hold
something back I I mean if you think
about it if you say hey I'm gonna donate
half my savings to this charity but you
only give 25% you're not fulfilling your
your word your promise and it's the same
deal with God to say hey you've got my
there's nothing attached to that it's
everything it's not yes but it's not yes
you can have this area but not this one
of my life given God you yes is
everything that's who you are it's what
you're involved in it's your family as
your finances and yeah job yeah your
mind like it's everything and that is
daunting what a delight to do it
absolutely what what the letting go I
like it is daunting and like far be it
from Jeff and I to say oh we got this
all figured out no I agree with our
brother Henry Blackaby every time God
asks us to do something there's this
okay let me count the cost here yes and
there is a car
but boy it's so worth it it is now you
have a yes moment yes okay so and what
did it cost sorry that's just bad
something like half a second well I'll
tell you what I was I was 10 years of
age okay when God came knocking on my
door that was quite a quite a story and
actually I was 9 years of age and I was
in a Salvation Army Citadel okay I
didn't know anything about it I went to
church with my mother and my aunt and
there it was a kid who you know happy
just to be with my mom and I remember
being in the back very last row in this
small assembly and I was just coloring
or doodling doing something and right at
the end of the service there's this man
in a uniform and he's going like this
and I have no idea what he was saying
but I just began to weave and I didn't
know then what was going on but I do
know now it was God by His Holy Spirit
was calling me to himself and I'm so
glad he was anyway I I left there my
aunt was there saying oh are you gonna
take Laurence to you know meet the Lord
and go to the front and none of that
happened it was about a year later and
God had been working in my life and I
called a friend of mine I said hey Kelly
does your mother have a car he says yeah
do you think she'd take me to church and
at age 10 she said yes to me it was
December 18 1977 and there was another
man at the front of the assembly and he
was waving but this time I could hear
him and he was saying is there anyone
here who would like to come to know
Jesus and be born again and I was
embarrassed but I began to weep and I
didn't understand it but God was calling
me to himself and I was worried about
what my friend was gonna think I open my
eyes eyes only to find that he and his
mother were already getting up and they
too were responding they were giving God
their yes I got out of
place and I said yes to the Lord Jesus
Christ and his call on my life for
salvation Jeff it was 41 years ago and
it was the best thing that I've ever
done in my life thank God you know what
and sometimes it's all it is it's just a
simple decision to say yes I'm gonna
serve Christ I was a boy who said yes to
the Lord
absolutely and other times it could be
something so much more I mean like I
said we just spent two the past two
weeks at the Waltons who operated their
life but my wife and I regularly go
through this journey of K God what do
you have for us what do you want it to
do yeah
and he's always taking us to this next
step and that's this next pursuit within
our faith to be completely abandoned for
him and it's it's not easy sometimes
especially in the face of adversity and
you know when you fly in the face of
maybe popular opinion around the
workplace whatever but there's been one
scripture that has been absolutely
absolutely paramount for me and it's in
Jeremiah 29 it's I know the plans I have
for you declares the Lord plans to give
you hope and a future plans to prosper
you and it goes on and on and on but the
whole point of that scripture is God
knows he knows exactly how does the
lutely or future and he's planned it all
out so when he comes to you and says
will you yeah he already knows how it's
gonna happen it's not like he's going do
you think maybe if you did this we could
see what happens no he knows I'm gonna
happen and sorry
with that comfort and with that
assurance yeah my wife and I can say
yeah God whatever it is that you want
because you've already worked it out
yeah you already know the outcome and we
can't change the way it's gonna roll out
so we're just gonna abandon ourselves to
it and go full throttle and when we do
that and when we fully give him
everything we've got to say yes to his
plans and his purposes
the sky's the limit and phrasing you
always use having breaks loose I love it
and and it's so good and it's so
reassuring and for kids yeah to be able
to see mom and dad right
who just let it all go forgotten like
guys this this this is what we feel God
asked us to do we're gonna go do it and
they're like okay I love it yeah so
we're gonna take a quick break yeah
and we're gonna continue to explore this
topic look at a few other scriptures and
give some ideas on how you can give God
your yes stick around for more from new
every day for a limited time get your
hands on limited-edition shirts from the
category 5 TV network these high quality
shirts are manufactured by teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap five dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today count five
dot TV slash shirts
hey friends we're back thank you so much
for joining us and we are talking today
about saying yes to God and how exciting
that is thank God we can trust him
absolutely right 100% and we talked
about that just before the break how God
has this ultimate plan and he knows
what's going on and there's a scripture
that I I love because it couples with
the idea of God knowing what's going on
and not leaving us to figure it out yeah
you know and flounder around flopping
like a fish out of water
so David writes in psalm 32 verse 8 in
the NIV I will instruct you and teach
you in the way you should go I will
counsel you with my loving eye on you
Wow and what's great about that
scripture is it's God saying I've got
this and I'm gonna show you the way and
when we give God our yes when we allow
God to move in our lives he does through
His Holy Spirit instruct us it could be
as well through interactions with other
people it could be the wisdom of elders
within your church it might just simply
be reading scripture and having that
epiphany moment going I've read the
scripture a lot of times and I've never
heard it that way before oh my goodness
God thank you for revealing that and
that's the great thing about the
scriptures God always speaks through it
yeah I love it and it's really
interesting we were referring to that
guy Henry Blackaby I sure hope that's
okay it just was he impacted my life so
profoundly just through his books mighty
man of God and he talked about the
number of ways that God speaks to people
through circumstances through the Bible
through other people you know and just
not singularly but God speaks and I have
found that that I know there's times
where we go God how do we know your will
and yet when I've spoken to people deep
inside there's a knowing that they feel
this prompting that God is calling them
to do something maybe you're here
watching right now you're saying like me
he said we've never met face to face but
you're you're watching by television by
Internet however it is and right now
you're recognizing you know it God has
been calling you I encourage you say yes
to God say give your yes to go I'm 51
it's like and I'm a boy who said yes and
I've been riding the wave of my life
it's been absolutely fantastic yeah I
mean ever since you gave God you yes
you've been delving in Scripture you're
growing in faith and you ended up in
ministry yes and that's just kind of
natural progression or was that another
yes moment for you okay that's
interesting I'll tell you how it
happened for me Jeff is like school I
actually enjoyed it as a kid as a
teenager it was like was decent for me
and my parents encouraged me to go to
school like but you know it was just a
regular community kid and as a young
teenager I had thought that I was going
to be a dentist oh okay and so it was
like okay I'm gonna do this I even went
to my own dentist in just in a suburb of
Toronto in Canada and I said hey can I
join you he said sure come on in and he
would let me into his office and I would
watch and work on people I'm just the
young I was like 14 that's cool they
don't let you do that no no no not at
all you know and so I was there and I
just drank it up and was good and so
interesting I told you at age 10 is when
I knew God was calling me to salvation
and I gave him my yes to be my Lord
I gave him my yes to follow him and as a
young boy you ever have these moments I
was in church and like there's 500
people there in this church and the
preachers preach and I'm like would you
mind talking to somebody else please
like yes and it's like wow and it's like
and I didn't mind it but I thought why
is this guy taking all that well of
course he wasn't speaking to me
personally but the Lord was using him
and even said well if you're a Christian
while Christians read their Bible and I
went oh that's a good idea
right I went I said mom can you help me
find a Bible of course she was happy to
get me one right and I got that Bible
and I started reading it every night
before I went to bed and I remember
wrestling Jeff I'd be there saying oh
it's been a tough day
and I'd get in the covers and God would
be whispering Lawrence I'd be trying to
fake God hey God I'm sleeping here do
you mind as if God doesn't know this is
true and I did it more times than I care
to admit and I throw the covers off is
that okay and then I'd read well I got
into this habit and I would read two
chapters every night okay and this still
moves me to this day and I was there I
got on my bed you know and I put there I
got underneath my light where there
would be no shadow on the Bible and I
remember my feet on it was just on top
of my bed my walking back against the
wall and I was just reading and I don't
even remember what passage of Scripture
that I was reading but I said God if
this is really true then I can do no
less than give my entire life to you I
remember putting it down I said Lord I'm
yours whatever you want you have my yes
and then that was it it was hugely
profound but it was you know no
lightning bolts nothing nothing was
shaking I went to bed because I felt
like I had prayed no you know there
might have been some guilt in there but
I was young and the Lord was was growing
me and calling me to himself and I said
yes and instead then of pursuing being a
dentist over the next couple of years
it's just this the steady growth inside
of me is like Lawrence I think it would
make sense for you to go to Bible
College and prepare for pastoral
ministry I didn't have a sweet clue what
that meant but as time went on I knew it
and I had a question Jeff I thought how
am I gonna tell my father right and my
mom like mom was a godly woman my dad
wasn't serving the Lord at this time but
he had said hey if you go to university
I'll pay for your education I'm so glad
you're going to be a dentist right you
know and he didn't have much of an
education very smart man but didn't have
the opportunities like I did you know
what I'm saying it's oh he just wanted
the best yeah how am I gonna say it and
then I just prayed about it okay
said Lord you've called me I'm not going
to worry about this and you know
I'm giving you my yes and this was
profound I said Lord would you work out
these details I'm now in grade 12 so a
few years to three years have gone by
I'm about ready to apply for University
we're sitting at the kitchen table I
love telling this story my dad was a
smoker at that time and he there he was
just there taking a drag you know and
his eyes would kind of like he'd be
squinting as the smoke is going up
pretty blow the smoke away because he
was just being courteous wouldn't you
know of course and he was from Glasgow
Scotland he said so him I guess say you
want to go to Bible College dear I
hadn't even raised it oh man I guess you
want to go to Bible College what I told
you I'd pay for your education so if
that's where do you want to go that's
where I'm gonna send yet sent that
incredible that's amazing so my father
unsaved loved his boys all three of us I
was the youngest of three boys he said
I'll write you the check son and you can
follow the call of God I you've given me
your yes now I got great plans for you
and so I didn't know how it was all
gonna unfold but how exciting a journey
the starts I gave him my yes and God
said you watch what I do with your yes
Lord right and that is the takeaway if
you give God your yes yeah you're gonna
see amazing things happen he's going to
provide he's going to give you the
wisdom he's going to give you the
knowledge he's gonna bring you help
whether that be through other people
whether it be just his own provision and
as we come to an end
for this week's show if you're sitting
there going yes I don't I don't know
yeah what's that thing in the back of
your mind if you were to say God what do
you want my yes on what's the first
thing that pops in the back of your mind
and you know it is absolutely you know
right you're you're picking it up right
now write it down don't forget about it
and pray about it give it to God and say
you know what God this is what's in my
the back of my head I up
this is from you I'm giving it to you
I'm giving you my guess what do you want
me to do with it and the second thing I
would suggest is talk to somebody about
it
maybe it's your significant other maybe
it's a friend from the church maybe it's
your pastor but have some accountability
speak to somebody else and say I believe
God's giving me something that he wants
my YES on and I would like for you to
help me with it I want you to help keep
me accountable to pursuing this and
making sure that I give God my yes and
then when the two you spend time in
prayer about it you know that you're
going to have that joint wisdom that
God's going to reveal and he's going to
help you through it so whatever it is
that's in the back of your mind
give him your yes and don't hold on to
release it open the palm of your hand
metaphorically and just say God you've
got it because if you're holding on like
this you can't do anything with it open
up your hand and psalm 32 verse 8 tells
us God says to each of us I will
instruct you and I will teach you in the
way you should go I will counsel you
with my loving eye on you so good how
incredible and you know this many of you
know this verse perhaps it's new to you
it's a game-changer if you've never
heard it before proverbs chapter 3 verse
5 and 6 says this trust in the Lord with
all your heart and don't lean on your
own understanding and all your ways
acknowledge him and he will direct your
paths you'll make your paths straight
praise the Lord what a message such a
great way to finish off god bless you
it's been a great show thank you so much
for listening let's give God our yes
each and every day have a great week
two new episode of you every day every
Friday morning at new every day TV
we're also on roku cody flex youtube
google play music podcasts and news book
or if you're in Southern California tune
in every Sunday morning at 6:30 on kbdb
TV channel 33 television for the high
desert
[Music]
