all right here are the stories were
covering this week in the category 5 TV
newsroom Mark Shuttleworth has revealed
that a boon to 18 point o4 will get a
10-year support lifespan a database leak
exposed millions of two-factor codes and
reset links sent by SMS and video stocks
have dropped to the worst it's been in
10 years and NASA has successfully
tested osiris-rex his robotic arm ahead
of its arrival at a giant asteroid
millions of miles away these stories are
coming right up
don't go anywhere this is the
category-five TV newsroom covering the
week's top tech stories put the snake
Linux by us
Jeff Weston GEMA you're building a
brand-new beautiful website
what
aren't you you're a terrible actor
what does where acting comes into play I
don't know you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash DreamHost I'm
Sasha Rickman and here are the top
stories were following this week Mark
Shuttleworth has revealed that a boon to
18.04 will get a ten year support
lifespan at OpenStack summit in Berlin
canonical and a boon to founder Mark
Shuttleworth said in a keynote that a
boon to 18 point o4 s long-term support
lifespan would be expect extended from
five years to 10 years a butsu 18.04
released in April 20 18 while the abuti
desktop gets most of the ink most of
Canonical's dollars come from server and
cloud customers it's for these corporate
users canonical first extended to boon
twos 12.04 security support than aboon
twos 14 point oh four support and now
preemptively Ubuntu 18 point oh four in
an interview after the keynote
shuttleworth said Ubuntu is sixteen
point oh four which is scheduled to
reach its end of life in April 20-21
will also be given a longer support
lifespan Shuttleworth also said in his
keynote that in the past two years
canonical had been getting a Red Hat
customers coming in twos way he
explained that companies have been
coming to canonical not to replace
existing Red Hat Enterprise Linux or
openshift deployments but to expand into
new technology areas such as the
Internet of Things edge computing and
machine learning or artificial
intelligence however shuttleworth
foresees IBM buying Red Hat may lead to
customers switching to a boon to he says
we're we're neutral on the public cloud
we work at an arm's
with AWS Azur and Google we provide a
common currency across different
environment but we're not the lowest
common denominator we want to be the
best operating system on Azur for Azure
and AWS for AWS and so on
he also disclosed the canonical is still
aiming at going public in 2019 this is
not a on a set schedule instead it will
happen when the company meets the
metrics he's set before canonical IPOs
he plans on bringing in growth equity
from private equity companies
Shuttleworth has started talking with
private equity advisors to get things
ready to bring in a cash infusion so
all-in-all Shuttleworth sees a bright
future ahead for both canonical and its
underlying a boon to Linux container and
cloud technologies well it really sounds
like he's stepped down hasn't it he has
bought such ambition and such confidence
and I like it yes yes yes I am excited
for them to go public I know that he's
set at the standard high but when he
goes public that means I could buy
stocks right in the company and I would
I would feel really good buying stocks
in his company because I know how much
he cares exactly right so and and he's a
visionary yeah and I love visionaries
who actually take action and he is he's
proven that when he when he was on our
show back like season 3 season 4 years
ago no he he canonical was young and and
compared to what it is now and Mark said
that he was working toward bringing
Ubuntu to the phone platform making that
happen and he did and it failed but it
was a an effort that made ripples in the
Linux landscape right and is now even
now right now and into 2019 making
changes even though canonical has put
that aside mm-hmm it's happening right
we're seeing Linux on the smartphone
we're seeing Linux on the tablet it's
kind of planted the seed absolutely and
created some excellent code
so for for him extending the support
lifespan yeah does that bring that like
for me it would bring more confidence to
me it because I know now I will have to
switch would you have to switch your nan
user right so if if you as an end user
install Ubuntu Linux on your computer
mm-hmm and then it comes to end-of-life
it's pretty easy to modify your your
sources list to the next version do an
apt update and app by an apt dist
upgrade and it will roll up to the next
version of Abu - okay
however in enterprise environments so
we're talking big business banking and
cloud infrastructure and Ubuntu
canonical are big on cloud
infrastructure in those businesses it's
really hard to upgrade an upgrade and
upgrade and roll up and roll up and roll
up and reboot servers and it's really
done so having a really good long-term
support means a couple of things first
of all hmm the rolling release cycle of
fixes and patches and security things
are going to continue for many many
years ten years ten years imagine if I
installed an operating system on my
server and I know that it has the latest
and greatest security patches for the
next ten years that's what he's
proposing right that's what he's doing
that lowers blood pressure and it makes
things a lot easier from the IT
standpoint it gives us peace of mind and
it saves our company a ton of money yeah
so I think that's really the target of
that move not the Ambu sir not the
person running it on their laptop
because you can easily backup your home
folder
reinstall the brand-new version or do a
roll up using apt right but it's the
cyber environment it's the clouds as
your platforms the virtual appliances
the Internet of Things how can I upgrade
the OS in my in my fridge smart
like who knows why that's what he's
pushing towards so imagine you buy a
toaster that's smart and is powered by
Ubuntu now and it has security patches
for ten years
so as these exploits come out for smart
devices which we're hearing a lot more
about so totally yeah they can push out
security patches for those devices for
ten more years they're for the resident
those companies are going to invest in
boob-tube exactly I will buy stocks
Eisley I will tell you that now mark go
buy stocks database leak exposed
millions of two-factor codes and reset
links set by sent by SMS millions of SMS
text messages mainly containing one-time
pass codes password reset links and
plain text passwords were exposed in an
Internet accessible database that could
be read or monitored by anyone who knew
where to look the discovery comes after
years of her Bewkes from security
practitioners that text messages are a
woefully unsuitable medium for
transmitting two-factor authentication
data despite those reviews SMS based 2fa
continues to be offered by banks such as
Bank of America cellular carriers such
as t-mobile and a host of other
businesses the leaky database belonged
to Vox ox a service that claims to
process billions of calls and text
messages monthly the database stored
texts that were sent through a gateway
Vox Hawks provided to businesses that
wanted an automated way to send data for
password resets and other types of
account management by SMS the database
provided a portal that showed two-factor
codes and recent links being sent near
in near real time making it potentially
possible for attackers who accessed the
server to obtain data that would help
them hijack other people's accounts the
database ran on Amazon's elastic search
and was configured with Cabana front-end
to make the phone numbers names and
other contents easy to browse and search
Fox Hawks locked down the database after
TechCrunch privately reported the issue
prior to informing the public of their
findings
yikes so oh yeah let's put a front end
on this dad let's make it easy to search
okay so two factor authentication mm-hmm
I trust it right like I have it for my
Steam account and so when I go to log
into my schemas yes when I go I'll I try
to log into my Steam and then it says
enter your your passcode and then I get
a text and that was my passcode and it
changes every time and i temped i type
it in and so is this what the story is
talking about yes but i think the only
reason this would be an issue is if the
provider sending the SMS before the 2fa
do factor authentication code doesn't
expire those codes this is true when I'm
dealing with my bank my two-factor
authentication code expires after 30
seconds right so if I do not use it if I
do not log in immediately I won't be
able to use that code yeah right request
the login exactly and remember this is
two-factor authentication this is not
something that somebody could go into
your online banking hacking this
database and enter your info and then
access the two-factor authentication
code because they don't know your
password so they'd have to know your
password first that's the first factor
authentication right username password
right then and then so I can trust
two-factor authentication by and large
well I hope that your provider expires
those tokens how would I know that I
don't know that you can
security practice so like I just have to
hope if somebody like was it TechCrunch
or like I just want to revealed right so
if they revealed it that means that
they're aggressively searching out
issues I just have to trust in them but
I do track on it yeah
and finding all of the prot like oh no
they're there
magazine yeah so so then who finds out
when there's a problem white hat hackers
hey yeah words black hat hackers
well you have a few ways of like solving
the problem right cuz like a lot of
things like he said for steam house you
factor authentication right there's
other sites like Facebook whatever you
could there's actual apps I can use as
well you like with steam if you log in
on your computer your actual mobile app
handles everything so it stays within
like that the valve corporation so right
have to go to your okay cell provider in
the first place same with Facebook right
so it stays within their app ecosystem
aha as soon as like you send your data
out somewhere else on to a different
server that's the issue
yeah and that's where I get scared
because like I know in lots of ways I'm
I'm not like the most educated person
but stuff like this so I trust you
factorizing situation because it feels
like it's an extra step so then because
there's the extra step I just feel like
okay well I'm good if you need your
phone in order to write yeah yeah how
can anyone else log in without your
phone right so this is where I'm finding
a heart like every time I do a news
story where there's a data leak or
there's a security blunder of some sort
I think to myself okay well this not
that it doesn't affect me but that I can
see how I can change things I can change
my password on my router I can change a
right but in this case I trust very
heavily into factor authentication yeah
so token-based using a device you can
actually buy devices that will show you
a number that expires after 30 seconds
those are ways to do it ESET secure
authentication is a server application
that you can install that accesses your
Active Directory and it allows you to
use one of those devices on various
platforms and
you know the there's so much that can be
done in big business but for us novice
users just trying to get access to our
online banking we do kind of have to
trust that they're doing it right right
who reminds us about smart phones sim
cloning which is another issue where and
even SIM fraud in that someone we've
you've mentioned it before someone can
go into AT&amp;T and Sasha Rickman and I
lost my phone and I need to activate
this new phone so give me a new sim yes
and then they do and they fall for that
social engineering and I think it again
comes down to education and it's brutal
we're in this transitional time where
things aren't perfect sash we've got to
be real smart real careful watch your
accounts but it's it's really hard even
like even last week as I was leaving the
show I got a weird tax it turns out it
was safe but it couldn't it could have
been efficiency because it was just a
text message and it said yeah why call
me I want to talk to you about Christmas
and then there was like a little emoji
but the number wasn't in my phone and
was an emoji of Santa all right so who
wanted to talk about Christmas it could
have been anybody and didn't mention who
they were anything reply no they've got
your info exactly it was one of days
family members who has my number but I
don't have their number saved in so
luckily I went home and I checked but
before I left here I asked I asked is
this something I should respond to I'd
be very wary exactly yeah cuz you
shouldn't I don't normally receive text
from that person never that was the
first one okay be careful NVIDIA stock
has dropped to the worst it's been in
ten years NVIDIA lost a gigantic 23
billion dollars in market cap in a
single 24-hour period on Friday dropping
more than 30 percent why well there are
many reasons with some claiming it was
the cryptocurrency mining bubble popping
but it seems the various issues with the
newly launched GeForce r-tx series being
the center focus for Nvidia right now
in video stock dropped heavily after the
company posted their q3 earnings report
which saw the company missing revenue
estimates the sales channel is filled
with gtx ten series graphics cards and
the overpriced r-tx series that seems to
have fallen flat with gamers there have
been many problems with the RT x cards
and there aren't that many gamers that
really take advantage of the features
then games with RT x support like
battlefield 5 are plagued with issues
and underwhelming performance see NBC's
Jim Cramer says in videos Nvidia made a
serious misjudgment about the level of
demand for their product and after that
Nvidia is in the penalty box for a very
long time that's rough oh so it's a lot
of money if it has to do with
cryptocurrency mining yeah because this
is what happened right like stock of
cards was like depleted yeah because
people were crypto mining thereby they
needed cards and now there's no cards
available for gamers so if that's the
case so Nvidia will flood the market
with cards and cards that work very well
for crypto mining yeah they know who
they're trying to appeal to right right
and then if that mining bubble stops
well here's the thing too is that Nvidia
card it's like there's such fine-tuned
machines that when you try to get like
100 thousands of them produced at a time
you're rushing them the hell it takes is
for to forget one little wire like one
little something solder exact one cold
solder to know like error I should beat
myself up but yeah that sucks yeah I
think once you've bought your card like
I've got my cards and I'm not going out
and buying another one mm-hmm but I
bought during the boom right I bought
just before the boom I got like a 1060
just before like I really got like huge
I want to go back and get a 1080 you got
a 1070 fight
and I got before like it went up in
price immediately after rx 560 it's just
it's hard for it's hurt for a company
like that because I feel like they're
actually like they're a great company
it's just now their stock is plummeted
so what do they have to you once you
lose twenty three billion dollars I've
never even had one billion dollars of
kraft dinner nasa has successfully
tested osiris Rex's robotic arm ahead of
its arrival at a giant asteroid millions
of miles away NASA's spacecraft is iris
Rex is nearing its destination and it's
starting to stretch out the craft
successfully tested it's touching those
sample acquisition mechanism which is
tags am a robotic arm that will allow it
to grab samples from the surface of the
asteroid Bennu according to the to NASA
the test run went as planned
osiris-rex with the help of engineers
from Lockheed Martin showed off the full
range of motion of its arm it flexed its
shoulder elbow and wrist joints all
while hurtling through space the test
success was confirmed by telemetry data
and photos captured by an onboard camera
take sample will be essentially for a
Cyrus Rex to complete its mission the
craft will use the robotic arm to
collect a couple of ounces of loose dirt
and rock from the surface of venue
researchers hope that the sample of
regolith from the carbon-rich space rock
might hold some hints about the
beginning of the solar system and the
beginning and the building blocks of
life osiris-rex is expected to reach
Venu on December third it will spend two
years studying and mapping the 1,650
foot asteroid before finally scooping up
the sample it was sent to retrieve then
it will make its way back to earth the
spacecraft is Express
back on this planet in 2023 in the mean
time it's already sent back some pretty
impressive photos from its trip three
million miles away wouldn't be
disappointing if they're just like this
is just dirt yeah like a hundred years
from now or it's just like it's
commonplace just to go up to space it
feel like oh it's got like some like
dirt and brought it home although it has
an awesome name Rex
yes I really want to do a follow-up
story on this in 2020 you just said set
yourself a 2023 memo like reminder just
a reminder so that we can come back and
be like so Cyrus Rex is returned is it
turns space just want to be sure before
I say it aloud hacking into the yeah
satellites future me dot org o dear
future me org write a letter to the
future ok I would like I would like to
do a follow-up on this story because I
would like to know what happens upon
return I want to know it's just dirt it
had microorganisms that took out the
human race
yeah that's right or I saw what was that
there was a movie and there was though
really weird dude we're gonna bring
movies into this I don't know
okay I'm not gonna describe probably it
was a movie about like aliens and
language do you remember and there was a
wait oh yeah it's one word one word and
it had a girl in it yeah not arrival
it's like that's something like but it's
about language everybody comment below
they're liking the big rock ships and
the way I remember the poster was like
this spaceship that's like this and then
it's like what's it called see dear
future me what's that movie with aliens
so let's say we bring back some dirt
from veneer and we like create these
like cool extraterrestrial like
antibiotics or something what could come
of this and and it's like okay it's cool
it's research science
you got the answer arrival I knew it was
it was one word and it had a girl in it
I want I want this thing I want Mars you
want Mars busy right now it's gonna be
two and a half hours of waiting for this
thing to just get a cup of dirt yeah but
that cup of dirt can help us with
technology space junk flying but that's
like me saying you just sit at your desk
typing on the keyboard all day like
that's all I do but you do more than the
hackls right it's going up there and
it's going to check the surface of this
asteroid and it's gonna bring back a
sample of not earth dirt which is
different because all the dirt we've
ever seen is earth dirt so I mean it
might be exactly the same but in that
there will still be like a lot of
information but what if there's like
water on that there will not drink what
you never know it's an element right
that's try words there's no water we've
got the water or the blue planet yeah
but where's Lars there are little plants
what it what if it's like a little tea
guy me so I can hear me now good
yeah and he's just floating away I know
I'm picturing those those little
creatures in Toy Story
perfect b-roll footage just like the
actual I really like it yeah I also
think that if anybody's out there just
naming a kid or a pet or something venue
it's actually a really great asteroid
name yeah big thanks to Sol boo Roy W
Nash and our community of viewers for
submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our web
site from the category-five TV newsroom
I'm Sasha Rickman and I'm Robbie
Ferguson and I'm Henry Bailey Brown
[Music]
[Applause]
