so speaking of viewer comments questions
we've had a couple come in that we
wanted to address tonight for me
Sandrine Markey my question on net
neutrality is what will happen if my
internet service provider wants to offer
me a VoIP service with QoS for a few
bucks a month in fact you using QoS on a
daily basis on our corporate networks
and providers - all right so here's the
thing okay for those of you who don't
know QoS is quality of service so that
is where when I pick up my phone which
is using voice over IP or when I'm using
Skype for a videoconference it will slow
down the other things on my network such
as somebody BitTorrent downloading or
watching Netflix it will slow those
things down so that the phone call does
not get interrupted because I have used
quality of service to tell my network
that this phone call takes precedence
over something that's a little less high
priority so that's a great thing now
here's what I think Sandrine and this is
my opinion
my co-host can can reiterate or rebuttal
me here I think that that is something
that should be handled internally let's
put it that way so let me explain so a
firewall this is a device that I put on
my network that allows me to block
certain types of activity from taking
place through my network connection to
the internet so if I want to allow
people including myself to remote into
my desktop and access my desktop
computer or if I want to allow them to
SSH into my computer I have my own
physical firewall that allows me to log
in to that make those changes and set
that up that's my prerogative to do it
where it goes wrong is when an ISP puts
a firewall on their network that I do
not have control over where I cannot say
I will allow SSH connections and they're
saying no you won't
yeah I'm not I'm not going to allow you
to connect to
Desktop Protocol because we have a
firewall in place you can't change that
setting that's where people start using
VPN tunnels and we hear about
governments that that block access to
certain types of content and those kinds
of things that's where net neutrality
says you know what the ISP cannot do
that that is not cool so instead if I
want to put a firewall in house I can do
that if you want to put QoS in the house
you can do that you can control your own
QoS but don't don't let the ISP control
the quality of service themselves
because I don't want an ISP making the
decision of what services take priority
I wholeheartedly agree with you
yes sandrine thank you very much for the
question
[Music]
[Applause]
