[Music]
welcome back this is category five
technology TV a couple weeks back Sasha
you meet Jeff we were looking at ePaper
yes if you're interested in it go to cap
5 dot TV slash ePaper the one that we
looked at was suited to our needs we
just want to do away with paper on our
desk for those quick one-off notes that
we just need to take and then wipe right
exactly just just the stuff that I
literally would just write and shred
right exactly yes yeah and that's me
I've done away with the paper on my desk
at work yeah people like Jeff however
and some Apple in the chat room you have
we had this discussion I really need to
be able to save my notes that's right
because I go through a ton of paper I
have I mean a whole lot of different
clients that I deal with I've got books
for each one of notes and all that kind
of stuff I mean I I couldn't tell you
many how many thousands and thousands
and thousands of pieces of paper I go
through you know on a yearly basis I
wanted something that allowed me to safe
now I do know with the the type of
devices that we were looking at a couple
week weeks ago you can take a picture on
your phone use your if you need it -
yeah Evernote or something and it can
convert it to a PDF but I'm like I don't
want to go through that work because
that is oh hold on just play like it's
not worth it so I wanted something that
was quick and easy so I did some
research and I ran across this the
boogie board do a boogie board now
boogie boards have the ePaper devices
and different sizes and whatnot like
we're talking about where you just hit
the button in a races but they have a
boogie board sync which is this device
okay so nine point seven inch and it has
bluetooth connectivity Oh as well I give
you a USB cable to connect to my
computer so I can upload the files
either through bluetooth or I can do it
through the the sync cable okay so it's
a really simple device all in all three
buttons you have the power button and
then you have save in a race that's it
it's there's a there's a built-in hard
drive in this so that
you uh you know finish a piece of paper
you hit save then it'll flash a couple
times you know it's safe to hit a race
and then you keep going Oh fantastic the
meeting I was in today at 11 pages of
notes I'm just writing away yeah fill
the page hit save off you go and then
I'm real erase it and then just keep
going
now with Bluetooth connectivity can you
then say send it to the other people in
the meeting right then and there
III could so because I would was
connected to my device it uploads to my
phone automatically not at that point I
could be like : let me send that to you
and then I can email to them if I want
or if their device connects to it they
would have access to it as well isn't
that cool yeah so I'll just kind of show
you how yeah okay let's get right in
there yeah really easy so it just like
the device that you showed last time
it's a simple screen so hi world I'm
doing this upside down there's no
judgement judgement free chime judging
that not bad for me being able to see
the screen looking at a monitor in
Reverse let's hi world so if I don't
like that I'm like I made a mistake I
just hit the erase button and it's gone
yeah that's it okay just like the ones
that we have that's right so bye so this
is the one I want to save oh for sure so
you'll see our indicator so this is the
green flashing light that will tell you
that it's saving and then there's my
flashing blue which means it's connected
to my phone so I want to show you if you
can throw we're gonna throw my phone up
on the screen okay sure show this to you
so there you're gonna need to move over
there now oh okay there we go so that is
the the the app there you can download
it's called sink from boogie board okay
so I'm going to open it up now if I hit
the Save button and I'm going to show
you on the so I'm hitting save now see
how the green lights flashing then the
blue starts flashing you're gonna see
under new pages on my phone one page
Egyptian it all the way there it is that
is too cool Jeff Wow simple easy like
instantaneous and then from there I have
the ability to save it as an image a PDF
a video why I want to save another video
I don't know I haven't bothered figuring
that
one of the other things is I can also do
live notes like I am typing no way be
bored I could do a live right there on
the screen okay I'm in love and with
connecting this to my computer as well
if I'm say doing a presentation at work
and I've got my computer up on the
screen yeah I can have the cable
connected from the boogie board into the
laptop and then I'm going okay and so
then you want to go here yeah it's a
presentation device that's right over
here and then make a shot there into the
end zone
right and that's it and then when I'm
done I hit a trace and it's gone sweet
like it's absolutely beautiful
Wow I love this device I love it there's
there's nothing bad I can say about it
and then from there if I want I can like
I could delete that I can move it to a
different folder I could rename it to
something so I'm just going to delete it
I don't need it it's gone it's off my
device it's beautiful so yeah and if you
have multiple pages so like here's my
notes from today you see it on it puts
it all on yeah it's all organized into
one device and so that's those are my
notes so there's ten different pages I
can open up each one see them zoom in
it's all PDF and then I email it to
myself and poof like I'm I don't use a
phone so yeah
Jeff where can we buy it I can't switch
oh there we go
I'm trying to switch the camera and it
wouldn't work okay so you can get a cat
5 TV slash boogie biggie
oh oh gee ie not quite but it's an
absolutely I love editing stunning
device that is like fantastic apps
there's not a next level of writer right
there I'm happy with my paper because I
think it really works very very well
right I can see that I would also be
happy with a boogie board so like this
showed up in the mail yesterday at the
office yeah and I was like oh it's so
exciting so today I got to use it for
the first time and in the meeting and
everybody's going what are you doing
like oh I'm type of mom I'm just
writing out all my notes and like yeah
but I had it what do you do with it I'm
like it's all right here on my phone
like not serious so there's an entire
row of people from the business on
dealing with in the other side and
they're all going oh yeah that's cool
I'm gonna go back up to my office and
I'm like hey you know how you have like
in our negotiations we can have stacks
of papers notes and I'm like guys check
this out and so few of them alike how
much is that are you kidding me yeah I'm
getting that now send them over to camp
five dot TV slash boogie yeah and a
portion of the sale goes to supporting
category five TV how do you like that
sweet that's your option if you want the
e paper that does the connectivity and
saves it hello thanks for going on out
and finding that no problem pleasure
[Applause]
