here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
Google data first searching cloud
services went to stray for more than an
hour on Monday thanks to an ugly mistake
by an african isp Seagate and IBM are
using IBM's blockchain tech to verify
its disk drives authenticity using its
electronic fingerprints the flying
motorbike is back in Dubai and you can
see the police riding in one in the
not-too-distant future Samsung will soon
test TVs that can be controlled with
your brain a technology enhancement
perfect for people with disabilities
these stories are coming right up don't
go anywhere this is the category 5 TV
newsroom covering the week's top tech
stories with little slave Linux bias
Jeff Weston Gemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website
what aren't you right you're a terrible
actor what the swear acting comes into
play you're supposed to act okay I'm
building a really cool website are you
building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host I'm
Sachi Rickman in here the top stories
are following this week Google data
first search and cloud services went
astray for more than an hour on Monday
thanks to an ugly mistake by an african
isp the data was sent the wrong way when
main one cable in nigeria updated
address books for key network hardware
the update saw it claimed to be the best
way to reach millions of google net
addresses the mistakes spread to other
networks and led to google traffic
traveling via china and russia in a
tweet main one said the mistake had been
made during a planned network upgrade it
added the error was corrected within
seventy four minutes and processes put
in place to avoid recurrences all the
difference networks that make up the
internet constantly swap information
about the best way to reach other parts
of the global system mistakes on one
network can mean traffic is rerouted the
wrong way google said it had spotted the
error and blamed it on incorrect routing
of data a spokesperson for the search
giant said all traffic was sent the
wrong way was encrypted which should
limit any damage caused by being
misdirected later on monday web company
CloudFlare was hit by a second mainland
cable mistake that also saw much of its
traffic rerouted
in a statement matthew prince chief
executive of CloudFlare said the mistake
had probably been made as a result of a
network meeting in nigeria early
November he said typically the meetings
prompt ISPs to set up
more data sharing agreements with each
with each other the mistake that
rerouted data had been made while a new
data sharing link had been being created
this was a big ugly screw-up he said uh
ninten intentional root leaks we've seen
to do things like steal cryptocurrency
are typically far more targeted mr.
Prince's explanation diffused earlier
claims that the rerouting had been an
attempt to steal data a McNay NAIC from
net security company thousand eyes had
characterized the incident as grand
theft internet and said it was unlikely
to be accidental okay so two very
different opposing views exactly but one
from CloudFlare I and Google and I see I
think that it's scary that an
unintentional like maybe a keystroke
error or something could cause something
like this but that's my gut is saying
that that's what it was I don't think it
was it was an intentional data leak yeah
when we understand also the
infrastructure of how the internet works
and you realize like this is why I tell
people do not send your credit card
number by email no because your email is
plaintext so as if I sent an email to
Sasha with my credit card number and
your your your the server that I have to
send it through so I'm gonna give you my
credit card number here it is now you
hand it to Sasha
so you're the server oh I'm gonna give
it to pie writers but you thought
backups of your own yeah exactly and I
looked at it I know her credit card
number exactly so that's the internet
that's email and plain text now a lot of
transactions these days and you see it
in your Chrome browser and even in
Firefox it says this site is not secure
because it's warning users hey by the
way this site is not encrypting your
data these days it's pretty much a
requirement if you will right it's not
this fun yeah it's not enforced but as
users we need to watch for our sites to
be encrypted you can can you tell am I
wrong
is it HTTPS means it's secure is that
correct
there will be a little lock beside it
that doesn't have any error message or
loss through it or anything like that if
if it's suspect it would have issues
potentially but that having that secure
connection doesn't mean your data is
safe if you don't necessarily trust the
other party what it means is that your
communication with the recipient is
encrypted okay so it doesn't mean that
the recipient is safe it means that your
connection to them is so if I'm sending
you my credit card number that's secure
yes and I know you and I trust you then
I can trust that you are a secure party
and you're in it you're safe to share
that personal information with Henry
though who knows so when you're on the
web you don't just fill in personal
information on any site just cuz it says
secure no secure does not mean the
receiving party is safe right it just
means that it's a secure connection to
them so that's that when this traffic
was routed through China or Russia
mm-hmm a lot of it because when it was
from Google right
Google enforces SSL secure encrypted
connectivity and secure encrypted data
transmission so this is how they could
be sure that all of the data was in that
was for sure encrypted they know because
it's usually right that's the impression
that we get right yes and that's the
impression that Google gave is that you
know what the data is encrypted so
unless they have the receiving keys
which they don't it's it's not going to
be visible to them yeah so it's the
general idea of how fragile the internet
really is though right you have company
you have countries like Russia and China
that aren't the most friendly to
Internet freedom
sure and like North America Europe
they're there pretty good privacy laws
but that's it I'm a privacy law it
really does so it's it's it's concerning
right so like if I sent that email and
it yeah routed through Russia yeah then
you know that you know I'm gonna have
some unexpected expenses go on to my car
this year I know yipper so what do you
do be careful
Seagate and IBM are using IBM's
blockchain tech to verify a disk drives
authenticity using its electronic
fingerprints the blockchain drive is
apparently a way for the firm to deal
with the problem of fake or counterfeit
drives these may be sold online and are
typically relabeled old drive units
boasting higher capacities and speeds
because they're older drives their
lifetime will be shorter than the new
drives as well as having lower than
labeled capacity and speed the idea is
that Seagate furnishes an electronic IDE
ID at the time of manufacture and
registers this with the product
authentication data on IBM's blockchain
platform in its public cloud the
blockchain platform is powered by the
Linux foundations hyper ledger fabric
distributed ledger framework this
blockchain me id can be updated during
the drives life with for example a
digital certificate of data purged
electronically signed by the device
under a Seagate secure public key
infrastructure infant structure sorry
PKI
it would be stored on the blockchain for
compliance management with emerging
global data privacy laws we're told that
the blockchains
ew d proves an immutable record of disk
drive events it means that if a drive is
offered for sale its Providence could be
authenticated so that you now know if
the 14 terabyte 7200 rpm EXO's Drive is
for real and not a cheap old relabeled 8
terabyte 5400 RPM drive the theory
sounds good but the practice in the real
world will depend on the cost and
practicality of access you would need
Drive details from the seller in order
to check them on the IBM blockchain
platform and the seller might not be
forthcoming especially with online sales
IBM and Seagate quoted an international
anti-counterfeiting counterfeiting
coalition statistic saying that the
global trade in counterfeit and pirated
electronic products has reached more
than 1.7 trillion in value 1.7 trillion
dollars really and that's not all of
that is Drive you know no counterfeit
and wallets and things like that to
right it's Gucci as a matter of fact
there were 300 we've encountered it on
Amazon where we actually bought an SD
card that boasted that it was like 256
gigs and it turned out it was 16 but I
relabeled it they reprinted it and
everything get onto our website category
5 do a quick search for Amazon fake SD
and you will you you'll love the video
but it's really important information
yeah so ok so if this blockchain
technology was to be applied to all
things right like IBM instigator doing
it wizard if it was the SD cards yes
they would cost more money and here's
the thing but I would pay more money
because I would be able to track that it
was an authentic workable piece of
product I don't want a $3.00 SD card
that's gonna ruin all of my memories I
will I would pay extra money just to
know exactly I would say that this is
exactly what people are gonna do and
think and we're seeing more and more
like you can get a $20 video card on
eBay that is a $500 video card and it
doesn't make sense then you get it and
it looks like the card and they've made
it branded like the card exactly if you
really know what you're doing you'll
determine no this is not that card
no but the fear and the risk with
something like a counterfeit hard drive
right or an SSD like you think what how
big is your hard drive 8 terabytes let's
say so if you've got a spinning 7200 rpm
hard drive you know 8 terabytes is not
unheard of these days so let's put an 8
terabyte hard drive in our computer that
we ordered online and then start putting
our stuff on it and using it and it's
working great it's working great and
it's fantastic and but it's only a 2
terabyte drive that's been relabeled so
then as soon as you load it up with 2
terabytes worth of data
you know and exceed that the file system
pas grace because it can't write and it
is it's literally only a two terabyte
drive but it thinks it's an eight
terabyte drive so it'll keep trying to
rewrite but it'll just corrupt
everything Oh No
but how long does it take any of us
unless we're like dumping a lot of data
onto it exactly how long does it take
any of us to fill two terabytes a long
time so you'd be lulled into this false
sense of security thinking everything
was okay and then all of a sudden and if
it takes you six months Sasha to fill
two terabytes yeah I'm just using that
as the example mhm
what are you gonna do in six months good
luck finding this vendor exactly that
you bought it from that has since closed
down because they just pop up they sell
them they drop it yeah pop up they close
it there there you go you can never get
it back you can never get your money
back you can never get your data back
cuz it doesn't exist right yeah it's
very bad situation lock chain is a great
solution exactly that just leads to my
argument that people will do this even
if it costs more money people right so
people won't want to save the money of
the possibility of having a product that
they can't trace you'll spend a little
bit extra I think we'll eventually get
used to that yeah and Sasha it's not an
argument when all of us agree that is
true yes authentic products the flying
motorbike is back in Dubai and you could
see the police riding one in the
not-too-distant future
a year after california-based start-up
hover surf showcased its hover bike at
tech Expo get X in the white and green
detailing of the Dubai Police the
company has returned with a new model
and evidence is electric electric
vertical takeoff and landing Evol
vehicle might be well taking off making
a good on a deal signed in 2017 hover
surf has now gifted to by police its
first serial production unit of the s3
2019 hover bike and has begun training
officers to fly it the general director
of devised police artificial
intelligence department described the
Evol via
as a first responder unit used to access
hard-to-reach areas
he said he aims to have hoverbikes in
action by 2020
he said currently we have two crews
already training to pilot the hover bike
and we're increasing that number hover
is over over surf chief operating
officer Joseph Segura Khan explained
that ideal candidates will be able to
ride a motorcycle and have drone
operating experience Segura Khan said
the by police have exclusive rights to
order as many units as they want they're
going to let us know in the next month
or two if they'd like anymore if they
would like 30 or 40 we'll make it happen
for them if you're not a member of the
force and have a spare 150 thousand
dollars the have a bike could still be
yours orders are open to civilians but
Segura Khan cautions that buyers are
screened to ensure that they can handle
the new tack in the US the hover bike
has met Federal Aviation Administration
administrator guidelines which means you
do not need a pilot's license to fly the
vehicle
a manufacturing site for the s3 2019 is
yet to be confirmed but Segura Khan said
hover surf is in talks with with three
companies in different locations around
the world - by being one location
however surf also has a bigger two
seater flying car it plans to showcase
in four to five months in cell in 2020
since sakura-con so that's do you know
how to ride a motorbike no I feel
confused is this considered a motorbike
or it's like an air after it's neither
it's a quadcopter that you yeah unlike a
motorbike yeah so I could just take my
like DJI drones and just float them
around no matter the Harappan people do
that it's like this thing is a chopping
machine like you think have you ever
been ball off yeah I'm gonna ask you
this truthfully yeah have you ever had
an accident with your drone um probably
once or twice before yeah okay I was
flying my my big drone
like him - yeah and I brought it down on
the road and and I'm yeah I was learning
to pilot it and they're way different
than toy drums oh yeah you got to kill
the engines at the right time just as
you're hovering at the right spot and
everything yeah I didn't do it right and
it flipped over it's laying with its
propellers on the ground and its feet up
in the air right I put down my
controller and I walked over to it and I
grabbed the legs and I picked it up and
it went like and it sliced my home like
okay
it was it was still alive yeah it was
asleep not asleep so that's this thing
that's about this big
now imagine something that is the size
that you can sit on like a motorbike and
it has propellers that are this big
right how dangerous that could be
they'll have safety there they will of
course and these days with like really
really good gyros yeah GPS systems
really good AI control em hmm and that's
that's interesting thing like when
you're talking about the FAA you're
saying that you technically don't need a
pilot's license you do know I think that
the FAA might go with like do you think
this islet permit or like a pilot
because there's like a recreational
license I can get that's like under for
like lightweight things is this hover
bike going to go exactly will you be
able to pass cars above how do you
ensure your insurance company is gonna
insure it like is it classified as a car
airplane a drone it's interesting to see
how this will unfold it's exciting I
honestly think that eventually everybody
will use these it'll cut down on our
need to have roadways this is I've made
this before this case before I think
that we will be able to have more green
space because we don't need roads and
we'll just have hover bikes and hover
cars and we'll be able to have roadways
that are just elevated one thing's for
sure it's gonna be really easy to cut
the grass yeah
one of my drones that I have just on on
display here studio is the enterprise
the Starship Enterprise so this is this
is a quad copter but you see how it's in
a cage so that the propellers are never
and so what if they were to put that
kind of a caging system on the
propellers so that even if you hit
something you're not gonna cut it up
exactly exactly right that might be a
Morse like a safer way to go right yeah
ever all be flying them yes I don't
trust some people I think that having
been a drone pilot myself amateur I know
that how complicated it is now I know
that the technology has grown since then
but I know that you can get turned
around real bad if you're not careful
right but you've never been sitting on
your drone while you're flying right
right I think that that will change I
have your views on it but Sasha and
Henry you'll probably know what this is
like I've had GPS interference oh yeah
of course
or my GPS being uncalibrated to every
computer every computer breaks right
yeah that's a really that's probably why
I haven't flown in the past couple of
years is I had it I had my GPS go wonky
yeah and I almost lost my big drone
because it just wanted to go where it
thought I was telling it to go and it
was not letting me Amazon it's like I
want to go get here Amazon package I'll
be back no I was I was out of town and I
hadn't calibrated it to the GPS yeah it
was a mess and scary is very scary Wow
with these though Sasha will we ever be
flying them though I think the problem
is gonna be battery life
well if especially in Canada why well
during the winter right it's it's more
like a summer car kind of deal right
yeah I want her to be I want for it to
be a real thing I just I can imagine the
joy of like flying above the ground not
not in a plane right just above right
Mike this holy that flies yeah that's
that's awesome that's gonna be cool
Samsung will soon test TVs that can be
controlled with your brain a technology
enhancement perf
for people with disabilities Samsung TVs
are already some of the most popular
options for high-end home theater
systems and the company is now using its
television making prowess to help people
with disabilities live more normal lives
a new project by Stan a Samsung team in
Switzerland could yield the first Smart
TV that can be controlled with thoughts
Samsung has partnered with Swiss
scientists to bring the system to life
it's called Project pontus the ultimate
goal is to build a brain software
interface that will allow individuals
with movement disabilities to control
television features like channel
switching and volume control with their
brains rather than their body's brain
controlled gadgets aren't entirely new
you can even buy a simple brain
controlled mind flex games made by
Mattel if you want to play around with
the technology in your own home but the
project pontus system is significantly
more robust at present the system
combines brain monitoring sensors and
eye tracking hardware to identify what
selections the individual intends to
make going forward the partnership hopes
to make the system smart enough to
accept commands via brain commands alone
meaning that you'd only need to think
about changing the volume for the action
to be performed now before you go
thinking that this is the ultimate
accessory for a lazy channel surfer or
Netflix binge watcher it's important to
note that this is all aimed specifically
at aiding those with severe disabilities
Samsung hasn't even hinted at the idea
that this would be commercially
available product that being said the
technology reaches a point where it's
essentially plug-and-play it's hard to
imagine Samsung or another company at
least testing the waters with everyday
consumers in any case the project is
still in a relatively early stage with
Samsung forecasting new prototype
testing sometime in early 2019 if a
thought-controlled TV ever does arrive
it's like it likely won't be available
for quite a while mm-hmm so I'm learning
right now in school about you know a
myriad of different disabilities and No
and the importance of Independence and
and autonomy and preference in somebody
who doesn't have physical abilities any
longer so it doesn't seem like a big
deal to change a channel right but if
you know that you can control what
you're going to be watching if the only
thing you can you can really do is is
control what you're watching and your
cognitive health can improve because you
know you're busy learning you're not
just waiting for somebody to guess what
you want right you're not you're not
verbal likely right right
Wow that makes me think about all kinds
of uses for you know the evolving Tecna
people change channels anymore
what's channel back-and-forth on
whatever's on Netflix yeah Netflix or
navigate plex media server yeah and I'll
be happy exactly it's not for me
obviously but right in the future maybe
if you can do that with a TV then you
can do it with maybe an on-screen
communication board maybe you could do
that with an alphabet you can all of a
sudden speak just with your thoughts
through a TV right you can now
communicate did some really cool stuff
yeah comment below what you think this
technology can be used for to better
society and make things better for
everyone
moving along according to coin gecko
here's what the crypto market looked
like as of 1700 hours Eastern Time on
Wednesday November 14th 2018 Bitcoin has
lost big time we went down seven hundred
and seventy four dollars and 93 cents
you ass in the past week litecoin also
lost but not quite as significant $10.49
USD aetherium is also down 35 dollars
and 74 cents we also saw a loss in
Manero 17 dollars and 87 cents was the
decline with a single Manero being worth
now ninety three dollars and sixty five
cents u.s. stellite is down two dollars
and five cents now doesn't sound like a
lot but if no not two dollars and five
cents pardon me
- 0.05 ten thousandth of a cent way
significantly less but as I say it
doesn't sound like a lot but keeping in
mind that it is only worth five point
one five ten thousandth of a cent per
stellite it's a pretty significant drop
yes turtle coin also is on the decline
losing 0.23 ten thousandth of a cent
making its value this week at 0.72 ten
thousandth of a cent
well turtle coined the slow but steady
one and when you hear these numbers so
you think bitcoin at five thousand seven
hundred eighty nine dollars and forty
three cents you think wow that one's the
one to get right well you're not gonna
get a single bitcoin without that's a
neat thing about something like turtle
coin is you can get ten thousand of them
and it's that and you're just kind of
it's like stocks right you're buying
penny stock and you're hoping that it
gets up there into the and you have big
guys this week it's interesting though
to see everything is on the decline and
we've really had a fluctuating market
over the past little while mm-hmm we'll
keep an eye on it here on the
category-five TV newsroom over the next
few weeks and report back to you what we
find
big thanks to Roy W nationair community
of viewers for submitting story to us
this week thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our website from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Sasha Rickman I'm Ravi
Ferguson I'm still Henry Bailey Brown
[Music]
[Applause]
