last week as you know was our tenth
anniversary show this kicks off our
season 11 right now this week we never
take a break so hope you'll love it
because we are going to be here with you
every single week
incidentally now just to kind of get
into the tech a little bit some of the
things that you may encounter as an
end-user
I really hit it hard last week as far as
feeling like that end user our studio
laptop uses Windows 10 I got here early
mm-hmm for episode number five 23
because it's our tenth anniversary we've
got to get everything set up we had a
lot of things to do and fired up the
laptop for the first time since the
previous week's show right Windows 10
decided hey it's time to update itself
no problem right we're used to that it
happens every Tuesday they've got their
updates kind of thing or is first
Tuesday of the month or however it works
I don't know it's a Tuesday thing so we
fired up on a Wednesday morning guess
what happens it starts running these
updates so while I'm supposed to be
setting things up on the laptop instead
I've got the blue screen that says do
not turn off your computer please wait
while Windows updates things it was a
busy day folks I'll just tell you right
up straight honest season 10 finale show
was a busy day it was a busy day it was
a rockin day so I was thrilled as
Microsoft noticed with my tweets I was
thrilled that that they were doing this
to me and then when it was finished I
thought yeah I can finally get my work
done and their update broke my
bootloader so I can't even turn on the
laptop anymore
boy yeah so this is the the day of the
anniversary show so anyway so all that
to say it happened to me it really did
and we've got ways around this so what I
did is I created what's called a rescue
tucks boot USB flash drive you can
download it online we've got the link
below for you rescue talks is a flavor
of Linux that is built to help you fix
computers what it does is it detects by
booting from that USB flash drive it
detects the installed operating systems
on the computer
it forget it just ignores the bootloader
altogether because my bootloader is now
botched and it boots up the computer
anyway so now using a USB flash drive
that has Linux on it I'm able to boot
into Microsoft Windows 10 Thank You
Raska tux Thank You Linux once again you
win and Windows 10 that's not not so
much
[Music]
[Applause]
