welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's Kim here's your host Ravi
Ferguson welcome to episode number 199
of category 5 technology TV I'm Robbie
Ferguson nice to have you here and
thanks for your patience tonight I know
it's it's been quite the start to the
evening once again tonight for those of
you who are following the chat room
following me on Twitter you know that
we've continued to have some issues with
with the broadcast system I can explain
a little bit about that and and what's
going on over the next couple of minutes
in the meantime tonight we are going to
be looking at crunchbang linux as we
continue our series and look at some
more linux distributions that are
available for you linux of course being
a free desktop operating system and
there are tons of different
distributions to choose from so which
one do you want we're going to actually
take another look at another
distribution today to give you an idea
of what is available make sure you check
out category five dot TV and see all the
stuff that we have to offer right there
on our website and we indeed having
continual amounts of issues over the
past couple of days and in fact I have
to I have to stop the video once again I
am very very sorry I will be right back
with you
thanks everybody so we're continuing to
experience some issues as you know and
once I get things kind of a little more
stable here which is what i'm doing i
wanted to try to get on the air as
quickly as i could but we just love to
express to you some of the issues that
we've experienced and what's what's been
going on so as you know we had a surge a
couple of months back i believe it was
and we very quickly had to price out a
server to replace the the server that
got damaged in the power surge that was
due to a storm and fortunately at the
time we were able to come across a used
server that was five hundred dollars and
an unbelievable deal it's an ex w 6600
and that as you know as a dual processor
xeon quad core which is fantastic and
had everything that we need and and you
our viewers have been so faithful to
come together and to support us and
raised that money very very quickly and
we've indeed exceeded our goals and and
the capability of purchasing that server
at five hundred dollars regrettably when
by the time we were ready to purchase
that server we contacted our supplier
and it was no longer available so they
priced out the same server and
unfortunately at that price it was no
longer possible and the price more than
doubled at 1090 dollar so you can
imagine our shock and kind of sadness at
that because 500-dollars was a little
too good to be true I suppose but you
know sometimes these kind of deals come
along and unfortunately we missed it and
and it didn't didn't come in time or at
least we weren't able to get there in
time so hearing our needs and
understanding the issues that we have
very gracious vendor contacted me and
offered to loan us a server to try and
see this is their old server and to see
if it was going to meet the needs that
that we have also a dual xeon system but
dual core in this case and didn't have
nearly the the specs of the other system
however they were willing to free of
charge let us try it out see if we can
get it working the only money that we
would have to pay would be to get it
working and fixed up and then if we got
it working we could talk to them about
how much we would need to pay them for
the system be it through advertising or
however we want to do it so that sounded
like the only other option that we could
get that was going to come in around the
five-hundred-dollar to eight hundred
dollar mark depending on how much
hardware we had to put into it
fortunately I haven't put a lot of
hardware into it it's been a lot of
hardware that we have kicking around to
get things tested and last week and this
week we've tested with this server and
unfortunately and very regrettably it's
not been able to meet our needs as far
as the broadcast goes the reason we were
late tonight is suddenly just as we were
about to broadcast the sound system
stopped functioning on the system so so
I had to go through a whole process of
reinstalling the sound sound drivers
everything like that so the next step
for us being that this is the the
situation and that that you know our
projected goal as far as the fundraising
went was was based on the availability
of a five-hundred-dollar system which
unfortunately is no longer available to
us so of course there's still the chance
that that's going to come along and I've
I've asked a friend of mine to keep an
eye on price lists and things and see if
a used server comes up that they would
meet our needs that would fall into that
price bracket but in the meantime we
started pricing out what it would cost
to build an OEM I seven see a quad core
system something that's
reasonable enough to get us up and
running so hoping that that that will
come about and hoping that I'll have a
solution for us and I appreciate your
patience with all the issues all this to
say it's a challenge because we
broadcast faithfully every single week
we have 4 199 episodes at this point
next week is our 200th episode which to
me is hard to believe and tonight almost
feels a little nostalgic as I'm here in
the studio on my own with just the
camera and and you here with me but
essentially the the challenge for me has
the the person who provides this service
is that because we're up and because
we're always broadcasting faithfully
every single Tuesday night it can be a
challenge when we introduce new systems
and those systems don't function the way
that we had expected so there was a lot
of work put into this server as you can
imagine many days lost to try to get
everything up and running and
unfortunately it still has not met the
need that that we need so so think of us
and if you if you have the means to
continue to support us although we have
exceeded our our goal do understand our
position and I want to be as open with
you and as just completely honest about
where the money is going and and where
where our needs lie as it is the
five-hundred-dollar server that that we
had planned for and hoped for is not
available and so we are looking at other
options the this one is not going to
work force this one that has been loaned
to us on the understanding that if it
did work for us we could buy it and fix
it up and use it unfortunately that's
not going to be the case so so om parts
look like the best way to go we're going
to potentially we're pricing out right
now the ability to build our own system
it still is going to be more expensive
than the five hundred dollars and so
I I don't know where to put that as far
as honor on our thermometer on the
website but if you if you have the means
to to support us in that way monetarily
then I would encourage you to do so
knowing that our need is very real Chris
Reich is asking in the chat room at
category 5 TV what exactly that server
is for is it so that we can broadcast
multiple streams or what is it exactly
doing when we broadcast category 5 TV
and I call this my broadcast server
really it's a workstation computer it's
a it's a very powerful system it needs
to be reasonably powerful so that the
system can process all the video that's
going through so if you can imagine the
amount of resources that are required to
create a video production in general
when we do a show every Tuesday night
live there is the feed that comes in off
the camera and we do hope to reintroduce
a second and a second camera absolutely
for the newsroom and for every camera
that there is it's it's using resources
to to be able to switch between those
two cameras and then that system also
encodes to the hard drive so it's
constantly recording the show to the
hard drive that's for the RSS feeds and
for our ability to simulate a dit on
demand on our website following the show
all that stuff is being encoded and
saved directly to the hard drive in the
best possible quality at that time
without maxing out our system resources
so usually that's not you know that's
that's as good a quality as we can
possibly handle as far as the computer
goes but then at the same time you think
about okay the amount of resources that
it takes to encode one feed so that's
saving to the hard drive but then a
second feed is being encoded for flash
which is then going out to justin.tv as
you know we also would like to be
similar casting on ustream TV which
unfortunately is not an option as we're
going through this transitional phase
where you know we're still trying to get
things just stable enough to be able to
produce the show live
so so essentially that's what the server
does it it saves the show to its own
internal hard drive and then from there
it goes out to the various sources that
the rebroadcast so it's a video
production console Robbie F Chris Reich
asks am i understanding that accurately
it essentially is but it's a live video
production switcher as well as recording
and coding everything on the fly so when
I speak for example you're in the chat
room and we're talking there's no delay
or a very very small delay and that's
all on account of the fact that the live
encoders are streaming this out in real
time so this system basically operates
the entire show the without the only
other system that we require here is the
what I call the demo system the demo
system is basically just an ubuntu
system we've been using a laptop for the
longest time it can be any computer and
it's not it doesn't need to be except
exceptional specs whatsoever so
essentially those are the two computers
that we require and and the one computer
is a little bit of a power horse I
gamoto comparing this setup to kind of
like a makeshift homebrew tricaster
which wouldn't be an inaccurate
explanation tricaster being a hardware
version of what we do using software so
very very similar in what they do but a
little different as far as the hardware
that's that's required in order to make
it happen hey David may do sorry any
other questions about that before we
move on and get on with the show but but
I do encourage you to to consider the
the need that we that we have right now
and I know it gets a little confusing
because of the our goals are exceeded
but our goals are possibly inaccurate at
this point due to the the workstation
not being available my hope is that
we're going to be able to build a system
for about
price that we had budgeted I'm also
looking for advertisers to help offset
more expensive being able to upgrade and
fix some of the things that are needing
fixing so think about us and and we
appreciate everybody who's who's
involved in the show through the chat
room through watching the show through
download in the show after the fact if
you watch through Miro or however you
get the show really appreciate you and
you know I watch our viewer locations
map and it's very encouraging to me and
and really makes me you know every time
I get an email i'm thinking about how
how much the show has has reached out to
the entire world and you look at that
viewer location map on the about Us page
at category 5 TV and it's just
astounding it blows my mind really here
we are at and and you're here with us
and and I thank you for that okay so
what do we got coming up tonight we're
going to be talking about crunchbang
that's kind of exciting because we're
stepping out of the user-friendly zone
as far as distros go on stepping up more
towards where you'd want to be if you if
you want to feel like a hacker so stick
around for that that's gonna be fun
let's see what else I've got viewer
pictures for a hundred points tonight
Kevin joins us from Kenya first of all
Kevin says here's a challenge for you
tell me what operating system i'm
running and this is here's what Kevin
sent me so chat room what do you think
give you a couple of seconds there to me
the ex I and the IV through is what is
what made it make sense to me so there
we go with ubuntu 11.04 and that is
kevin from Kenya who joins us from there
and send us a picture of a screenshot of
his desktop and says that the icons on
his desktop are not clearly visible and
that's intentional and was a result of
the GIMP lessons that the Kevin received
here on category 5 TV he's used the
Gaussian blur effect to hide some of his
icons and says that now thanks to the
show he is a proficient GIMP user that's
GNU image manipulation program and
here's a screen grab of his desktop so
there there's us from a couple weeks
back I think very cool so yeah look at
that so that's quite the theme there
that you've got going on look very mac
OS ish he says it's a 12 ah but you've
got a photoshop icon down at the bottom
you've got a finder icon I don't know
that looks a lot like like Leopard to me
we'll give you a hundred points for for
checking out the show and fun times send
in your show images are you watching the
show live at category 5 TV Joe Joe
Harriet johari llega see that for me Joe
Harry llega says that it's Mac forelimb
that what is that what it does
Mac for Lynn from sourceforge
look at that I learned something today
thanks gang so this is running gnome you
can see from this screen shot here but
it's very well themed to look like Mac
OS that is very the similarities there
the icon set so what I want to know is
is the photoshop icon that you have on
your screen there Kevin is that is that
GIMP or what is it that's a that's
showing up as Photoshop that's
interesting sourceforge.net / projects /
mac for Lynn and we'll post a link in
the show notes for episode number 199
cool stuff gad will says yep gimp
actually shows up as a photoshop icon
with that theme very cool stuff so if
you're looking for a way to make your
your Ubuntu system look like a Mac as
far as the desktop goes there you go
dman 810 says no let's just say no to
changing our desktops to be like other
os's keep it boo boom too but ubuntu is
not keeping it lubuntu they're not
keeping it known so what do you do
they're forcing us to look elsewhere my
friend unless we love unity for some
strange reason what bothers me about the
whole unity thing is that canonical is
taking and I love Ubuntu okay don't get
me wrong I've used it for a long time
but canonical it feels like they're
taking what linux has given me which is
freedom it just feels like all the
freedom that I've had over the years to
install compiz barrel the barrel project
and compiz fusion and make everything
the way that i want to install a WND and
to install all the stuff to set up my
desktop exactly the way that I want and
then all of a sudden they've said no you
know what we're taking all that away
we're giving you unity and this is what
your desktop now looks like take it or
leave it so to me
I just feel like they're they're taking
away that freedom that Linux has given
me so that's why I'm interested in
installing a different desktop
environment a different window manager
than unity and I understand why they're
doing it but I think they're doing it a
little bit at the at the chagrin of a
lot of their users I don't know what do
you think tell me in the chat room
category five dot TV category five on
freenode and speaking of category five
keep our brand strong make sure every
time you tweet use the cat five dot TV
hashtag you'll see it down there make
sure you tweet using that hashtag
anytime you're talking about the show
I'm at twitter.com / Robbie Ferguson
Chris Reich says xfce for the win I I've
been using it on my production system
for ever since I featured on the show
and I have to say I do like it it's not
quite as slick as say gnome too but
there you know there's a couple things
there that I don't like but there's a
lot that I do like and that's maybe just
a user experience thing then things are
a little bit different than than what
I'm used to cool JV sec I like pie too I
like pie love it and also love the
reference okay your points yes I am
covered that and I'm gonna send you a
hundred points Kevin anybody joining us
for the first time in the chat room
tonight we'd love to hear from you i'm
going to do my best to keep up with the
chat room even though I'm here by myself
tonight Emil 1976 joining us in the chat
room for the very first time tonight
it's great to have you here let us know
in the chat room where you're from and
greetings to you and that would love to
have you as a part of our community it's
nice to have you here so thanks for
joining us
Joe see I've tried this name already and
tell me if I'm wrong here Joe ho-oh why
do you do this to me Joe Harry Edgar am
i close Oh Harry Joe Harry edgar is that
right joining us for the first time
tonight fantastic I got it right Oh yo
Harry oh is it is it yo or Joe there Joe
Harry Edgar nice to have you here
joining us for the first time from
Rochester New York nice to see ya we'd
love to know how you heard of the show
as well let us know got some interesting
stuff coming up from the category 5 TV
news room you'll find it at cat five TV
/ newsroom I'm going to try to cover
everything for you tonight I'm kind of
like the all-in-one host tonight but
coming up in the newsroom your child
could win a One Laptop Per child laptop
by drawing a picture using the free tux
paint software they're under 12 years
old it's your chance to get your kids
hands on one of those so stick around
I'm going to tell you all about that
Toyota has joined the Linux Foundation
get this they plan to accelerate Linux
in their cars webcam based photo art has
led to the artists home being raided by
the Secret Service in New York scary
stuff what would you do with a million
cpu cores other than of course perhaps
emulating the human brain imogen heap
you're going to hear about her and how
she's creating music with her hands now
quite literally stick around these
stories are going to be coming up in
just a couple of minutes here on
category 5 TV and in the meantime I'm
going to try to hit a couple of your
questions in the chat room by email live
at category five dot TV alright
I've got one here from zamata Sebata
says that they did try installing
reinstalling a boon to 11 point oh four
and they took a look at the blacklist as
I suggested on the show and was
suggested in the chatroom all seem to be
going okay but they still can't get the
driver to be in use on their desktop
this is the driver for their graphics
card I'm just going to pull up this
image we've got a screenshot that's been
provided by Sebata here let's take a
look so Nvidia accelerated graphics
driver and it says the driver is
activated but not currently in use now
this tool here that you're using to
access your drivers and set that up in a
boon to can be problematic and I've
actually found it to be more problematic
since later releases of a boon to ends
even so going back into you know if you
installed LTS right now TenPoint 04 it
seems that there are more problems with
the hardware drivers system than ever
before and that's not to say that you
can't get it working first thing I would
want to check Sebata is are the drivers
actually not working or is it just
showing erroneously that it's not
working because that could be the bug
right there give a try to enabling your
let's see enable your advanced I don't
know what you call it the visual effects
on appearance so I've gone System
Preferences appearance and you'll see
the visual effects tab click on that and
you'll see none it's probably selected
right now try enabling normal or extra
and if those work if it takes then you
know that the drivers are indeed working
it's just showing erroneously that it's
not on my system here I'm running 10
point 0 for four reasons that I think
you can probably gather with that
installation I'm I've had the same
problem with 10-point 04 so I actually
what I ended up doing is I I killed the
x server and I went through and
I downloaded the while first I
downloaded the new nvidia drivers right
off of their website nvidia com and
using that I killed the x server and i
reinstalled from the from the terminal
so what what I would have done at that
point is so killing x server let's see
if I have what I actually typed here
kill all dash 9x the capital X that
kills your x server and then once I got
into into terminal or the bash prompt
logged in and just went through the the
regular setup procedure so let's see oh
you know what I might have done is gdm
stop cuz kill all probably didn't work
for me see that went into terminal type
that next step reboot in my computer
then I went into the downloads folder
where I downloaded the file and I went
sudo dot slash nvidia dash linux blah
blah blah just like that so i did my LS
to see what the file was and installed
it that way and then once it was done i
just typed start x and that of course
takes me back into x but now as you can
see my nvidia drivers work just fine
okay so i didn't have to go through
blacklisting any modules or going
through any of those kind of processes
okay
so that's that's what I would try
Savannah give that a go jello windows a
gamoto says memories of the original
barrel they just don't jiggle like they
used to do they all right next question
comes in to us frown let's see Chris
Reich Reich rhymes with like thank you
okay Robbie is there a way in Linux to
take snapshots of the current
configuration so that one could later
return to that same configuration this
would be useful for experiments that go
awry I know about doing this in
virtualization but is there a native
linux app projector feature which will
support rolling back all my best Chris
Reich from Rochester New York Chris of
course you know the first thought that
comes to my mind is fog project but then
I realize fog project is gonna do really
really nicely for your windows
workstations if you have a linux server
to run that on so what I'm thinking is
probably the best way I don't know of a
way to image your hard drive on the fly
like the fog project does for your your
other systems you might be able to look
at Akron s true image or something like
that but whether or not that can run as
you're running your Linux system i'm not
too sure what I would tend to lean
towards though Chris is a program called
back in time it's a little different
than what you're asking i'm not talking
about a complete image of the drive that
you can restore from but instead being
able to go back in time with your files
so if you you know backup you know
particular files on your hard drive
you're able to revert to earlier
versions back in time dot i believe it's
the dash web dot something let's do we
better google it
back in time dot la web org it's like
French for the web but you knew that
okay back in time is a simple backup
tool for Linux don't know if you've seen
this Chris but it is absolutely
fantastic it creates snapshots of your
data and you create the snapshot set so
you tell it what you'd like to back up
and you have the ability to go back in
time by date so you can see this date
list over here the time everything and
you can schedule that to back up on
whatever kind of schedule you'd like but
what's neat about it is it creates your
backups using symlinks so it creates one
initial backup and then every subsequent
backup is going to appear to be a full
backup but it's really the only files
that are full backups are the ones that
have been changed and if even if write
it the way it's an intelligent system
and it knows to only backup what's been
changed but what's interesting is you
look at the folder you bring it up in
nautilus say and it looks like the full
backup it looks like all of your files
are there when in fact a lot of them are
in older backups but you've got symlinks
that are linking to those files so that
it acts as though you've got access to
all the files it's really really easy to
revert it's really really a nice easy to
use system it's like time machine for
Linux remaster sis thinking chris is
thinking that might do what what he's
looking for I suppose if that's if
you're more looking to create a working
environment back it up and then be able
to undo it more like a kiosk then sure
remaster sis would work just fine i'm
thinking more along the lines of data
maybe i'm misunderstanding the question
a little bit in which case you know
looking at things like clonezilla take a
snapshot get your system up and running
see i'm thinking about a live system i
think you're thinking about it doesn't
need to be live so get your system up
and running once a week once a month
run a clonezilla to the network so you
have to boot up from the boot CD run the
clone and you've got a perfect clone of
that hard drive and then you just lose
maybe use back in time to back up the
stuff in between and then what you could
do set it all up you've got your
clonezilla image you've got your back in
time backups all on a separate server or
separate storage medium you restore the
image it takes you to that point in time
say it was last Friday but then you've
got all the data from Saturday Sunday
Monday Tuesday which is in your back and
time backups you import the clonezilla
image overwrite everything then use your
back in time bring it back up to date
and now you've got the system right up
till Tuesday even though maybe that
clonezilla image was from a month ago as
long as you've got back in time doing
the incremental stuff then you can then
re-import all your data and you've got a
system I think that's probably a good
solution anyways for you it's it's
combining two solutions but it will be
effective everybody understand where I'm
going with that it sounds like chris has
got it and and and those where what I'm
saying there if you have any questions
for me live at category five dot TV or
join me in the chat room GAD will thanks
and you can also tweet me at twitter.com
slash Robbie Ferguson and follow the
show it's twitter.com slash category
five TV that would be cool alright
everybody it is time to get into the
news before we get looking at crunchbang
crunchbang linux we are limited for time
tonight as you know due to some of the
earlier issues but tonight I want to
tell you all about this tux paint is of
course an award-winning application it's
a drawing program that you can download
to your computer and it'll run on all
versions of Windows Mac OS X or 10 10.4
as well as anything newer than that more
recent it'll run on Linux it'll run on
freebsd net bsd and it is absolutely
free so you want to check out that
application anyways especially if you've
got young kids but here's the thing all
you have to do is get a copy of tux
paint have your child create an original
draw
using the software and send it in to
them there are three grand prize winners
that are going to be chosen to receive a
One Laptop Per child notebook computer
and runners-up are going to get a sugar
on a stick operating system that's the
USB stick operating system for kids
educational stuff and also there are
some tux paint t-shirts as well that
will be given away for the full contest
rules check out cat five dot TV / tux
paint toyota has joined the linux
foundation as a gold member to get the
most out of the linux operating system
for its cars how interesting kenichi
mirada the project general manager for
electronics development for toyota said
linux gives us the flexibility and
technology maturity we require to evolve
our in vehicle infotainment and
communications systems to address the
expectations of our customers
interesting mirada goes on to explain
the Linux Foundation provides us with a
neutral forum in which we can
collaborate with the world's leading
technology companies on open innovation
that accelerates that evolution the US
Secret Service has raised has rated
pardon me the home of a artist who has
been collecting images from webcams in a
New York apple store kyle mcdonald is
said to have installed software that
photographed people looking at the
laptops in the store and then those
laptops were set to automatically upload
to his website mr. McDonald said that he
had obtained permission from the
security guard of the store but apple
declined to comment however the Secret
Service confirmed that it's electronic
crime division was involved the images
were uploaded to a page on the blogging
site tumblr and in the description of
people staring at computers the project
is described as a photographic
intervention custom app installed around
New York City taking a picture every
minute and uploading it if a face was
found in the free
Mr Macdonald writing on Twitter said
that he has been advised not to comment
on the case by the online freedom group
the Electronic Frontier Foundation scary
stuff be careful what you do as far as
you know creativity Manchester academics
aimed to use a million arm processing
cores to simulate the neuron network of
the human brain and investigate new
models for computing Manchester
University said on Thursday that the
bedrock of the spin Necker computer
architecture it's formed by fifty
thousand or so arm 968 series multi-core
low-powered embedded processors which
passed their functionality tests with
flying colors as they say eventually the
chips are going to form a supercomputer
built out of a spinnaker which is a
short form for spiking neural network
it's an architecture in which each chip
sits within a two dimensional mesh
network connected to six or so other
processors and each processor of course
has about 18 cores and around 100
million transistors on each processor
it's attached to a 128 megabit or
megabyte D Ram chip and it has that chip
itself has about a billion transistors
as well once built the computer is going
to be accessible to the academics and
research type people via the internet
and a pair of musical loves that allow
where's to manipulate music using just
hand gestures have been shown off for
the first time by singer imogen heap we
all know Imogen Heap imogen heap by her
song called hide and seek which was
later sampled and used as the chorus for
the multi-platform single which is say
mmm you know the one that's by Jason
Derulo the performance kicked off Ted
global in Edinburgh last week or
actually just yesterday I believe a
conference renowned for showcasing
cutting-edge technologies the gloves
were created by a team at the University
of West England led by professor Tom
Mitchell a music technology specialist
he's used fiber-optic gloves developed
for gaming and added chip boards the
gloves were programmed based on imagem
imogen heap's movements so for instance
to make a sound louder she just opens up
her arms to make a quieter she brings
her arms together the ultimate aim is
that she would be able to stand on stage
and control the entire ensemble of music
just with her hands the technology
provided an exciting start Ted global
Ted global 2011 which commenced
yesterday get the full stories at our
website category 5 TV / newsroom the
category 5 TV news room is researched by
roy w nash with contributions from our
community of viewers that's you and you
can send in your contributions newsroom
at category 5 TV the category 5 TV news
room and the show tonight is brought to
you in part by pogoplug cat five dot TV
/ pogoplug and of course planet calypso
you'll find them online cat five dot TV
/ Calypso alright so we do have some
pogo plugs to give away I've got a
pogoplug I've got the shirt just to show
them some love we all love the pogoplug
pogoplug is a fantastic device which
allows us to create our own private
cloud network you can install this at a
family member's house for example and
stick a USB hard drive on there to start
even a flash drive and you can access
that drive from anywhere in the world
via a secure internet connection so this
can be used for example for off-site
data backup it can be used for backing
up your stuff on site right within your
internal land but what's neat about it
is not only does it become accessible
from anywhere so if you're using a
laptop or a mobile device you're using
an ipod touch for example it allows the
streaming of your media the access of
your media your files directly from the
device so that you don't have to go
about actually connecting a hard drive
to your devices for example I've got an
ipod touch with the pogoplug app this is
an eight gig ipod touch for my pogoplug
with a 300 gig hard drive or 350 gig
hard drive i believe is connected to it
now my ipod touch has access to three
hundred and fifty eight gigs of storage
i can take pictures directly to my
pogoplug i can load pictures my entire
database of family photos is available
to me on my ipod touch if somebody
steals my ipod touch or if i drop it and
break it none of it is actually on here
it's on my pogoplug then if you have a
second pogoplug you stick it somewhere
else and you can use activesync
technology which is built into the
firmware which is going to allow those
to polka plugs to communicate together
and create an image coffee almost like a
raid one but it's an extended raid one
you're talking one could be here one
could be on the other end of the world
and they're still able to synchronize
together so that your data is always
safe so that no matter what natural
disaster comes no matter what you've
always got a copy of your data pogoplug
is a fantastic device i've got one to
give away tonight and I've got a handful
of entries that came in this week and
what we're going to do is we're going to
randomly select a number and that number
is going to be our winner for tonight
we're going to head on over to
random.org fantastic site if you ever
have need of a random number now of
course with our giveaway this week we
had a skill testing question some people
got it right some people didn't get it
right the question was 7328 x 2 plus 1
and the answer of course one 14,000 657
so if you got that answer right you are
a part of our draw tonight and I'm going
to generate a random number which is
going to correspond with the email i'm
going to count down the list here the
random number that has been generated is
seven number one nikky thorne number two
George Borella number three Ignacio
Martinez you sir you made it very
difficult for me this week I would
delete all those emails number for Lance
number five Joe cool number six julienne
lemare and our winner tonight number
seven rapper congratulations you are the
proud owner of a pogoplug pro which I
will send you all you need to do is pop
me an email live at category five dot TV
and I need your real name I need your
mailing address shipping address can't
be a p.o box because we got to send a
courier and also your phone number and
that is for a game the courier in case
they have trouble finding your place so
that information if you send that my way
live at category 5 TV we'll get a
pogoplug on its way to you
congratulations rapper and in the
meantime if that if you have won
anything on the show some of the points
have not been allocated yet just so you
know I am catching up on that of course
it's a we had a time there where things
have been absolutely wild and any chance
that I get I'm working on server issues
and trying to fix things up I have notes
to add your points and those points will
indeed be added to your
out but if you fear that for some reason
your prize has not been issued make sure
you pop me an email live at category 5
TV it's nothing more than than simply
allocating my time and making sure that
I get everybody taken care of so feel
free to pop me an email as a reminder
but i do have notes to to take care of
you as well and raf ER that that will be
on its way as soon as i hear back from
you congratulations cool cool alright so
tonight we are looking at crunch bang
linux which is very different we're
stepping outside of the box tonight so
to speak crunchbang has a disclaimer on
its website and it says hey basically if
you're going to use our our distribution
here you better be ready for your
computer to go crunchbang all that to
say they are not liable for your system
and it could break crunchbang is a bit
of a hacker style distribution it's
sleek it's lightweight it's fast and i
have a certain little bit of love for it
i think let's log in and check it out
for the first time
you'll see one of the first things that
pop up is conky conky of course out of
the box is showing us our system stats
CPU things like that but I also like
that it has some shortcut keys here of
course this particular distribution it's
not running gnome it's not running KDE
it's a lot different than what what
we've ever looked at on the show before
this is open box an open box operates a
little bit differently you can click on
your desktop for example and get access
to your menu again very hacker esque or
you can if you've got applications up on
the screen you can hit your windows
super button and hit your spacebar to
get instant access to that you'll see
that through the list of applications
that we have there is a fair assortment
of stuff the operating system itself the
distribution is very black and white you
can be the judge of whether you like
that or not again I think it's going for
a real hacker aesthetic so this is
probably a good a good one to show when
Krista's away cuz otherwise she'd be
like oh it's black and white but there
is color in the operating system as soon
as you launch applications very good
crunch banks bit different because it's
not based on a boon to it's based on
debian debian is what ubuntu is based on
so it's a little bit different it runs
really nice you can see things load
fairly quickly even in my virtual
machine here and one of the other
interesting things is that it has the
liquor Ock's or Zen kernel which is a
2.6 dash 686 and that is meant to while
not necessarily being considered as
stable as the current kernel for linux
it is meant to be a little bit optimized
and meant to be streamlined and
superfast looking at under well let's go
up here for example web browser first
time we're going to launch this to see
what the feature set is like we've got
google or yahoo canva yahoo quebec i'm
going to go into google there we go so
this has brought up chromium as you can
see we're gonna go to
category five TV let's see out of the
box what this looks like one of the
interesting things as you're installing
crunchbang is that it installs very
quickly I was impressed with the
installer is very very simple I was
expecting it to be a little bit more of
a challenge to install crunchbang being
that it is a little hacker asked I was
expecting it to be a little more gentoo
esque as far as the Installer goes not
the case very very simple very easy to
get the operating system installed but
what I found interesting is once you get
there you've got a bash script up on
your screen that's saying okay click to
continue so I click to continue and sure
enough it goes through very much like an
old version of perfect boon to let me
install a lot of those extras on my on
my system you'll see the flash right out
of the box is working beautifully
everything just seems to be running nice
and fast with crunchbang there's no
jitteriness to the to the video or
anything even though I'm running in a
virtual machine and that of course again
is a chromium browser so feature set as
far as software goes let's see what
we've got we've got VLC media player for
our videos we've got chromium as I said
gftp comes with it but you can also
install filezilla you'll see that we do
have synaptic package manager we've got
settings compositing and you can enable
compositing which is going to now give
us the fade in effect see that it's a
little bit different than just the
really fast effect that we had before
with no graphic compositing of course
GNU image manipulation program is there
and pretty much anything you'll need
openoffice there you go everything just
it seems to work it seems really really
nice really sleek but aesthetically not
what you're looking for if you're
looking for that beautiful blue desktop
or something that's colorful and
gorgeous it's gone for the other end of
things but I think it's got a certain
appeal to a certain group of people so
check it out it's crunchbang linux dot
org and it looks pretty good okay ease
of installation i said is easy
aesthetics depends on who you are Krista
might say that it's it's really drab I
think it's kind of cool you be the judge
let me know what you think about the
aesthetics of crunchbang organization of
the menus again Linux is fantastic and
everything is just well organized you
see that networking or network is your
network stuff multimedia is your
multimedia stuff and everything's sorted
like that you don't see a lot of extra
stuff that's just sitting there taking
up space so organization looks good
include a suite of software it looks
fair it's basic but it's got what you
need with your office suite your FTP
application your browser flash all the
stuff that you expect one of the things
that installed during the the process of
that script of the first boot was also
the the Java Runtime environment so
that's good if you need it out of the
box usability it's a little different
because of the right-click menu or the
start space button but the fact that
it's got the shortcut keys right on the
screen I think is a very big benefit to
anybody who is trying crunchbang for the
first time especially if you've never
used open box this is going to give you
a chance to figure it out very quickly
how to actually use it and I don't see a
problem with having to hit that kind of
key combination in order to get your
menu up it is a little different because
you don't have an applications menu in
the traditional sense a start menu say
but it's it's quite usable nothing
really makes me go hmm desktop is pretty
bland I might change it if I was going
to use this as my desktop you let us
know what you think of a crunchbang
linux live at category 5 TV and let us
know what what linux distribution you'd
like to see on the show if there's one
that you've been looking at or curious
about and your little iffy to install it
on your own system but you want to see
what it looks like and get a little bit
of an impression as to what that
distribution is going to look like on
your system let us know pop mean email
live at category-five TV and just tell
us which distribution you'd like to see
during this series because we'd like to
show you a lot of the the different
things that are available to you dominic
is asking have you ever tried the xfce
version of crunch
and the answer to that is new this is my
first my first time trying crunchbang as
a matter of fact this was recommended to
us by Greg one of our viewers but let's
see xfce is available to us i'm going to
log out and let's click on session and
you'll see that my default session is
open box but i also have xfce because
that was one of the things that i
selected in the installation procedure
was to allow me to do both and that of
course was from that script you want to
make xfce session the default for future
sessions i'll say just this session
because open box is the default let's
see how it looks there we go pretty much
the same we've got a little bit of a
side menu here cool so again they've
they've made it look oh now look at this
we do have no yeah things are a little
bit different than the trigger the box
xfce I think but feel free to give it a
try there it is looks nice a little more
colorful from a menu standpoint I think
I would i think i would give crunchbang
a shot for sure one of our viewers was
asking whether there's any way to kind
of make xfce look a little prettier and
i'll let you comment dominic especially
in the chat room anyone who's got
experience with xfce would be interested
to know your comments i would say if you
install emerald into your system then
that will give you the chance to use
some of the cooler themes let's see if i
can find the the original question here
it was a bad actually who says I saw
your tweet I finally had enough about
with a boon to unity and then the show
about Ubuntu unity alternatives came up
i also took the plunge i ditched unity
for xfce it is so much easier to work
with and to find everything again woohoo
anyway the one problem is I've been
spoiled by the nice looks of unity
compared to xfce could you show us how
to install new themes and styles and get
it looking up to date thanks again from
Richard Zubaydah Zubaydah the like I was
saying I would install an application
called emerald and then just head on
over to X f c/e dash look dot org and
from here just like gnome look gorg
you've got access to some themes most of
them are going to be reliant on emerald
that's why I say install I'm world first
right so you can get you can get this
thing looking pretty sweet this is just
the first one that I clicked on but you
can go through this is a repository of
available themes for xfce and that I
think will be a really good starting
point for you xfce dash look gorg let's
see we've got some comments coming in
the chat room for you as well as about a
Dominic says try well what's this links
to images ok yeah that's looking pretty
sleek now who's desktop is this then
dark
is that any one in particular is that a
theme engine or a particular theme that
can be obtained
oh that's Dominic's desktop looks really
nice Dominic if you would care to let us
know what you use to theme your desktop
as well cool that okay look at that
available that's actually available from
xfce dash look dot org so check that out
I think that's going to be a good place
for you to start zebeta and anyone else
who's interested in running xfce and
getting away from ubuntu unity and of
course that allows you to still run a
Boone too if you'd like to or you can
try different distro if you care to as
well that's part of the fun of going
through some of the distributions that
are available to us thanks everybody for
such a fun a fun night I'm going a
little bit over time as far as the time
goes because we're a little bit late
starting the show tonight d man 810
wondering does xfce work better on older
smaller pcs and Dominic hit it right on
the head by saying yes and I gamoto says
much better it's very lightweight it it
can be super fast I mean you look at I
don't want to use the word bloat with
something like gnome but there is some
code there that is probably not
necessary to you if you are trying to
get linux working on an older computer
so you can always go with install a boon
to install xfce for or if you want to go
one step further just go xubuntu X
kubuntu and that will install xfce from
the base and see how that Hardware
performs at that point you're going to
find that it is a lot lighter weight
unity is is pushing us towards you need
compositing you need to have a decent
video card you need to have a fairly
good system so it's really leaving you
in the dark if you've got an older
system but that doesn't mean that you
can't run a boon to it just means that
you don't want to necessarily run unity
and you can
get around that by installing the xfce
for package Emil 1976 comments xubuntu
is better than installing xfce for
because then you get a lot of the the
gnome stuff as well you mean if if we
installed ubuntu first and then
installed xfce that can happen xubuntu
if you try if you if you go that route
and you want to get rid of Nome all
together I don't mind having both I mean
these days how much hard drive space do
you have right it doesn't really matter
unless it's causing conflicts with just
not usually the case but you can always
if you're running ubuntu and you
seriously want to get rid of Nome then
you could install instead of installing
the xfce for package which is a
supplement to your current desktop you
can install the xubuntu dash desktop
package using synaptic package manager
or apt-get and that will actually remove
the gnome desktop the basic ubuntu and
unity and all that and replace it with
xfce but as Emil 1976 saying you can
just download the xubuntu installer and
start with a fresh install that can that
can be a nice clean way to get yourself
all set up to Lance hit a hurdler I hear
ya all right everybody get on to our
website this week category 5 TV do not
forget please use our hashtag you see it
down here doudoune cat5 TV anytime
you're talking about the show or to the
show on twitter make sure you use that
hashtag very important and that is
twitter.com slash Robbie Ferguson to
talk directly to me or if you want to
send a message to the show directly its
twitter.com slash category 5 TV once
again alright vote for every episode act
category five dot TV I'm out a time for
tonight it's been great having you here
don't forget next week is you know at
episode number 200 that marks over 12
thousand minutes of category 5 TV free
tech consulting free tech support and
demonstrations of products and and all
that 12,000 minutes I've been talking to
you that's a long time and I've loved
every minute and I'm very excited to end
proud to be celebrating 200 episodes and
I do hope that you'll join us next week
I may have some giveaways I may have
some surprises we may have some guests
that are going to be joining us in the
studio actually we do I'll tell you the
truth we do carry webs going to be here
we've got kristi burton AKA christie van
noort is going to be here we've got john
van noort who is going to be here we've
got Eric Kidd we've got crystal wells
it's going to be quite a time and we'd
really love to have you here for episode
number 200 that is Tuesday July 19th at
seven o'clock p.m. eastern time and we'd
love to we'd love to see you so make
sure you join us fun times everybody hey
have a fantastic week and thanks for
joining me tonight I hope you had fun
hope you learned lots and most of all I
just hope that you enjoyed being here
with me and I appreciate you joining us
those of you who are in the chat room
hey nice to see ya nice to have a few
new viewers as well and Dave may do i
will i'll see you on twitter twitter.com
/ robbie Ferguson don't forget our
hashtag cat5 TV see everybody have a
great week
you
