welcome to new every day my name is Jen
and jelly and on stage show we're going
to talk about what it means to be wise
in your own eyes so stay tuned
so welcome back to you every day as you
can see we are literally on the road and
shelly is jointly she's hop in my
co-host for the last few weeks and
it has been such an adventure literally
an adventurer sharing this time with her
and one of the things that we often have
have talked about is you know applying
the what does the Bible say and how do
we live out what the Bible says and
one of the things that we often say is
how do we know what God wants us to do
and I go to camp every summer and this
and every summer it's like okay Lord do
you want me to go to camp this summer
and so this summer was no different i
said lord do you want me to go to camp
this summer and if you do please you
know give me a sign and I and so I'm
praying about it praying about it
praying about it our Bishop Keith Alfred
in the Free Methodist Church 2k know who
I'm associated with we have bishops were
very similar to Anglican in that sense
and he literally messaged me saying hey
can we get together I said sure we can
get together and we're talking talking
talking then out of the blue he's like
an about camp this summer
I think you should go and this is what
you should say to your guard I I know I
was like totally out of blue and
and he said this is what you do it and
he gave me the way to do it i went to my
board and they called me the next day
and said you know we're letting you go
to camp we totally agree and I went well
first of all I said no way man I don't
feel like I should go I feel like I'm
letting down my church if I go and so I
said no I said no thank you I called up
my mighty boss at camp I said I can't
come to camp this summer he's like why
and I said I just don't feel good about
it and he said Jen you assured me that
we would both be at peace when God ended
this he's like I am not at peace with
this and I said oh another piece either
and so so I got phone immediately felt
buyer's remorse and basically I went to
my church board on sunday and i repented
as I said because the Lord spoke to my
heart he said you asked
for me to tell you and I sent to very
wise people one the bishop white fully
respect and secondly our church board
who is made up of seven very God loving
people who seek the Lord and he's like
and you said no and I felt like saying
how can I ask you I was really convicted
how can I ask for a sign and then not
follow through when i get the sign yeah
and so here I was like turning away
wisdom I thought in my head I was making
the right choice you know what was best
for the church and yet here were people
who you know love Jesus have been down
you know I want to say bend down the
Christian road a lot longer than I have
and you know they they have wisdom and I
was just like
I was wrong like I was wrong
yeah so many times I think we try to
find our wisdom
from God's calling or his boys and
sometimes he sends people to kind of be
that answer for us and we don't respond
because we think oh that can't be him or
you know or o give me another sign or
something along those lines you know I
need affirmation and you know in the
meantime there's three people coming at
you your mom telling you you should do
something grandma calls and says you
should do and you're like oh that's not
the Lord you know there's just so many
things that got to happen in your life
that kind of God just uses people and
that's why they're there you know
especially older and wiser people that's
why they're there so it's just funny how
we kind of
streamline things in our lives to make
it seem logical or rational or practical
and it's painful when you realize that
you discounted them and now you have to
repent for it
that's exactly where i was i was like i
asked the Lord and the Lord was faithful
I asked with good motives because James
talks about that he says you have not
this is james for you have not because
you ask not but when you ask you ask
what the wrong motives and i realize
like okay I asked because we were told
were told to ask God and I believe I was
asking for the right motives Lord what
is it that you want because I want to do
what you want me to do and and so here
he as his word said answered and I was
totally like and yeah
and it's like we seek wisdom but then do
we really
I want to say pick up on it or follow it
when it generally happens because what
happens if we don't like it the
uncomfortable state
and we're like
I'm not sure if I like that piece of
wisdom it is true I do have a Bible
verse here it's from J James one if you
need wisdom ask our generous God which
we already said and he will give it to
you he will not rebuke you for asking
but when you ask him be sure that your
faith isn't God alone do not waver for a
person with divided loyalty is as
unsettled as a wave of the sea that is
blown and tossed by the wind such people
should not expect to receive anything
from the Lord their loyalty is divided
between God and the world and they are
unstable and everything they do
and yeah it does kind of you know like
how that kind of hurts kind of thing
because you kind of really do need to
say what are my intentions when asking
for wisdom by using it to
kind of puff yourself up or are you
using it to honestly bring someone
closer to God or help them know the Lord
better by your actions or what you say
like we're told to guard our ballast to
with what we say in itself and that's
one way we give wisdom is through advice
and so that's something that is so true
it's something that we need to kind of
address where we're coming from
and it's hard because you know people
are asking you know what is it that you
would have me do Lord and so they come
to the pastor which I get all the time
oh right and I remember this one girl ok
I'm going to sleep i'm going to switch
things because this person is really
slow in front of me and so I'm switching
over to the sleigh now just so we're
going in the right direction of going to
speed up an anterior and so I remember
being on a youth event and if I've told
you the story before that's ok but maybe
other people haven't heard yet we're on
a youth event and is I'm going up and
down the bus asking people
just checking what people see how
they're doing and this one girl said I
said how are you doing and this one girl
said pretty good and she's like can I
ask you a question and I'm exhausted and
I'm maybe a baby and she says oh no it's
really simple I'm like okay and she said
I got this and she's like so um what do
you think they should do with my life
not like
janja's crawled into a little order
on that note Jeff Weston Yemen you're
building a brand-new beautiful website
what are you alright you're terrible
actor what this we're acting comes into
play oh I don't know where are they
you're supposed to act okay I'm building
a really cool website are you building a
really cool website you need hosting one
of the things about a hosting account is
you don't want to have limitations put
on your website let's true how much hard
drive space do you have how many email
accounts how many domains can point to
it well we've got an amazing deal for
you for a very limited time cap five dot
TV / dreamhost for just five dollars and
a bit of change per month you are going
to get unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the roots are your own
com guys to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat five dot TV /
dreamhost just don't put peddle the
papers are just don't do it but hey it's
a great deal folks best deal you're
gonna find five dollars and change per
month go to cat five dot TV / dreamhost
and we're back with you every day with
our special guest
and I left off before the commercial
break telling you the story of how in my
youth kids had said you know what do you
think I should do with my life and I'm
just like I can't believe she's asked me
this question like that is a huge
question and I sat down beside our on
the bus and i said to her while you're
really good at minna straight ibly
you're really good up front with people
and I went down what her gifts and
talents were
and because one thing I've learned is
you can't plant seeds in other people's
heads if they how do I say this like not
every kid should go to Bible School
not you know not every kid who you know
is brilliant needs to become a doctor I
remember saying to another girl
very gifted very talented and I said you
can be anything you want to be and I
know people are telling you right now
that you should be a doctor but you need
to ask the Lord about it you're talented
yes you're gifted yes you're smart
enough yes well if God calls you to
paddle a canoe then you paddle the canoe
you need to go before the Lord and I
will often tell young people you know
ask two or three people that they trust
to fast and pray for them and then come
together because there's wisdom in that
right and you know it's not the fasting
and praying that gets God's attention
it's the fact that you're actually
setting aside time this is this really
is important to me yeah and so I
remember saying to this young lady the
first young lady just going over while
your gifts and talents are this what is
it that you want to do and because
that's really important when you are
giving wisdom when you're asked to give
wisdom
that you really aren't giving it out of
yourself that you are genuine and not
just the easy Pat answers I know we
talked about that before we push record
it's it can be so easy just diverse bomb
someone trust in the Lord with all your
heart and lean not on your own
understanding and all your ways
acknowledge him and he will direct your
path and there's wisdom and that yes but
that might not be the right thing to say
it is the easy thing to say and so
that's also hard to when somebody's
asking for wisdom like help
it's hard to say something that is not
easy yes that is hard to say something
that's not easy to say yeah because you
don't want to hurt or offend the other
person and yet you know that that's
probably not the best choice for them
and yet they're so excited about it yeah
and I don't know if you've ever been in
a position like that where you just know
the person wants to do something but you
know that they shouldn't and you kind of
feel obligated to say something yeah
I think I used to be the person that set
the safe easy answer you know
and then I realized where that road led
it led them to because if you are a
trusted friend of someone and you give
them advice they were more likely than
not take it so I think I realize when
you give an advice now that you know
someone may take it if you gave them you
know an empty answer an easy answers
sometimes they come back to you with the
problem that's even bigger than it was
before you've given them the advice and
you're like oh sorry did I say that and
it's it's kind of like you have to kind
of real that back in to be like what I
meant by it was and then you give them
the more you know the elaborate and
answer the one that's a little tough are
the one that's uncomfortable to say and
then you're like oh IC or okay if I have
done the hard thing the first time maybe
different it would have been easier but
it's definitely different so I feel like
now I'm just kind of like honest truth
like you say and how it is kind of thing
which is sometimes bad but I think the
person is with a good heart that I
receive it with they they're just like
all right I know that's not for me and I
don't need to go there or I or that
person's off for me and you know I see
where you're saying and what you're
saying about them and I do really need
to kind of sit with this one myself and
see how I feel about it because your
opinion is your opinion up until it goes
against what they're saying and then it
either goes well or it's a make or break
your relationship kind of thing as a
friendship standpoint so you kind of
have to you know learn to explain
yourself sometimes on where you're
getting your wisdom from
don't ever want to get it from yourself
so you do have to say your intentions or
my intentions for you are to be good so
I don't want you taking this as though
it is my you know thought how this
should go because of how I want it to be
played out so I think giving wisdom
sometimes
as a friend or you know someone that it
is in confidentiality with you it can be
tough sometimes
sometimes you shouldn't go the easy way
and sometimes you do have to say the
uncomfortable thing or the hard thing to
say and it you got to explain yourself a
little bit more in those situations I
think what you said is keen what is the
difference between your opinion and what
is wisdom
because I can have an opinion about
something
but that isn't actually the wisdom that
the Lord wants you to given and that is
one of the gifts of the Spirit is is
wisdom and I have met some people in my
life that have the gift of wisdom
where they just they say these
one-liners a friend of ours
as a doctor but he's also on our youth
team and we'll be sitting around talking
about something and he'll give this one
liner and you're like whoa that is good
can you say it again he's like no
because it actually didn't come from him
yeah it came from the Lord like it and
he's done it so many times and his wife
says he does it all the time but he just
has these one-liners and you're so
profound and cuts right to the heart of
things and you're like wow and the
answer is you don't have to be you don't
have to be a doctor and he just happens
to be a doctor and with God has given
him the gift of wisdom but there are
other people in my life
really they have the gift of wisdom and
you need to as believers you need to
source out those people if you want wise
counsel you find people a who have lived
their lives a lived their lives like
what we talked about last week without
with risk and dealt with it what people
who've experienced life but also who you
know are walking with the Lord yeah and
and who you know I have the gift of
wisdom like I will sometimes go to the
shellman and say what do you think about
this
and it's just really interesting the
people that God has put in my life at
those certain times to speak we
stone into my life and
and I'm thankful for those people and
it's not that I'm and this is going to
sound funny it's not that I'm not wise
because I think we all have a level of
wisdom but as far as like those zingers
that you know are straight from the
lower like that's the gift of wisdom
that is those profound moments where you
know that piece of information that
you've just received is from the Lord
and it's like
totally not your
I don't like there is hard to describe
with some I think sometimes but it's i
almost said it's like something that you
you didn't come up with yourself like
you just couldn't have come up with that
yourself and it's like I was a spirit
you know that wasn't that wasn't from my
understanding or biological rationally
of that answer is you know so as I think
that's where he gets it from like that's
how that's how I would explain it at
least like it beyond your understanding
it's beyond how you perceive the
situation a young friend of mine he
would be 16 as known the Lord his entire
life but he has the gift of wisdom and
so that's why I'm like you don't have to
be young I mean you don't have to be old
I don't have to be a doctor like you
just have to know Jesus and if he's
given you that gift of wisdom we're just
so need protected definitely protect it
making sure that your opinion
you're not selling your opinion as God's
wisdom but I cuz I have conversations
with him I feel like I'm like whoa like
that was wisdom and then he'll say
saying whoa that was wisdom like where
is he coming up with that it was
obviously is the Lord but I'm thinking
and I've known him quite a few years now
and some people would say well he just
has an old soul and I'm like no he has
the gift of wisdom and so I want to
encourage you today that if you're if
you're needing advice or needing some
insider you know you need to know you
know how you should follow God or what
is it that he's saying and you're
looking for wisdom we've given you some
verses look at that James passage in
chapter one and and you know if you've
turned away wisdom you need to repent of
it like I did in my situation and if
you're seeking it out seek out godly
counsel like who are those people in
your life that have lived life that have
that no God
and that actually that their words are
true yeah
I think that's one of the key things is
are there words true or how they
produced fruit are they consistent
I guess in the words that they're giving
because we are to seek out wisdom
proverbs says we are to seek out wisdom
because
it is what we need for life like or else
like there's no joy in being a fool like
proverbs is full of all those verses
that talk about being foolish and that's
not good so the opposite of being a fool
is being wise and so we encourage you
the passage this came to mines us the
foolish man built his house upon the
sand and when the rains came everything
washed away but the wise men built his
house upon the rock the rock meaning the
Word of God Jesus Christ the cornerstone
and when the floods came storms came it
stood firm and so make sure you're
making your decisions on scripture on
Jesus Christ and on godly counsel that
you're receiving so let's let's
did you have anything else you want to
add to that before I closed off
all right what is wrong let's pray Lord
God thank you so much for today thank
you so much that you do grant godly
counsel from for people when they need
it and so father for our viewers today
who are seeking out golly who need to
know what to do help him to seek your
godly counsel but people in their
pathway that was being truth into their
life and lord where they have refused
your counsel before
and Lord that you would show them once
again what it is that you would have
consumed thank you so much for our
viewers watch over them and keep them
safe we
in the name of Jesus from the power of
the Holy Spirit
so thank you so much for tuning in today
take a moment check out our partners
page everyday TV and have a great week
looking Shelly for joining me on zilvia
here
tap
you
