here the story is recovering this week
in the category 5 TV newsroom engine
maker Royals what Rolls Royce designed a
new propulsion system for a flying taxi
which it says could take to the skies as
soon as early next decade shoppers in
the US and elsewhere struggled to access
Amazon's website as one of its biggest
annual sales prime day went underway on
Monday a solar plane which can stay
aloft for weeks at a time is to be
manufactured by Airbus in the UK and the
Atari VCS console runs a custom Linux
distro called ot√°rio us these stories
are coming right up don't go anywhere
Geoff Weston Gemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what are you
you're a terrible actor what this where
acting comes into play you're supposed
to act ok I'm building a really cool
website are you building a really cool
website just because Jeff is confused
doesn't mean you have to be visit cap 5
dot TV slash DreamHost
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
dream host this is the
category five TV newsroom covering the
week's top tech stories with a slight
Linux bias I'm Sacha Rickman and here
the top stories for following this week
engine maker rolls-royce has designed a
propulsion system for a flying taxi
soon as early next decade the British
firm said that is drawn up plans for an
electric vertical takeoff and landing
vehicle which could carry five four to
five people they claim the vehicle could
travel at speeds of up to 250 miles per
hour for approximately 500 miles
Rolls joins a variety of other firms in
seeking to develop flying vehicles
speaking ahead of this week's Ferren bur
air show Rob Watson head of the
company's electrical team said we are
well-placed to play a leading role in
the emerging world of personal air
mobility and we'll also look to work in
collaboration with a range of partners
Airbus Hoover and a range of startups
including one called Kitty Hawk which is
backed by Google co-founder Larry Page
have all announced projects so that
means that we are going to have flying
taxis
it's really happening they're actually
building this stuff this is mind
boggling cool for me and I'll tell you
why it occurred to me it was just kind
of out of the blue that it means that we
could put less roads down if we had the
flying cars you know I've never I've
never had that thought that's really
interesting so it would save money
firstly in infrastructure but it also
means less roads means more trees which
means more health to the earth which is
a huge big deal right yeah if we and and
I guess with autonomous vehicles being
the the next big thing they're gonna
know where they're gonna know the
coordinates of other flying taxis and
things like that or what they may be
right this is just the start of it I
think that like thinking of how they've
done for example drone demonstrations
where they operate like a hive mind and
I think about implementing that kind of
technology into
autonomous vehicles and now so flying
autonomous vehicles that allows them to
know their positioning amidst other ones
right so you're right you don't need
roads but well then how do they avoid
crashing well then you think about this
autonomous ability to know the position
of other vehicles
I mean emergency vehicles if you get
where they need to go
like it really would be great on so many
levels I am an early next decade that's
soon I know that that just means the
start it's not gonna be common yet but I
feel like at some point they'll be able
to scale back a lot of the construction
work and a lot of the road work and
they'll be able to really start
implementing some more things I mean if
they did need to do a roadway then it
would be easy to do something like one
of those solar roadways right because
they're gonna have to put less money in
see it's good yeah absolutely I think
it's a neat time too because like we
talked about this and it seems like okay
this is far-fetched sci fi no we
actually have the technology to do this
now it could happen and it's not just
something out of the you know someone's
imagination somehow it seems very very
plausible to me like it seems like it's
going to happen and it seems that way to
verbals right so that's what they're
doing yeah exactly
so if they're doing it you know it's at
least at some level is gonna happen over
the next little while
hi I'm going to buy one are you you just
got a car right you're already thinking
about getting a flying car well my next
car will be a flying car there you go
it seems even Amazon can't quite handle
its own success shoppers in the US and
elsewhere struggle to access Amazon's
website as one of its biggest annual
sales prime day one underway Monday many
frustrated users took to social media to
report the e-commerce platform had
crashed and was showing them only an
error message that read sorry something
went wrong on our end the issues were
centered on the US but affected users up
here in Canada and overseas too down
detector calm which tracks outages said
the problems began shortly after the
sale kicked off at 3 p.m. in the US
in a tweet Amazon said it was working to
resolve the issues remarkably users even
reported experiencing problems with
Amazon's video streaming services and
its virtual assistant Alexa during the
first few hours of the sale as well
Amazon launched prime Day in 2015 and by
2017 it was the second business biggest
shopping day topped only by cyber monday
some warned the glitches could make it
hard to achieve the expected numbers
global data retail managing director
Neal Saunders said at the time the
outage is especially problematic as many
of Amazon's prime deals are promoted for
a set window of time something that
could cause a great deal of frustration
for potential customers prime Day ran
for 36 hours and this year saw the
largest number of people hitting the
site at all at once in the history of
the sale it really is amazing so the
sale was so well marketed this year I
don't remember ever getting as much
communication from Amazon as I did and
so is it just me or is there a I getting
so good that it figures out what we want
right and you can say that's creepy but
it's actually really good like I got a
really great deal on a device for the
studio that I think is going to make a
huge difference here yeah I I know that
they know me well and I had to stay away
from it because I'm really trying to
stay on budget but I was excited a more
this year than I ever have been even
knowing I wasn't buying anything because
they really kept reminding me it was
coming they kept sending me pictures and
links on things and I can't escape it
Sasha I know so I definitely understand
why they saw such high numbers and why
interest oh like immediately the numbers
probably cause the server's to I don't
know are part of the reason that they
have these timed deals is to space out
the usage right right because if they
have
you know a certain kitchen deal and a
certain electronics deal in a certain
clothing deal happening right now and
then six I don't know an hour later a
different electronics deal in a
different clothing deal so that you
don't have the same like the everybody
going there all at once as you do on
like black day or something like that at
a retail store right then that's all
gone right so they tried to space things
out there were so many people shopping
it's in just unbelievable I haven't even
seen the numbers yet but we know that if
their infrastructure itself was affected
then that's got to be massive right well
I can imagine next year's gonna be
bigger than this year and I imagine
because they're very smart and they
really want to focus experience this
won't be a problem next year you think
so I the technology will be there Amazon
has an amazing cloud infrastructure I
mean they sell their cloud
infrastructure to other services so to
think that those services were quite
possibly I mean people were reporting
that some of these services were
affected by prime day so their own
infrastructure of CD ends and whatever
else then virtualized servers and things
like that are affected as well so you
know what do they do
throw more power at it throw more
storage and there they'll do something
it'll be it'll be a new story before
Prime Day next year what they're going
to do for prime day how do you make
Amazon CDN bigger how do you make it
more powerful it's got to happen it's
going to it's going to have to if you
can't beat them join them exclaim that
they will no longer be building an
internet toting drone may have been in
the wording they're working with Airbus
and Airbus will build it Facebook
recently retired project Aquila and it
turns out that they've been
collaborating with Airbus according to
Janna Rosenman head of unmanned aerial
systems at Airbus the two companies have
a joint goal to try and bring Internet
connectivity to connect the
unconnected the unmanned craft flies
high in the atmosphere to avoid
commercial air traffic known as the
Zephyr it is it's remote sensing
potential has already seen the you KMOD
invest but Airbus also hopes to develop
the craft as a communication platform
powered by solar energy during the day
and solar charged batteries by night the
Zephyr holds the absolute endurance
record for unrefueled aeroplanes 336
hours 22 minutes and 8 seconds in the
air the latest model the Zephyr s is
currently aloft above the skies of
Arizona in the US where Airbus aims to
feed days braking the vehicles own
14-day record set in nineteen twenty ten
the Zephyr will immediately begin
industrial production in Farnborough
following several years of testing its
inauguration was announced at the 2018
Farnborough airshow it seems like a
theme here that were yeah now this is
huge and great because I'll tell you
when we found out that that Facebook
wasn't going to be doing I was worried a
little bit about Project loon which
sounds weird but I thought to myself
well there's no competition right
Project loon does a really great job
with their balloons and they they have
really helped out but I want there to be
a lot of fair competition sure exactly
these are all big dogs right but there's
got to be more than just one player in
the atmosphere picture exactly so this
is great a that they the way that they
did kind of
announced that they were shutting down
Aquila it made it sound like it was over
it was done it was not happening and
then you see this new project and it
looks identical practically yeah
the drones look the same the these solar
powered planes so it's almost as if you
know they've just known all along that
this is the way they were gonna you're
helping with development yeah they knew
their emotions yeah for those of you who
are not aware of the kinds of things
that are happening surrounding these
types of projects what they're trying to
do and what they are achieving and you
mentioned Project loon and they have
achieved is putting aerial systems up in
the sky that can deliver Internet at
places where Internet is not available
so think about if a hurricane goes
through or a tsunami or something that
some national infrastructure right so
now you know that you've got the
inability to have access to the Internet
which these days is our communication
when our internet went down here at the
studio I also incidentally had no phone
because my phone is also voice over IP
right you called me today that's true
and how did you call me over the
Internet through the internet my phone
rang and it was Sasha over the internet
giving me a call so these drones or
whatever it may be up in the atmosphere
there then relaying the Internet to
these places where currently they maybe
they don't have high-speed Internet or
maybe for some reason the infrastructure
is unable to support it at that time and
how else really would you be able to
shop for anything on prime day and let
everybody on Facebook know that you've
done it mmm but for the fact that you
have Internet
everywhere you go that's their intention
right but be ready for next prime day
see there we go yeah
the Atari VCS console runs a custom
Linux distro called Atari OS if you back
the successful Atari VCS crowdfunding
campaign last month you might be pleased
to hear that you're going to get more
bang for your buck following criticism
of its mediocre internal make up the
Atari VCS console will now ship with 8
gigabytes of RAM by default the games
the RAM bump is just one of several bits
of new information revealed through a QA
blog post from team newcomer Rob Wyatt
best known as the brains behind the
original Xbox system his more direct
approach begins or helps to wave away
some of the vagueness and uncertainty
that continues to surround the system
with close to three million raised in
its IndieGoGo campaign the Atari VCS is
now entering the difficult part
delivering a vile rebuff to journalists
the central cell of a Linux games
console backed by decades worth of
gaming heritage remains both unique and
compelling as previously announced the
Atari VCS will run a custom Linux based
OS and will provide the ability for
users to install a regular Linux distro
on the machine why it expands on this
capability further it is Q&amp;A explaining
our core architecture consists of the
Atari secure hypervisor and a havoc
external storage device is checked and
if a bootable device is found the other
OS on that device is loaded instead we
don't have a typical OS loader like you
boot or grub and because the CPU is
already in 64-bit protected mode from
our boot code the other OS will need its
typical startup code changing although
why it stresses that the changes are
minimal the cop looks like a retro
gaming console from Atari it looks like
a 2600 or something like that this is
gonna play to the nostalgia and all of
us but it's a 64-bit gaming machine with
eight gigs of RAM like that puts it I
believe if I'm not mistaken the ps3 was
like nowhere near that the ps4 is eight
gigs of RAM
and this is a different OS right so if
indie developers want to create their
own games create their own distribution
for it we're gonna be able to see like
they're developing it specifically so
that that can be done that's a really
cool idea that they've given a nod to
you know indie game open source it'd be
good see you Terry Hyatt sorry dear
Atari we love you and we have ever since
the 2600 it's true please send us a VCS
we will talk unboxing will a boxing
press it will do like a three show
series on it or more it'll be great good
our address is below ah awesome
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman thanks Sasha I'm Robbie Ferguson
and it's been a blast having you here
this week please make sure you comment
below if you're watching on youtube give
us a thumbs up subscribe to the videos
that we produce here at category-five TV
by subscribing to our Channel and you'll
get the notifications every time we go
live it's a lot of fun so you can join
us live and be here with us and if
you're watching wherever you're watching
if you're watching on cable TV or Roku
Kodi Plex you can head on over to our
website category 5 TV and comment on the
video this is that this has been episode
number 565 we look forward to seeing you
next week yeah
Stephanie I'll see you eat oh yeah
you're away I'm away I'll be here I'll
be here you'll be here I'll see you then
[Music]
