welcome to category five technology TV
it's episode number 582 this week we're
gonna be looking at single board
computers and we're gonna see now we're
gonna have a little chat with Henry
Bailey Brown here and talk about what is
a little more powerful than the
Raspberry Pi 3 I've got the nano PI m4
which we just don't have enough power
for but we're gonna try to fire it up
lots to show you time we are going to be
looking at why my work computer went all
wonky with a Windows 10 update again
yeah
and Robbie's gonna show us how to fix it
where's Jeff hey keV I've grew Jeff
Weston here not the studio missing the
show that's cuz I'm out of the bush it's
a balmy -
[Music]
it's a balmy place that looking for deer
so I'm not to attack but I am doing a
video from the forest with touchscreen
gloves so I guess that's got a techie
all right have a good show
this is category five technology TV our
live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
Technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku cody
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
category 5 dot TV slash TPN and at the
International Association of internet
broadcasters cat5 dot TV slash LA ib I
Henry Bailey Brown back what do you bid
not bad man I'm I'll humming to the
future but I'm back you're back not
right sound is here I don't know it's
crazy
hey guys leave yeah Robbie's here yeah
again you know saving the world you know
it's been cool aviation stuff flying
drones yeah airplanes I want to go ask
how like the summers now
it's a little bit chilly down it's yeah
we woke up to 17 feet of snow today yes
here in our Canadian studio and did you
have a good summer as far as flow yeah
it was great you know I'm sorry couldn't
get back in so much but it's great to
see you guys you know it was really nice
to get back to flying it's getting a
wild that we had rain rain Wednesday
comes sunny skies rain rain rain
Wednesday comes sunny skies and so
Henry's like it's the show this is the
one day I get to fly my drone I know
it's it's so depressing because it's
like it's this category five so I don't
know if if the weather was for me for
flying over it was cuz category five so
Wednesday it's such a perfect day of the
week and and for those who aren't sure
what we're talking about I should just
clarify that you're not saying that you
were like oh I don't want to go into
category five because I'm too busy
playing with my groans no no this guy's
a pro pilot folks Pro fly thrown right
yeah let's get paid to fly our brooms
101 every one of freezers 33% of yes
category five duty of the current studio
current studio that's that's a really
good statistic can you think back over
the summer and tell us and our viewers
and what was the most enjoyable piloting
experience as far as your drone yeah for
sure I'm not allowed to say cuz it's
classified just kidding no it was
definitely surprised no probably the
best one was going up to what's it
called there's a little area called
honey harbor near the Muskoka is up
north so it's a lot of cottages but
there's one client we always go with um
and he has his own boat so we literally
hop in the boat and we go to like all
the different islands and stuff so it
literally turns into like a full day
experience oh wow she's going over but
this one shoot is the houses are insane
and what are you shooting for now let's
take up a lot of real estate and there
are some construction to because he also
owns a construction companies so
pretty much the whole area so they've
document their their baby yeah for sure
and it's great for insurance
construction things like that so but
yeah it's an overall positive experience
and got a free boat ride too so that's
always fun but yeah so yeah and you're
piloting a plane yeah yeah I'm current
on a da40 for those pilot people out
there so it's a really fun plane fly has
something called synthetic vision on it
yeah it's like when you're the
terminator
no it's kidding it's basically you can
see the world around you in 3d space on
your screen so it's like playing a video
game and like this is a little more
sophisticated than the the old school
yeah it's team game yeah no it's fun and
the computer talks to you and it has
traffic of wins so tks so traffic
avoidance so when you're flying over the
400 at about a hundred foot as your siri
traffic updates it's a really fun piece
of machine to fly so it's uh it's it's
nice to be back though great and uh you
fly other people in your plane as well
yes I do
like just for fun like you yes I do you
have like a sunset flight and is your
plane with you right now like how much
room do you need to land big parking lot
it is you know yeah forget about it I'm
saying it won't be legal but it's not
impossible
this is it's in the crazy be an
emergency landing yeah people do that
all the time in Alaska I think planes
when they land they have the right of
way like the the roadways are also the
runways and the cars have to yield to
the plane
oh yeah like in Alaska right yeah like
yeah it's it's it's crazy because well I
make sense like if you're in a mountain
range and there's nowhere else land low
on gas yeah yeah you have to look out
for planes would be like oh no we're
good honey we're clear yeah so that's
that's an interesting time huh so yeah
cool very neat have you been up to
you've had quite an adventure this week
as far as technology goes you guys ready
for this
okay some of you on discord may already
know this but okay if you watch the last
week's show you'll know that we did the
DDT what's it called cloud ready yeah
ready mm-hmm
never wear cloud ready yes we converted
a notebook computer
standard PC notebook computer into a
Chromebook made it look so so easy that
I was just I'll just do that
so on Friday yeah I I just decided okay
fine I'll see what I remember from the
show didn't watch it again yet at this
point yeah so I get home and I turned on
my laptop and I like this has got to be
easy and I started and I I could do it's
at first I get on the discord and Garvey
was there thank you
between the two of us I was really just
like it was it was Garvey's mind really
and then just channeled through discord
exact his fingers exactly it was like a
collaborative effort and we did it so we
I had a boon to Mattei and like an
age-old Ubuntu Matteo install installed
like three or four years away back now I
have a brand spankin new computer it
looks great so you actually did this
yeah I mean you had the assistance of
our discord community which is wonderful
is it you can get live chat live
feedback from tech geeks and and folks
that yea genuine gonna help
and I felt smart like okay so the very
first thing that garbage head is go into
the terminal and type this in yeah and I
thought to myself yeah because I see it
like you just pop into it all the time I
didn't know where to find it at first
and I and I did and then I just I was
like okay how am I gonna type all of
this not I remember you can copy and
paste with keyboard shortcuts so
literally my entire time I would just
copy the line of script and then paste
it and then just try and analyze what it
said myself and then in my words tell
Garvey whether or not it worked so I had
to install
is it called curl yeah I had to do that
which by I I mean copy and pasted it in
together we're her machine together
we're and bite together I mean it's like
a 90/10 Garvey for the win no you got to
give yourself more credit because you
stepped way outside of your comfort zone
totally you took in Ubuntu mat a laptop
that I set up yes okay and you converted
it to a Chromebook with cloud ready and
you did that it was it felt so good it
felt like happy dance
good did you ever see that commercial
where is it it's the little girl and
she's standing on the bathroom like
talking to herself in the mirror and she
was the curly blond hair and she's like
you're awesome
and she was like pumping herself up i
watch that if you haven't seen it that's
how I felt in that moment I can
understand how how come you all do this
I'm sure you all have the best days
always but you know and you you you did
it yeah you've achieved that you have
customize your own laptop so now you've
got this and I can sense it you've got
this like sense like I did that the
freedom of saying okay when you bought
this laptop what's that sticker say
Windows 7 mm-hmm that's right I suppose
are you stuck are you stuck having to do
Windows updates and having to deal with
one of the things that I love about
cloud ready and Chromebooks the whole
concept behind it one thing first of all
how's the performance it's awesome it's
is it better than it was with Ubuntu
Mattei which we know as a lightweight
linux that is meant for ageing hardware
it should work really well on that right
comparatively how is this it is a much
battery doesn't die quickly oh yeah
right like so it's it's saving my
battery well today I got impressed yeah
well yeah well if it's a lightweight
thing then your computer is another chap
man it's using the cloud for CPU it
sounds like a really efficient platform
mm-hmm so we know that it is now
performing better but if you wanted to
you could now log in to any
other Chromebook or or cloud-ready
system you can login to my laptop that
now has cloud ready on it great as
yourself and all of the settings that
you have on there are gonna be
transferred over not only the settings
but all your documents your spreadsheets
everything is there
because it's part of the cloud now right
so this is what spoke to me insanely
last week because my school we all we
were all given just like little laptops
that you sign in and out at the
beginning and end of every class we're
not allowed to bring our own computers
in we have to use theirs and it's Google
like it's all the Google Docs so all of
my books that you're using at school I
guess they must be Chromebooks yes
probably so you log in and you have I
have this yeah I have exactly ah so how
cool is that
yeah I'm gonna be a Google Doc official
like I think about my kids and the fact
that the school Jeff hit on it last week
saying like the schools have
transitioned to Chromebooks really yeah
they're there so instead of having 30
laptops they'll have 90 Chromebooks and
every student has a Chromebook that's
the best at you know you're going to
class and here's your Chromebook here's
your Chromebook and so it doesn't matter
which one you get as soon as you log in
as yourself you've got all your stuff
exactly but then my kids come home they
log into the Chromebook at home and
they've got all their stuff back God's
amazed it's wonderful man I wish we had
that in high school cuz we always had
the old Dell laptops right so they would
work but they would take forever to
start up but now if you're talking like
I know we have the Dell laptops I had an
icon with a giant trackball and a big
screen and I had to roll around the
trackball in order to get around my high
school had a computer lab they weren't
invented yet man what went when your
kids grew up they're gonna be like
what's up with some Mouse like a
computer mouse like you just think about
it and it opens yes it's gonna be crazy
and tonight Sasha's gonna be talking
about Samsung's new adventure in
creating no mind controlled television
exactly yeah think about how that's
going to transition into other
technologies just amazing think about
autonomous vehicles oh we're gonna have
this talk a little bit later
like what compared with mind control
devices it's not good though because if
you're hungry you're just always going
to wind up at the pizza joint why do you
keep really officers I want to just say
a quick thanks to everyone who's been
supporting us on patreon if you aren't
familiar with that all you have to do is
head on over to patreon comm slash
category 5 it's a really cool way to
support category 5 technology TV
speaking of a cup of coffee a day I mean
think about the cost of a cup of coffee
I think I'm paying three dollars for a
single cup of coffee now the
drive-through mmm for one dollar per
month so like 1/3 of a cup of coffee per
month you can support category 5
technology TV but we also do our best to
make it worth your while and we give you
an exclusive vlog with behind the scenes
content stuff that otherwise you
wouldn't have access to as well as that
you can give a little more and you can
get access to things like the on-demand
live feed so if you miss the live show
but you want that behind-the-scenes
banter instead of the edited produced
show you can actually watch the
recording from the live feed as well so
there's so many different things that
you can get as far as perks go through
our patreon page but really what it's
about is our community coming together
and saying yeah I can give a buck or
three bucks a month and support what
they're doing here and that's a really
cool thing because there's power in
numbers and everybody coming together
it's gonna make category-five really
really strong as we very quickly and as
crazy as it is as we very quickly
approach 2019 but the cool thing about
coming up to 2019 is that it's almost
Christmas and Christmas means typically
you're buying gifts for your friends and
family whether you celebrate or not yeah
it's a time of year to get together with
family and there's a lot of gift-giving
that goes on true so there's also a
really easy way to support us through
the affiliate links
because I do that I do it easily Thank
You Sasha yeah yeah it's so easy to do
yes where do you buy most of your stuff
these days Amazon did they just say that
really Amazon's the place yeah yeah yeah
yeah do your best or think geek or ebay
or what but Amazon was too day-to-day
shipping it's like yeah it just makes
sense on our website if you click
support us and then shop with our
partners this is cool folks because
you're gonna shop there anyways Sasha
said it Henry said it we do our shopping
through Amazon
we have Amazon CEO UK Comte de Youssef
RIT so if you're gonna shop amazon.com
just follow the link through our site
and it takes you to Amazon and you're
just gonna do your shopping anyways but
if you take that see how quick that was
mm-hmm go to category 5 TV click the
link and then a portion of the sale
helps category 5 TV so as you're doing
that that seasonal shopping for your
family and friends it's a great way to
support us in Amazon really has become
like one of the big ways that you can
support us because it doesn't cost you
anything no it's just if you're gonna go
there anyway exactly you guys give us a
virtual coffee or a high-five it's wild
it's awesome it's it's an amazing
platform and and that's honestly that's
where I do a lot of my shopping these
days when it comes Christmas time it's
just so convenient it is such a
wonderful feeling to be able just to
click click click click click I know if
you've experienced this but it's always
the the last-minute Christmas shopping
rush yeah I'm stressed out this is what
I grew up with you're stressed out
because you know I haven't got a gift
for so-and-so and both mm-hmm and it's
like I can click click click and two
days later it's in my mailbox
it's like the stress of the season it's
it's funny as for and and we can talk
about commercialization all and I
understand that but yeah the stress of
the season is going into really busy
shopping centers and having to deal with
that now it's like going away with there
you go we went to the mall and then
Monday night to do kind of some off
things and yeah there was nobody there
it was quiet
some Monday night oh yeah and then we
did the rest of the ordering off Amazon
there you go you did your scouting right
and then I can get this on Amazon so
please do support us that way and in any
time of year
whenever you shopping through online
portals online sites make sure you check
out our website see who our partners are
and if they happen to be one of our
partners it's a great way to support us
and all that to say we give this to you
for free I hope you enjoy the show
we've got a great one for you tonight
we're gonna be looking at some single
board computers we're gonna be looking
at windows 10 and why it looks so crazy
we're gonna fix it tonight on category 5
TV so stick around whether you shop on
think geek gearbest B&amp;H Photo Video eBay
or Amazon or even if you want a free
trial of audible you'll find the best
deals and support the shows we produce
by simply visiting the shopping sites
you already frequent by using the links
on our website visit category 5 TV slash
partners for the full and ever-growing
list and help us create more free
content like this show thank you for
shopping with our partners and thank you
for watching welcome back this is
category 5 technology TV so nice to have
you here I'm Robbie this is Sasha and
Henry is here as well hope you are well
tonight we're gonna look at Windows 10
they're a feeling some folks have said
why is a Linux centric show looking at
Windows right why does this happen
pourquoi well and it's just the simple
case and if you're watching this on
Linux tech show comm for example you're
saying why are they talking about
Windows 10 well because a lot of folks
use it and we're genuinely here to help
and we want to make it easier for all
users but hey we will say hey if you're
not happy with Windows 10 why don't you
switch to 2 or Linux Mint or you know
what happen so just keep that in the
back of your mind when they say hey
don't forget to try Linux Mint that's
what we're here for
but we're gonna look at an issue that
you encountered this week and a lot of
other people have come across this after
a recent update on Microsoft Windows 10
and that is this bad boy I was so
confused when I saw that it's like I'm
thinking Windows 8 fives you know when
they came out with the phones remember
the highway yeah it was horrible so when
you see that up on your screen you're
like okay well I'm gonna click on my
Start menu right yeah three two one
click three two one click I know and it
does nothing windows why click what do I
do where I like I right clicked on a
whole bunch of those tiles and start and
I hid them I thought maybe that would
help try hiding them yeah have you tried
turn it off and on again
yeah I a lot of things and you're not
the first and so when when you
encountered it this week I was like
there's something odd here yeah because
I've been getting a lot of folks saying
this is how my computer looked after
today's update mm-hmm and so you start
clicking around you're trying to figure
it out and you're gonna laugh at how
incredibly simple it is to fix this
problem okay so what it's important for
you to know like I didn't want to just
fix it and just leave it fixed and then
have it happen again and you're not sure
how to fix it mmm because it's like two
clicks and you're back to normal
what has happened here is that Windows
10 has for some reason determined that
you are using a tablet so what you see
there is in fact the touchscreen
interface of a Windows 10 tablet I was
so close in my guess yeah well remember
I want to ask you for help I was like my
view is wrong or something like it's my
view it is it was in a tablet view I was
right fix it
nice all right defects there are a
couple of different ways to fix this so
first of all if you click on the
notifier on the bottom right that's
going to bring up this dialog and it
looks like that if you instead hit the
windows button and a it's gonna do
exactly the same thing okay so those are
two different ways to bring up that
dialog when I bring that up at the
bottom left you see a button that says
tablet mode yes click on it and you're
back to Windows 10 the way that you're
used to it's that simple I've got my
taskbar back I can bring back up discord
just the way I normally do I will never
things back to normal so if you find
yourself in this state where hey this is
welcome to tablet mode and here I go
boom now I'm stuck windows button a turn
off tablet mode paddies and you're back
that's amazing business such a simple
fix right you're it's simple but not
like whoo people are looking there right
clicking on everything trying to go into
settings and set things well let's just
come back for a second to the fact that
I had just done my laptop I was like on
this high of ability oh and then you get
onto Windows 10 is completely shifted
why one other way that we can kind of
make this more permanent is to go into
your settings and go into system and on
the loo
let's see left hand side tablet mode
you'll see this is what happened use the
appropriate mode for my hardware so for
some reason that determined that your
hardware was appropriately a tablet well
no
let's just set it to use desktop mode
and then I never have to worry about it
again if Windows thinks I'm on a tablet
for some crazy at least now in the
settings I've said just leave it in
desktop mode quit messing with things
windows still don't leave things open
overnight because you know it's going to
reboot for you true but that's it no
tablet mode there's how you disable it
temporarily and more permanently as well
that's permanent reset it with the next
day yeah I guarantee you we've got to
take a really quick break when we come
back we've got a handful of single board
computers you see all these wires well
these are going to things we're going to
take a quick move we're gonna have a
chat about these because I know you've
been into these as well well and
Christmas has come and I would like an
SBC or three stick around I think that's
a hint
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cat5 dot TV
slash shirts
Henry Bailey Brown yes sir
you've been on the show in previous
iterations and we've talked about the
raspberry pi it is my baby I love it and
that's where we kind of took single
board computers back in those early days
so Sasha though you've been here as
we've done some unboxings killers yeah I
would have to say I mean Raspberry Pi is
a fantastic platform for education and
for likely restarting and it's cheap
yeah I have one in love it love it but
fact is there are other manufacturers
who brought out things that are much
more powerful exact it's as simple as
that so I've been working on stocking up
my single board computer kind of box
I've got like a box so I've got my
Raspberry Pi 3 B+ so this is the latest
and greatest model of the Raspberry Pi
still has one gig of ram ok still is it
four cores of processing loose oh yeah
yeah but it's it's slow but it's
wonderful for connectivity the GPIO and
things yeah if that's all you need then
that's perfect right exactly but then if
you want to here's my scenario so this
is what we're up against in my household
and we've got a 720 720 p television set
in our living room that doesn't
currently have a set-top box
I had the Raspberry Pi 3 B+ plugged into
it
because it has HDMI output it plug in
and it'll do 720p just fine right what I
found with the Raspberry Pi though it
has built-in Wi-Fi but the Wi-Fi is
really not good oh yeah same experience
we tried to stream with my Raspberry Pi
1080 just doesn't want to doesn't want
to run I'm being kind the the Wi-Fi is
really bad yeah Raspberry Pi so in order
to use the Y in order to use this as my
set-top box I'd have to run an Ethernet
cable which means putting holes in the
walls drilling and going through a whole
process I've got really good Wi-Fi at
the house so I really want to find
something that I can do a little bit
better so we've got things like like
rock 64 for example which I can plug a
USB Wi-Fi adapter into and then I've got
a really good Wi-Fi but it's a lot more
powerful that's good we've got things
like the a 64 LTS from Pine 64 which has
a module for Wi-Fi yeah so we unbox this
and set it up but I've actually gone and
you know what I can zoom in on this so
that you guys can get a little bit
better of a look so this rock 64 pint
pardon me the pine 64 a 64 LTS has that
Wi-Fi chip here and it's got a little
antenna that I've stuck on to the
Gigabit Ethernet we've got a lot of
glare there but so it has built-in Wi-Fi
as well so it's gonna do pretty well and
it's again yeah a bit more powerful than
the Raspberry Pi but then we get stuff
like the next step up which is the rock
pro 64 also from pint 64 and it gets
confused because it's Pine 64 Rock pro
64 from pine 64 but it starts to make
sense once you start looking at these
things so this is the rock pro 64 and it
has PCI Express so I can plug a like a
riser card into that and do much more
one of the things you notice Henry
though is that one of the great things
about the Raspberry Pi is that it's got
GPIO but we're also finding on these
boards that who also got GPIO yeah but
we've got true Gigabit Ethernet you
notice that there's USB 3 port there's
OTG we've also got USB 2 on this
particular
we've got some tactile switches we've
got an audio out and we've got like HDMI
everything that you would expect so
we've got more power from a board like
that then from a Raspberry Pi exactly
and it's just slightly larger exactly
but still a great set top kind of device
it really is now the nano PI M for which
Marshman provided to us and we did an
unboxing couple weeks ago if you haven't
seen this one yet you've got to get a
look at it check out our website oh this
is it and it's powered on right now I
heard it on just because I kind of
wanted to see how it how it operates
I've got a Ethernet I've got a USB mouse
I've got HDMI output the HDMI does 4k
I've got a USBC cable giving it power
we've got again we've got GPIO here with
the Raspberry Pi pin architecture but
we've also got two X PCIe here which we
can use as expansion for if we want to
put SATA hard drives if we want to put
better Wi-Fi gigabit ethernet even 10
gig Ethernet will go on that Wow that
riser as well but it has built-in
Ethernet one gig it's got 4 USB 3 ports
up to 5 gig each and it's got kind of
everything that you need it does have an
emmc riser but I'm running it off of an
SD card because I don't have that
particular kind of emmc card it's not
the standard emmc it's some kind of riot
hairy thing interesting yeah but what I
do love too is okay so this is
six-course it's got four gigs of ram
they also have a two gig model well but
with six cores and all the power that
this BAE baebae has it's gonna generate
a lot of heat you know check out the
heatsink on the bottom of this this is
low for seven bucks extra you get this
heatsink and this is actually hard
screwed into the board and it's got
thermal contact with the rock chip
underneath there okay he's got the demo
processor with two core and and for
course a six-course total and four gigs
around and this will absorb all that
heat and marshmallow was pointing out to
me these rivets here are actually
threaded quarter inch oh no I could
stack it I could put it on a tripod or
oh my
that's cool that's that is crazy what of
that but here's the thing that I didn't
realize before hooking it up tonight and
we're gonna do some benchmarks over the
next couple of weeks
all right it requires a lot of power
this would be true mm-hmm I mean you
think it's it's pretty powerful and this
might be the one folks because it has I
mean Wi-Fi specifications check this out
the built-in Wi-Fi with this one it has
802 11 ABG and AC all there plus as I
mentioned it's got the gigabit ethernet
specifications wise it's got the RK
$33.99 CPU it's kind of a dreamy board
yeah in the Raspberry Pi form factor you
could you can go all the way up to 4k
60fps it's incredible the full nine
yards it's kind of that's that's the
next gen little beast yeah so when I say
it needs a lot of power that the most
powerful USB mm adapter that I had was
from a Raspberry Pi 3
yeah and it's 2.1 amps how much do we
need for this guy I'm powering it off of
2.1 amps right now but it does not like
it right and on the site they're selling
it with 4 amp power supplies and a
recommendation is gonna be 5 amps 5 you
need that power so so I'm gonna get I've
set up with a more powerful power supply
for it because I guess once you get into
you know they're not raspberry PI's
they're much more powerful than where as
far as specifications go so you've got
to step up that power supply so using
the old charger from your blackberry not
1 amp things that you get from China
then they're not going to cut it you
need to have I'm gonna say at least a 4
amp probably to really run this well
that's what I want this might end up on
my TV if things go well this cross just
3d printer case or something for you
there you go that would be you know what
because it's got those uh those threaded
yeah rivets I'm gonna just knows what I
can be like there you go to my camera
rig it's awesome
well just just thinking about it - like
I don't want to get like a Raspberry Pi
or something like I had raspbian
pre-installed I have all these other
features so when when you open the box
I'm sorry I wasn't here for it um does
it have anything pre-installed or is it
like microSD or in here so when you say
you got it with raspy and you probably
got the noobs yeah yeah you can so you
got like a like a can of kit yeah yeah
it has a power supply it had the SD card
already pre-built exact so that that's a
little different in this case you kind
of buy the parts that you need so you
buy the board for like sixty five sixty
six dollars you buy the the heatsink for
another seven dollars you get the power
supply for eight or nine bucks and if
you want you can get the emmc 16 gigs as
always not very much money I think
they're charging only like nine bucks
for it or something like that really
cheap I've just stuck a Kingston SD card
into it so it doesn't come with storage
you can buy storage separate but you've
got to flash the OS yeah so what do you
do so this is where Raspberry Pi kind of
differs from these boards in that and
this is this is the next gen this is
okay you've been playing with the
Raspberry Pi yeah you can experience
that you've you've gotten through noobs
and you've gotten through that kind of
introductory like okay this this card
came with the OS on it yeah now okay I'm
ready to install etcher and do my own
flashing so if we head over to their
website which I'm gonna this is funny
because I'm gonna have to actually a hug
HDMI here to be able to show you should
be able to transition the seamless
transition so if we head to their
website its friendly arm comm Henry if
you click on downloads you're gonna see
a list of all the downloads for all the
different s pcs this is called the nano
PI m4 so if you visit their their Google
Drive then you're gonna get a list of
all a various amount of files that are
available for this board so you've got
for example so I want SD SD card so
we've got friendly core which is like
the just the base OS or front friendly
Desktop which is like pre-built with the
desktop then we've got things like
Lubuntu we've got Android 7-7
we've got Android 8 so you can actually
run Android on this which truly makes it
an ideal scenario for tinkering and
putting it up on your TV for sure but I
want to really try out that friendly
desktop and so that's the one that I've
flashed on to my SD card so you download
the OS oh yeah it's an image file you
install a piece of software that's like
I use HIO and once you've got that
installed you just browse to the image
plugins D card it's awesome yeah so this
distro and now I've lost it now that
I've unplugged it and plugged it back in
I wish I could show you you've got to
see this and what we're gonna actually
do next week is we're gonna we're gonna
order the power supply that we need in
order to make this thing have as much
power as it needs alright and then we're
gonna be able to power it up and really
show you how this thing how this thing
operates but we're also gonna set it up
I've just repowered it mm-hmm
we're gonna set up a couple of other
SBC's we're gonna do some benchmarks
we're gonna do some comparatives and
we're gonna see how each of them
performs side by side Henry what are you
doing next week you see all these SBC's
we're gonna be running some benchmarks
we're gonna see what each one performs
like and I'm in particular I'm really
excited about the Nano Pi m4 and the ROC
Pro yes from Pine 64 these are two
boards that I think are head to head
they're gonna be the contenders it's
gonna be really interesting to see the
comparisons to it absolutely and we've
got a black screen I just wanted to see
if it's if it's come up I only have 2.1
amps we need for an order to get that
thing up and go next week next week back
you'd want to see that bad boy running
and you want to see it put up against
these other SBC's make sure you're here
on category 5 TV for episode number 583
that's correct
maybe right well all right we've got to
head over to the newsroom Sashi you
ready for us absolutely right ok here
the stories were covering this week in
the category 5 TV newsroom
Google data first searching cloud
services went to stray for more than an
hour on Monday thanks to an ugly mistake
by an African ISP Seagate and IBM are
using IBM's blockchain tech to verify it
disk drives authenticity using its
electronic fingerprints the flying
motorbike is back in Dubai and you can
see the police riding in one in the
not-too-distant future Samsung will soon
test TVs that can be controlled with
your brain a technology enhancement
perfect for people with disabilities
these stories are coming right up don't
go anywhere this is the category 5 TV
newsroom covering the week's top tech
stories with little slave Linux bias
Jeff Weston GEMA you're building a
brand-new beautiful website
what
aren't you right you're a terrible actor
what does where acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay are you
building a really cool website are you
building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host I'm
Sachi Rickman in here the top stories
are following this week Google data
first search and cloud services went
astray for more than an hour on Monday
thanks to an ugly mistake by an African
ISP the data was sent the wrong way when
main one cable in Nigeria updated
address books for key network hardware
the update saw it claimed to be the best
way to reach millions of Google net
addresses the mistakes spread to other
networks and led to Google traffic
traveling via China and Russia in a
tweet main one said the mistake had been
made during a planned network upgrade it
added the error was corrected within
seventy four minutes and processes put
in place to avoid recurrences all the
difference networks that make up the
Internet constantly swap information
about the best way to reach other parts
of the global system mistakes on one
network can mean traffic is rerouted the
wrong way Google said it had spotted the
error and blamed it on incorrect routing
of data a spokesperson for the search
giant said all traffic was sent the
wrong way was encrypted which should
limit any damage caused by being
misdirected later on Monday web company
CloudFlare was hit by a second mainland
cable mistake that also saw much of its
traffic rerouted in a statement
matthew prince chief executive of
CloudFlare said the mistake had probably
been made as a result of a network
meeting in nigeria early November he
said typically the meetings prompt ISPs
to set up more data sharing agreements
with each
with each other the mistake that
rerouted data had been made while a new
data sharing link had been being created
this was a big ugly screw-up he said uh
ninten intentional root leaks we've seen
to do things like steal cryptocurrency
are typically far more targeted mr.
Prince's explanation diffused earlier
claims that the rerouting had been an
attempt to steal data a McNay NAIC from
net security company thousand eyes had
characterized the incident as grand
theft internet and said it was unlikely
to be accidental okay so two very
different opposing views exactly but one
from CloudFlare i and google and i see i
think that it's scary that an
unintentional like maybe keystroke error
or something could cause something like
this but that's my gut is saying that
that's what it was i don't think it was
it was an intentional data leak yeah
when we understand also the
infrastructure of how the internet works
and you realize like this is why i tell
people do not send your credit card
number by email no because your email is
plaintext so as if I sent an email to
Sasha with my credit card number and
your your your the server that I have to
send it through no I'm gonna give you my
credit card number here it is now you
hand it to Sasha
so you're the server oh I'm gonna give
it to pie writers but you've got backups
of your own yeah exactly and I looked at
it I know her credit card number exactly
so that's the Internet that's email in
plain text now a lot of transactions
these days and you see it in your Chrome
browser and even in Firefox it says that
this site is not secure because it's
warning users hey by the way this site
is not encrypting your data these days
it's pretty much a requirement if you
will right it's not this plan yeah it's
not enforced but as users we need to
watch for our sites to be encrypted you
can you tell am i wrong is it HTTP
means it's secure is that correct there
will be a little lock beside it that
doesn't have any error message or loss
through it or anything like that if if
it's suspect it would have issues
potentially but that having that secure
connection doesn't mean your data is
safe if you don't necessarily trust the
other party what it means is that your
communication with the recipient is
encrypted okay so it doesn't mean that
the recipient is safe it means that your
connection to them is so if I'm sending
you my credit card number that's secure
yes and I know you and I trust you then
I can trust that you are a secure party
and you're in it you're safe to share
that personal information with Henry
though who knows so when you're on the
web you don't just fill in personal
information on any site just because it
says secure no secure does not mean the
receiving party is safe right it just
means that it's a secure connection to
them so that's that when this traffic
was routed through China or Russia
mm-hmm a lot of it because it went it
was from Google writes Google enforces
SSL secure encrypted connectivity and
secure encrypted data transmission so
this is how they could be sure that all
of the data was and that was for sure
encrypted they know because it's
actually right that's the impression
that we get right yes and that's the
impression that Google gave is that you
know what the data is encrypted so
unless they have the receiving keys
which they don't it's it's not going to
be visible to them yeah so it's the
general idea of how fragile the internet
really is though right you have company
you have countries like Russia and China
that aren't the most friendly to
Internet freedom
sure and like North America Europe there
they're pretty good privacy laws but
that's it well I'm a privacy law it
really does so it's it's concerning
right so like if I sent that email and
it yeah routed through Russia yeah then
you know that you know I'm gonna have
some unexpected expenses go on to my
card this year
yipper so what do you do be careful
Seagate and IBM are using IBM's
blockchain tech to verify a disk drives
authenticity using its electronic
fingerprints the blockchain drive is
apparently a way for the firm to deal
with the problem of fake or counterfeit
drives these may be sold online and are
typically relabeled old drive units
boasting higher capacities and speeds
because they're older drives their
lifetime will be shorter than the new
drives as well as having lower than
labeled capacity and speed the idea is
that Seagate furnishes an electronic IDE
ID at the time of manufacture and
registers this with the product
authentication data on IBM's blockchain
platform in its public cloud the
blockchain platform is powered by the
Linux foundations hyper ledger fabric
distributed ledger framework this
blockchain ee I D can be updated during
the drives life with for example a
digital certificate of data purged
electronically signed by the device
under a Seagate secure public key
infrastructure infant structure sorry
PKI it would be stored on the blockchain
for compliance management with emerging
global data privacy laws we're told that
the blockchains ew d proves an immutable
record of disk drive events it means
that if a drive is offered for sale its
Providence could be authenticated so
that you now know if the 14th terabyte
7200 rpm EXO's Drive is for real and not
a cheap old relabeled 8 terabyte 5400
RPM drive the theory sounds good but the
practice in the real world will depend
on the cost and practicality of access
you would need drive details from the
seller in order to check them on the IBM
blockchain platform and the seller might
not be forthcoming especially with
online sales IBM and Seagate quoted an
international anti-counterfeiting
counterfeiting coalition statistic
saying that the global trade in
counterfeit and pirated electronic
products
has reached more than one point seven
trillion in value one point seven
trillion dollars really and that's not
all of that is Drive you know no
counterfeit and wallets and things like
that too right it's all Gucci as a
matter of fact there were three hundred
we've encountered it on Amazon where we
actually bought an SD card that boasted
that it was like 256 gigs and it turned
out it was 16 but I relabeled it they
reprinted it and everything get onto our
website category five do a quick search
for Amazon fake SD and you will you
you'll love the video but it's really
important information yeah so okay so if
this blockchain technology was to be
applied to all things right like IBM
instigator doing it by a wizard if it
was the SD cards yes they would cost
more money and here's the thing but I
would pay more money because I would be
able to track that it was an authentic
workable piece of product I don't want a
three dollar SD card that's gonna ruin
all of my memories I will I would pay
extra money just to know it exactly I
would say that this is exactly what
people are gonna do and think and we're
seeing more and more like you can get a
twenty dollar video card on eBay that is
a $500 video card and it doesn't make
sense then you get it and it looks like
the card and they've made it branded
like the card exactly if you really know
what you're doing you'll determine no
this is not that card
no but the fear and the risk with
something like a counterfeit hard drive
right or an SSD like you think what how
big is your hard drive 8 terabytes let's
say so if you've got a spinning 7200 rpm
hard drive you know 8 terabytes is not
unheard of these days so let's put an 8
terabyte hard drive in our computer that
we ordered online and then start putting
our stuff on it and using it and it's
working great it's working great and
it's fantastic and but it's only a 2
terabyte drive that's been relabeled so
then as soon as you load it up with 2
terabytes worth of data yep and exceed
at the file system pas grace because it
can't write any yeah it's literally only
a two terabyte drive but it thinks it's
an 8 terabyte drive so it'll keep trying
to rewrite but it'll just corrupt
everything Oh No
but how long does it take any of us
unless we're like dumping a lot of data
onto it exactly how long does it take
any of us to fill 2 terabytes a long
time so you'd be into this false sense
of security thinking everything was ok
and then all of a sudden and if it takes
you six months Sasha to fill 2 terabytes
yeah I'm just using that as the example
mm-hmm what are you gonna do in six
months good luck finding this vendor
exactly that you bought it from that has
since closed down because they just pop
up they sell them they drop out yeah pop
up they close it there there you go you
can never get it back you can never get
your money back you can never get your
data back cuz it doesn't exist right
yeah it's very bad situations lock chain
is a great solution exactly that just
leads to my argument that people will do
this even if it costs more money people
right so people won't want to save the
money of the possibility of having a
product that they can't trace you'll
spend a little bit extra I think we'll
eventually get used to that yeah and
Sasha it's not an argument when all of
us agree that is true yes authentic
products the flying motorbike is back in
Dubai and you could see the police
riding one in the not-too-distant future
a year after california-based start-up
hover surf showcased a tougher bike at
tech Expo get X in the white and green
detailing of the Dubai Police the
company has returned with a new model
and evidence is electric electric
vertical takeoff and landing Evol
vehicle might be well taking off making
good on a deal signed in 2017 hover surf
has now gifted to by police its first
serial production unit of the s3 2019
hover bike and has begun training
officers to fly it the general director
of Dubai's police artificial
intelligence department described the
Evol vehicle
as a first responder unit used to access
hard-to-reach areas
he said he aims to have hoverbikes in
action by 2020 he said currently we have
two crews already training to pilot the
hover bike and we're increasing that
number hovers over over surf chief
operating officer Joseph Segura Khan
explained that ideal candidates will be
able to ride a motorcycle and have drone
operating experience Segura Khan said
the by police have exclusive rights to
order as many units as they want they're
going to let us know in the next month
or two if they'd like anymore if they
would like 30 or 40 we'll make it happen
for them if you're not a member of the
force and have a spare 150 thousand
dollars the hover bike could still be
yours orders are open to civilians but
Segura Khan cautions that buyers are
screened to ensure that they can handle
the new tack in the US the hover bike
has met Federal Aviation Administration
Administration guidelines which means
you do not need a pilot's license to fly
the vehicle a manufacturing site for the
s3 2019 is yet to be confirmed but
Segura Khan said hover surf is in talks
with with three companies in different
locations around the world - by being
one location hover surf also has a
bigger two-seater flying car it plans to
showcase in four to five months in sell
in 2020 since sakura-con
so that's do you know how to ride a
motorbike no I feel confused is this
considered a motorbike or it's like an
air up there it's neither it's a
quadcopter that you yeah unlike a
motorbike yeah so I could just take my
like DJI drones and just float them
around take America people do that it's
like this thing is a chopping machine
like you think have you ever been all
off yeah I'm gonna ask you this
truthfully yeah have you ever had an
accident with your drone um probably
once or twice before yeah okay I was
flying my my big drone
about oh no like a phantom - yeah and I
brought it down on the road and and I'm
yeah I was learning to pilot it and
they're way different than toy drums oh
yeah you got to kill the engines at the
right time just as you're muttering at
the right spot and everything yeah I
didn't do it right and it flipped over
its Lang with its propellers on the
ground and its feet up in the air so I
put down my controller and I walked over
to it and I grabbed the legs and I
picked it up and it went like and it
sliced my own okay it was it was still
alive yeah it was asleep not asleep so
that's this thing that's about this big
now imagine something that is the size
that you can sit on like a motorbike and
it has propellers that are this big
right how dangerous that could be
they'll have safety there they will of
course and these days with like really
really good gyros yeah GPS systems
really good AI control mm-hmm and that's
that's interesting thing like when
you're talking about the FAA you're
saying that you technically don't need a
pilot's license you do know I think that
the FAA might go with like do you think
this pilot permit or like a pilot
because there's like a recreational
license I can get that's like under for
like lightweight things is this hover
bike going to go exactly will you be
able to pass cars above how do you
ensure your insurance company is gonna
insure it like is it classified as a car
airplane a drone it's interesting to see
how this will unfold I honestly think
that eventually everybody will use these
it'll cut down on our need to have
roadways this is made this before this
case before I think that we will be able
to have more green space because we
don't need roads and we'll just have
hover bikes and hover cars and we'll be
able to have roadways that are just
elevated well things for sure it's going
to be really easy to cut the grass yeah
one of my drones that I have just on on
display here right studio is the
enterprise the Starship Enterprise
lovin it so this is this is a quad
copter but you see how it's in a cage so
that the propellers are never so what if
they were to put that kind of a caging
system on the propellers so that even if
you hit something you're not gonna cut
it up
exactly exactly right that might be a
Morse like a safer way to go right yeah
ever all be flying them yes I don't
trust some people I think that having
been a drone pilot myself amateur I know
that how complicated it is no I know
that the technology has grown since then
but I know that you can get turned
around real bad and if you're not
careful right but you've never been
sitting on your drone while you're
flying right
right I think that that will change I
hope your views on it but Sasha and
Henry you'll probably know what this is
like I've had GPS interference oh yeah
of course
or my GPS being uncalibrated today every
computers and every computer breaks
right yeah that's a really that's
probably why I haven't flown in the past
couple of years I had it I had my GPS go
wonky yeah and I almost lost my big
drone because it just wanted to go where
it thought I was telling it to go and it
was not looking to me it's like I want
to go get your Amazon package I'll be
back
no I was I was out of town and I hadn't
calibrated it to the GPS no it was a
mess
and scary is very scary Wow with these
though Sasha will we ever be finding
them no I think the problem is gonna be
battery life
well if specially in Canada why well
during the winter right it's it's more
like a summer car kind of G all right
yeah I want to be I want for it to be a
real thing I just I can imagine the joy
of like flying above the ground not not
in a plane right just above water bike
just hug that flies yeah that's that's
awesome that's gonna be cool Samsung
will soon test TVs that can be
controlled with your brain a technology
enhancement perfect for people with
disability
Samsung TVs are already some of the most
popular options for high-end home
theater systems and the company is now
using its television making prowess to
help people with disabilities live more
normal lives a new project by Stan a
Samsung team in Switzerland could yield
the first Smart TV that can be
controlled with thoughts Samsung has
partnered with Swiss scientists to bring
the system to life it's called Project
pontus the ultimate goal goal is to
build a brain software interface that
will allow individuals with movement
disabilities to control television
features like channel switching and
volume control with their brains rather
than their body's brain controlled
gadgets aren't entirely new you can even
buy a simple brain controlled mind flex
games made by Mattel if you want to play
around with the technology in your own
home but the project pontus system is
significantly more robust at present the
system combines brain monitoring sensors
and eye tracking hardware to identify
what selections the individual intends
to make going forward the partnership
hopes to make the system smart enough to
accept commands via brain commands alone
meaning that you'd only need to think
about changing the volume for the action
to be performed now before you go
thinking that this is the ultimate
accessory for a lazy channel surfer or a
Netflix binge watcher it's important to
note that this is all aimed specifically
at aiding those with severe disabilities
Samsung hasn't even hinted at the idea
that this would be commercially
available product that being said the
technology reaches a point where it's
essentially plug-and-play it's hard to
imagine Samsung or another company at
least testing the waters with everyday
consumers in any case the project is
still in a relatively early stage with
Samsung forecasting new prototype
testing sometime in early 2019 if a
thought-controlled TV ever does arrive
it's like it likely won't be available
for quite a while mm-hmm so I'm learning
right now in school about you know a
myriad of different disabilities and No
and the importance of Independence and
and autonomy and preference in somebody
who doesn't have physical abilities any
longer so it doesn't seem like a big
deal to change a channel right but if
you know that you can control what
you're going to be watching if the only
thing you can you can really do is is
control what you're watching and your
cognitive health can improve because you
know you're busy learning you're not
just waiting for somebody to guess what
you want right you're know you're not
verbal likely right right oh wow that
makes me think about all kinds of uses
for you know the evolving TechNet people
change channels anymore
what's channel no back-and-forth on
whatever is on Netflix yeah Netflix or
navigate Plex Media Server yeah then
I'll be happy exactly it's not for me
obviously but bright in the future maybe
if you can do that with a TV then you
can do it with maybe an on-screen
communication board maybe you could do
that with an alphabet you can all of a
sudden speak just with your thoughts
through a TV right you can now
communicate they do some really cool
stuff yeah comment below what you think
this technology can be used for to
better society and make things better
for everyone
moving along according to coin gecko
here's what the crypto market looked
like as of 1700 hours Eastern Time on
Wednesday November 14th 2018 Bitcoin has
lost big time we went down seven hundred
and seventy four dollars and 93 cents
you asked in the past week litecoin also
lost but not quite as significant $10.49
USD aetherium is also down 35 dollars
and 74 cents we also saw a loss in
Manero 17 dollars and 87 cents was the
decline with a single Manero being worth
now ninety three dollars and sixty five
cents u.s. stellite is down two dollars
and five cents now doesn't sound like a
lot but if
two dollars and five cents pardon me to
0.05 ten thousandth of a sin way
significantly less but as I say it
doesn't sound like a lot but keeping in
mind that it is only worth five point
one five ten thousandth of a cent per
stellite it's a pretty significant drop
yes
turtle coin also is on the decline
losing 0.23 ten thousandth of a cent
making its value this week at 0.72 ten
thousandth of a cent
well turtle coin the slow but steady one
and when you hear these numbers so you
think bitcoin at five thousand seven
hundred eighty nine dollars and forty
three cents you think wow that one's the
one to get right well you're not gonna
get a single Bitcoin without that's a
neat thing about something like turtle
coin is you can get ten thousand of them
and it's that and you just kind of it's
like stocks right you're buying penny
stock and you're hoping that it gets up
there into the and you have because this
week it's interesting though to see
everything is on the decline and we've
really had a fluctuating market over the
past little while mm-hmm we'll keep an
eye on it here on the category-five TV
newsroom over the next few weeks and
report back to you what we find
big thanks to Roy W nationair community
of yours for submitting stories to us
this week thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight lytx bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our website from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Sasha Rickman I'm Robbie
Ferguson I'm still Henry Bailey Brown
thank you everyone for being with us
this week it's been a lot of fun and
don't forget to join us again next week
we're gonna hook all these SBC's up
single board computers we're gonna see
how they perform and how they outperform
one another we're gonna finally see if
they are truly faster than a Raspberry
Pi 3 B+ well they they may you know what
we should do we should figure out the
speed versus the dollar for dollar yeah
yeah this is the speed how many dollars
per like speed iteration would it be and
then actually have a comparative
division got the job okay I'm bringing a
calculator next that's right yeah we'll
figure it out if I had
million dollars how fast can I make my
thing oh and help me with that single
like a giant it's not actually a single
board computer it's 10,000 but it's like
a million degrees Kelvin here
I was upset that I needed a four amp
yeah watch out okay we're gonna make the
the lights dim next week yeah I'll see
you then take care everybody
[Applause]
