welcome to category 5 technology TV
episode number 308 it's Tuesday the 13th
of august 2013 great to see hey I'm
scrambling tonight big change in our
plans for the evening Becca is not going
to be joining us tonight and I can tell
you all about what's going on in a
little bit but first of all well we're
going to be changing up the format
tonight we're going to be answering your
questions in the chat room its category
5 on freenode you can also pick up the
cat phone give us a call to 5 45 2 2 85
88 and ask your question that way and
I'd love to actually help you out by
remoting into your system using
teamviewer and I can actually get into
your system whether you be on linux or
windows and be able to help you with
your particular tech issues so feel free
to give me a call that way okay coming
up in the newsroom a transit system is
traveling at about 4,000 miles per hour
has been it's been proposed by elon musk
also tor users the anonymous browsing
software and a net they are being urged
to stop using Microsoft Windows I know
more about that in just a little bit the
latest security breach is an Android app
that lets you flush the toilet on rich
people what could it mean stick around
find out all right there's a new
resistive Ram that has been announced it
can place a whole terabyte of data on a
single chip and it's a hundred times
faster than the standard mechanical hard
drive so don't go anywhere these stories
and more coming up and don't forget to
join us in the chat room category five
on freenode or just go to category 5 TV
and follow the links stick around I'll
be right back this is category 5
technology TV
at eco alkalines we believe you should
be able to trust your batteries not just
here but here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here Eco alkalines
of the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco outlines provide performance
the rivals leading national alkaline
battery brands at a comparable price
find out more about the Eco alkalines
difference Eco alkalines calm this is
category 5 technology TV Andrew Jameson
in the chat room hey nice to see you
buddy says this reminds me of the old
school days when Robbie F was solo
without a co-host and that's exactly
what we're doing tonight now I'm going
to tell you there's this thing that
happens about once a year and it's
called vacation and Here I am all right
we're live tonight just so you know and
if you're watching this on on demand
then you know it doesn't matter to you
but we are actually live tonight
basically I'm committed to always having
an episode of category 5 we've never
missed a week it is episode 308 that
means 308 episodes or three hundred and
eight weeks of category five technology
TV we've never missed one even when it
falls on Christmas Day here we are and
here we are at the end of my vacation
time and it just didn't work out for us
to do everything that we had planned for
tonight considering that you know I'm
actually on holidays right now but I got
into the studio for you here I am wanted
to make sure that you and I had a chance
just to hang out we're going to have a
show together tonight and just like
Andrew Jameson and the chat room says
it's just like the olden days we're
literally just we're just hanging out in
the studio here in my basement we're
just chatting i welcome you to pick up
the phone you can give me a call we'll
actually have a chat to 545 cat5 TV
that's 25 450 it's really really hard to
do it when I do it that way to 545 cat5
TV 2 5 45 228 588 you can feel free to
give me a call this morning I had a
well actually last night I had a
privilege of having a chat with Rob
Robert gorsinski from Australia we were
in the chat room at category 5 on
freenode and he was having some trouble
setting up his I don't know a hard drive
or something in that fest AB in Linux
and as you know what let's just use
teamviewer I'm going to get into your
system and we'll fix it up and it took
about two minutes i guess they robbed
and and i was able to you know just
casually give them a hand and that's
that's kind of what this community is
all about that's what this show is all
about and I think that certainly those
who have been watching for some time
know that you know my heart is in just
giving you a hand and doing what we can
to help you out so I'd encourage you if
you have teamviewer installed you have a
specific issue hey let's throw me for a
loop as long as it's not something that
I can't do on the air because we are
limited to a one-hour time constraint
here I'd be happy to take a look with
teamviewer so that's one opportunity and
again the cat phone is open the chat
room is there John it's great to see a
thigh body it's good to see you access
web al cat obviously going alphabetical
now Bob k 54 cool dude David 2926 d hand
good guy gee pop 7 jodha max keck keck
good to see you King Arthur I can't stop
there right I feel like you know I got a
I got to keep going through the list
Maxwell 6307 otherwise what's gonna
happen is the ipod is gonna say i didn't
mention me that's why i mention you off
the top Steve gug slip 3d RT Blair Paul
8 old guy Jim great to see you again uh
who else haven't I mentioned you al nice
to see and if I hadn't didn't mention
your name it's like the magic mirror on
romper room right it's yeah I see you
out icg pop I see gwg and pokey and
Garvey good to see ya well guy Jim hey
it's no problem if you haven't been able
to get here speaking of scheduling
difficulties that's exactly what we are
up against the night here at the studio
and do my best for you I'm watching the
chat room I'm trying to communicate with
you I've got screens all around me I've
got papers in front of me I'm gonna do
my absolute best folks so just hang in
with me
hang out with me and I think it'll be a
fun show okay what what do what are you
okay so you've been watching episodes
this is old guy Jim in the chatroom been
watching episodes of a later date I
wanted to give you a big thank you this
is directed toward myself for the lesson
on FF diaporama i've been using looking
for something that i could use for linux
that could come close to proshow gold
for windows thank you this did it old
guy Jim I'm very very happy that FF
diaporama was something that that helped
you out that is a slideshow tool that's
available for Linux I'll tell you which
episode it is on episode number 305 so
if you want to go back if you missed the
episode it is when Robbie myself here
obviously I'm reading when myself and
Krista took a look at that software it's
available for Windows and Linux it makes
it really really easy to make some very
attractive slideshows using your
pictures you make videos out of them and
then you know do whatever you like with
that so glad that helped gee pop 7 hey
nice to see a guest Harry welcome to the
chat and it's good to see you alright
folks well I've got a lot of viewer
questions that have come in viewer
comments as well we're just going to
tackle those and go through the mail bag
again pick up the phone give me a call
if you missed the number it's at the
bottom of the website category five TV
hey I got a postcard this week hey
thanks for sending it in what a great
thing to receive on my vacation and you
know what it's funny because this was
taken this picture was taken at a mid
1800s kind of set up a Pioneer Village
kind of thing called crossroads village
and they call it a living history
community which is really really cool
but why that's interesting to me tonight
is because on our vacation our theme
this year has been pioneer village and
you didn't know that when you sent that
Dennis Kelly so we've actually attended
to pioneer villages in the halliburton
area we went to the halliburton museum
they had a family fun day there last
week we
there it was a great time and thank you
to everybody who was involved in that
the kids had a blast and then we headed
out to minden on the weekend and in
minden Ontario we went to the Pioneer
Museum there and that was very very
interesting to see some of the cool
basically the old artifact like stuff
and they have kind of a village set up I
definitely worth the visit but that's
why this was interesting to me because
it's takes place and at a pioneer
village and it just happens to be the
theme of my week and this comes to us
from Dennis Kelly who says to Robbie and
current co-host isn't this ironic thank
you for an awesome show I learn
something every day that i watch I
finally got a postcard for something in
my area of Michigan the family and I
visited this 1800s era village this past
weekend kind of funny eh not much
technology as we know it but very modern
for its time thanks from Dennis Kelly
sent to us recently from Michigan in the
United States thank you very very much
for sending that in cool to see a
picture of crossroads village the print
shop there and that looks like somewhere
to visit for sure what is your favorite
Pioneer Village it's interesting as a
tech guy and i think dennis kelly can
attest to this and even just reading the
back of his post card there it kind of
goes to show that yeah we're stepping
into an era here where they didn't have
the same technology that we do i mean
this would be witchcraft seriously but
there it is and you go there and they've
got all these interesting gadgets and
it's interesting isn't a dentist that
they even though they didn't have our
technology the electronic stuff they had
stuff that makes you go oh my goodness
that's smart i wish i had that in my
kitchen that's a really smart tool and
they had a lot of things like that so
yeah I theme my vacations just because
you know the kids are grown up and we
try to we try to have a lot of fun with
them and then it helps us to figure out
what we're going to do for the time that
we have off to so needless to say
tonight is the final day of my vacation
so thank you for joining me and we're
just gonna chill relax extreme closeup
of my face hopefully you can see
that I am slightly tanned and that is a
good thing tonight Andrew Jameson loves
going to historic Williamsburg is it
Williamsburg yeah I and that is very
very cool okay so I've got your viewer
questions let's get right into it folks
and if you've got something for me it's
going to be tough for me i'll be honest
i don't have a co-host here with me
tonight as i usually do this is the
first time in a long time and you know
so I'm a little out of practice when it
comes to running everything at the same
time and keeping track of your questions
in your comments so if you have
something for me please post it in the
chat room to my attention but also copy
it in a private message to me and in
order to do that you can either double
click on my name which is Robbie F in
the chat room that room kind of looks
like this if you're using an application
and you just double click on my name and
it will bring up a private window that
allows you to chat with me if you don't
have a tool like what I'm using is
pigeon then you can simply do this / msg
Robbie F and it's not that I'm full of
monosodium glutamate it's that you are
sending me a message and you can just
say hello and that will actually send me
a private message that says hello okay
so that's how you send me a PM that
helps me tonight because i'm here alone
so I appreciate that very very much
sorry yes Williamsburg Virginia Andrew
Jameson clarifies we do not have a
disneyland in Canada we have a
wonderland in Toronto which is about 45
50 minutes away from here look it up
Wonderland just like Alice and lots of
fun there but it's not themed like like
Disney World obviously but it used to be
owned by paramount and when it was owned
by paramount that was awesome because
that was when paramount also owned you
guessed it hmm so that's where I got my
first you know Starfleet communicator
and all that kind of stuff but nowadays
this it's not themed like that but
alright so keep in mind please private
message me if you've got a question I've
got something here comes from to me from
Derek and Derek simply says
hey Robbie I found your site looking up
linux stuff for kids and i found quite
an interesting episode on your site i
like it thanks but may I suggest that
you put appropriate time oh pardon me
approximate times for when and where the
individual articles are in the show this
particular episode was a one hour long
episode as they all are and it took me
ages to get to the part I was
specifically interested in once I
founded it was very informative
informative so with a one hour show if
it took you ages to get to the point
then obviously your player is playing
super slow but no I get you okay so I'm
going to click on this link it's episode
number 2 24 beautiful beautiful picture
of Krista and I at the top of the page
and you see what what has happened here
is that these old episodes this is 224
so this is you know a long long time ago
almost a hundred weeks ago so these you
know in the show notes it sure it has
all the show notes but it doesn't have a
really cool feature which is the the
play links Derek and I'll show you what
a new episode has and sorry so what we
have since introduced into the show is
exactly what you're asking for let me
bring up last week's up well not last
week because I was on vacation let's see
bring up a previous episode here we go
episode number 306 for example so on
episode 306 here Derek what's cool about
this as you see yeah it's the same kind
of layout but it has these play buttons
right next to the particular items that
you're looking at so we love your
suggestion we have implemented your
suggestion unfortunately it has not been
implemented in the particular episode
that you were watching only because it
was a very old episode and in fact you
know it's that's it when you open the
episode it actually tells you at the
bottom of the page this is a very old
episode some of the technologies may not
even be in use anymore so that's just
simply what it is but our new you know
our site does
carry that feature and it's cool feature
category five dot TV check it out okay
checking back at the chat room it's
difficult for me folks okay we've got
I've got something here from old salt
old salt says Robbie I don't know if you
got my last message but I got ubuntu
13.04 working fantastic I know it's been
a few weeks that old salt has been has
been working at this that's good news
hope that we've been of some amount of
help at least in the the figuring it out
kind of phase old salts has the only
problem that I have now is that I've got
about ten partitions too many from
trying so many distros each time I tried
they made partitions within partitions
within partitions I made one partition
using Windows and then Linux made the
rest during the installation procedures
can they be converged into one by the
way the other OS is windows 8 if you
need more information let me know okay
old salt well here's the thing and this
comes to us from Maine USA thank you for
tuning into the show tonight category 5
technology TV you've gone all these
partitions and and you know you've got
logical and and primary partitions and
extended partitions and everything's
kind of broken up and it just comes from
experimenting i think old salt and and
the thing is is that that's the nature
of the beast you're learning your way
around getting this thing up and going
and and if you have a backup that you
can restore of your windows 8 system and
I I would personally probably go with
get you know restore back from a
clonezilla image if you have one and
then reinstall now that you've got now
that you know what you're doing kind of
thing and you can get it in there
without creating this kind of dog's
breakfast if you will as far as
partitions go but the fact is is that in
order to clean that up it's really quite
difficult without data loss or breaking
the system you could and it's going to
cause a deletion of data okay so I'm
going to suggest this but knowing that
you have a good solid backup
you could delete the partitions that are
offending make sure you don't break your
windows partition because that's not
what you want to do delete all of Linux
hear me out here folks delete it all so
that you can just create that one empty
space not a partition empty space okay
so get rid of all the partitions it's
going to destroy everything that you put
into linux but now you've got one large
continuous contiguous space on your hard
drive okay it's great big space that you
can now install your linux operating
system into and then get it up and going
and it's like you started from square
one and no harm done no harm no no harm
no foul and you'd be good to go but even
you know when I was learning linux I
baked a lot of systems and just have fun
with it and I think that you're you know
you're learning your way around and it's
I encourage you to keep doing that I you
know for a time I even kept a separate
hard drive in my computer and I would
log into my bios on boot and I would
switch over to the Linux one and even
when i first started i think i was
actually swapping you know pulling the
cable from the back of my windows drive
and plugging it into my linux drive and
then i could mess with that linux drive
to my heart's content never had to worry
about wrecking my my windows
installation because back then i was i
was dependent on that for business or
whatever so so then once I got used to
running linux on that secondary hard
drive which was just you know whatever
hard drive i had running then I then
that's when I got into a dual bar dual
boot / set up so that I could boot into
windows when I needed it and boot into
linux when I needed it and I would then
I got into just running window or pardon
me running Linux exclusively but I kept
that dual boot environment so that I
could boot into windows if I ever needed
it then I started to find after time
that I no longer needed the windows
partition so I created a virtual machine
and I installed windows XP into it
because I happen to have a windows XP
license off of another computer
disk and it was easy breezy to install
and it ran great in a virtual machine so
then that's when I was able to say okay
now I'm Linux I've got windows in a
virtual machine I can just tinker with
that whenever I need to but it's not
really my operating system so so all
that to say I know where you know the
question stems from what can you do
about the partitions I would say yes
start again but it's not going to hurt
anything really if you've got all these
partitions and it depends again you know
here's another case old salt we're sure
I could maybe remote in and take a look
at your your fdisk and take a look at
your FS tab and find out where things
are being mounted one has data what is
actually just empty partitions maybe use
gparted to determine some of that
information that's something that maybe
we could take a look at if you have
teamviewer installed that'd be a fun way
to to take a look for you but I don't
actually do we see old salt in chat room
I don't see it tonight but my friend if
you if you want us to have a look for
you let me know okay and thank you for
tuning in thanks for the question hey
folks just a reminder if you're chatting
in the chat room and you have a question
for me or comment just feel free to
carbon copy that over to a private
message just so that I don't miss it I
am co-host lyst tonight this is category
5 technology TV episode 308 nice to have
you here as i'm here alone i'm trying to
keep up with the chat room and keep up
with your emails that are coming in and
a Twitter Facebook you name it youtube
nice to see a blip TV first run TV miro
internet TV wherever you're watching
from right now oh and you on the roku
nice to have you joining us on the blip
TV channel as well you can add our show
directly to your Roku box all you have
to do is just go to category five dot TV
click on the RSS link on the right hand
side it's a familiar icon or simply go
to cat 5 TV / RSS that's our short link
cat five not category cat five TV / RSS
that will take you there as well
okay what else have I got I can't
believe it's almost time for the news
folks and I've got some exciting stories
for you some interesting stories I think
and we're going to be jumping into that
in just a few minutes time if you're
watching off the top of the show you
know what's coming up I want to say
thank you to our viewers who have sent
in donations this week this week is of
course a bit of an odd show because I'm
here alone it's vacation week and you
know I do this once a year or so where
we just kind of take a casual and
impromptu kind of relaxing evening but
for those of you who were able to send
in a donation over the past week two
weeks I just wanted to let you know
personally that that is greatly
appreciated we're saving up to renovate
a new studio space studio D this is my
home basement and and it's wonderful it
works really well for us but it does cut
down the the amount of floor space in my
wife's and my home by about a third and
so you know we look forward to one day
having a studio space all of our own for
category 5 it's going to be soundproof
that's the other advantage so or sound
at least sound absorbing I guess the the
we've had a contractor in they said it's
not soundproof it's sound something
deflecting them absorbing and it's a
little different but they know what
they're talking about they're going to
make it happen for us and I appreciate
your donations which are being set aside
for that when possible otherwise they
help us to pay for the bills as you know
those are pretty high but we do what we
can with what we have and we appreciate
you for sending in that support if you
care to support us in that way and
you're able to I encourage you you know
any amount helps us and I only say this
because we're in a time where we do need
to raise some funds it's cat5 TV /c and
you know me that I'm an honest guy and
I'm not asking for handouts at any time
we've been doing this for three hundred
eight weeks we want to grow and
and that's as simple as it is but your
donations help if your donations come
then that helps us out otherwise I'm
hitting the pavement to I did I spent a
weekend I traveled i drove for about an
hour I think it was an hour and a half
drive and I went to Georgian Bay I got
all the equipment that I needed and I
did a large amount of video shooting for
a real estate company there and it was a
fun project but the whole thing was
specifically to raise funds for the
renovation so I was actually
volunteering my time I'm not getting
paid for that time at all and was there
doing filming for a real estate agency
and and then everything that's raised
from that goes directly into the pot for
the renovation as well so just so you
know kind of where we're out there and
I'm going to put some information on our
website and certainly on my blog bald
nerd calm okay don't forget category 5
phone is open to 545 cat5 TV and also
our mobile site which is going to land
squarely on my chest ouch mcat five dot
TV I should move over here scan that
code it'll take you to the mobile site
you can listen I know those of you who
are listening right now and your mobile
device yeah you know some people have
said that they're in the car whatever
they're working in the shop and the
signal is not strong enough to be able
to watch the show but they're able to
tune in live with the radio feed which
is very very handy uses less bandwidth
so if you're on your cellular network
it's going to cost you a lot less if you
have a limited amount of data that
you're able to transfer without
incurring expense because it uses a very
very little data okay time for another
question I think before we get into the
news let's see what we got anybody in
the chat room I just want to give you a
chance thanks everybody a Jameson
wondering a little bit more about the
space i'm going to be revealing much
more about that studio d over the next
several weeks all i know is that we had
really hoped to be able to move in this
fall in time for season 7 s beginning
that's probably not going to happen just
because of the well we got our quote and
it is about a third more than we were
expecting and it's a full honest quote
from a gentleman that that I respect
highly is very very good at what he does
and and I trust him and and I know that
he's given us a good deal and a fair
deal I guess would be the the most
important thing and it came in quite a
bit heavier than we thought so so it is
going to take some time unless something
comes about and certainly your donations
again help with that but a Jameson it is
going to be just a separate space and
that's really what it's going to be
about it's going to be great cheers old
guy Jim I'm just watching the chat room
for those of you who why is he just
staring at the screen and the witty
banter tonight is not quite the same
without Hillary or Sasha or Kristen or
Eric especially your Rachel or Abigail
where Becca sitting at my side and Erica
so it's all up to me tonight folks
mm-hmm all right you know what I'm going
to jump into the news folks this is
exciting exciting stuff tonight
serial entrepreneur and billionaire Elon
Musk unveiled design plans for the
Hyperloop it's a super fast transport
system that could cut the travel time
from Los Angeles to San Francisco to 30
minutes that's a fraction of the current
proposed high-speed rail project I mean
a very very small amount compared to
that what is it like an insanely 70
billion dollar project or something like
that and this is way way less than that
the co founder of PayPal that's who this
guy is he's also the man behind
commercial space transport firm space X
as well as somebody that you've heard a
company you've heard of Tesla they make
the electric cars so he's no stranger to
creating you know businesses and and all
that but he actually tapped into the
workforce that he has through those
businesses about a thousand employees
from both Tesla and SpaceX came up with
the idea it's basically an elevated tube
as you see in the picture there and it
has travelpod that move through at
nearly the speed of sound in a technical
paper published yesterday musk said that
the idea is similar to the old pneumatic
tubes used to send mail and packages
within and between buildings you
remember those and there it goes so now
you are in this tube and it's much
larger scale but it's actually going to
operate on less pressure to save energy
and that's a key point considering some
of the competition that's out there he
said it's going to cost less than
one-tenth of the planned high speed rail
system in California as a matter of fact
which yes is confirmed here to be almost
70 billion dollars in that proposal but
here's the thing not only is it only a
tenth of the price but it is six times
the speed unlike the competing idea
called et3 Musk's concept would not rely
on the vacuum system which he claims
would in fact be impossible to maintain
in such a large system a video about the
idea claims that in the frictionless
environment that they're going to create
or that they have come up with the
concept for at least the cars each
carrying several people could top four
thousand miles per hour about 6,500 km/h
or six times the speed of a Boeing 757
it claimed a travel time of around 45
minutes from New York to Los Angeles
crazy stuff you can actually get links
and see the videos all that at newsroom
category-five TV if you'd like to check
those out legitimate users of the tour
anonymous browsing service pardon me
they are being advised to stop using
windows if they want to keep their
identity hidden so is that you listen up
if you're using windows with tor the
advisory comes after an actual attack on
tour the targeted windows users
specifically and sought to gather data
that could be used to identify those
people in addition tour warned that
versions of Firefox before release 17.0
points 7 were open to the attack as an
alternative tour suggests get this the
Linux operating system or alternatively
Apple OS X or the more esoteric systems
such as tails it is still not clear
who's behind the sophisticated attack
but this is a little bit scary early
investigations showed that the data was
going to a location in America probably
the state of Virginia and further
sleuthing has now revealed that the web
address being that's receiving all of
this private information about your
surfing habits on tour is actually run
by the US NSA the National Security
Agency so that's a little bit ominous
here's something for you have you got a
six thousand dollar toilet in your house
be where luxury toilet users are being
warned about a hardware flaw it's not
what you would expect retailers of this
nearly 6,000 dollar toilet it's called
the sati toilet
it includes automatic flushing bday
spray of course if you're going to pay
six thousand dollars for a toilet you're
not going to have to wipe plain and
simple it also plays music yeah and it
has an automated fragrance release my
toilet has that too not the same thing
the toilet is controlled by an android
app kind of interesting right but a
hardware flaw means that any phone with
the app could activate any of the
toilets the toilet uses Bluetooth to
receive instructions via the app but the
pin code for every single toilet made is
hard set to zero zero zero zero that
means it cannot be reset you can't
change the pen and it can be activated
by any phone that has the app and is
within Bluetooth range a report by trust
waves spiderlabs information security
experts warns and this is a quote okay
folks this is real an attacker could
simply download the application and use
it to cause the toilet to repeatedly
flush raising the water usage and
therefore utility costs of the user okay
that's not our biggest concern here's
the thing okay they reveal that the
attackers could also cause the unit to
unexpectedly open and close the lid I
guess that's a feature of the app of
course they can activate the bday or the
Airdrie functions there's more functions
that we didn't even know about here and
this they warn could cause discomfort or
distress to the user security expert
Graham Cluley told the BBC although this
vulnerability seems largely harmless
what's clear is that companies building
household appliances need to have
security in mind just as much as
computer manufacturers boy oh boy the
first dorm room
that gets one of these toilets you know
that there's going to be some prank and
going on guaranteed start up the
crossbar get this no they don't make
rainbows despite what you may think from
what you see on the screen they claim
that they have developed the world's
most advanced non-volatile memory it's
capable of storing up to about a
terabyte of data on a single chip that's
not all the memory it also touts being
the most energy-efficient being able to
perform 20 times faster than traditional
NAND it has 10 times the endurance of
typical NAND as well so it holds more it
lasts longer and it's faster sounds good
to me the technology is called resistive
Ram or our Ram for short and with a mere
200 millimeter square chip one terabyte
of storage can be held so you think
about that with our Ram the future of
mechanical storage really does appear
grim but that assumes the crossbar is
actually going to come through with the
promises that that they are making it
also makes the assumption that prices
are going to reach you know a consumer
accessible level today's hard drives top
out at about four terabytes in capacity
if a single chip here can store one
terabyte just imagine the potential it's
a hundred times faster than that same
hard drive the mechanical drive that
holds four terabytes so it's faster
holds more space things are going to
become very very interesting soon and it
seems that at that point processors and
other hardware within your computer
those are going to be the bottlenecks
unlike you know days gone by where the
hard drive was always the bottleneck up
until the advent of SSDs and now it's
flipping around all the way and we're
just going to see that open wide if your
hard drive imagine this if your
harddrive you you know the difference
between a spinning hard drive a
mechanical hard drive and an SSD if you
want a performance boost in your
computer stick an SSD in there we're
play
you're spinning hard drive because
that's your bottleneck the SSD will
speed it up well now they're saying okay
this is now 20 times the speed of an SSD
and stores more on the drive my SSD is
120 gigs this is a terabyte a thousand
of them crazy stuff you can get the full
stories on our website we've got a
dedicated website for the newsroom it's
newsroom dot category 5 TV and if you've
got a story that you think is worthy of
on-air mention here on category 5 please
pop us an email newsroom at category 5
TV just send us the link if you like and
you could be mentioned on the air hey
tonight's news is brought to you in part
by roy w national so rachel shoe sent
him one of the stories and i'd love to
receive some from you for the category 5
technology TV newsroom act newsroom
category 5 TV I'm Robbie Ferguson and
thanks for joining me tonight on
category 5 technology TVs so good to see
you and chat room is is going strong
nice to see everybody Rachel Oh jot for
the record Rachel shoes story was the
one about the the Train type system from
elon musk so just none of that toilet
humor mm-hmm all right folks still got
some more questions here for you or from
yeah I should say and through the week
if you're not able to get to us during
the live show you can join us by
emailing live at category 5 TV and I do
my best and the co-hosts do their best
to get your questions in here on the
show so make sure you tune in you know
the following week and the week after
that and see if your question was
answered and we certainly do our best to
give you a hand don't forget cat phone
cat phone is open tonight it's 2545 cat
five TV would love to hear from you and
and of course chat room freenode
category 5 hi Robbie and Becca I'm sorry
Becca couldn't be here tonight Rob gore
Rob Gore says I thought it would pass
this information on to you and all of
your viewers I discovered that it is now
possible to easily backup your blu-ray
movies that you own very easily using
two tools in Linux ok so what Rob Gore
is talking about here either here's the
classic scenario here's my house three
kids all of them have peanut butter on
their fingers don't know why it's just
the way it is they get into the blue
rays and dvds and VHS and betas and
eight tracks and for some reason they
put peanut butter everywhere not it
doesn't really happen that way but
seriously when you got kids you got to
have backups we found this out here's a
good example my son's favorite DVD and
you know just the children's show and
you know it means nothing to us beyond
that it was a show that we bought him
but he watches it regularly and he has
for years and he loves it and then our
youngest who's two years old decided
when he got ahold of it that he would
try to take it out of the DVD case and
what did he do the way that he pulled it
out snap the DVD in half we went online
and the dvds no longer available and
it's you can get it but it's really
really expensive and so sad case and I
said to Becca I said if only we had a
backup of that DVD then I could simply
burn a copy and we'd put it in the case
and we legitimately own that DVD or
blu-ray or whatever but it would have
been a fail safe for us or better yet I
could have put it in a box somewhere
this is what i usually do with most of
my movies is i put those in a box in the
garage and the ripped version which is
what we call it is just a file and it
sits on the iOS which is connect
connected to the TV it's a pivot device
so lets us watch it directly on the TV
so then there's no discs being moved
around so here Rob gore's saying if you
legitimate Lyon these blu-ray discs
these aren't rentals these are discs
that you have purchased and you own or
you've got them for presents or whatever
and you can actually make copies I'm
going to come back to rob Gore's calm
there but right now we've got a call on
the cat phone hello who's this hello I
seem to have lost you okay well if that
was you give me a call right back so
there's a tool called make MKV as Rob
Gore is pointing us to and it rips the
content of the disc and remember that
discs blu-rays DVDs they carry what's
called copy protection and that is
legitimately there to protect from
people who want to abuse the you know
the copy written material and distribute
it illegally well that's not what we're
doing we're going to use this to back up
legitimate copies of our own owned stuff
so with this tool make MKV it not only
rips the content from the DVD and when I
use the word rip we're not talking about
ripping paper or ripping dvds in half
like my son will do we're talking about
making a copy from the disc so it's an
optical disc and we are making a
magnetic copy it's called a rip onto the
hard drive of our computer problem with
blu-ray is that the the disks store up
to 50 gigabytes so a lot of us don't
have enough space to be storing 20 30 40
50 gigabyte movies on our hard drive so
that's where the second tool comes in
that that Rob Gore is mentioning which
is one that we've looked at in the past
and is called handbrake and handbrake
offers compression and it's free tool
for linux and it offers the ability to
take those massive files that have been
ripped now andrey encodes them into a
smaller file so now a 20 gig file might
be one gig and it does that in a lossy
compression which means it loses quality
yes but it will you notice it probably
not it's probably good enough that
you're I won't necessarily pick it up
okay so here's what's cool Rob gore has
included a link to a forum post and I'll
actually give you a link to this I'm
going to create a short link for you
right now which won't take me a moment
usually I'm able to do this quickly with
the while the co-hosts are speaking so
it just need to bear with me just for a
half a moment because i want to i want
to give you this link that Rob gore is
giving us to this amazing tool the name
of it again is called make ma ke f ma ke
m k v that's hard to say make MKV but
that's what i'm going to you know what
i'm going to just call it MKV cat five
dot TV / m ke V and that's em for Mary
that's active for you and I do have
someone on the cat phone do I hello Oh
Jem yeah I didn't speak working on blood
that makes sense yeah I had question for
you ok are you bun to 1204 we click you
can't format anymore doesn't it drive
you nuts I know is your way of adding it
in the file system like you showed that
one night we're adding things in kill
you called that box you opened up you
know where you added things and then
change don't like the knee off like
Microsoft has ever go yeah do you mean
in the context menu when you right-click
you want to have the ability to format a
disk well the thing is is that with
linux it's a little bit different gym
because we're not okay on a window
system you're used to right-click on a C
Drive and the C Drive is actually your
physical computer technically on or your
hard drive right that's what you would
compare it to in Linux though everything
is done in mount points so when you talk
about formatting you don't want to
format the mount point so that might be
you know like whatever drive you
wouldn't right click on it on a mount
point and tell it to format because it
is just a mount point and I know that's
kind of it sounds convoluted when I
explain it but what you might want to do
is install a tool have you have you seen
G part ed have you ever seen that tool
I've seen him but it looks I'm always
afraid of like my heart i doing some to
my harddrive instead of my USB and
that's and that's why we always keep a
good backup Jim I'm just going to
quickly bring up g part ed for Jim here
and if you have the show up Jim with the
audio muted G part ed you just bring it
up and then over on the right hand side
here it gives you a list of the
different hard drives that are in your
computer alright so make sure now see in
my case it's a little bit dangerous
because look at my drives I don't you
can see that i'm gonna zoom in a bit ok
SDA that's my first hard drive and sdb
what do you notice they're exactly the
same size so I could very very easily
accidentally format the wrong thing but
you see what I'm saying it's giving me
as dev / SDA it's not giving me the
mount point it's the actual hard drive
and as I seem to have lost Jimmy seems
to have unplugged a speaker cable or
some crazy thing but Jim that's what I
would look at ok G part ed now lets you
select the drive and you can tell which
one it is I can see that this is
actually my data drive because I
selected it and I can see the label and
I can see them how its design and then I
can do things such as ok i can now with
this drive selected I can right click
and I can go for Matt to and I can tell
it what I would like it to format as and
if I want it to be accessible in Windows
I would want to go with NTFS if I want
it to be linux it would be you know EXT
2 3 4 something like that and then just
hit apply up at the top of the little
enter box which is apply all operations
and then you'll be good to go so sorry I
lost you there Jim not sure what
happened on the phone line but I
appreciate the call and I hope that that
helps you out ok back to rob Gore's
comment here so we've got this shortlink
created at cat five dot TV / m kv and
that's going to take you to a forum post
MK v and in that post this is the first
post that he wants to draw your
attention to you'll see this file called
build make MK v sh and if you click on
that which is a file created by one of
its users probably save it to your hard
drive i don't know how long they're
going to leave it up there but let's
open it and see what this is actually
doing so all right
I need to browse to a text editor or
some crazy thing here we go sometimes my
system doesn't like me when I am zoomed
in tell me about it okay over here zoom
out where's a co-host when you need them
okay user been pluma let's open that up
there we go and I want to show you what
it's doing is it this script is pretty
pretty smart it installs the essential
stuff that's needed in order to create
and install this application and many
and many others it goes into your
temporary folder and it downloads a copy
of the HTML output from make MKV calm
and then it uses a couple of tools grep
and and said or SED and it uses some
regex this is just simple regex in order
to determine what the file name should
be and then it is going to download them
and install them so the script looks
safe as long as the software is is good
it does use sudo which is going to of
course for superuser access during the
installation procedure the the software
looks good and Rob gore looks like
you've tested it out and check out make
MKV calm in addition to the link that i
just gave you and you'll see that this
is in betta very very simple tool
available for Windows Mac and using that
link that i just gave you can't five TV
/ MKV there's a script that will allow
you to install it in linux very very
easily alright and it just allows you to
select the disk and then copy it open it
to your hard drive it will just
basically download the disk to your hard
drive as this massive MKV file that's a
video file and then once you've got that
you can rhian coat it with handbrake as
Rob gorras suggesting and perhaps a good
feature to do on the show as well but we
are slightly limited for time tonight in
order to do that so I'll just pass along
the information that Rob gore has given
us and and suggest that you take you
take a look and Rob gore we appreciate
to appreciate that great information
okay
good guy is wondering just a quick
question there about vortex box whether
I've played around with it and the
answer would be no to that I have not
personally watching the chat room doing
my best okay cool all right next up
kakek thanks to Robbie's obsession with
backups I say this warmly I'm reading
this okay so on this is all this is all
keka Keck I'll try to get the emphasis
correct I say this warmly since people
have said that about me too I am now
using a rotating off-site backup disk
disks plural for both home and work now
there's always at least one backup disk
off-site Robbie's insistence about
having backups off site has inspired me
to finally get this set up properly I
use bakula backup software which is a
he's got a link here for bakula dot org
or bukola bakula back yer BAC ula dot
org makes me think of Captain Archer
backing up this is a software tool that
I haven't looked at there kakakaka so
you've got me there looks really really
cool I think we need to take a look at
his networking backup software for
Windows Linux Mac open source love the
idea okay so he's backing up about six
computers at home and about 30 at work
to a hard disk he has a I should read it
in first person as he's written it so
that I don't mix up his words I have a
hierarchy of disks so there is always at
least six months of backups available
very nice Robbie thank you very much for
your hard work making a very informative
fun and professional show each and every
week it's really appreciated and Becca
who was on the air last night last week
pardon me
and who is my wife and and allows the
show to go on he says thanks to you to
Becca I'm sure Robby couldn't possibly
put on a show like this each week
without a lot of help from you all the
best Carl Cunningham AKA keck keck keck
thank you very much for the email
appreciate the kind words and it's
certainly true you know as any husband
would say I mean if you don't have the
support of your wife how can you do the
things that you do right and this show
is perfect a testament to that where
this is like I say she's given up a
third of the house folks for 67 years
that's how that's how we've been doing
it thank you very much so bakula sounds
good and my insistence on backing up
stems from that one time where it
happened to me when I was a young
recording artist and you know I've got
CDs out there and and my band back in
the day we released some CDs and we did
fairly well for ourselves we played at
the Canadian Gospel Music Awards we
traveled around ontario we did a fair
bit of stuff together Becca was a part
of that that band and this was before we
had kids and at that time I had been
producing a lot of the stuff on my own
in the house and you know recording
tracks and things and at some point the
hard drive that stored all the music
crashed and i lost everything everything
that i was working i'm not everything as
in all my music but all of the stuff
that i was presently working on because
i didn't have an up-to-date backup of
that system so i learned the hard way
and i see customers all the time who
learned the hard way and it's painful to
see them go through that and the just
the the horror of realizing that you've
lost data is a terrible thing so very
pleased that that is the impact that the
show has had on you kakak we appreciate
the email but very happy that that
you've learned to or maybe this just
nudged you enough to say okay this is
important I need to get this done now
because it could be tomorrow and that
i that hard drive could crash and you'll
say wow good thing I have that backup so
appreciate that very very much this is
category 5 technology TV our website is
triple w category five dot TV it's so
good to see you thanks for joining me
tonight here all by my lonesome but
we're having a good time together
anyways I love receiving your questions
jot reminds us that a backup is only a
backup if you can also restore it so if
your backup is just some drive somewhere
that you put stuff on maybe like let's
say a CD here's a good example you put
all your stuff on a CD or a flash drive
a better example you've got a flash
drive and you put all your stuff on
there and you call that a backup and
then you realize when it comes down to
it when your hard drive crashes that the
data is actually corrupt on that drive
because CDs only last for so long they
don't last very long at all as a matter
of fact because consumer burnable cds
are just their flimsy their sub sepsis
Epton to light vibration and heat and
cold people think that cds are reliable
because a CD will last forever right
like 300 years yeah but not consumer
ones not the ones that you're burning in
your computer the difference is is that
when you buy a CD or a DVD or something
like that an optical disc they use their
masters are actually you remember the
old records it would be like a punch and
that they would physically create the
disk using not optical technology but a
punch it's like a it's some kind of
crazy you know the way that they do it
is through physical means so it's
actually physically embedded into this
disc and then the optics that read it
but it's a physical thing now when you
with these consumer ones okay these ones
in fact it has the same reading
technology but the writing technology is
different its layer upon layer upon
layer so it's got a ver
a very very thin layer of this metal and
the burning laser shines through a
special layer that allows the metal to
be punched up and down and peaks and
grooves and valleys and all that kind of
stuff so that when your laser reads it
it's able to read the optical data back
and it's great but it's not very
reliable at all so what happens if your
hard drive crashes and you've got one of
those backups that you haven't verified
John reminds us verification is needed
as well as just running your backups
when I run a backup for my customers
actually once a month I emulate you know
what would happen if a system crashed
and that's usually I'll be honest with
you that's usually when I realized oh my
backup set is not sufficient I need to
put a little bit more work into the way
this particular server is being backed
up because had it crash today I might
have lost a week's worth of email well
we want to cut that down to a day maybe
two days and when we work on it like
that so good point thank you John and I
hope that that's clear as anything okay
one more here we've got time for old
salt again joining us from Maine us a
great to hear from you thank you for
joining us says I'm on Ubuntu 1304 I can
watch past episodes but can't watch live
i installed flash which didn't help do I
have to install something else that's a
hard call okay category 5 broadcasts
live using a couple of different
technologies first of all if you go to
our website you go to live cat 5 TV
you're watching YouTube at this point
this is August of 2013 and that's the
technology that we're currently
implementing in our live feed months ago
it was you stream and and justin TV now
it's YouTube we don't you're not
lombarda with advertising and it also
cuts our costs and it's fantastic it
works really well so if you can get
youtube live work and you can get our
stream working and that's as plain as it
is if you can't get it working you go to
our main website you'll see that there's
an alternative it's called VLC and VLC
is now that's just a suggested player
what this really is is a feed that
allows you to watch the show live in
your player so it doesn't have to be it
doesn't have to be brought up in a web
browser the VLC link will actually
launch VLC as a player or it could be
windows movie player or media player i
should say it could be a quicktime on
your mac right so any of those tools as
long as they can play live video can
play our vlcc feed so that's something
you can fall back on and then again as I
was mentioning at the beginning of the
show will assault is that some people
who for some reason or another can't
watch live will simply tune into the
audio feed which is also available and
you can get it at Radio category five
dot TV or just through our website
during the live show you'll see all the
links on our homepage okay old salts
question is there an add-on for
LibreOffice to translate English to
other languages my wife wrote a book
congratulations it's being sold
worldwide also congratulations here's
the thing we'd like to translate it into
other languages i'm using ms word to
translate to hindi right now but i would
really like to use ubuntu rather than
windows okay so with that in mind old
salt let me bring up libreoffice i'm
going to find it here on my system we're
going to bring up a writer and the fact
is now there's nothing there's nothing I
would recommend for you that is an
extension for LibreOffice if you go into
tools extension manager and you go get
more extensions online you'll get the
extension database you can go in here
extensions and you can type in whatever
you want or you can search through you
can go through language tools all this
kind of stuff I really don't think
you're going to find something that's as
good as what I would recommend for what
you're trying to do which is basically
translating literature you want it to be
fairly accurate and I'll tell you
straight off the bat your wife should
understand this that an electronic
translation is going to be horrible in
many respects it's like when you get
documentation that you know was
written in a foreign country and it's
been translated into your native
language and you know that it's been
done electronically or through you know
a third party who's inexperienced
because there are it's just the language
is poor and a literal translation by
electronic software is never going to be
as good as a human translation by
somebody who is truly bilingual or
multilingual that said translators are
getting very very good at understanding
here's the thing you remember Microsoft
Word member back in the day we all of a
sudden didn't have just read underlines
we got the green ones because it started
to recognize grammar and contexts
context for some reason that was really
hard to say just there in that moment so
Google Translate Bing translate all
these other ones are getting better at
understanding what grammar context so
the translation becomes more and more
accurate that's awesome but it's still
not going to help you in LibreOffice
okay so here i am in LibreOffice or
whatever you want to call it okay and it
will create something here is my book
what do we want to say thank you for
reading it okay i'm going to do a couple
of little formatting things i'm going to
make book bold i'm going to make thank
you it's halleh sized okay and i'm going
to just save that to my desktop so we're
going to call this my book and it's
going to save as the default format
which is ODT so now I've got on my
desktop I've got a file called my book
dot ODT and you'll see it's faded there
that's just because I've got these cool
funky effects with compiz but it is
there so here's what I'm going to
suggest we're not going to actually use
a tool or an extension built into
LibreOffice instead we're going to go
the new way which is what did I say
these different services I'll asked ask
from the AltaVista altavista is what was
it called I don't know they have a good
translator to Brad but the fact is is
all these things are web-based right
because the web gives you access to this
amazing resource where its
of Bing wants to be the better
translator than Google and Google wants
to be the better one and they're doing a
great job and so all of a sudden you've
got this competitive environment where
all these people are doing it and it's
free it's great but you don't want to
copy and paste your whole book into
google translate and hope that it will
translate the first two paragraphs and
have to copy a couple paragraphs at a
time because they're they want to charge
you if you want to do anything more than
that so instead what we're going to do
is we're going to go to this really cool
website you're going to love this free
translation calm and right from here I'm
going to go choose file and you'll see
that it supports docx PPT PowerPoint ODT
that's the file format we're using PDF
and text okay so let's choose our file
I'm going to browse to my desktop where
my book ODT is located and hit open and
as soon as I hit open you'll see that
it's loaded over on the right hand side
here and currently I I've got it set to
Hindi how convenient is that so it's
automatically translating from english
to hindi and now if i click on download
now i'm getting a new copy of my book
i'm going to hit save and now it's saved
it to my downloads folder and I'm going
to go there and there's a copy of my
book and I open it and what is it I
don't think that their art alyses in
Hindi but you get the idea so now you've
got a tool that through free translation
com all of a sudden you're able to
translate your entire document and they
offer professional translation services
well you may need to pay for that extra
added touch it's like publishing your
book you need an editor you need
somebody to be able to just polish off
the edges and that will that will help
do it for you so thank you very much for
the question thank you everyone for
tuning in tonight I know it's been a
little bit of a different format tonight
just because it's all me but I
appreciate you joining me next week
we're going to be back to our regular
format the vacation is ova and
we'll be back to normal Hillary Rumble
is going to be joining me here in the
studio excited to have her joining us
and special treat for her from Rob
gorsinski thank you very much and I'm
looking forward to seeing you next week
we're gonna have a lot of fun together
so get your questions in live a category
five dot TV you can send that in anytime
and we'll get them and will process them
and we'll do our best to get them on the
air for you so have a fantastic week
great having you here thanks for joining
me and I'll see you next Tuesday night
we hope you enjoyed the show category 5
TV broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven p.m.
eastern if you're watching this on
demand or through cable TV check out the
local show times in your area at
category 5 TV and find out when you can
watch live and interact in the community
chat room category 5 is a production of
prodigy digital solutions and is
licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada we'll see you
next time thanks for tuning in
