this is category 5 technology TV what we
had a great trip just a couple of weeks
ago so much fun we got to go to Legoland
how many kids here have been through
legoland anybody anybody everybody of
course I've been to legoland he says it
was a lot of fun I didn't know what to
quite expect I know either walking in
the first thing that we saw was how they
make Lego and it was kind of taking us
through that then he getting out of
actual Lego factories no it was fun for
the kids right now but then what was
next the very first thing was a ride do
you guys remember that ride with the
trolls that was a lot of fun and then
from there once we got off of that ride
we're going in and it just opened up
when we first got there my son Zach said
it looks so small i know because it was
basically the lego store it was
something along those lines that you
said and and then when we got in do you
remember how big it was news you want to
come up here you've got you've got a lot
to say oh I want to get you a microphone
now interestingly no one is it was an
exciter go this week on was first on cat
five it is funny or not well up in my
man happy category five anniversary on
so so we got off the ride yes first
thing we spotted of course Lego Batman
full-size it was all about that man that
yeah it was Anika then they had a 4d
movie theater do you remember talking
about this in the news yes the
four-dimensional movie so we said well
what is that and I remember the news
story when this was first coming up yeah
so you're in the movie and you know
something gets splashed in the water on
the on the 3d screen and there are fans
above us there are snow making machines
there misters and will she get that's
right missed it in the face it was it
was awesome this snow really impressed
me it was pretty neat all perfectly
times before i move come down and I mean
we were
sitting near the front so we didn't get
the initial effect of it but you know
the movies going on then here everybody
had aa turn around yeah right this
Avalanche coming down it was awesome I
put my camera away yeah it was what do
you like I knew it was snow so we're
sitting there watching a movie it was
pretty cool I so we have to see a couple
of movies there in the 4-d theater and
then outside of the theater there were
just work stations for the kill bill
real Lego like you've never seen so much
Lego the ramps were impressive because
it was all about driving a car yeah so I
mean you walk in there the first thing
you see is it was probably what 7-foot
ramp yeah and the kids name I'm up yeah
yeah and so you go I mean so Luke made
out of this car it's not like an hour
working on oh yeah I not a hooked car
and I'm like okay let me get set up to
film this cargo damn nope too excited
and that sucker fired like it really he
went through the ramp and got some
serious air and then just smashed like I
didn't hit record oh the spare on his
fate yeah great hang time lots of fun
lots of fun Liam built a car that came
in first place not a way to go you've
got your hand up did you want to say
something we can't see you on the set
because you're way off the site you can
come over here you want to come around
this way and then you can and then you
can be heard in my microphone what is it
that you would like to say when I when I
got um that's right now Joe I got more
cake he gave me a second one oh yeah
because you came in first place on the
race that's turned so you got a prize
and then they came around and gave a
second prize that was cool i didn't you
had fun at like a lame yeah it was a lot
of fun thanks man um my dream as a kid
growing on ya world of Lego and not just
iremos I didn't know what to expect from
it as I mentioned but walking it felt a
little bit like a like a cross between a
play area like with with like what do
you call it like slides that you climb
up and everything I was like at Uncle
Jim yea yea big jungle gym what's in the
fact that they had to my um yeah there
was a the Rye
like something you'd see it like an
amusement park oh yeah and the inside
inside awesome what everybody had fun at
Legoland yeah it won't like the whole
entire store with Legoland in Lego world
very kool Moe don't like Emmett I have a
very important question from the chat
room yeah 4d does that include smell it
did not and I was thankful because there
was a lot of burping yeah in the movies
it's true though right there was a
burping how long and never the fans yeah
yeah you felt it and on they were flying
by so if they're flying by you felt the
wind in your face what was it an eight
sound touch or the force on the pin to
mention like 3d oh yeah 3d like that
visual effects coming up green yeah and
that was pretty real two eyes I saw
Savannah actually reaching out to try to
grab the sword as it was going through
the air do you remember that yeah so
that was a lot of fun you were putting
your hand in the Dragons about in the 4d
movie theater right that's really cool
you were too did he bite no spray you oh
yeah Liam was touching the beak of the
bird and then felt the water come on him
so that was pretty neat I love to watch
my kids with really experiencing so much
fun so totally worth the trip make sure
you check out Lego Lego Land and it was
an absolute blast for the whole family
will have links below for you if you
want to check it out and we've got one
at Vaughan mills mall which is the
closest one to us but they are all
around so make sure you get onto their
website and find out where there's one
near you now Tom thing I noticed or I
thought I'd experiment with is when
you're watching the 3d movie obviously
you have to have the glasses on to see
entry via license to break in waukee but
I wondered how would it be with
recording yep and so I threw the 3d
glasses over the lens of my cell phone
for reality and it cleaned up the it
actually where it wasn't three
II didn't have to such lies but it did
actually clean it up with the glasses
and I was impressed up for all those
bootleggers that are watching he doesn't
like physics there you go right so yeah
yeah but it was a ravine I they realized
technology would be able to pick up a 3d
movie like that through the glasses yeah
and for the record we had permission to
return correct yeah we were there on
behalf of category 5 so say you did good
we did get some clips yep
you
[Music]
