welcome to category five technology TV
episode 560 yeah or is it I'm standing
here with my laptop because it's the
only thing that's got a battery in them
it's crazy you know half a minute it's
otherwise a beautiful sunny day here
yeah and that's why we're standing in
our voyage that's why it's so echoey in
here because we've got 30-foot ceilings
and but what's funny is how much
exciting stuff we were gonna bring you
today oh it's gonna be great yeah it's
gonna be amazing and it will be again
next week on television oh I owe
you
there's no electricity there hasn't home
for hours yeah so our ups I've already
had we have three UPS's battery backup
powering everything for us just in case
you know we're in the middle of the show
and the power goes out then we can keep
going and we don't lose anything or
files don't get corrupt and stuff like
that
being that it's very dead for a good two
hours now
one UPS is already dead two UPS's are
like one bar left they're making the
they're making a big tiny you know dying
sound so this are 200 and no are 560 of
episode we have to call it for the first
time ever one for the books first time
ever we've never had to miss a show and
so this is this is a show this is so
we're still we've still got it we're
still under a course we're here yeah
it's not our fault that Barry doesn't
have any electricity right now what was
it like coming over it was Ben manland
yeah oh yeah I liked everything stuff
like you're a complete
across the city so you're like four-way
stop every all the left turns are easier
what it's that because you don't have to
wait for anything it's your turn back
once you get there you know you're up
yeah as long as the people who were
across the road from you understand a
the right way right in this particular
Jeff's here too and he says oh he's
gonna record his show to me he's gonna
post it yes a yes yeah that'd be great
yeah he says after 11 seasons our first
ever episode gets called and here we are
hey how's it going everyone so tonight
we're supposed to have episode 560
here's the deal we've had to pull the
pin on the episode for one key reason
for the first time in 11 seasons we are
going to miss a week of category 5
because there's zero power at the studio
all of the battery backups have failed
the power has completely failed us
all because of this crazy storm going on
around me as you can see it's raining
cats and dogs
it's unbelievable just how horrible it
is there's a tornado warning a severe
thunderstorm warning and the power's out
and for the life of me I can't figure
out why so because there's no power at
the studio we have had to cancel our
very first sign a week of category 5 so
for those who are going to be tuning in
tonight
you have our heartfelt thanks for your
faithfulness and we're just going to
take a moment of silence for episode 5
60
[Applause]
you were gonna be a good one see
everyone guys beautiful it's a textbook
nice day mm-hmm no Howard however so no
power no show so thanks for being here
hey thank you for being here yeah the
shortest episode of category five
technology TV ever what can we possibly
show them it's like this is my laptop I
have a Fitbit on my phone
what other battery-operated things I got
a flashlight you guys want to see the
potatoes today russet potatoes folks
russet yeah this is because you know you
know what I'd like to do is smashed
potatoes with aioli sauce so like some
some well we use vegan eggs right now
but mayonnaise garlic avocado
blend it up this this potato gift is
really for me yeah well will you pour
that you show me what you need pitch
formation I'll post them on Twitter oh
you only want it longer
yeah it's mashed potatoes chatter is
here - I'm chaplains going crazy they're
like this is the first time you're goes
whoever is to show caring like sleep
would okay Barry electricity let's see
here Barry
what do they say yeah they're a little
bit busy but they
time for Twitter and that's how Gary
Dwight was surprised that's how we get
our updates from our local electricity
company is that big bonfire no okay we
need gossip 74 kilometers an hour today
it's the windiest June 13th
since the records began in 2008
that's our recorded history our recorded
history in various since 2018 it's the
windiest ever in Barry a caller reports
the lights are out at big Bay Point
caronia and well that's here you know
and outage is affecting 690 homes and
businesses the numbers gone down it was
couple thousand four in our area crews
are working the estimated time to
restore is to be determined this is a
really important thing to note is that
during this people are working extra
hard
oh yeah the technology that they're
working with to make electricity go yeah
they probably I'm working fast enough to
make this show happen yeah
so I'm sorry folks all of the exciting
things that we had planned are bunk back
actually I'm pretty excited about next
where you showed yeah I meant this is
hoarse throat that I'm dealing with
that's gonna be gone
well I'm here's the thing about next
week's show is kind of like a viewer
question extravaganza Nina and I have a
question she's got a question and you
we answer it I promise you know the
answer nice yes I like it I guess that's
it yeah that's all we can do all right
have a wonderful wonderful week
everybody so sorry that our electricity
is still on and it looks like it's going
to be gone all night so we'll see you
next week
