[Music]
hey welcome friends to new every day
I'm Lawrence this is Jeff and we are
talking about the body that's right it's
from the Bible first Corinthians chapter
12 you don't want to miss it
this is you every day with Jeff Weston
and Lance Cruz
every day so glad to have you I'm Jeff
Wesson and back with us this week
hey Wow so how was your week good
actually great we're still on vacation
though yeah that's right yeah speaking
of vacation that's right I think I'll
try it again soon
actually my family and I were going on
vacation in a couple of weeks we're
heading down the Myrtle Beach as long as
it still exists
watching the trajectories of all the
hurricanes so Oh Ann did you get your
partner so you can cross the border
again no I did okay that's great that is
it please not that I know we are so glad
to have you here it's good for us to be
back together love doing the show we've
been doing it for quite some time now
and if you're just checking out new
every day for the first time maybe
you're watching us online it could be on
demand Kodi Plex
Roku Facebook YouTube or maybe you're in
Southern California and you're watching
us on kV bebe television for the high
desert yes whatever it is we're glad to
have you here and you can check us and
all of our past episodes this is season
four we're about halfway through season
four now you can check out this season
or previous seasons with the other host
check it all out on our website new
every day TV and as well you can connect
with us via email or on our Facebook
page
my email is Jeff at new every day TV and
conversely you'd have Lawrence at new
every day TV right so one of the things
I was saying the Lawrence just before we
get started is I want to do a talkback
show and what that means is to be clear
not today because we need your help we
can't do a talkback show without you
talking back to us you know it's so easy
to sit in front of a computer monitor or
TV and just kind of watch what's going
on the screen and go oh yeah that was
great that was wonderful thanks but it's
not interactive it might be life-giving
to you but it's not an opportunity for
you to say but I got a question right
what do I do if or what does the Bible
say and we want to do that so if you
have a question that
burnin that you want to ask maybe it's
something that came up in your devotions
that you just don't understand maybe
you're watching this for the first time
you're on God who's that
whatever your question might be maybe
it's how do I live in today's society as
a Christian I mean that's a loaded one
that would take you know billions of
hours of tape to answer but you know try
and narrow it down to that one thing you
want to know and send it to us we've got
some great editors yeah I'll be sure to
ask you it's great so bring it you can
ask anything you want do what we can
1-800 call the editor no problem
they've got it all figured out no it can
be a great dialogue for sure and that's
what we want and I'm sure you've got
some good questions and we're happy to
learn we don't have all the answers
that's for sure but we're willing to
search for them and we believe God's
Word has all the answers so it'd be a
good journey to go on together I agree
so if you've got a question email us
Jeff new every day TV or Lawrence a new
every day TV and we'll be doing that
episode and probably about month's time
hopefully if there's enough coming
tantastic looking forward to that no
it's good okay we're gonna hop into it
told you at the beginning we are talking
about the body and what does that mean
if you've been in the church for a long
time you've probably heard sermons
preached on it and if you're going ah
I'm Joe fresh here as far as Christians
go what are you talking about what's
with my body I thought I was looking
pretty darn good
sure okay but what we're talking about
is the spiritual body and and not
necessarily from a an idea of the
spiritual aspect of it but the community
aspect of the body the church in the
Bible we're told that we are the body of
Christ so what does that mean mm-hmm
what does that mean for you what does
that mean for your spiritual walk what
does that mean for those around you and
that's what we want to cover today those
are good questions you know so I think
even yeah so before we apply it why
don't we why don't we dive in to you
know what is what doesn't mean like
we are part of the body where do we get
the answer in God's Word right
absolutely we need to look to the Bible
and to see what God teaches us about
this concept of the body of Christ
mm-hmm yeah so I mean first Corinthians
chapter 12 is a good chapter in the
Bible regarding the body I'm just
looking at the message translation is
the first verse says in first
Corinthians 12 what I want to talk to
you what I want to talk about now is the
various ways
God's Spirit gets worked into our lives
who like right from the beginning
there's okay so like we already talked
for seven weeks on the Holy Spirit yeah
how he can be a spooky subject you know
some people think with the Holy Ghost
we've done all that but now we're
hearing that you know God's Spirit gets
worked into our lives in different ways
well that's the whole lead-in to thank
God we're not all made the same what God
desires to make us different like think
about the creativity of our God do you
know that every one of us is an
expression of the creative impetus of
God himself like you are made by God
exactly the way he wants you to be and
that's a good thing how many times I've
heard people think oh I can't or I'm not
good enough oh please don't ever say
that I relate I have wondered that but
we should never think that because God
made us just the way he wants and the
Bible says he's made us as his body so
every person plays a part in his very
body for sure how cool is that it's very
cool and when I first started thinking
about the body of Christ the easiest way
for me to understand how we are made to
fit together is marriage like
I don't have all of those treats traits
that are needed to raise the kids mmm
my wife on the other side has exactly
what I'm missing she's perfectly
tailored right for me right and I have
no doubt that that is a God designed
relationship and if he can do that with
one marriage knowing that between her
and I we've got what's needed to raise
the kids and we don't have those gaps
what does that mean for the global body
of Christ and the fact that he plans
everything I mean you've got the
scripture about clothing the the the
flowers of the field and he cares for
this sparrow how much more does he care
for you if he's put that thought into
the blades of grass that grow he's put
that much more thought into you and how
you fit into the big picture and the
little picture yeah how true that is
well that's like--that's see that's easy
I'm married so that's easy for me to
wrap my mind around I'm just thinking
the in Flour youngest is 18 now so you
know the the formative years are done
we'll always be mom and dad and happy to
be so but I'm just thinking about the
benefit that my children have because
their mother was involved and what am I
saying
oh I'm no good now has nothing to do
with that it she's the way God made her
is so good oh yeah and what she brings
to the table as a female what she brings
to the table as a person created by God
with here it is these special gifts that
I don't have made such an amazing
deposit into the lives of our kids that
make us both so proud to this day that's
a great example Jeff of the body and
yeah that's you know that's that's
already an example about what we're
talking about like I mean what is it
that God's saying you know we all have a
piece of the to play we've got we've got
we've got a role to play in this the
body of Christ
how amazing is that it's very amazing
and when I think of the body I mean uh I
could probably stand to lose a few
pounds
but I don't think I would ever want to
lose a part of my body right because
every part of my body is precious to me
and not quite frankly I need it you know
I I don't wake up one morning and go
I don't need my foot today yeah you know
that's gonna make it a little bit
difficult to you know get around and
drive to work I don't wake up in the
morning my heart not necessary yeah you
know and so when you look at the way
that God's designed our physical bodies
enough every part plays a role you know
except for maybe the tonsils but when
you look at it like that and then you
translate that or transfer it to the
church when you go oh my goodness
okay so I was made with a specific
purpose and a specific set of
characteristics and skills and you were
made with the specific purpose and
characteristics and skills and as the
body of Christ we complement and we fill
in those roles that are needed to be
right the body yeah how cool is that
it's very cool it's so it's so true and
I'm glad that I am part of the body and
I'm glad and I'm that I'm willing as I
know you are to offer here it is my body
literally Romans 12 says therefore I
urge you brothers in view of God's mercy
to offer your bodies as living
sacrifices holy and acceptable to God it
says then you will be able to test and
approve what God's will is his good
pleasing and perfect will what am I
yep okay god I read Romans 12 and say
Here I am
I give myself to you with my physical
body only to find out that God says this
is great because even as you're offering
your whole person to me in worship
Lawrence
I've made you a certain way that's going
to benefit that person who has none of
the skillset that I've given you and you
know what you're gonna meet them and
your life is going to become so much
better now that you've offered yourself
to me wait til I give you a gift of that
person who's offered themselves also to
to the Lord and then what you'll do
together it's just fantastic Jeff the
first part of our show is done it's
amazing and we're just scratching at the
surface of this friends we're diving
right into this good con su c idea about
being the body of christ we've got lots
more to share don't go away we'll be
right back
stick around for more from new every day
for a limited time get your hands on
limited edition shirts from the
category-five TV network these
high-quality shirts are manufactured by
teespring a fundraising website and your
purchase will help support the shows we
produce get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap v dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official network shirt today cap v dot
TV slash shirts
we're back in we're talking about the
body the body of Christ
and before we went to a break we're kind
of talking about how we all have a role
to play and how we all fit into God's
master plan for the body but we haven't
really unpacked it we just kind of
started to scratch the surface yeah and
I think there's a couple of great
scriptures as you continue on in 1st
Corinthians 12
that we really hammer that home let's
dive in at verse number 12 first
Corinthians chapter 12 I'm reading from
the New Living Translation and here we
go using my trusty iPhone what do you
know one body with many parts the human
body has many parts but the many parts
make up one whole body hear this so it
is with the body of Christ ok so that
was the first half what right the body
of Christ
okay this is where we're coming from 1st
Corinthians 12 verse 13 now some of us
are Jews some are Gentiles ok I've
wrapped my mind around that ok I'm a
Gentile because I'm not a Jew and that's
right yet
right is and some are slaves and some
are free in the parts of the world
that's still the case not where we live
but it says we all have been baptized
into one body by one spirit and we all
share the same spirit being the Holy
Spirit and there you go whoo we did that
7 part series when we talked about how
he guides us empowers us leads us
comforts us ok so so I just love it the
spirit is no respecter of persons in
that regard right right you can be the
king of the country you could be the
lowest slave to that king of that
country or another country and God says
hey you call upon my name guess what
everybody who calls on the name of the
Lord shall be saved and all of you with
equal footing are placed into the body
of Christ but with an
jool function watch this very key
according to the plan of God himself who
made us each uniquely mm-hmm how cool
like really profound so that lowest
slave if you will is every bit as
important to the body as the king what
that's right right how different a role
here on earth yet in the kingdom of God
God makes it very clear that each of
these people are on equal footing and a
value Oh some the differences of how we
play it out of course but hugely
valuable to God oh absolutely yeah yeah
well verse fourteen yes the body has
many different parts not just one part
if the foot says I'm not part of the
body because I'm not a hand that doesn't
make it any less a part of the body sir
I'm just seeing my liver liver what's
not as my liver my livers got these
small set of hands and arms going are
you kidding I'm out of here ain't gonna
do that anymore don't want to hang
around in there what wouldn't go well
for me no huh no I wouldn't I mean I
guess you can't survive without a liver
but not for long unless you're on you
know all these machines that's right yes
kidneys and I don't know can you tell
I'm not a doctor let's just leave it
that hey don't mess with my liver okay I
need my liver can you imagine a talking
liver saying it doesn't belong there
anymore who and if the ear says I'm not
part of the body because I'm not an i
what you say
if I'm not part of the body cuz I'm not
an aye-aye sir it's the ear isn't that
oh yeah could you speak up would that
make it any less part of the body oh my
goodness if the whole body were an eye
can you imagine that the big blank hey
how long we gladly do how long oh gotta
have an eyelid well that reminds me of a
joke but I'll bring that up some other
time or if your whole body were an ear
how would you smell anything well maybe
that would be a good thing but our
bodies have many parts and this is I and
God has put each part just where he
wants it alright so lots of laughter
because we're having fun with it but
that right there is the mic drop moment
yeah is that when it comes to the body
of Christ God has a spot planned for us
wants it bears repeating yeah exactly
so if you're sitting here going alright
body I get it so what does that mean
means you've got a place you've got a
spot that doesn't matter what you bring
to the table you have a role within the
body of Christ and what you know when
you were talking earlier about you know
the king or the slave you know what's
going through my head is you know so
often people like oh I'd love to have
that that status position I'd love to
you know in life be that much you know
better off well okay so the King has a
certain group of people that he can
connect with you know unlike the slave
that has a different group of people and
there are people that the king will
never be able to influence the way that
a slave can isn't that the truth and
that's just outside of any sort of
spiritual truths that's a social truth
yeah and your role in the church is no
different I mean I when I think of our
church I think you know there's days I
go oh my goodness I wish I could pick up
the guitar and just you know rocket
those riffs like some of those guys with
the electric guitar but I don't have a
musical bone in my body like I hear
tambourine and go oh that was a
wonderful guitar you play the radio
pretty good I play the radio
amazing you know but there's days I wish
I could be more musically inclined but
that's not my role
yeah I don't have that totally designed
to the way that God has made me yeah and
so for me to try and be a musician
within the church would not go well for
our Sunday so yeah
where is everybody so Jeff's on today
the joint Lawrence's liver I think I
probably would too but I have a
different role to play but just like
with that concept you as the pastor have
a different role to play than others in
the church that's interesting yeah
that's true yeah I mean not everybody
can be the pastor not everybody's meant
to be the pastor and it doesn't make the
pastor better right or less or worse or
any of it it's just a role it's the role
to play that God has scripted out for
you and you know that's where the Bible
says to us that God gave some to be well
originally as we read it apostles
prophets evangelists posture teacher
mm-hmm you know I mean it's quite clear
to us that Paul the Apostle writes these
things and not everybody's an apostle
not everybody's a teacher not
everybody's an evangelist but boy all of
them working together is the beautiful
expression of Christ in order to tell
the world that Jesus loves them Jesus
loves you Jesus loves me and he sets up
this beautiful church the body his body
functioning oh just like the systems of
our own body working together right in
harmony there's eight I think systems in
our body that cooperate all the time
right now simultaneously working so that
we can be healthy human beings so it is
with the people of God called the church
working together to a common end to give
glory
God and invite everybody we know to come
and be part of this body of this family
oh man talking about it
just encourages me I want to reach out
maybe you're there and maybe you're
you're sitting in a place where you once
were part of a healthy assembly right
assembly of people who know the Lord you
love the Lord still yeah you know him
and yet maybe there was something that
happened right between you and another
person you kind of like my liver and
said I don't need that anymore if you
don't know how it was with the first
part of the show it's just a funny silly
story I want to encourage you that it's
less than what God has called us to be
to isolate ourselves from the people of
God oh I understand I promise I siloed
myself for a season where I basically
said it actually quite it hurts too much
to be close to people and thought that
the best thing I should do would be
distant and then over an extended period
of time I found myself less than what
God called me to be oh my goodness and
friends for me and so I'm projecting on
you but I believe it's the truth of
God's Word is that I was made strong
again as I reintegrated if you will to
the body what to the church yeah to an
assembly of people a gathering it was a
Sunday church service you get I'm not
trying to sound it weird but that's all
what this is it's people getting
together I'm not best friends with
everybody in the place I can't be I'm
not capable of being best of friends to
so many amazing people but we're not
designed to be best friends with
everyone sorry but to be friendly and to
help a hand and then to be helped oh man
it fanned into flame the person that God
has called me to be he's not finished
with me yet but boy I'm sure better
together with people then when I'm
living this Christian walk on my own I
100% agree with you and I mean we're out
of time so okay I go down that row but
you know I one of these episodes
we're gonna have to I'm gonna have to
tell you my story when when my wife and
I said enough of the church and we
walked away and the impact that had
socially financially emotionally
relationally and spiritually just by
making that one decision to say you know
what we're kind of done hmm and and at
just how much that separation really
impacted us no you it want to do it on
but today you're in today live happy
healthy body and and that's the way you
want it to be in so you know hopefully
this messages encouraged you if you're
struggling with the thoughts of I don't
have a role yes you do
God is designed for you to be in the
body you have a role and all it takes is
just being there and then let him lead
you absolutely that's all we've got for
today thanks so much for joining us
we'll see you next week catch a new
episode of new everyday every Friday
morning a new everyday TV we're
so on roku cody flex youtube google play
music podcasts and news book or if
you're in Southern California tune in
every Sunday morning at 6:30 on kbdb TV
channel 33 television for the high
desert
you
