last week we unboxed a Raspberry Pi 3
model B plus Sokka they took the
Raspberry Pi 3 jammed a little bit of
stuff in there and made it better and
gooder yes that's exactly so tagline
it's good or tonight we're gonna see how
much cooter it is than the Raspberry Pi
3 and also I've got a Raspberry Pi 2
here which some would say wow that's not
fair I mean this is a little 900
megahertz little you know early model
from 2015 but we really wanted to see
the stark contrast right and see in
three years how far has raspberry pi
actually come right that's what we want
to see so I have a Raspberry Pi - a
Raspberry Pi 3 which I have in the Aled
we know case those of you who are
interested in it this is what we put our
nem servers in if you go to names Linux
com that's what it looks like and then
I've got a Raspberry Pi 3 model b+ which
I don't think will stand up there it is
there it is so what I'm gonna do with
these three is we're gonna bring them up
on the screen and we're gonna do four
different tests first of all we're gonna
start with the boot process how fast
does it boot up then we're gonna look at
transferring a 1 gigabyte file you're
gonna see which is faster I've got a USB
flash dress B external hard drive I'm
gonna transfer the files to we're gonna
load up an image in the GIMP and see
which one is gonna be faster and we're
gonna use iperf to check how fast the
networking is mm-hmm
ok so we're gonna jump right into it
first of all let's boot it up here is
the Raspberry Pi 2 3 and 3 B+ and this
is the boot process folks so what we
have here is the exact same image the
exact same card everything is the same
and I pre-recorded it so that there are
no variables so they all seemed about on
par here Oh
B+ came up first Oh what the three beat
it the Raspberry Pi 2 and Raspberry Pi 3
model b+ actually came up about the same
time and the 3 model B so this is the
earlier edition of the
Raspberry Pi 3 beat them all Wow
is that surprising great what we're
doing here folks is answering the
question because so many people are
saying you know should I I've got a
Raspberry Pi 3 who should I go out and
buy a Raspberry Pi 3 B+ is it really
gonna be noticeable right and we have to
ask ourselves well what are we using it
for that's what it boils down to so
tonight we're just looking at some basic
stuff that everyone does everybody boots
the thing up and for some reason that's
a benchmark of speed and see for me I
wouldn't care either way it was running
all the time yeah and they're running up
it's connected to my TV it's running
24/7 I don't care about the boot time
but I do care if I am going to copy
files from my Raspberry Pi to an
external hard drive because it saves me
having to pull the SD card and try to
figure out how to mount things and move
things around so I'm gonna use an
external hard drive so again in order to
keep this exactly 1 2 1 2 1 and
everything is fair and everything is
identical tonight what I've done is I've
pre-recorded the exact same process on
all three devices that gives us a very
exact one-to-one comparison and in fact
I've pulled the SD card and booted up
each one from the same SD card so even
the card even the distro is exactly the
same nothing has changed just the SPC
has changed very cool
so I've plugged in an external USB 3.0
Drive and it's a 2 terabyte drive it is
a formatted NTFS and I've installed NTFS
3G and I've set it so that I have right
access by CH modding the folders 777 and
I've set the ownership of the folder the
mount point to PI so I've got the
ability to write to that so let's see
what it takes to copy a 1 gigabyte file
so I have a file that I've created using
dev slash zero which is just a random
file generator using DD and I've created
a 1 gig file so let's check out with
this file on my desktop which one is
going to be faster drag-and-drop let it
go
surprisingly they all started at the
same time I kind of expect I expect the
the latency to be a little higher with
the pie - I'm starting to get the sense
that the 3b plus is moving along quite a
bit faster still seems fairly close to
the beam it really does but they're
definitely motoring ahead of the model -
definitely the the pie - is it's the
turtle okay so this is 1 gigabyte that
we're transferring now keep in mind and
I mentioned that this is a USB 3.0 you
external hard drive it's a spinning hard
drive the Raspberry Pi 3 3 + + PI 2 only
have USB 2.0 so it's not going to give
us the full speed oh it looks like the
the 3 B the B beat it just by a fraction
a yeah it was about second second and a
half
what Wow and and the model 2 is oh boy
well this is a clear this is clear that
the PI 3 model b + b + r the clear
winner here absolutely copy operation
i'm gonna let this finish for you so
that you can see in real time how much
longer it is taking on the Raspberry Pi
2 again nothing else has changed the
file is exactly the same the drives are
exactly the same and we're copying this
to a locally connected USB Drive
connected directly to the PI 2 it's like
so if you imagine if you work with files
or your moving files to a Plex PI or
something like that
yeah the the the PI 3 either either
option is gonna be significantly faster
for your data copy from USB stick around
we're gonna okay so it's done took that
long but it's done it's done but keep in
mind we're gonna be looking at the
networking as well but before we get
into that let's open the same image okay
on each of these devices using the GIMP
so I've downloaded this from pixels and
I'm just gonna right click and click GNU
image manipulation
program and here we go came up a little
faster on the B+ yeah the pi2 we would
expect to be in last place it's from
2015
okay the B+ is done yeah it came up
behind it so this is something that
takes a little more oomph little more
processor power to get that image up and
then a high two is finally up so
definitely the B+ is a clear winner
there yes and this gives us a little bit
of a look into you know I'm gonna be
using it to edit photos and if it is
gonna open the GIMP that much quicker it
may be that it's going to operate faster
for us as well keep in mind that the PI
to the PI 3 and the 3 B+ all have just
one gigabyte of memory which is crazy
yeah I would have loved to see the PI
model B plus the by 3 B plus have more
but of course we're limited by the CPU
the CPU cannot allow any higher ram and
that's where i'm thinking maybe the pi/4
is gonna have two gigs or maybe four now
if you're lucky all right our final test
here is to see the actual speed of the
network interfaces and we're gonna do
this using iperf which is a linux tool
that allows us to check the speed of
data transmission and reception so I've
set up a gigabit server with iperf
server and we're gonna run that on each
of these three devices so let's see here
we go it's not gonna take long folks but
it's gonna tell us accurately how fast
each one is so the PI 2 up at the top
left let's see what it tells us
ok they're all done at the same time so
took about the same time so the PI 2 is
94 point 2 megabits per second but for a
10 over 100 that is fantastic you're
looking 94% of the promised speed right
the PI 3 model B so this is the earlier
edition of the PI 3 is exactly the same
lower left there 94 point 2 megabits per
second where things get really exciting
is if you
at the pi3 b-plus your your bandwidth
speed is 321 megabits per second so this
is where we look at that and we say wow
it's significantly better than anything
else as far as the raspberry PI's go
right but it's still disappointing in
that it's Gigabit Ethernet they promote
it as hey the Raspberry Pi 3 model b+
has Gigabit Ethernet no it doesn't come
on well why is that it's because the
Raspberry Pi 3 model B plus the network
interface controller runs off of the USB
2 chipset and that means that it's
limited to 322 megabits a second I'm
getting 321 nowhere near so we're
looking at a difference of 94 percent of
the promise speed versus only 32 percent
of the promise speed on the B+ right but
still significantly faster mm-hmm so
it's gonna make a difference on our Plex
PI server
absolutely cuz we're streaming media
video to our devices through the network
it's going to make a huge difference for
you if that's what you want to do but if
you're connecting and you're using it as
a computer then the network speed is
probably not going to make much of a
difference to you unless you're using a
local Nass or something to store your
files then it will make a difference but
generally speaking I'm not seeing a huge
amount of difference in speed between
the model B and the model B plus of the
PI 3 right that said keep in mind as
they operate as you're doing more with
them they're going to throttle and the
raspberry pi 3 is 1.2 gigahertz at its
high end and it can throttle down to 900
megahertz
well the Raspberry Pi 3 model B plus
starts off at one point 4 gigahertz and
it will throttle down to 1.2 okay so
you're gonna always have if you get into
that like you're using it and
building up some heat d3d plus is going
to be significantly faster right
[Music]
[Applause]
