now we're talking all about wanna cry
this ransomware attack that hit over the
weekend and we are joined tonight by
Stephen Cobb he's a senior security
researcher at a tea set
Stephen it is great to have you here
thanks for joining us great to be here
now Stephen we've all heard of
ransomware we've heard of things like
you know it started with things like
cryptolocker and it's evolved since then
but we're really hearing about wanna cry
from all different news outlets all
around the world and you know the
question comes out you know is this all
hype what is different about want to cry
there have been ransomware attacks in
the past so what is you know your
perspective on what wanna cry is and why
it's so significantly different alright
so it want to cry or which we detected
something we called it one equipped er
and different companies called it
slightly different names but this thing
which started hit on Friday really is a
blend of a fairly standard ransomware
that encrypts files and asks for money
paid in Bitcoin to decrypt the file but
with a spreading technique which
borrowed from an actual NSA tool or
exploit that is very very effective so
once this thing hits a network it can
spread very very quickly within the
network and so this is not how typically
a criminal would want to spread a piece
of ransomware because as you can see
from the news coverage actually last
four days I
the person who released this or persons
who released this I've instantly jump to
the top of the cyber most wanted list so
any course of this infectious capability
which we would refer to as a worm
capability and if you know if listeners
our viewers are in this space worm is
something which goes back to the very
beginning of the internet right where
something called the Morris Internet
where improved
kind of accidentally but the worm code
which is self-replicating codes the
spread
incredibly quickly can block the whole
internet at Benedict and the bin
outbreaks since that overtime where
somebody has released something on to
the internet which is used that highly
connected state of Internet machine to
spread very quickly and then within
companies which many which have huge
networks of connecting machines very
spread very very quickly within those
networks and that led to this rapid pace
of distribution and we're looking at you
know we hear about ransomware attacks
where there are one or two companies
that are infected and they lose their
files they're encrypted and we hear that
in the news but this is you know what is
the difference in scale here what are we
looking at so I haven't checked the
latest figures but it rapidly went to a
hundred thousand and two hundred
thousand system the lightening is
business companies individual armed well
see they get tricky to to pass the
statistics I think we would say that two
hundred thousand systems let me get
close to 300 thousand now and then we
sort of spreading country to country
they and obviously the first big reports
were those coming out of the National
Health Service in the UK where I think
actually call the other an abundance of
caution a lot of systems were shut down
proactively which was a smart thing
together
um you know back in 2000 when they I
love you were broke out from the
Philippines it was the decision of a lot
of companies and frankly federal
agencies and government agency
discipline on the Internet
sure yeah an example I was speaking with
with somebody who runs the towers at all
the airports in Canada and they just
literally ripped out the internet they
have no internet now yeah I mean it it
was infectious in a way which really
wasn't well control sure and and so you
believe this account of specula by
speculate about who did this you know
somebody realized what would happen
because you just
use of ransomware by criminals is
endemic but it tends not to get reported
I mean we hear lots and lots of cases of
companies and individuals you're getting
their photographs encrypted and money
asked um you know this is the whole area
in the internet where you could learn
about what bitcoin is to go and pay you
around somewhere right and some of these
ransomware programs have their own
customer service to help you get Wow
oh yeah yeah me and I think about it you
know my wife showed me something last
night a Venn diagram of people using
unpatched systems and people who know
how to get Bitcoin but they really don't
overlap that much right I mean for about
a year now I've been asking audiences
when I speak how many people know how to
pay something with Bitcoin right some
very few people do so so yeah good good
piece of ransomware has instructions on
how to make the payment and they do
provide customer service and I didn't
know that with one a crypt earth at its
interface has a button that says how do
i buy bitcoin or something like that
like it's not because you have to
explain it to people um and so you're
looking at very profitable a malware
scheme here but one way she would
conduct in a fairly orderly manner
typically um and and we've seen
ransomware so far before one a crime we
saw kind of two levels one is the the
use of email to random people right to
infect them with infected email the
other is more targeted where we have
seen criminals go after an institution
they know has valuable file okay but we
kind of think being a hospital sure and
then you can mark and then you can make
and set us for 300 bitcoins but for 300
dollars in Bitcoin but you can ask for a
lot more money and we've seen plenty of
cases of that against hospitals around
the United States and we were speaking
with with mark skelton a little bit
earlier and one of the points that was
made is that these are industries and
these are networks that perhaps
don't have the budget in order to
upgrade and that's the very reason that
we have this exploit in existence now I
want to back up just a little bit
because here on the show Steven we we do
try to avoid conspiracy theories when we
can and we we hear about the NSA exploit
that is involved in the capabilities of
this ransomware to spread can you can
you back that up for us with just a
little bit of you know what this is not
a ransomware that was created by the NSA
this is no this something that is
exploiting a factor in Windows that was
created by the NSA is that a correct way
to look at it yes so in its role as a
spy agency and a protector of American
interests on the NSA like agencies in
other countries like GCHQ in the UK I
you know explores malicious code
capabilities or they probably wouldn't
even call it malicious code but
penetration code or or network
monitoring code and they found a hole in
part of Windows called SMB and they
develop a fancy really just strict file
sharing yeah and and and they they find
a way to exploit that and they wrote the
code for it there were actually two
parts the code um the part that gets a
starring role in this is called eternal
blue you know one of those computer
generated code names they use at the NSA
yeah so the NSA has been has been
creating these codes which this code
which exploits are unpublished
vulnerabilities shall we call them or
sometimes they called zero-day exploits
they've been doing this for some time
they have a collection of this stuff and
it was compromised so a group called
shadow brokers has been making this
secret NSA code available and so the
code that is eternal blue that which is
the bit which is leveraged by wanna cry
yeah are you know they're I mean you can
literally go to to get her the download
okay so that's the code that the NSA
developed is that yes okay yeah so so so
you've got the NSA developing secret
code that exploits unknown goal on
publicly unknown vulnerabilities that
are unpatched in commercial product he
keeps a secret to use for his own
purposes but somebody stole or leaked
them and so those have been been
published on this group the shadow
brokers they wanted money for it they
didn't get money for it so they
published some of this code okay people
then figured out how to you know put
that into practice in the real world and
in fact we we saw this last month
already being you being used in various
ways out on the Internet
and in fact we were we were protecting
and the ESET products against this
vulnerability before one after I came on
the scene as soon as we could in fact
hey like you you've known about this and
you've protected against it before it
happened so you know it's it's Windows
XP that can't be updated its hacked
versions of Windows 10 that that can't
be updated that still have this exploit
in existence yeah so one of the things
that happens with an outbreak of code
like this is that you kind of find out
weak points in the global infrastructure
right so as you as you correctly say XP
which actually is supported by Microsoft
so is it clear yet Windows found out
about this problem there's vulnerability
in March and battery and they actually
passed it for XP oh and some other
unsupported systems if people were
paying for support so say you're a large
manufacturing facility and you've got a
lot of robots that run Windows XP right
you may pay for Microsoft support
Microsoft will support you but what the
world discovered on Friday is is a large
number of people using bootleg XP
bootleg Windows 7 run bootleg Windows 10
and particularly in developing countries
you know whether they either can't
afford
to get a license version or something or
they can't afford the support or that
you know they need something which runs
on cheap hardware so a lot of systems
out there were not patched and and those
were susceptible to this problem can I
ask when you look at a heat map of the
attack Russia is is read with this
attack is it because of like is it an
attack on Russia or is it just that they
are using a lot of new on reviewing
applications he really get into a lot of
trouble drawing too many conclusions
right heat right from me oh it's
deceiving about that heat map because it
really looks like that's the case but is
it just a lie okay the windows you don't
know why those systems are in fact right
so you say oh look somebody targeted
Russia because it's all in fact or you
might say no nobody in Russia had
patched anything you know there's like
you don't know which of those did it um
we had our own heat map which was which
was fairly useless because it was
showing how many of our customers were
affected and very very few were romantic
right yeah so it and it depends you know
there are there's a lot going on in
something like that reporting and I just
like it you know the question who
created this it is very difficult to
determine without a lot of information
right and typically more than you can
see in the code and do you suspect that
this is a very successful hacker that is
doing this to make a lot of money or do
we suspect that this is potentially
cyber warfare that is trying to create a
smokescreen for something else as we
were speaking about earlier in the show
and what's the suspicion in on that
front so I think at this point it is
very difficult to distinguish even
probabilistically between multiple
different scenario one scenario is that
somebody who didn't understand the
implications of what they were doing
thought this would be
cool thing to do I had a room capability
to a piece of ransomware push it out
there um you know and they'd make money
quicker than anybody else home that
hasn't worked by the way because there
are other ransomware programs but it
made a lot more money than this one
um another scenario is you kind of
hinted might be a havoc thank you you
know let's let's kind of wreak havoc
here sir because if you knew what the
implication of the code was you would
know this thing would spread very very
quickly right or you know another
another scenario would be that somebody
wanted to point out how insecure are our
Internet infrastructure is around the
world and there's a precedent for that
you know the very first macro virus that
spread widely was a proof of concept and
so why the motives of virus writers and
people who release
malicious code are very difficult to
ascertain until you get to speak to them
in person we're speaking with Stephen
Cobb he's a senior security researcher
with ESET questions in the chat room at
this point in the interview yes we do we
have a few wonderful questions here I
actually have two right now that have
been really going around firstly we just
want to have confirmation of how exactly
this stuff spreads right so like is it
through emails is it through downloads
things like that and the second part of
that question are other systems also in
danger like Mac on other systems such as
Linux things like that older versions
maybe but what about the new stuff so
that a lot of people are asking those
questions as well so to take the the
second part of that first this
particular cry this particular thing
which we dubbed one a krypter and I and
broke out it on Friday is a Windows
threat all right so it's written to
exploit Windows um technically though um
it would be a mistake to say you
couldn't have a outbreak on other
operating systems um
and and we certainly have seen
ransomware for all of the different
operate from Linux Mac Mac operating
system Android iOS people are trying to
exploit those the vulnerabilities and
weaknesses in those systems in order to
extract ransom even if it's as simple as
locking up your phone until you pay to
unlock in terms of exactly how this one
spread I think my my understanding at
this point and we're still doing
analysis on this is that it was probably
seeded through email attachments now
that's the classic where you know there
is a an attachment to email which is
very intriguing you attempted to click
on it that brings down the the malware
of the first part of malware onto your
system and then it the malware calls
back to the clan and Control Center the
c2 and gets instructions and then in
this case see if it can spread to other
computers connected to your computer and
so that is where a lot of the speed and
impact of the spread came from and and
in fact that was also the way that was
implemented and ended up being a
weakness and this particular version of
the code because on that c2 connection
was open to interference and that's what
happened when um you know some of the
gentleman from the UK registered the
domain that was being used for the
command and control center and that
essentially sinkhole Oracle sinkhole the
thing and triggered a kill switch within
the code and that those things the the
kill switch and the c2 or standard parts
of many different kinds of malware uh
but it was generally considered to be a
mistake that you could actually just
trigger a kill switch through the
through registering that domain so again
that you know these are things we take
as clean rooms let's do yeah who was
behind it it was somebody subtly
somebody made a mistake Wow right
now is Steven what can users do to
protect themselves like individually and
also as businesses yes sir
so I think I think the one word but you
know if you had to boil it down to and
be patched right it would be make sure
you are installing your operating system
patches
in a lot of systems now Windows 10 it's
doing automatic patching for a lot of
people on and so you want to make sure
if you can as an individual user as a
company can you if you can if it's
feasible to automatic patching I do not
delay if Microsoft comes out with or
Apple comes out with a critical update
or an update that says fixes security
vulnerabilities you want to install that
all right um on the other hand you have
to you have to note that it's not as
easy as it sounds but this is this is
something which is being asked I think
in some of the news reports if you
install a big patch on your 200 unit
network please use 200-seat Network and
that crashes the network right you're
gone section typically what happens in a
company situation is that the IT
department received the patches test
them to make sure they don't break
anything that you're using and then
rolls an out and so that can delay
things um there are some systems which
it's in d-double to to update and an
example would be embedded operating
system where the operating system is
part of a set of code and this happened
in medical equipment that's been
certified at a certain set of
configuration so it's not necessarily
possible to just immediately update that
and so on the corollary to that is you
should be reusing so the second thing
after patch is security software you
know there's good security software out
there that was already looking for the
exploit that was included in
on okra and a good security suite will
protect against something like this
particularly if you've got cloud
updating enabled so you know for in our
product but other products as well you
have a cloud connection to your security
software so that as soon as a new thing
is detective that is pushed out to all
of the system and so we had several
levels of protection kicking in and our
product over time some well before water
crept came out then on the day that it
came out and continued updated because
guess what other people have thought hey
I might ride it and so we're seeing the
same exploit now being incorporated in
different types of malware Bitcoin
mining malware is one example where the
bad yeah the bad guys trying it on your
machine use your machine to mine Bitcoin
may cab ought net to mine Bitcoin I got
you yeah that's crazy so ESET has been
protecting its users already from before
this infection came so are there
specific products for business or home
users that are going to do a
particularly good job of protecting
against these kinds of cyber attacks
because we think about antivirus for
example this is not right this isn't
going to classify itself as the
traditional virus that's combined so you
know that's an interesting an
interesting point because traditionally
our main products as security software
has been an antivirus product sure and
you know when virus is me viruses come
and go but a lot of other kinds of
malicious code so we call it
anti-malware and wouldn't you know it
it's hard to make people say
anti-malware they still call it an T
part yeah yeah and then we started
adding things like network protection
within the product and anti-phishing
within product and malicious web site
blocking within the product and yet
we're still kind of talked about as a
you know an anti-virus go but it's a
good end point security products is what
you're looking for and you know we have
a range of endpoint security products
for
every platform and for the business and
for the consumer and that's what you
want and these days endpoint security
product is going to do those things yes
it's going to know if a new virus or
worm comes out and block back it's also
going to be checking things at the
network level like we do and it's going
to be looking at how the user is using
the machine so that if they're in email
and they click on an attachment which is
going to a you know an infectious
website that get bopped cartoons on now
what is next for wanna cry are we are we
going to start seeing this taper off
with all the attention that has been
getting from cybersecurity professionals
or is this something that's going to
continue to evolve and turn into
something that's slider I don't know I
would I don't take this lightly but if I
had to guess I would say that sometime
on Friday it's going to wake up again
because d'arnot these things need to hit
up right this ruins your weekend your
palm down with a big me ride botnet
attack on the DNS services it happened
on a Friday there's actually some logic
to that if you're going to launch a
piece of malware I shouldn't even say
this but you know the bad guys already
know it Friday not a bad time you know
people are leaving early for the weekend
from a criminal perspective it makes
sense to attack on Friday yeah please
don't fight it I honestly don't know
what's going to happen next you know it
depends which of these scenarios I wanna
cry conforms to you know who is doing it
and what's there what's the point is
there at all is there any clue like it's
a thing calling home at all or so you
know there's North Korea has been
floated because of similarities you know
the big chunks of code okay in wanna cry
which which are also in code related to
the Lazarus group which is associated
with North Korea okay and
but but that's not conclusive at all we
don't know we just don't know well I
would say this that Mike myself and my
colleagues at ESET are very conservative
around attribution sherita's it it's in
the nature of code that it can be
exactly replicate yep and it's just it's
just like an mp3 recording you can even
just clone if you add in tonight right I
mean you can patch things together and
so what we see a similarity our first
suspicion is a red flag right oh okay
red flag false flag oh oh
further you mean from Raven already in
flat there yeah not that not all false
Flags a red flag sorry
of all you mean in your definitions when
you see that and yes so also we we
haven't really had actually seen code
which were where somebody's trying to
make it look Russian oh okay right
so it's it's a it's a known thing in
malware right is to throw artifact in
there to throw people off if they're
trying to find out who wrote it
gotcha okay well Stephen I appreciate
your time very very much I mean we're
going to see this thing evolve I think
over the next little while hopefully it
does not hit Young Friday but keep up
the great work there at ESET and and you
know with all the protection that you're
providing the proactive nature of the
you set products make sure you check
them out D SATCOM Stephen Cobb joined us
tonight and thank you very much for your
time sir
thank you great to be here have yourself
a great night you too
[Music]
you
