our next feature is this really cool
retro gaming machine and you can
actually get one of these a cat5 dot TV
slash arcade this is fun
Liam are you ready to show this thing
off all right I'm gonna head over to you
hey big guy
now you've been pretty excited about
this guy what is this it has 200 games
what what is okay tell me this what is
retro gaming I'm putting them on the
spot retro gaming is like old-style
video games like when mommy and daddy
were kids how cool is that so let's look
at do you want to just rip into the box
alright so this is a retro gaming system
that's available at camp five dot TV
slash arcade is it's all stuck together
this has never been opened before folks
let's see we're gonna get right in like
that there does that help okay tell us
all about it what do you think you like
the Sega Genesis in other retro gaming
consoles and systems holy cow dads moms
get get a pair of scissors or something
there you go okay can you get it in get
it out
oh yeah all right oh look at that it
looks just like a miniature arcade game
cool what do you think first impressions
Liam oh and these pulling a little
sticker off here what are your first
impressions does it look pretty cool
yeah speak to me speak to me it does
that's pretty cool
so you know it's fun this is one of
those things that just you know every
nerd I think has to have you know their
retro game fix Dave do you agree retro
gaming let's do it cool and there's a
there's a itty-bitty screw that is
holding the battery door compartment
closed which is probably a good thing
when you've got when you've got kids
that are gonna be getting into this so
I've got a screwdriver right here then
I'll grab I've got what we need buddy
little Phillips screwdriver
okay so how much do we know about this
thing it's just a retro gaming system
that looks like an actual arcade game
that's pretty neat be excited okay I'm
gonna take this off so we can put the
batteries in
fire up oh you found the power switch on
the back so you know we all love our
retro pie and our Raspberry Pi gaming
system and our Sega Genesis device like
Sasha reviewed and this is just
something that out of the box just the
form factor makes it so much fun you
ready buddy put that back on we've got
three equal client batteries in there
and now the fun begins what like vana
it's doing the Vanna White thing it
makes sound cool so you've got like a
little menu system that lets you choose
a game you want to fire one up and see
what it looks like how much fun is that
a in the zone absolutely Oh neat
cool what do you think it's good I head
on over to Kat oh that's the turn on
switch what else do you want to tell us
about it has two hundred fun games okay
so he's occupied for the rest of the
show so that's you know that's good
we're gonna head back over to the studio
as you play that I guess I cool it's a
dream gear and you can get one a cat5 TV
slash arcade
[Music]
[Applause]
