welcome to category 5 technology TV it's
episode number 4 54 for tuesday the 31st
of may 2016 so nice to see you my name
is Robbie Ferguson please help me
welcome we've got Shelly de Silva yeah
our very own Kelsey on the shelf hi hi
Kelsey Jensen hi how are you there I'm
good you're destroying the illusion by
putting your hand through hey tonight
we've got an exciting show for you
Shelly what do we got well tonight you
are talking about or actually you're
taking us through the linux terminal
with some awesome tools that will help
admin servers let's boss oh nice yeah
that's right i plan to get our nerd is
aman tonight we're going to learn some
things in the linux terminal for example
if you ever been connected to a server
over ssh and then suddenly your
connection gets dropped well i'm going
to show you tonight how to recover from
that kind of a situation we're also
going to look at a way a better way to
back up your linux machine as we start
our two-part alright in part series on
lvm definitely want to stick around for
that Kelsey Jensen over on the shelf hi
you got coming up well I've got a lot of
stuff coming up here so here's what's
coming up in the category 5 TV news room
Microsoft's upgrade to Windows 10 is
getting cut a pushy a huge number of
people in Canada have cut their home
phone in order to provide faster
connections to online and cloud services
across the world Facebook and Microsoft
have joined hands to lay an undersea
cable system across the Atlantic Ocean
you won't believe how fast it is like
it's ridiculous
and Peter Sunde says Europe must take
action to stop the facebook social
network stick around the full details
are coming up later in the show this is
category 5 technology TV welcome to the
show this is Robbie hi I'm Shelly love
kelsey i'm michelle puzzle shelf you can
pick up a kelsey on the shelf in your
store shop category 5 dr. a low monthly
payments yeah I realize a lot of people
actually just went there and looking for
it so I'm gonna really have to work on
like a bobblehead dollars quite as
interactive kelsey is here tonight
filling in for Jeff Jeff was on his way
here there was a rollover on the 400
northbound and was not Jeff thank you
but he's gonna be in that traffic for a
little while so thanks to Kelsey for
jumping into the last second and of
course our set is last minute shelf
brilliant speaking of our shop we have a
big seller there this week is the
raspberry pi 3 uni and I guess ever
since jeff and i showed the the retro
pie how to build a retro gaming system
on episode number 442 amazing response
to that and people are picking them up
and emailing me and saying they love it
they absolutely love it they're getting
these retro games going we've got one
set up at home and it's amazing like
being able to play playstation games
probably have the best graphics of all
of the retro stuff 1064 uh yeah I've got
I've got some roms for n64 Super
Nintendo I don't have any gamecube roms
but that's only because I've never owned
a Gamecube however I do have some
gamecube games for my wii so I could rip
those that makes me think excellent i'm
gonna add those to the retro pie too if
you're not sure what i'm talking about
is a little microcomputer that you can
do any project with it's a lot of fun
it's a great learning experience and
it's cheap and if you if you're done
with do
one project you can wipe it out and
start over with a new one and so it's
it's basically a cheap little micro
computer that you can play around with I
get yours a cat five dot TV / pie that's
P I and when you're there you'll be able
to see the different models there's the
PI 3 and the raspberry pi 3 had a
problem with the PlayStation 3
controllers Jeff and I mentioned it a
couple times bluetooth when the pi3 came
out they really have to rock out the
Bluetooth and they're the drivers
weren't ready i guess and the developers
had to really push it out because they
needed software to to release for the
pipe raspbian basically so it kind of
failed so on the retro pie you're
playing away with your ps3 wireless
controller it's an amazing thing to be
able to do but then it would just freeze
lock right up so the good news is that
that problem has now been fixed they
went back to the Bluetooth stack they
redid it and now it works perfectly so
in order to fix your retro pie or
raspberry pi so that the Bluetooth now
works perfectly it's actually pretty
easy you would just on your retro pie go
into your terminal oh kelsey still in
she's floating around only where we are
amazing it's like we could actually it
will just stick you in the linux
terminal there you go it's our kelsey
ann determine sure in your in your
terminal on your pie or if you want to
ssh over to it or however you access
that terminal on your pie i should
mention you can simply push f4 on your
keyboard and it takes a keyboard it's
like a computer so plug a keyboard into
it USB press f4 that's going to take you
into the terminal up on your TV and when
you're there now once you're into the
terminal all we're going to do is go
sudo apt-get update is the very first
thing that you want to type what that
does and it's going to ask you for the
password for pi which is raspberry with
a P what that's going to do is this
going to go through your repositories
and can get all the latest packages and
so on and so forth then the next step
once that's done is another very simple
command and it just takes a moment here
because we're downloading all those
package lists through the internet next
step on your PI sudo apt-get don't worry
about those errors that's just my
computer you're not gonna see that on
your pie sudo apt-get upgrade and when
you do that that is now going to upgrade
the pie some of the packages that are
available for it so when that process is
finished there's one final thing to do
so you do need internet on your pie for
this so just run a cable and reboot it
kind of thing the last one is same thing
but with dist dash upgrade and what that
one does it's called a distribution
upgrade and it looks for any new kernels
and this is what you need because those
kernels have the new bluetooth drivers
and everything like that so sudo apt-get
update updates the list so that you have
the list of latest software sudo apt-get
upgrade is now going to upgrade any
packages and programs that are on your
Raspberry Pi to make sure that they the
latest version and then sudo apt-get
dist-upgrade is going to do that final
step reboot the pie and guarantee your
ps3 controllers are going to work
absolutely flawlessly how do you like
that so imagine so you're playing
PlayStation games with a ps3 wireless
controller that's all you need that's it
it's perfect it's amazing the
performance is spectacular on the pi3
n64 i found if you increase the RAM
allocated to the no the cpu allocated to
know yeah it is the ram it's a little
tricky getting the n64 to work just
perfectly but you need to allocate a
little bit more RAM to the GPU to the
graphics so i set mine at 328 i believe
and that boosted up the performance
enough to to make that that n64 console
work just fine yeah you're there I just
want to see you folks as all the shelf I
can't see anything so you're there you
can watch it back you can watch it back
such effects here at the show
that is that's pretty cool yeah we're
enjoying the retro pie so sup great if
you didn't see it 442 is where you can
pick it up alright we've got some cool
headphones here these are called kids
gear and yeah you can get these at cat
five dot TV / headphones we've reviewed
some really cool headphones on the show
including the the rebel BTS from house
of marley now these from kids gear these
are these are interesting and different
because they are specifically build as
you can guess for kids right so what
does that mean well they're smaller
they're more comfortable for children
and they're they're a little more
durable but also a lot of these units
come with what's called the the kids
control cable and that cable will
actually limit the volume level so that
if your kids tend to turn up the volume
too high it will make sure that it turns
it down a little bit automatically so it
buffers at about minus 20 decibels kind
of idea so it's a pretty well it turns
it down yeah so their full range
headphones 20 to 20,000 Hertz and they
sound great they look great let's should
we get into one of these so this is you
you want I'm excited yeah this is
probably gonna be the perfect fit big
event on kelseys head let's get a look
at these ones because this is pretty
exciting because for the first time that
I have seen kids gear is bringing out
bluetooth headphones for children so
once I throw it on Kelsey elfs head say
what look time you're on you're headed
yeah thud look cute there we go they
come in multiple different colors at
cat5 TV / headphones these are the
bluetooth models so you'll see that
they've got full controls over here a
nice power switch and they do feel
pretty solid huh really solid actually
there they're good quality yep so these
headphones like the ones that we've
reviewed in the past they're completely
wireless they connect to your phone and
a tablet or even your laptop computer
with a bluetooth for
device it has the ability to plug it in
as a regular pair of headphones so if
your battery dies for example you can
actually Oh Kelsey get off the
headphones what I know you're just
sitting on them there we go if your
batteries die which they are
rechargeable so you plug them into USB
the cables provided it will recharge you
can plug in the audio cable and just use
them as a standard pair of headphones
even without batteries okay there we go
we've got a gaming headset that plugs in
here so if the kids want to play some
games plug it in twist it that's wicked
there you go fully articulating don't
try these on see if they actually fit
you might be a smidgen tight right I'll
give them a go okay not actually a kid
folks but the fit is perfect how do I
look guys looks great wow it's even
could hardly hear in that are they comfy
here yeah good good cushioning the
cushions are pretty good these again are
kids gear headphones perfect for your
kids if you know if you're looking to
legit yeah if you're looking for
something to get them then I think
especially these days a lot of kids
carry around iphones or other kinds of
Bluetooth enabled devices carry their
music on it and stuff there's nothing
like having the cable rip rip the
headphones off your head yeah so they're
pretty cool and they sound great so
check them out kids gear headphones cat
five dot TV / headphones and you'll also
find the rebel bt's there which we have
previously reviewed I'd say as an adult
those are my favorite headphones yes o
is a full grown man fully developed
there you go all right this is category
5 technology TV and welcome to the show
have you been I've been good yeah I new
bed I don't see it good if I work at
this I'm tired but good jobs going well
you're off school for now and we've just
taken it easy option her tops good yeah
that's good you're back in Barry yeah
here we are in Barrie Ontario beautiful
city
and summer's here and we can certainly
feel the heat in the studio today oh
yeah you're wearing Robbie sweating yeah
I am listening are you talking about
like missed your kind of the star of the
category 5 TV network you've been on new
every day for what three four weeks in a
row good fun and then when you're not
there you're here so last week you were
there I could fall with now you're back
on tech TV we've got several different
shows that we produce here category 5 TV
network you find out more just by going
to any of our websites but easy way to
find us and the different shows that we
have is to go to our patreon page mm-hmm
so you go to cat five dot TV / patreon
and there's a list of the different
shows what they intend to accomplish
there are some that are already in
production on a weekly basis some that
are that we're trying to bring out to
the network and some that are to come
one show that I'm very excited about the
seasons here is the drone zone yeah
we're gonna be looking at flight school
basically so if you're interested in
flying a drone a multi-rotor a
quadcopter or any of those kinds of
devices you'll definitely want to check
out the drone zone in the meantime
you'll find it on on youtube if you do a
quick search or follow the the
subscriptions on category 5 TV on
youtube and i'll post a link if you're
if you're watching this on youtube
there's a link right there but also you
can you can get your drones through
gearbest we're going to find out more
about them in a couple minutes time but
also at cat five dot TV / fly but I'm
excited about some of the drones that
we're bringing in we've got sound
several workers they're going to be
sending in the drones cool pretty cool
any either of you fly on a plane
somebody that flies pelea do pilots
drones at all no not true a lot of fun
not geraldton any desire to just as a
I've never experienced it yeah it's a
lot of fun it really is so I'm looking
forward to hope you are too should we
get right into it yes alright Kelsey you
let me know if you need to say anything
cuz I'm gonna take you off the shelf
real ok that's ok alright bye this is
category 5 technology TV and tonight
we're looking at a couple of different
Linux tips in the terminal that are
going to help you with server
administration first of all we're gonna
be looking at a tool that's going to
help you when you're working over ssh or
when you need to access a remote
computer over ssh it's definitely a
helpful tool and then we're going to get
into setting up our ubuntu matei system
as an lvm file system and that is going
to allow us to continue our series next
week on how to do lvm snapshot backups
which is basically the ultimate way to
do backups on Linux I've mentioned it
before but we've never actually covered
it on the show I don't think we talked
about hot copy a couple years back but
with the advancements in the kernel hot
copy is no longer a viable option and so
it's it's time to move on and look at
lvm same basic principle being able to
take snapshots but it's included with
all distributions and it's available for
you regardless of your colonel if you're
running a modern operating system so
we're looking forward to doing that
series in the meantime there's a cool
tool called screen and screen is
basically going to allow you to create
emulations of TTYL screens within an ssh
terminal session if you're on linux that
you've probably at some point hit ctrl
alt f1 ctrl alt f2 to toggle between the
different screens that your your linux
operating system gives you and then ctrl
alt f7 is usually your desktop
environment to return when your remoted
into a server or a computer you don't
necessarily have that option you don't
have the ability to switch around on the
ttys but in addition one of the worst
things that can happen is you're doing
an upgrade say a dist upgrade or you're
doing some kind of a task that takes a
lot of time and is potentially dangerous
to lose your connection to and suddenly
your internet drops out for a couple of
moments your session freezes up and then
you're locked out of your system the
problem there is that then ok well what
do you do you can't you can reconnect by
SSH but you can't see the session as it
was
so you've lost access to what it was
that you were doing you know that it's
running in the background but you don't
know when it's completed you don't know
if it completed successfully and it's a
bit of a mess so what we're going to
learn tonight is this helpful little
tool called screen and it's going to
save us from all those kinds of woes so
in your linux operating system we are
going to do a few things real quick here
sudo apt-get update because we're
assuming that you've never installed
screen before this is a debian based
operating system if you are on an RPM
based system you may use a tool called
yum for example whatever your favorite
package manager is you'll be able to
follow along with the same similar
commands but you'll need to adapt them
for your distribution sudo apt-get
install screen just like it sounds and
that's going to look in those
repositories for the package and it's
not even asking me if I want to it may
ask you if you are sure you want to
continue you can type Y for yes now when
I type the word screen it's just simply
going to look like okay it's got a page
of and of copyright information then
when i hit enter i'm back at terminal ok
so then you start to think okay well
what on earth did i just do it just
looks like i'm still in my terminal
that's all there is to it right so i can
go into my folders and look around and
that everything looks just normal but
watch what happens now when i hit
control a and then d now it says I'm
detached so what does that mean so where
am I I can look around and I can do
whatever but now watch what happens when
i type screen dash are four reconnect or
reattach you'll see that I'm right back
to where i typed LS so if i was in the
process of running these big long
commands if let's say you're running a
backup i think that's a really good
scenario you'd want to run screen first
so i'm going to run this and then i'm
going to hit control ad and you'll see
that I'm detached and so now I can go
about my day continue doing other things
and then when I'm
I can go screen dash are to reattach and
you'll see I'm right back at that apt
get update and there it goes i can hit
control ad and i'm back at my regular
terminal so why does that matter well if
i were to lose my connection now in this
state because i have that apt get update
going on in a screen session then i can
now reconnect to that server type screen
dash are and i'm right back at that
session exactly where it is at that
point so it's running basically in the
background without any any interface so
now i can reconnect to that system type
screen dash are and there we are and
still then on back at that terminal
session okay so i'm going to exit so
there are now no screen connect
connections going no screen sessions so
if i type screen we're just going to
basically i'm giving you a crash course
on screen tonight to help you to to
learn how to use it we're so we're going
to go through a couple of the different
commands shelly on how to utilize this
tool basically what we're doing is
considering you know cases where you've
got applications that are going to be
mission critical so you've got something
that's happening like a backup where you
need to be able to let it run but you're
pretty sure that you're going to either
lose your connection or need to close
off your connection while it's still
running so with screen we're able to do
that so let's let's play around here a
little bit screen dash LS and it says no
sockets found now you notice that i am
currently logged into my system as
Robbie so it's important to note that if
I were to go pseudo screen now I'm
actually route ok so if i do LS and then
i go control a d now I'm detached but
watch what happens when I go screen dash
are there is no screen to be resumed
well why is that the reason is is
because the screen that is currently
running on this system is in fact i'm
not sure if i can superuser hear ya
could probably go su pseudo versa sorry
sudo su there we go so I'm route now so
as root
if I type screen dash are now you'll see
it reconnects to that session because I
was route by using sudo when I created
that session so if you have created a
session to run a backup as root and then
you disconnect and you are no longer
route then you're going to find that
your screen session does not exist so
you need to again become root with sudo
or with sudo su and then you can
reconnect there's the session okay so it
is user specific so it's important to
note that whatever user you ran it as is
the user that it is going to be
associated with so you have to return to
that user in order to access the screen
session so now we're going to now we
have no screens running i'm going to
show you that screen dash r is is gone
pseudo screen dash are there is no
screen to be resumed so the next command
is sudo not sudo pardon me screen dash
LS and you're familiar with the LS
command that's what we use when we're
listing the file system relax you so
screen dash LS similarly is going to
list any of the running sessions that
are available to us on screen so screen
and then hit enter now there's a screen
running control ad and I can go screen
dash LS and you'll see that there is now
a session so if I had two sessions
running which is possible now I have two
of them so I can on this one I can go
I'll ass LSU see that I've done it twice
and then disconnect with control control
ad okay yep okay nope take a break what
a doubt in post
there we go there we go all right where
was I well now we got start over show so
now I've got to statins active watch
what happens when I go screen dash LS
there you go so I can see that there are
now two sessions so now when I go
screened a shower well it says what do
you want to do there's two of them so we
go screen dash R and you see that number
before the pts 0 demo that's the number
that I want to use so screen dash our
space one four nine seven eight there's
the terminal session where I had two LS
is now if I disconnect again and I go
screen dash LS there is there are two so
i can go screen dash R let's connect to
the other one 1490 one and you'll see
that that is not the one with LS so I
can exit that now when i type screen
dash LS there's only one screen dash r
is going to take me into one four nine
seven eight because i don't have to
specify that because it's the only one
that exists and now i can exit again
with control a d so i press ctrl-a let
go then press the letter D on my
keyboard that's going to take me there
so now when I run screen dash LS you'll
see that i have one session here's the
problem there shall we if I had 15
sessions open how am I going to know
which one is which it's a lot of cycling
through numbers it's a lot of trying to
remember which one is which and maybe
jotting it down it's a little bit of a
pain not really ideal so instead what we
can do is we can actually specify a name
to associate with that session number
it's actually surprisingly easy and in
order to do that now when I create a
session and this is probably the way you
would want to do it is screen dash S and
let's call this one back up so now when
I create that screen session I can run
my back up back up back up right control
ad while that runs and when I want to
reconnect i can go screen dash LS and i
see that there is one called back up so
that name just associate sit so for my
reference because when I reconnect i can
go screen dash are 158 26
enter and I'm right back at back up back
up back up so it's as simple as that so
with a lot to take in I think but and I
a crash course through it so that you
would have a good reference to be able
to refer back to on how to use screen
fantastic tool it's going to save your
fanny if you are if you're online and
lose that connection when you're working
on a server I've had it happen it's a
horrible thing to have happen and you
sit there you know H top watching the
process wondering is that backup almost
done was it successful and then you
can't go back in to see what was on the
screen so this way you can screen again
it's a free tool for linux and great for
system administrators but also great for
you on your home linux system you can
use that anywhere that you use linux we
talk about the raspberry pi retro pi
raspbian OS and being able to ssh into
that it's another great example of
here's an example for you using screen
so first install it like i did tonight
hmm before you do a scrape because did
you know the retro PI dash setup you'll
find that if you first hit f4 you hit LS
you'll see a folder called retro PI dash
setup and you go into that you run sudo
space dot slash retro PI dash setup Sh
you'll see it there with an LS you'll
see it run that and there is now the
feature with with retro pi/3 that you
can actually run the scrape from the
terminal with emulation station closed
what that means is that it's going to go
on to the internet so make sure your
Ethernet is connected or you've got
Wi-Fi on the retro pie it's going to go
through the internet and just like when
you used to rip cds and it would
automatically get all the titles this
will get the cover art the description
the number of players the rating all
that information about every game that's
on your retro pie within reason as long
as it recognizes them in the database
right so with that scrape now running in
the background then you can control ad
let it run in the background
don't run a Malaysian station while it's
happening but then you can just walk
away and they don't have to worry about
it then remote back in reconnect to the
screen session and you're good to go so
happy birthday enjoy that this is
category 5 technology TV I know I just
blew your mind happy birthday that's
that's all you got out of that oh boy
hey you'll find our website triple w dot
category five dot TV Kelsey can you
believe i blabbed all the way to the
news you did and hey if you've got a
question in the chat room am i off no
I'm just all right oh you're holding her
up I thought you were like doing right
there walk like an Egyptian yeah you're
there okay yeah you're there you're
alive you're just below the card I got
to put the card right next maybe we
could fix this but I didn't dinner duh
just a little set modification folks
that better do do do do you the ugliest
Picard I've ever seen how's that look
out Kells there you go now we're set
seems a cioppino no he's shooting you
with his phaser ohhhhh with this phaser
that's right you ready for it we're
doing the the like the intro fresh
before the commercial yeah okay I see
where you're going like this yeah we'll
head over to the newsroom and then we'll
take a break and when I and as I was
about to say if you're in the chat room
make sure you send to our attention
Shelley's there I'm there and we will
love to field your questions right after
the news all right Kelsey take it away
it's Tuesday May 31st 2016 and here are
the stories were covering
weak Microsoft's upgrade to Windows 10
is getting really pushy a huge number of
you won't believe how fast it is and
Peter Sunde says Europe must take action
to stop the facebook social network
these stories coming right up don't go
anywhere Jeff Weston Yemen you're
building a brand new beautiful website
what are you alright you're terrible
actor what does we're acting comes into
play I don't know where Arctic you're
supposed to act okay I'm building a
really cool website are you building a
really cool website you need hosting one
of the things about a hosting account is
you don't want to have limitations put
on your website let's sure how much hard
drive space do you have how many email
accounts how many domains can point to
it well we've got an amazing deal for
you for a very limited time cat five dot
TV / dreamhost for just five dollars and
a bit of change per month you are going
to get unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the roots are your own
com dice to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat5 TV / dreamhost
just don't pop out of the papers are
just don't do it but hey it's a great
deal folks best deal you're gonna find
five dollars and change per month go to
cap five dot TV / dreamhost i'm close
jensen and here the top stories from the
category five TV news room
microsoft really really wants you to
upgrade to Windows 10 since last summer
the tech giant's pushed and prodded pc
owners to upgrade their machines too
late the late to its latest Windows
version well the upgrade is currently
free for most consumers with Windows PCs
critics say that the company's
heavy-handed nudging amounts to an offer
you can't refuse I would do that accent
but I really can't Microsoft initially
offered Windows 10 as an optional
upgrade that is one that is users one
that users had to choose themselves then
earlier this year the company
reclassified it as recommended some
windows 10 holdouts cried foul since
many pcs are setup to automatically
install recommended updates which are
usually important security fixes
suddenly those machines would
automatically install Windows 10 as well
at one point some pc owners complained
microsoft began sending on-screen
messages prompting them to download and
install windows 10 the catch were most
such have remote such pop-up windows
were but have buttons marked ok and
cancel this message displayed two
buttons that led that both led to an
upgrade which was upgrade now and
upgrade tonight to avoid the upgrade
diehard registers had just had to click
a red X in the upper right corner that
closed the window Microsoft then revised
the notice notification citing customer
feedback a new version tells pc owners
they are scheduled for recommended
upgrade to windows 10 at a specific time
in the near future and bears a prominent
ok button to reject or reschedule the
change users have to find and click a
less conspicuous link and small type but
clicking the X no longer blocks the
update microsoft says it isn't trying to
be sneaky and blog posts and official
statements the company says it shows
users at least two notifications before
it activates Windows 10 it also allows
any pc owner to reverse the installation
and go back to their old software if
they do so within 31 days even so
microsoft clearly wants to get as many
pcs and other devices running windows 10
as it possibly can
the company says it wants users to have
the latest security features and other
improvements microsoft also makes more
money from windows 10 features that
increase usage of Bing the company's
ad-supported search engine and it wants
to convince programmers there's a big
audience or software apps that are
compatible with Windows 10 on PCs
tablets smartphones and other gadgets
microsoft says its offer for free
upgrade for our old machines is ending
july twenty ninth and that means more
notices that prompts are likely so are
you running Windows 10 Kelsey yes I am
and what are you and what do you think
of it I like it like I've run windows 7
8 and 10 okay so not I didn't like
Windows 8 yeah I was going to say coming
from eight then it's kind of a
non-starter that Windows 10 is better
than eight yeah so but I think it's a
lot a lot to do with and we're seeing a
lot in business where customers it's
costing people money when they cannot do
the things that they set out to do in
business because suddenly their computer
is locked up saying installing Windows
10 so it's not even necessarily the
upgraded OS so much as the upgrade of
the OS or here at the studio how it
happened on our broadcast system and
we're on LTE internet and it costs a
huge amount of money ridiculous it took
me three months to to get caught up on
that mm-hmm and and that's all because
Windows decided to hey we're going to
download all of this stuff without
asking fun good job windows real real
good job yeah fail more than half a
million Canadians hung up their home
phones permanently in the past fiscal
year and the cord cutting trend seems to
be accelerating despite incentives
excuse me offered by telecoms to keep
customers on the line as many as 450
540,000 sorry subscribers cancelled
their home phone services from the top
five telecommunications providers in
Canada between the first quarters of
2015 and 2016
with about a hundred and sixty thousand
people cutting their land lines in the
past quarter alone according to the
company's quarterly reports that's the
equivalent of the entire province of
Manitoba plus a few thousand neighbors
in Saskatchewan giving up their land
lines last year the drop pushes the
percentage of canadian households that
relies solely on mobile phones well
above twenty-five percent higher the
statistics canada's most recent rate of
thirty twenty three point seven percent
based on 2014 data but telecoms aren't
letting landlines go quietly according
to customers who have been offered deep
discounts when they call to cancel
landlines may be less lucrative than
wireless but the residential telephone
market still pulled 5.2 billion dollars
in 2015 these telecom companies know
though that at the end of the day
broadband is the only product they'll
most likely survive with you know what I
think a lot of times these bits of
research assume that everyone is
switching to mobile cellular phone
personally I can't stand that why
dropping your your home phone for a cell
phone I'm more couldn't you couldn't you
get away from expense rather than all I
know you know every phone call having to
be cost and and you know I hate to say
it but I know people who have who have
done that and I always feel guilty to
call them on a regular basis it like you
want to talk yeah oh this is costing me
money I'm on my it's like it's like
long-distance calls of old when when we
were younger you know long-distance
calls were the thing so I took a
different approach you took a different
approach as well with the nettalk duo's
duo tues do a wife eyes this is not an
ad for them but just thinking about how
this is the exact opposite so I'm a cord
cutter I've cut phone service from my
house but instead I've got one of these
using my internet connection so I can
call now anywhere in Canada the US for
free so I've done the exact opposite
where nothing costs money now just the
internet connection
off yeah if this wasn't ad I would tell
you to get one a cat5 TV / net talk but
I wouldn't do that do it might as well
right yeah you know the two different
sides of it right and I can't stand it
you know Plus this the whole just the
whole thing of cell phones being
everywhere like we're so addicted to
these things and you so accessible in
the guy in line at the starbucks where
you know you've gotta wait for him
because he's no hold on I'm on the phone
I don't care like unless you are the
president of the United States you're
not that important yeah or the su Prime
Minister of Canada something no he's not
as important as the president the United
States is we don't got a president
that's a prime minister hey talking
about States I think you hear me I think
you hear me all right back to you kels
okay Facebook and Microsoft have teamed
up to install fat the fastest
transatlantic undersea cable which will
transfer data and record at a
record-breaking speed of a hundred and
sixty terabytes per second I'm sorry a
hundred and sixty terabytes per second
with a capital B Wow ah that's like wow
how fast is that or how slowly fast how
fast that's like that millions of times
faster than your fastest home internet
service like light years I'd be pretty
sure better than light holy cow cuz that
only just now getting like three or four
terabyte hard drives for you know it's
imagine being able to transfer it in a
matter of a split second yeah that's
nutty that's also scary that's a big
pipe to have all in one pipe yea big
backbone to have all in one spot like if
that ever got cut you know that a lot of
infrastructure is going to go through
there yeah and that is an expensive
piece of equipment right there yeah so
tell us more cals uh yes the 2i t Giants
will construct the longest undersea
cable that will connect four
beach in the in the States and Phil Wow
so am I saying that right build our I
think they'll bow in Spain spanning
almost six thousand six hundred
kilometers the move comes two years
after google's now alphabet initiative
to invest 300 million u.s. dollars to
lay a trans-pacific cable between us and
japan while most undersea cables are
owned and maintained by telecom
companies the transatlantic cable will
be owned by Facebook and Microsoft
themselves the 6600 kilometers cable
system will also be the first connect
thing the United States and southern
Europe running from Northern Virginia to
billable Spain from Spain the data
network will link to hubs in Africa Asia
the Middle East and other parts of
Europe Microsoft bought into Facebook
nine years ago paying 240 million
dollars for a 1.6 percent stake in the
leading social network whoa that's a lot
of money for that small mistake Wow one
can I could I like just take a second
just to really look at these numbers and
see how fast this backbone is going to
be so this is the Microsoft letzte let
me google that for you Microsoft
Facebook and they call it a submarine
not like the submarine that you ride but
submarine as in underwater right subsea
cable across the Atlantic crazy
it's going to be awfully reliable too
but all to build up cloud infrastructure
a and to think that no longer being and
I know that there are other cables out
there but this is fast not being reliant
on satellite or anything like that build
it come on VentureBeat oh it's super
fast anyway that's crazy chaos that's
insane you guys look it up check it out
yeah wow you're on alright according to
Peter Sunde the co-founder of the Pirate
Bay Facebook has grown so dominant that
is one that it is one of the world's
largest nations and co-founder and CEO
Mark Zuckerberg is effectively the
dictator of that country sunday made his
remarks during an interview with CNBC at
a conference in amsterdam he went on to
warn mark zuckerberg is a dictator I did
not liked him he sets the rules although
membership and Facebook is voluntary the
Pirate Bay founders said there is an
impact on people's lives if they don't
belong to the giant social network
because so much of the interaction among
family members and friends takes place
on facebook the idea that Facebook is
essentially a sovereign nation may sound
crazy but it is reinforced by the way
political leaders treat the company and
its leader for example he mentioned how
German cancelled Chancellor Allen Angela
Merkel confronted the Facebook CEO but
the site's handling of anti-immigration
posts essentially sending major leaders
of Europe to ask him to stop interfering
with their local culture The Pirate Bay
founder also criticized Facebook for
forcing people to use their real names
on the site which he said was
responsible for users being persecuted
in some countries the fact that mr.
Sunday spent five months in jail for
building a website that makes it easy to
find and obtain illegal copies of music
and movies makes his claim somewhat
ironic however the validity of his
points should raise some red red flags
what do you think I yeah it is kind of
funny coming from him a like this is the
one of the founders of pirate bay which
is like torrent illegal copies of stuff
and that's a gray area bordering on the
black and he's calling out Facebook
Zuckerberg but it says kind of sound
knowing that he is being treated like a
bit of a dictator by governments is a
little bit I don't know what to make of
that yeah I guess it's a huge company
right yeah it and they represent so many
people so again Microsoft spent 240
million dollars on just getting up one
percent stake in the company like
they're massive Wow see where that goes
big thanks this week to Jeff Weston and
our community of viewers for submitting
stories to us if you found a news story
you'd like to send email it to newsroom
at category 5 TV for all your tech news
with the site slight Linux bias visit
the category 5 TV news room at newsroom
category 5 TV for the category 5 TV news
room i'm kelsey johnson thanks Kelsey
problem this is category 5 technology TV
and welcome to the show it's episode
number 4 54 and the date is tuesday May
31st 2016 so if you're watching this in
2072 you know why we're talking about
some really weird old stuff that is cool
we're gone speaking yeah so speaking of
watching in 2072 what do you think of
all those printers that have rocked the
world those 3d printers probably making
cars by now it's your past it's our
future but 3d printing will rock the
world find out more cat 5 TV / rock the
world two weeks ago we spoke with john
hornik about the this book 3d printing
will rock the world check out his book
please and again it is cat five dot TV /
rock the world to get your hands on this
it is fast becoming the encyclopedia on
3d printing and the future of it how
going to change things but it is
entertaining it's fun it has pictures
and they are interesting and you you
know from seeing John on the show he's a
great guy he knows what he's talking
about but he's also a lot of fun to
speak with and to read so his
personality shines through in the book
we've got one to give away and we've
collected your your ballots over the
past couple weeks we gave viewers a
chance to send in their ballots we got a
ton of ballots and just before the show
you know what I did you selected one I
selected one so congratulations to our
viewer shine shadow shine shadow
congratulations you were randomly drawn
tonight from the ballots just before the
show if you missed the informational
interview a couple weeks back make sure
you check out episode number 4 52 need
immediately after tonight's show mm-hmm
so shine shadow if you could send us
your email or know your mailing address
through our your email port to our email
that would be great so we can send you
your book live at category five dot TV
just sent us that and we'll get that out
dear congratulations and thanks to
everybody for sending in your ballots
don't forget to check out the book get
yourself a copy and I'm sure you will
enjoy we will be right back after this
now here's another great way you can
support the shows you love from the
category five dot TV network by shopping
gearbest that's the right Jeff cat five
dot TV / gearbest it's an online store
for the geek streak in you or the loved
ones
of course I mean especially your loved
ones right because cat5 TV / gearbest
quite frankly has all of the greatest
tech gifts that you could ever hope for
at rock bottom prices to their cell
phones you betcha cat5 TV / gearbest has
a wide assortment of unlocked android
cell phones and tablets what about
computer consumer electronics those like
a great gift absolutely from high-tech
watches to action cameras headphones
even virtual reality headsets cat5 TV /
gearbest has you covered they literally
have it all Jeff literally really it's
like a super store right from the
comfort of your own chair at your
computer through the interweb yeah I
there's no way they have it all it's
true it's just a bunch of a random
electronic Sesame what about clothes yep
both men and women fashionable apparel
at rock bottom super duper prices kinda
like this well look at this coat what do
you think it's a slimming mock leather
jacket I love it it's available for less
than thirty dollars plus free shipping
at camp five dot TV / gear best yeah all
right you kinda got me there Wow any
other questions for me Jeff ah now that
the winter is past flying season do they
have any good deals and say drone
copters oh my goodness well check this
out dude they have everything check out
over 500 various drones and not only
that they're available marked down by
about thirty two up to sixty three
percent off the regular price love it
what's the website again while you're
gonna find gearbest on our partners
pages for any of your favorite category
5 TV shows like new every day category 5
technology TV the pixel shadow but of
course if you want to shop absolutely
right now and you want to go straight to
the site all you have to do is visit
cat5 TV
Ashley gearbest so that's easy cat five
dot TV / your best that's right happy
shopping this is category 5 technology
TV and you'll find us online triple w
category five dot TV and as well cat
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
category fat cat 5 TV / tpn and the
international association of internet
broadcasters cat five TV / IA ib a
wonderful way that you can support the
show is to head on over to camp five dot
TV / patreon we appreciate everybody who
has contributed a whole next week we've
got a couple new partners patrons if you
will on our patreon page as well we've
got we really appreciate those of you
who have taken the time and and and
decided to contribute through paypal as
well we do have a tip jar which is
donation donate pardon me doc category
five dot TV I've got so many URLs going
through my head it's amazing it's crazy
thank you to those who have gone to
donate category five TV and supported
the show did you know that we have on
average about 12,000 163 viewers per day
that's based on last month's numbers
crazy day per day so if just a small
percentage of those were to say I can
give 25 cents per episode so once a week
I'll give 25 cents through patreon we
would be set we'd have all of our
expenses paid or they even before the
bill even comes and and we'd be good to
go and we'd be able to upgrade we'd be
able to you know we're talking about the
drone zone I want to the drone zone it's
going to be amazing it's happening this
summer we're gonna be reviewing a lot of
great gear but it costs money to do so
every show costs a lot of money and this
show here category 5 technology TV costs
us 250 dollars per episode so you know
if you if you ever think could you just
do it and not it not cost anything well
it does we've got rent we've got hydro
we've got like
what insurance internet is a big one no
all that kind of stuff hope so cat5 TV /
patreon last week Jeff and I were
talking about Battlestar Galactica have
you seen it no just a quick update I
can't believe you haven't seen it Kel's
honestly your doctor who fan right you
actually got me interested in doctor who
did I really you did and so now we're
like totally caught up we watched right
from not not the old series yeah but the
1990 was started 1999 or 91 or something
well there was I can't even keep track
it started with the eleventh Doctor I
think you're something like that no no
it started in 2005 to the Ninth Doctor
yes and reach out for one season when I
get so confused I mean I could tell you
Christopher eggleston okay yes that's
right I'll see you know all about that
and then right now we're on the twelfth
doctor 12 Peter Capaldi your Capaldi
yeah I know him he's crazy yeah I did
not expect him to be as awesome as he is
yeah only because I know I'm from so
much comedy instead yeah it's so it was
pretty surprising yeah battlestar has
been a lot of fun we're about five or
six episodes in including the the
miniseries to two movies at the start of
it it's good okay it's really good
basically here's the story bunch of
robots chasing after humans no water and
we got to survive it since great
apocalyptic story it's a lot of fun
that's that's it resident evil is that
what it's like to you I guess eh yeah we
should get a poster resin Battlestar or
resident evil which one Oh probably
Battlestar just cuz resident evil would
make me feel really creeped out yeah
continue your zombies you don't need
that around here yeah we family smiles
on our face we're all about the smile
this is a family show not available yeah
yeah hey sit around gather around
children right show you the children's
headphones yeah it's how it works good
product for every age yeah that's right
next week we will be reviewing mice for
80 year olds that's it I can't believe
their shows done crazy does it have a
fantastic week everybody thanks for
being here Kelsey on the shelf and
Shelley nice to see NJ are we all done
our run mm-hmm you're back hopefully
here soon and yeah I guess this will
feel like this week oh yeah you're going
on a hike going on a hike oh I wish we
had more time I think you're all about
but you're going to the states where you
headed uh honolulu honolulu we've got
viewers there so when you see Shelly way
up on the mountain that'd be me wave me
right all right the island of Kauai II
at one time thank you yeah and I will
see you again next week and this week on
new every day it's just gonna be Jen
what got you off she dropped you off and
she's driving home yeah and it's all her
and then a couple weeks from now we're
gonna see oh and there goes Kelsey her
camera just died okay it's time that's
it so good night everybody there goes a
fantastic week we'll see you next
Tuesday
you
