hi everyone and welcome to new every day
my name is Kari my name is Jen and have
you ever once punched someone in the
throat well on this show we just say
hashtag today no to throw punching we
will be right back
this is new every day with Jen wagger
and Gary Webb
[Music]
hi thanks for tuning back into new
everyday we're so glad that you have
tuned in and we have been talking about
all of these great life hacks Jen from
the book of Proverbs specifically having
to do with communication yes first one
is listening and why is listening
important because it's how you hear
thanks nice if you don't listen you
aren't going to hear what the other
person says and you're thinking yes that
is true
so that was a good answer a it was a
great answer thank you so much Jeanine
helps us to actually hear what the other
person is saying and you wait to the
other person is finished huh and then
you speak so week number two was choose
to be kind and why is choosing no I
answer the first one why is choosing to
be kind
choosing to be kind is important so that
our words don't come out in manipulation
or control or like a harsh way or harsh
word because that crushes that crushes
our spirits so and when we choose to be
kind then it's not it really is not
about getting our own way what we're
wanting the very best for the other
person mm-hmm so that's why it's
important to be choose to be kind in our
words and I think we also need to choose
to be honest which was last week yes oh
yes and it's so we discussed that is so
hard to be honest because it reflects
what's going on in our own heart yeah
and well if I'm honest will they still
accept me if I'm honest well they still
want to be my friend if I'm honest you
know and they might gonna have to walk
with them through whatever they're going
through or more the accountability yes
yeah and we also said choosing not to
say anything is being dishonest anyways
even though you haven't said any words
by choosing not to say words so it
protects you is still being dishonest
so that brings us to this week and we
said that this week we're talking about
choosing to be patient
or hashtag say no throw punches right
because it's so easy when somebody says
something and you just want to haul off
and be like I would ever get anyone I
just can't even imagine you doing that
like I just don't even know what my
response would be I'm cat bit me once
and I threw it oh because it literally
bit me and I'm like BAM when I threw it
because that Oh reflex action okay
because when we talk about no throat
punch right to talk about being patient
what happens often with with words and
communication somebody can say something
and there's a reaction and there's a
reacts very visceral when the cat hit me
like bit me it hurt the word that quite
hurt and so it was immediate right and
so sometimes when those words those
words can come in we immediately say
yeah but you're stupid or yeah you know
you would say that if you you know you
weren't so ugly like oh right because
because and we talked about this before
the words often come out of what's on
the inside yes and so when another it
comes so we're just going to use this
the hurt comes because this is the sign
for the cat but I need your hand and you
want to just throw it because it hurt
yeah it hurt and sometimes it's I did
not expect the cat to bite me right like
I was petting it this is not a story
about cats but I was petting it
obviously it is maybe and it bit me I
was not expecting it and it hurt and so
my immediate immediate response was to
literally throw the cat which is true in
communication so if you if you are not
expecting the response and then you're
hurt by it and then I think Jen like
there is a place there when the lord
says like the Bible says don't take
offense like it might hurt but I'm gonna
choose not to be offended right and tell
myself like the Lord is my defense I
don't need to defend myself like that
mm-hmm
because a hot-tempered man and this
comes from Proverbs 1429 you just have a
little bit of a teleprompter over here
so tell me 15 ok yes 14 29 and also
proverbs 15 18 so I'll read proverbs 15
18 ok 9 ok a patient man has great
understanding but a quick tempered man
displays folly and that actually a folly
is basically they don't know any better
hmm they don't only have a desire for
for peace or the follies like getting
into trouble and so a quick temper man
is going to get into trouble whereas the
patient man is going to just be like
like that's going to calm down and be at
peace can you walk around throat
punching all the time you're not gonna
make friends I think that's the moral
the story yeah this is they have a great
understanding patient man has great
understanding so those those words can
come in and even though you didn't
expect it or yet hurt patients is and we
talked about this just recently patience
isn't about walking often there's
respons lesions is living out the best
of what God has in the moment is really
what patience is it's not about well I'm
not going to react I'm not going to do
that I'm going to wait patience is while
I'm waiting or instead of responding
quickly I'm going to basically bring God
into the moment and live out this one
it's the very best of what it can be
rather than responding quickly or just
trying to pass time so patience is
emilie very thoughts it says it's a
fruit of the Spirit so in this moment I
need the fruit of the Spirit I need the
Holy Spirit to birth in me joy and
goodness and
faithfulness you know self-control in
patience patience is so often when you
say well I'm praying for patience well
then you're praying for opportunities to
experience the goodness of God in
not-so-great situations sometimes and so
when it says you know maybe man has
great understanding they realize that
instead of responding so quickly but
they just need to take that moment and
maybe wait on the Lord to think twice to
be slow to speak so that they don't have
clean-up on aisle nine yeah because a
quick time for man not only is it the
throat punch to you know to that other
person but then they man I'm so sorry
I'm sorry I should I shouldn't have hit
you well why did you hit while it was
just bottling up inside me well do you
think you should work that out well yeah
maybe I should spend some time getting
out in a more healthy way these are on
the inside is there quality life skills
they are often I will tell people if
you're angry like deal with it like deal
with it whether it's you know scribbling
on a piece of paper to get because with
emotions there is an energy associated
with it that has to be expressed in a
physical way that's why I often with
grief and sadness the physical response
is this use my unique we need to leak we
need to leave it's like it meets up with
all that energy that's on the inside and
then it spills it down the front of our
face so tears are so important when
you're angry like a physical response
would be like like even saying I'm so
angry and you throw your arms down like
it's that physical response or I'd like
to think like if you're a woodchopper go
and chop wood if you need to go for a
run then you go for a run our parents
have told me that's why they like a long
commute oh yeah if something decompress
work then they can decompress and so
they come into the house and they're
ready so they've had time to decompress
but they said actually when you live
close to home and you only have like a
five minute commute home it's on their
home and everybody's on there yeah
it's where you've had no
so even though all those emotions are
bottled up you have no time to actually
process them yeah that's true need time
to price these well you've gone on so
that's why it says a patient man has
very understanding but a quick tempered
man like it'll lead to folly because you
they're quick because they haven't had
time they're responding out of what has
happened yes right yep rather than
that's why if somebody's had a really
good day all of a sudden you get really
good responses from them in your life
Wow you've had a good day because we
respond out of what has happened to us
so if we haven't had a good day if some
stuff happened at the office and you're
not in a good frame sometimes it is
easier just to say I can't talk right
now I need five minutes and and
sometimes I will just I'll go into my
room or something will happen that'll
just hurt me and I'll have to it very
obscure men are like Laura I actually
find this upsetting it has nothing to do
that other person is because I know I'm
hurt on the inside and their words
weren't hurtful but I could because of
my own hair and the inside mind you
respond I don't know if I want to say
past hurt so Carrie could very easily
say something to me that is not unkind
or untruthful it's just a statement but
because of my own hurt that I haven't
dealt with yet my response could come
out very angry and you could be thinking
why is she responding this way which is
bad for communication because then she's
not going to want to share things with
me because she doesn't know how I'm
going to respond and that then that
leads to rejection and you know lack of
acceptance and because we actually don't
deal with the stuff on the inside and so
I often find myself saying Lord what
that person said was not unkind was not
hurtful was not anything I mean
responding about a veneer of rejection
my own fear of mistrust my own whatever
I'm respond so or I can feel that in my
heart would you brace
there because I don't want to respond in
a way yeah that is going to be quick
time quick temper or like a throat punch
I don't want to respond that way because
that's not helpful that's not truthful
and yes I could be sad about something
or upset or angry it has absolutely
nothing to do with that person because
they've actually said everything that's
right and you know in keeping with that
Jen I think where patience comes in as
like this communication pearl is that
after you've asked the Lord I don't want
to respond this way help me then it
takes patience to actually trust that he
can equip you to do it if we've been
given everything we need for life and
godliness then to actually like apply
faith to that ask that I can wait and
not have to respond right away or not
have to respond and kind like the
patience is in the waiting yeah you know
yes so we're gonna ask you to be patient
and wait for us until we come back from
this message
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching hey everyone
thanks for sticking with us on new every
day go to our website new every day dot
TV check out our partners tab and see
the organizations and businesses that
helped make this show a possibility we
are under the umbrella of category 5
they host us so when you go to support
us whether it's through patreon or some
other means you may think who is Robby
and who is category 5 well that is the
the network that makes this show
possible and Robby is our producer
editor elcapitan
who makes this show possible it's
inspirational we're very thankful so
we're talking about the life hack
communication skills of choosing to be
patient Jen and it's it's not the most
prolific virtue in today's society and I
think that in part is bred because of
our the instantaneous quality of so much
of what we do so like I send a message I
get a message back I you know send an
email right away I want something I'm
going to buy it online everything is
just so instantaneous that there's not a
necessity of being patient where I mean
look it back in Pioneer days right like
you plant the food you wait for the food
to grow your page you have to need the
bread you wait for it to rise and then
there's a certain joy in experiencing
the
filament of what you've been waiting for
and and that might be something that
we're missing out on oh yeah even today
we're trying to help a friend get
something fixed and we're like we want
it to happen now cuz they're so used to
things happening now absolutely and it's
like text message hurry up and respond
or email hurry or what do you mean
they're not answering the phone cuz
we're so used to that but yeah patience
also allows the other person's heart to
come into right alignment - hmm because
you might have you might be in the right
spot yourself but the other person that
you're trying to communicate isn't and
so sometimes the Lord says no just wait
but I have some no just wait and then I
gotta ask you like are you a fixer are
you someone who hears something Oh
totally and I just want to fix it I want
to fix the problems I want to make
everybody happy you want to do blah blah
blah blah blah instead of sometimes just
being patient as we were talking earlier
Jen it just came to mind the the story
of Mary in the Bible and how like the
angel Gabriel came and and rocked her
world with the news that she's gonna
like have the Son of God in her and she
carried that for nine months and things
would happen and it says that she stored
them in her heart she treasured them in
her heart and she was patient in waiting
and knowing that God would bring to
fulfillment everything that he had
promised and you don't see her like
stewing or meddling or asking too many
questions like there was this comma
surance
and like I don't know if you can think
of someone in your life whom you can
really see this attribute as a really
salient feature in their life like what
what are the characteristics of that
person and what helped to build that in
them but can you think of a truly
patient person that you can see what
other aspects of their life are in check
that they have this fruit of the Spirit
well it normally comes with listening
well
like they're willing for the other
person to finish their sentence yeah
they listen and they choose their words
well before they speak right
and so this when we talk about
communication life hacks from the book
of Proverbs what you really encourage
you just to go would start reading all
the way through take your oh yeah and
yeah okay communication and proverbs and
just start highlighting all of them or
you don't want to highlight your Bible
go online and type in communication
verses and proverbs oh yeah and so like
a truly patient person slows down
actually like they and doesn't slow down
like they're walking like this and
talking like oh that's not right that's
not what we're saying we're saying that
they're slow to speak hmm and quick to
listen mhm
that's a patient person they're willing
to choose their words with kindness
that's a patient person right and and
they're willing to be honest but because
they have a spirit of the Living God
inside of them then they know that
because they're willing to listen that
they're choosing their words with
kindness that they want to speak
honestly because of a love for another
person God's gonna move in that and they
feel so genuine and so real hmm and
you're like that's what I want and so a
patient person actually has Jesus in
their life first
you know I first who it then works
through all these other areas to help
them communicate well so they do create
this atmosphere of love and acceptance
and belonging and understanding which is
what we are all looking for so the first
step is always choose Jesus hmmm if you
want to communicate well you need to
choose Jesus and like I have to choose
Jesus every day cuz you might be
thinking but I already know Jesus but
are you choosing to put Jesus first
every day to say lord help me to say
what you want me to say help me to think
what you want me to think help me to
feel what you want me to feel like bring
to me the people you want me to interact
with and so if you're bringing me some
and then I got a believe that you're
gonna help me you know in
in a really great way yeah because I've
invited you I've surrendered I've chosen
you so we need you to we need you God
needs you you're a person who you're
speaking to needs you need to choose
Jesus every day like giving him every
day and if you have never chosen Jesus
you just sort of stumbled on our show on
the internet or wherever you might be
watching it and you're like huh this
looks interesting this is how you choose
Jesus dear Lord Jesus I'm not perfect I
need a lot of help
there's luck in my life and I realize I
can't do it I need help would you help
me would you help me because it says
those who call and the name of the Lord
will be saved
it says if we confess our sins he is
faithful and just to forgive us our sins
and cleanse us of all unrighteousness
all not just some now just like the
little ones he is when we call
indistinct a believe us of all of it he
wipes the slate clean and as I want to
say it's just that easy and then it says
to pick up your cross every day so it's
every day that's the cool thing is every
day so you start off right now the next
five minutes dear God I don't really
know what's new in the next five minutes
but would you help me and you choose you
choose to ask for his help and then I
want to say that he sort of have to step
back and just be amazed and how God's
going to bring people into your life how
through the power of the Holy Spirit
he's going to change your words gonna
change the way things you think you're
gonna change the way that you acted just
gonna say WOW god you're just that guy
we pray for us undershirt god you're
just that good you are just that good
and so lord help us to choose you every
day help us to choose you every day and
Lord believe that you can do a wonderful
work in our words and the way we listen
the way we feel the way we respond to
people or we don't want to we don't want
to throw punch people you want to you
want to be patient you want to be quick
to hear you want to be slow to respond
you want to act with kindness and we
want to speak with truth or help us to
communicate while we pray this in your
name Amen thank you so much for tuning
in and really I feel the first seek
first his kingdom and his righteousness
and all these things will be added to
use
that if you're seeking God then he's
able to equip you with everything that
you need to communicate in relationships
and that part in part comes through
worshiping him and I just want to put a
link to the YouTube video for a song
called seek first by the band bread and
wine have a listen put it on give some
thought and and meet with the Lord so
thank you so much for tuning in we'll
see you next week
catch a new episode of new everyday
every Friday morning at new every day
dot TV
we're also on Kody Roku Plex YouTube and
Facebook or if you're in Southern
California tune in every Sunday morning
at 6:30 Pacific on channel 33 television
for the high desert
