how many people still use a DVD player
like really like a DVD player like a
real know like a DVD player like you sit
down
because you've got a flat-screen TV in
your house now yeah and do you have a
DVD player or a blu-ray player plugged
into it
my parents do do they do you that my
house in Windsor no no you just use a
laptop and that's it you have a DVD
player in that you use that physical
disks yeah I have that C throw those in
them yeah cuz I got Harry Potter and
Lord of the Rings and all that fun stuff
and you're not tired of them yet I mean
that's it she's got a little annoying
I will admit just don't drive your Tesla
while watching Harry Potter I promise I
often come into stacks of great bargain
DVDs and things and and the fact is I
don't I don't have a DVD player hooked
up yeah my wife told me to be honest and
say Robbie you do have a DVD player you
do own one you just haven't bothered to
hook it up and to that I say no dear I
just don't feel like we need it anymore
because it's just clutter and like this
is one two three four five six movies
and it takes up that much room on a show
okay
ridiculous well the bottom one is for
movies in it oh yeah to be fair tremors
one through four okay so we're talking
the best of the best right there yeah no
to be fair sure but realistically that's
how much space it takes up on a shelf or
whatever so what I do is I copy these
into a computer that has Plex and you've
we've talked about Plex Media Server on
our show before and if you're not
familiar with it get onto our website
category 5 TV type in Plex in the search
what it allows me to do is it allows me
to take this whole stack of DVDs and put
them onto the hard drive of that system
and then watch it from any of my devices
so I've got a Roku on my TV downstairs
it's a 55 inch flat screen and it's
great and then we've got a smaller flat
screen TV with a Amazon fire fire TV
stick upstairs so I've got Plex on both
of those devices plus we have Plex on
the computers yes so that allows us to
then watch our movies without having to
physically take the DVDs out
and put them into various devices and
have DVD players all over the house
because you imagine if you've got two or
three TVs that's two or three DVD
players or blu-ray players in order to
watch your movies yeah I also have three
kids at home and they're all under 12
years old one of them is six years old
and to have stacks and stacks of DVDs
you know they're going to get ruined
they're going to get wrecked so I copied
them in and then I box them and I stick
them in storage in their garage yeah
right because we're not talking about
copying DVDs to bootleg I'm not I'm not
making copies and giving them to friends
or selling them or anything like that
what we're talking about is taking DVDs
that we legitimately own and having a
way to be able to put those on to our
devices because quite frankly I don't
have many devices anymore that take this
yeah
realistically and if I do I do have I do
own one DVD player but it's not hooked
up because it just takes up it takes up
this much space on our media center well
I've got the TV on the wall and on the
media center I've got 5.1 surround sound
speakers and a couple of other little
devices I don't need to have yet another
huge device sitting there right like
let's just throw VHS into the mix
question for you yeah does this does
this server does it also take blu-ray
blu-ray discs yeah sure like Plex yeah
Plex will just take any file that you
throw out so the trick is converting
these into files that can be played back
right so and you don't need to have Plex
if you've got a decent sized hard drive
in your computer you could with you
being at school for example you don't
want to have a thousand CDs but you
could copy a thousand DVDs onto your
hard drive right for example just to say
so so then you know if you own the discs
you can have them on your computer and
they're yours and you can watch them in
on-demand just by double clicking on the
file video file right
what Plex does is it gives you basically
your own homebrew Netflix style service
so that you can actually watch all of
your programs all of your movies in one
centralized system on any of your
devices and it keeps track so if I
finish half
Sherlock Holmes just like Netflix it
will carry on from where I left off the
next time I push play and if I if I'm
ripping seasons of shows another example
would be and here's a great example we
do have a DVD player but we buy a lot of
British shows right on DVD yeah ok
because you can't get them here so for
example my wife opened up season 5 of
Stella as part of our Christmas morning
so so we've got Stella season 5 it is
from Sky 1 and it's it's region coded to
the UK right so if I put it in my DVD
player here in Canada it would not play
Oh so the other advantage to what we're
doing is I'm able to buy from Amazon Co
UK get the discs in the mail and then
convert it to files that can be played
here in Canada a disc that I would not
even be able to play if I plugged it
into my DVD player yeah ok
it starts with knowing what kind of
software you ask about blu-ray blu-ray
is a bit of a different can of worms and
that's because the encryption on blu-ray
has gotten better right now there is
software available that will do it and
there's ways to do it but it's it's
beyond the scope of what we're teaching
you tonight so we're looking
specifically at DVDs and that's because
DVDs I can show you that in a half hour
or less it's really really simple and
you can do it at home and you do not
need to be a tech savvy wizard in order
to you don't need to do a bunch of
compiling and all that kind of stuff ok
so we're going to start with DVDs I've
got my trusty little laptop here and it
has Microsoft Windows 10 on it and so
the first thing we need to do is we need
to get a program called handbrake and
we're going to find that just on the web
just bring up Chrome or whatever browser
you're using and go hand brake dot fr
that's the official website of this tool
what handbrake is is it is a piece of
software that is designed to convert
videos from one format to another so
that could be a file to another version
of a file so if you want to be able to
play it on your PSP or something like
that or it will convert it to a file
format that's compatible but similarly
we can set the source to a DVD and it
copy that into a file that we tell it to
you know what format we want like an mp4
the where where handbrake falls short if
you will will say is that it has to be
an unencrypted non copyright protected
disc okay so we're talking realistically
the only things that you can copy with
that out of the box are like your home
movies that have been burnt to DVD right
things like that or what can you really
get that's not copy protected again I
reiterate that we're not showing you how
to hack discs and we're not looking at
piracy tonight that's not what we're
doing what we're looking at is making a
copy of our own legitimately own discs
so that we can put them on our other
devices so that we can view them on the
devices that we own because we may not
have DVD players laying around the house
and connected to every TV so that's what
we're going to do so handbrake as I say
is not going to out of the box rip these
Hollywood DVDs but I'm going to show you
how to get how to get around that if you
will but basically okay I'm going to
download the Windows version so I'm just
going to save that download and it's
pretty small it's going to be here
really really quickly why handbrake does
not do this out of the box is because
it's open source it's free it's
available for you to download on Windows
Mac and Linux you'll notice I'm doing
this on Windows because a large number
of people are on the Windows platform so
I want you to see how this is done on
Windows if you're on Linux if you're on
Mac you can get it for that those
platforms as well and the process is
pretty much identical other than the
fact we're not going to use dll's as
you're going to see in a few minutes
with Windows but the reason that they
don't include the capability to rip
copyright protected discs is because one
they don't want it used for piracy yeah
but also they're the kind of cover in
their butts a little bit because as soon
as they bring out a tool that will do
that out of the box now they are
creating a tool that could be used for
piracy and that makes sounds like I've
yeah what I want my equipment be used
for something for sure and when you're
creating a legitimate application with
legitimate use they just it's like a
gray area we don't want to go there so
we're just going to play it safe and the
tools are available out there you just
need to know how to get them
that's what I'm going to show you how to
do for all legitimate intents and
purposes okay so I've got handbrake
downloaded here and I can click on that
and I'll run it and it's going to ask me
to install version 1 look at that brand
new nice and sleek and there we go
ok handbrake has been installed on your
computer so it should be on my desktop
now there it is pretty sleek
straightforward what do you want to do
source selection ok so it is just kind
of waiting for me to select something I
don't have a DVD in there right now so
it's not going to do anything should I
throw a DVD in and we'll show you what
happens let's let's start with Sherlock
Holmes here so here's just is it I
haven't seen it yet so I'm looking
forward to putting it on Plex and and
getting in I may have seen it years ago
when it came but like it's an oldie but
a goodie right but we enjoy the show
out of the UK for sure the current they
are excited for the new season
uh-huh so I'm just stuck in that DVD
here and we'll see that that's going to
there's windows saying that they've
detected it
let's open handbrake and it should see
that DVD now there it is so Sherlock
Holmes is now one of my options for
source selection so I click on that and
what it does is it scans all the titles
on the discs so if it's able to read it
it will see the titles those are
basically like the chapter marks and
everything and basically we want to
record the entire video to a file so
every title from the from the DVD there
are chance um times like the tremors 1
for example that you pointed out that
has all four tremors we may want to
select just one video because we don't
want to rip them all to one one
straights straight video right okay so
this is saying that there is there's a
problem there is no format of that disk
that handbrake can actually read so
what's going on well the source may be
protected or include DRM please note
that handbrake does not support the
removal of copy protection so out of the
box you might say ok well this is not
going to work and
it's free software and it's not going to
do it for me what we can do is we can
tap into what VLC has done at video LAN
org let's head on over there and video
land a VLC is a very popular video
player because it basically plays every
format right you've probably got it
installed on Windows you maybe have it
on your Linux machine even your Mac
because it'll just play everything you
don't have to mess around and again it's
not about breaking copy protection it's
about being able to access the things
that you legitimately own and use them
on all your devices and that's that's a
legitimate use so hopping over here on
the VLC website notice I'm not going to
download VLC although I would recommend
that you do that it's a great player and
that handbrake will actually tap into
some of its features but instead what
we're going to do is were going to go
projects and then Lib DVD CSS and what
this is as it says here it's a simple
library design for accessing DVDs like a
block device without having to bother
with the decryption so basically
circumvents the fact that there is copy
protection on that on that disk so if
you scroll down a little bit it's not
very clear on Windows where you're
supposed to go because these are all
instructions for Linux machines but if
we click on releases here then we'll see
a list of all the various releases and
as you click on to the newer releases
you'll see that there are source
packages here for Linux and so we click
you know I would start at the most
recent and work your way backwards I
happen to know that it's I believe
1.2.12 is the last build of Windows if
you go to dot 13 you'll see it goes
right to Linux sources if we go into
1.2.12 at least at this time here in
2016 the end of 2016 that's the most
recent version of the Windows compiled
binary that is available so what this is
going to do is it's going to give us
access to the abilities the capabilities
of ripping encrypted copy protected
disks right ok so we're going to go into
now I have windows 64-bit alright how do
we tell that click on your Start menu
now I've got I've got Classic Shell
installed so I'm going to have to hold
the shift button in order to get there
but you can just go there right click on
file explorer and go properties
and you'll see windows system type
64-bit operating system okay so I know
that I have a 64-bit it will be either
64 or 32 so I go into the win 64 folder
and you'll see that there is a Lib DVD
CSS - 2 dll I'm going to save that
first of all I'll throw it into my
downloads folder that's fine it's pretty
much instantaneous because it's a tiny
little file cut that file we're going to
use that and we're going to jump into
our C Drive we're going to head on over
to program files on our 64-bit system
and I should see handbrake there yep
there it is and simply in the home
folder the root folder of handbrake I'm
going to paste that file in give it
permission to write and now handbrake
has DVD decryption ok so if all went
well with the versioning here open up
handbrake and select our source again
now they've just released version 1.0 so
I'm hoping that this is going to take
just like that let's see what happens
just going through the titles just like
it did last time because I didn't go
through any installation steps for that
it was just hey just pop it in drop it
in the folder older versions of
handbrake will now you know so I didn't
get the error message there you see that
yeah so so that's great so it took so
here are our different titles and you'll
see this one is 11 seconds that one's 12
seconds 21 seconds 30 seconds 14 minutes
etc the first one here is 2 hours and 8
minutes that's going to be the full
movie ok so now I'm going to browse and
what am I doing here I'm just telling it
hey this is where I want to save the
file to so I'm going to just call this
Sherlock Holmes how do you spell it
Holmes Holmes and we're gonna call it
dot mp4 Hindu m4v it's save ok and then
choose the type of video rip that you
want to do okay now it's automatically
set to fast 1080p 30 now this is a DVD
so I know that it's only going to be 720
by 480 so there's no point
doing a 1080p file because that's more
it's going to take up a lot more space
than it needs to
you only have 480p data on a DVD yeah
which is still going to look really good
but we know that 1080p is not an
appropriate format so we can say what
very fast 480p 30 right or we can say
Super HQ which is high quality 480p 30
so 30 frames per second I like that and
it has surround sound I'm not sure if I
want the surround sound embedded but
it's it's going to likely work anyways
but you can play around with selecting
these are the presets that come with the
application and you can you can simply
click on any one of those to set it to
that so let's say just for the sake of
our show we're going to say very fast
480p 30 because when we come back from
the news we want this thing to be ready
so that we can actually give it a test
and you'll see that that has given us a
width of 720 by 480 and we've got
everything kind of set you can go
through here and see what the settings
are for the for this filter you notice
it's going to automatically D comb the
video so that gets rid of the
interlacing that happens on a DVD makes
it look real nice it's constant quality
and it's going to be a very good quality
there don't put it up too high because
this can just be unreasonably slow and
there's no point in it and everything
looks good great so it's going to rip
everything so now we can either start in
code or if we're doing a chapter thing
like like I would with one of my BBC
discs or sky1 disks from the UK I could
add to queue and then continue you can
click on preview and it's going to
create a nice little preview for you so
that you can see what is this going to
look like right off the DVD and see that
it's obviously decoding it just fine
everything looks great and I can start
that so let's go give it a start let's
take a look at our cue show cue there it
is it's taking chapters 1 to 31 and it's
saving to Sherlock Holmes mp4 so I'm
going to let that go we're going to let
that rip to the to the desktop of the
computer and when we come back from the
news it should be you know if all goes
well it's going to be all ready for us
and we'll have a file
we can import into Plex we can watch
directly on our laptop computer okay so
bring them back up my Windows machine
here you can see it's still encoding
past 101 it's about 50% done so it's not
going to be done during the course of
the show there's about 16 minutes left
to the encode itself but we saw in the
preview there that it was in fact
working just fine and since installing
the Lib dvdc SCSS dll file on our
Windows machine as easy as that was to
do it gave handbrake the capability of
decrypting those DVDs so these are
commercial DVDs that we're able to now
decrypt them add to our devices as a
file so that's where Plex comes in and
you can start building up your library
from DVDs that you legitimately own and
and then you're not downloading illegal
things and stuff like that I'd rather
see you be a you know import your own
movie library and set that all up and
then and then you've got that all
available and all your devices I love
that I love that things are so connected
with Plex it's a really great piece of
software
[Music]
you
