welcome to category 5 technology TV
episode number 3 54 for Tuesday the
first of July 2014 happy canada day I'm
Robbie Ferguson I'm back at Ferguson
tonight we are gonna give you a sneak
peek at studio D what it looks like on
day one here we are it's day one also
we're going to show you how to make
incredible graphic memes that you can
use to share on social media such as
Facebook and promote yourself promote
your blog promote whatever it is that
you do and we're gonna do it using free
software you don't want to miss this if
I suddenly go quiet that means is
probably your turn so I was thinking
it's at the intro time my lovely wife
folks nice to have you here thanks for
filling in tonight so that's canada day
we may even you know wrap up early
tonight because oh look at that times up
because fireworks tonight we're looking
forward to and after that so once the
sun goes down then it's time you've got
20 minutes of our time folks I'm just
I'm so kidding go ahead here's what's
coming up in the newsroom behavior
logging software for smartphones detect
when a thief is using the phone and
shuts down accordingly Facebook is
fighting a US court order in which was
forced to hand over user data mobile app
users are selling their public parking
spaces on a black market and San
Francisco won't have it and finally sky
cars are going to be built in Tel Aviv
stick around these stories are coming up
later in the show this is category 5
technology TV
starring Sasha Dominguez
Hillary rumbles
krista wells
your kid
and your host Ravi Ferguson
introducing Beltone first a
revolutionary new hearing aid so small
you can hardly see it so comfortable you
can hardly feel it for the first time
ever you can control hearing aids
directly from your iPhone pick up the
phone listen to music and use your
hearing aids like wireless headphones
hear everything that matters try Beltone
first for a free trial call one eight
hundred Beltone now tonight show is
brought to you in part by tube tape for
the best prices on green screen
equipment photo and video lighting kits
and backgrounds for your project check
out tube tape at cat five dot TV / green
this is category 5 technology TV welcome
to the show episode number 3 54 and
again my name is Robby Ferguson this is
I'm Becca Ferguson versa Becca what
we've got a lot going on tonight very
excited to look at some of the things
that we're looking at very very excited
to show you studio D we're going to talk
a little bit more about that in just a
couple minutes time but in the meantime
I'll let you I'll let you take over and
let people know what we're a part of
here at category 5 TV okay category 5 TV
is a member of the tech podcast network
if it's tech it's here cat5 TV / tpn and
the international association of
internet broadcasters cat5 TV / IA ib
thanks Becca make sure you check out our
mobile website and cat five dot ed scan
that code with your mobile device get on
over there on your tablet or on your
smartphone version for the betta is
underway right now so if you want to
check out some of the new awesome
features there at our mobile site it's
m-cap five TV Becca before we get into
the show and all the exciting stuff that
we're going to be talking about I wanted
to say hello to some of the newly
registered viewers on our website
category 5 TV if you're new here you
make note that of course it's a free
community here at category 5 TV I like
to thing
it is much more than just a show we are
we've built an incredible group of just
wonderful people that are a part of this
community and so once in a while we like
to welcome those who have registered on
our website it's absolutely free to do
so and of course this solidifies their
their awesomeness that makes them a
serious part of our community so first
of all I want to say hey to whiskey zero
who has been watching for some time and
and has finally taken the plunge and
registered absolutely free on our
website category 5 TV whiskey zero it's
so nice to have you here thanks for
joining us you want to help me work
through this list and we'll just cut the
tag team here John joka 24 also rich EP
welcome to you too Joe in NH do you
think that's New Hampshire I'm guessing
so probably in God be my first guess yes
so Joe welcome thanks for being here El
Guapo nice to have you here devil Slayer
awesome hjhj are I don't know if there's
a way to pronounce that good juju juju
thanks for being here had Tonka 365 hey
yeah I also want to say hello to kill
calm nice to have you joining us and
being a part of our community and hello
to good arde m27 steve sigh i'm gonna
guess it's i like pie SI for sigh Steve
nice to have you here cove on FL and
Burke and on top hello and on top hello
on chris go chris go yes Chris Kuehl not
Crisco Crisco hello the Sega connect
hello also calves ram nice to have you
here and most funghi hello most funghi
mmm i love mushrooms
we've got a new viewer big puke joining
us nice to have you as part of the
community of course I think that you'll
find that that we are a very caring
community and somebody may just offer
you some pepto mm-hm so welcome datum
angler also Albin Albin L
double-oh-seven Winifred and f'ed
Albanese that's my guess sick demented
hello sick demented ah that's demented
uh blizz nice to see you crizzly 2511 oh
yeah Chris Lee 2511 I've been talking to
him on on Twitter Oh late so nice to
have you registered on the website
thanks for joining us and Astro man nice
to see you so big long list tonight of
new registrations on our website
category 5 TV thank you for registering
thanks for being a part of the show all
right ready to get right into it before
we do our feature I want to take a look
at studio d this is exciting stuff
studio d as you know is a go this past
weekend on Sunday we were featured on
the crowd funder show which is pretty
exciting as well they broadcast on fox
29 w UTV in Buffalo I hope you're able
to catch it if you weren't unfortunately
didn't have enough notice on the date to
to really tell her you our viewers that
it was coming but I posted on all of our
social media and things like that but so
that is another way that people are able
to to contribute to the show interesting
thing with the way the crowd funder show
works is that when people donate they
get a gift card back for the exact
amount that they donated subsidized
right ok so if I give twenty dollars I
get twenty dollars in say gas for my car
back it's a trade-off it's a trade-off
you're basically just reallocating the
where the funds are so then you know of
course it's subsidized so you get your
gift card we get a contribution as well
and it helps
for studio d so that's really really
cool that's what what has been happening
this week and of course we just got the
keys today to studio d so we've been
over there with our cleaning party and a
bunch of people have stopped in and i
just want to check in over there and see
how things are shaping up this is day
one of us over at studio d oh sorry I
didn't see there is just cleaning the
bathroom welcome to studio D we've been
hard at work trying to make the best
studio ever gonna show you a little bit
of what you can anticipate and part of
our vision for category 5 so you'll walk
through the door / bathroom on the left
we're thinking over here would be a nice
little space for coffee um snack bar
area so that will be cool we're always
talk about food and coffee on the show
so that's what we're thinking over there
as we move over here nice little seating
area perhaps a couch a great spot for
people to watch live in studio as well
as maybe doing some interviews just a
relaxed area over here working our way
over towards the actual studio space
we're thinking here would be a great
spot to hang our green screen and have a
green screen studio so the possibilities
with that are endless I could be in the
out one day and I could be in the ocean
another day it also be a cool spot maybe
for our news section of the show and
lastly this is where the magic will
happen look how long this is we've got
loads and loads of room this will be
great for our guests and our mean two
anchors news anchor co-hosts on the show
Robbie and myself or Sasha
or krista or who haven't we gotten that
day also because it's so wide we have
great room to tan do some wide shot
maybe set up the jib who knows so
anyways this is just a little sneak peek
for you we've been hard at work we've
got a little bit more to do before we
can officially move it but we're excited
to have you be a part of it and thank
you for all your help and contributions
to make studio D a reality thanks so
much such an exciting time right now for
category 5 TV and we're just going to
get right back into the show and get
ready for our feature before we do
really really exciting contest folks
very very pleased about this beltone and
category 5 TV have teamed up beltone
canada and category 5 we want to help
you if you or one of your loved ones
have trouble hearing we've got a Beltone
first hearing aids set it's quite
possibly the most sophisticated hearing
aid on the planet and we're going to
even provide the fitting and programming
of your new hearing aids if you win this
prize is worth over seven thousand
dollars but can you really put a dollar
value on hearing well if you'd like to
find out how you can qualify visit cat
five dot TV / hearing and that is for a
belt home first hearing aid set from
category five technology TV and Bell
tone Canada very excited to be able to
gift that out to some very lucky view
yes absolutely alright so tonight's
feature kind of revolves around the fact
that Becca's here kind of an interesting
back story is that Becca's a writer and
a lot of you know and some of you have
even bought some of her novels which is
an interesting fact but Becca you you
use social media to promote your novels
your blog and anything that you do with
regards to your writing yes and you said
to me and you can probably explain to
the viewers a little bit more about the
whole meme idea but basically we want to
create some kind of a graphic that is
going to promote your yes I've always
just shared my blog with some sort of
catchy intro and then a link to the blog
in hopes that someone click on it maybe
some
hashtags but a lot of vloggers use a
meme with a quote from their blog like a
crosman meme a graphic meme as an
incentive something visual to catch
catch your eye you're scrolling Facebook
or Twitter and it pops out at you you
read the quote it interests you so you
go and you read the blog so it's just
more than what I've been doing but I'm
not very familiar with GIMP so I haven't
been able to make them myself so I would
be interested in learning how to do it
in a way that is simple not too
complicated so that I can hopefully get
some more readers for my blog cool so
for those of you who aren't familiar
with GIMP as a term that is short for
GNU image manipulation program it's a
free graphic editing software kind of
akin to adobe photoshop for example but
it's absolutely free you can download it
to your computer right now head on over
to gimp.org we're going to be taking a
look at that in just a few minutes but
before we get into that we need to
decide how we want to create this actual
graphic so we discuss things like
copyrights and how we can get a graphic
that we can use as the base image for
our mean and have the rights to use it
yes that's the other thing how to find
an image that I can use that is not
copyrighted that is to say that you're
not supposed to pay for round two avoid
cuz I guess you kind of what you want to
find a free image as it we don't want to
have to pay for it yeah because
sometimes that's fine yeah it's it's for
a blog so i don't want to spend a lot of
money promoting it because it's your
hobby and just being able to find the
images that can be used versus the ones
that you're meant to pay for how to know
because when you just do a simple google
search for a keyword who knows what the
copyrighted notion is for you image
there's it seems that face value that
there's no way of knowing so i would
just like to know how to find out okay
so let's let's look at the quote that
you gave me tonight to work with here is
the quote because beck is is truly deep
so here you go how many thorns in our
own personal lives have prevented us
from
humming jerks just letting that resonate
with myself of course yet we despise the
thorns we don't see them for what they
really are you explain to me what would
a thorn be just anything in your life
metaphor difficult it puts a damper on
your day that's a pain to deal with just
something you wish you could pluck out
remove get out of your life because
things would go easier without it but
sigh times that particular thing even
though it's uncomfortable and it's it
keeps you grounded it keeps you down to
earth it keeps you from becoming
conceited and egotistical because it
reminds you of who you are or where you
came from it reminds you to be humble
mmm that sort of idea that's very very
just something in your life that drives
you nuts but it keeps you humble very
good okay so let's let's look at that
okay I'm thinking with that phrase you
do we look for say a rose with a lot of
thorns and and somebody holding it do we
look for like a thorn bush yeah I think
most people think of the Rose when they
hear the word thorn there are a lot of
thorny plants but usually Rose is the
first plant that comes to mind you or
raspberries yeah but not the same kind
of thorn my raspberry harvest is going
to be very plentiful this year so that's
gonna be nice okay I'm gonna actually
get on to google because you use that as
your example mm-hmm so over at Google
I'm going to click on images and now i'm
on google images so i'm going to do a
quick search it's a great tool let's do
a quick search i'm going to try even
though it sounds silly i'm going to try
thorny rose that's kind of what we're
looking for and you'll see okay I've got
all these results but it's like you say
how do you how do you know if any of
these are acceptable to be used like how
do you know if I have the rights legally
to use any of these images well the
truth is you don't because these
particular images google has gone out
over the search like through its search
crawling efforts to find out more of a
web
and it finds images on people's websites
and they could be absolutely exclusive
to that website however Google will
index them if they are you know in in
most cases it will get indexed and end
up here chances are pretty good you
don't have the rights to use them so why
would I show you that why would we do a
search for thorny rose if we can't use
it and the fact is that Google does
provide tools to allow us to find images
that we are allowed to use so jumping
back to the search result if you go up
here and click on search tools you'll
see a handy little thing called usage
rights if you click on that you'll see
that the default is not filtered by
license so basically google is showing
you every image that it knows of that is
a thorny rose or related to that so what
we want is we want something that is
filtered by license we want it to be
labeled for reuse with modification if
you know that you're not going to be
making any money off of it and you don't
have to worry about commercial use
issues you can go with labeled for
non-commercial reuse with modification
but in our case because becca does sell
books on her website and things like
that i think it's probably safest to go
with to something that's allowed to be
used on a commercial website yes okay so
we know that it's a hobby so to speak
but because there is sales happening
there you want to make sure that you
conform so we're going to select labeled
for reuse with modification so with
modification means we're allowed to put
text on top of this we're allowed to
take the image and change it edit it so
let's click on that if you don't choose
with modification you're not allowed to
edit anything so now these images are
now not just appropriate search results
but they are in fact ones that are
legally I'm legally entitled according
to google to use on a commercial website
with reuse so now that's kind of an
interesting one there the rose bush or
something like that lots of thorns
anyways do you like that mm-hmm okay so
this one now how do we find out the
legalities behind this because it's
still just a google search result you
see that images may be subject to
copyright there so how
I know that I have the right to be able
to use this the way that I find that out
is I'm going to i'm not going to view
the image i'm actually going to visit
the page that's associated with this
particular image and you'll see this is
now taken me over to flickr which would
be the profile of the artist who took
the photo so if i scroll down a little
bit you'll see the artist name there is
robert s donovan and you'll see over on
the right-hand side this little icon
here that little man in the circle is a
creative commons attribution logo and a
link that says some rights reserved so
that is actually the information about
the license so let's click on it to find
out more so here's the license to that
image that Robert Donovan has put up its
creative commons attribution 2.0 generic
that's the name of this license here's
what you are free to do you can copy and
redistribute the material in any medium
or format perfect you can remix
transform and build upon the material
that's just what we're looking for
because we want to be able to edit it
and add text and things like that we can
do it for any purpose even commercially
that's what this is licensed for the
licensure cannot revoke these freedoms
as long as you follow the license terms
so we need to find out what these
licensing terms are and here they are
under the following terms attribution
you must give appropriate credit
providing a link to the license and
indicate if changes were made you may do
so in any reasonable manner that's great
but not in any way to suggest that the
licensure endorses you or your use so
basically i can say i used this photo
and now i'm legally entitled to use it
because I've given attribution I've got
a link to the license itself like he has
here I may have the courtesy to actually
take his name and link it to his profile
on flickr because that's a courteous
thing to do when you've used somebody's
image for free yeah but not necessarily
required under the terms of this license
so that sounds fair enough if we were to
at the bottom of your blog that this is
going to be linking to the or maybe as
the featured image we would just have a
link to
was it Robert asked Donovan yeah yeah so
I would say link to him link to the
Creative Commons license to show and the
you aren't really making a change the
license at all so there's nothing else
that needs to really be done in order to
conform with the licensing that has been
put forth by the artist who took the
photo so it's easy breezy right that's
pretty worthy to explain it to you but
once you understand that okay you just
gotta click on the license read it over
make sure you can form if it says you
got a link to them you got a link to
them if it's a but it's that easy right
yeah and then you're legally entitled to
use that image absolutely free of charge
so we're going to conform with this we
accept that as a licensing term and all
I want to do is click on the download
link and I can grab the original which
is 1600 x 1200 pixels nice big graphic
so I'm just going to save that to my
computer and now I've got a copy of that
image in high resolution I can start
working with it so I'm just going to
bring that up remember we've got the
GIMP I've already got it pre-installed
GIMP is available for you at gimp.org
download for Windows Linux or Mac and it
is absolutely free that's the software
that we're going to be using tonight in
order to actually create the mean that
we're creating so I've got it installed
I'm just going to grab that download
that we've got here and right click on
the image and go open with GNU image
manipulation program and here it comes
there you go so there's our step one
get a dry throat from talking so much
okay so first step with this image is ok
we want to visually look at it and say
okay yes the proportions to me look like
they're going to work fairly well on
facebook mm-hmm when I post this on
someone's wall it is it going to be too
wide is it going to be too tall and it's
going to get cut off by Facebook no this
is approximately a square it's a little
bit wider than it is tall so it's
probably going to work very very well
yeah I find if there's a meme on
Facebook that's cut off yeah there's a
good chance I might not click on it to
blow it up because i can't read all the
text i prefer i guess i'm lazy that way
i prefer to read the text there on my
screen right i would having to click on
it that open it so some memes if they're
too big that's I think that's the
downside and the way that that would
happen is if your image was say tall
like this and yes I'm face to talk to
idea so this this to me looks like a
fairly good proportion I don't know if
there's a magic proportion for facebook
but it's a little bit wider than it is
tall it's approximately square if I
right click on and go image scale image
it's 1600 x 1200 which is a large image
and we're going to work with the high
res that's fine so that sounds good so
first step is I want to actually put our
text onto this image but one of the
things that I notice is that the image
is fairly busy yes there's a lot going
on in this image we're not going to
worry about that just now we want to get
our text on there and see how it's going
to look before we start messing with the
background and changing you know the the
colorization zar the brightness of the
background so what I've done is I've
clicked on the the text tool here I've
changed white to my foreground color
which has inadvertently changed my text
color to white and I'm just using a sans
font default font sizes 18 so we're
probably going to need to bring that up
but now i'm going to click single click
and hold on the top left corner drag
down to the bottom right corner and now
i can start typing and you can see yes
the text is very very smallest we're
going to highlight that blow it up to a
reasonable size there we go so 81 is
what I've selected so Becca could you
perhaps read the quote to me and i'm
going to type it out because that's
gonna be a lot quicker than me trying to
type it and read it and okay ready set
go how many thorns in our own personal
lives have prevented us from becoming
jerks ? M dash M dash okay i will use a
dash because i don't know how to to an
em dash in gimp how's that I don't see
any cash there's a dash there it's just
that oh there its menacing like I said
it is there any way of doing a finding
out how to do an em dash because the
high one night and it doesn't have the
same effect it doesn't look the same in
dim yeah it's not Canadian it's British
okay an em dash is 0 151 on the ASCII
table so if your computer supports that
you can holding the Alt key and hit 0
151 on your touchpad ok my computer
unfortunately for some reason doesn't
support also is there another way to do
it then if that doesn't work well let's
see if this works I'm going to delete
the dash and hit alt 0151 and does
nothing so from computer to computer
it's whether or not you're all ascii
character codes are going to work is
really just a computer to computer thing
to be honest if it's a case where you're
going to be upset about it and you
really want that n dash which i really
am getting the feeling here then i would
kind of work around my inability to
create an em dash in text mode mm-hmm
and I've kind of cheat okay the way I
would do that so head over to Google not
that we're endorsed by Google or
endorsing google it's just easy to find
and I missed gonna type in M dash
and there's wikipedias article let's
find the em dash oh there it is right
there on the screen M dash and look I
can actually highlight and copy to my
clipboard with ctrl c &amp; M dash to my
clipboard now if I go up to the address
bar and paste it you'll see yeah it's in
my clipboard it is in fact an em dash
versus a dash right so now it's in it's
in my clipboard so if i go back to GIMP
and hit control V sure enough lo and
behold there's an em dash nice see you
there there's a dash a big difference
yes mm-hmm okay so that's a little bit
of a hack around but that gets us an em
dash anyways honor me excellent second
really sense that she wanted one it's
important it is for freedom alright so
there's more text isn't there yes yet we
despise the thorn yet we okay periods
period okay what's next and the final
sentence yes we don't see them for what
they really are is it that is all close
okay alright so that's what it looks
like it's just a dog's breakfast that's
terrible what are we gonna do okay so
when I look at that obviously it's very
busy you can't read the text because
it's just there's no contrast right from
graphic it's like watching a movie with
subtitles it's kind of just it's all
over the place of it yeah so what we
need to do is we need to increase the
contrast but first of all I want to kind
of make this text I want to use my
imagination and and make it look how I
want it to look and then work with the
background mm-hmm a couple things I
could do there if I really wanted to I
could lose the background for me i could
start working on this canvas i could
even create a new layer if I really
wanted to this these things are not
necessary but they may help you to to do
this on a graphical level
and it create a black layer and start
building my text there but to be honest
with you I prefer just to work with that
because then I see what I'm going to see
so what I what I mean by that is ok now
I'm going to click on my text layer and
I'm going to use the editor which is
right here just click that little text
box and now it allows me to do some more
advanced things with the text so for
example one of the things that I like to
do as Erik would say work on the
emphasis of each word okay so we're
going to work on the emphasis or the
emphasis have you talked to and you find
the words within the paragraphs that are
key that we want to stand out it's
almost a way of I don't want to use the
word subliminal but it is kind of a
subconscious thing where something
Scrolls by on your screen and if a word
stands out that pops out at you and
grabs your attention you're watching for
skimmers people who skim if you're
skimming is a block of text gloss over
it but if a word is slightly larger or
sticking out if that particular word
intrigues you we go thorns what's this
about okay sure then you Jerry what then
you might be willing to read the whole
quote okay so that's what we're gonna
work on here so really really easy thing
to do with a meme and we don't have to
get that cuz graphic as a from graphic
designer standpoint this is a big no-no
using different kerning enfants using
you know a mix-match of different font
faces and think it's a bit of a no-no
when it comes to graphic design but when
it comes to mean design it's fantastic
because graphic design goes out the
window it still looks good and it
accomplishes what you want to do but you
don't have to conform to any kind of
educated standard so what we can do is
we can take those words and simply okay
so we want to mention the word thorns as
a standout word so I'm highlighting it
notice I'm using my keyboard in the left
window and is also highlighting it in
the right editor window so now I can
increase the font size if I've got it
right let's see highlight it like that
increase my font size for the word
thorns and it's going to stand out quite
a bit from that text how many thorns in
our own personal lives have prevented us
so do we want our own personal lives no
no have prevented us from becoming jerks
becoming jerks sounds like a good one
too mm-hmm really make pot because we've
got the verb we've got the the punchy
jerk word that you know makes you go huh
what did I do mm-hmm okay so I'm just
I'm simply highlighting and making it
bigger in and it is subconsciously it
makes you look at it okay yet we despise
the thorns anything there need to be
emphasized know okay so now what I'm
gonna do I'm going to move down I
learned this from back of it I can't
move down the em dash I need to move
down the next sentence I want to put
this one down at the bottom it's kind of
summarized as it wraps up the thought we
don't see them for what they really are
okay so we don't see them for what they
really are it's a really are yeah just
gonna make that text bigger so easy
right but we still have the contrast
issue okay so text wise how does that
look to you Becca good is that looking
pretty good uh-huh yep okay we've got
the text right yeah good good I didn't
type anything wrong it doesn't look like
a gut and no typos that's good so now
I'm grabbing the text layer on the left
hand side here I'm just moving it in a
little bit so that it has a little bit
less of oh I'm just kind of affecting
the margins so that it has nice
centering and move down the top a little
bit and then I'm going to
grab the move tool and I can move this
text layer now around with my keyboard
once I've single clicked on it and that
just gives me a really good amount of
accuracy that I can really place that
where I want to okay so now I like the
positioning of the text how about you
yeah that looks great yeah but what I
want to do is I want to add that
contrast that I was telling you about so
the way I'm going to do that we're not
going to affect the actual layer behind
but I'm going to click on it so that
anything that I do now let's create a
new layer in between those two layers
it's going to be a transparency layer so
now I've got a layer that I can work
with between the background and the text
that we're not going to actually affect
any of those things we can change the we
can change the opacity of it for example
without affecting anything else so now
on that new layer I'm going to grab my
rectangular Select tool here and
somewhere in here i'm going to create a
box and that box once I let go is just a
marquee I'm going to right click and go
select feather and we're going to create
a feathered edge here which is going to
be pretty pretty large because it's 1600
pixel wide image in our case we're going
to go about 500 pixels if your image is
smaller you would adapt your your
feathering accordingly now we know that
this is 1600 pixels wide so if I make
the feather 500 pixels it's going to be
about you know this much of the image is
going to be feathered so that is going
to have a pretty good gradient as far as
the feathering goes and you'll see that
in just a moment smaller image would
mean a smaller feather larger image
would mean a bigger feather to get the
same effect so this feather is going to
be 500 pixels and now I right click and
go select invert and now I've basically
got a border that when I go edit and
then fill with the background color
which in my case is black that's what I
want if it's not black you can just
single click on it change it to black
and then right click edit fill with
background color so now I've got this
really nice subtle vignette happening to
the image you see that mm-hmm so now the
text at the bottom is popping out really
nice the text at the top I've still got
some issues with its it's not quite
contrast e enough there's still too much
going on in the background of that so
the way I can resolve that is now I'm
going to grab another box up here and
I'm going to also feather that one but
this time I'm not going to invert the
marquee instead I'm just going to fill
and now I've just darkened that section
as well so I've got a lot of dark up at
the top then I've got the picture of the
thorns in a vignette and I've got the
text at the bottom mm-hmm how's that
looking that looks great so I'm looking
very nice so the final step to the
graphic itself is I want to make that
text pop out a little bit more in the
way that I'm going to do that is
highlight that layer we're going to add
a subtle drop shadow to it so and when I
say highlight that layer i mean
highlight the text layer okay and then
we're going to go filters light and
shadow drop shadow and now because I'm
working with such a large image I can
have a fairly large x and y offset so
i'm going to go with eight pixels that's
fine my blur radius though I don't want
it to be too blurry the the shadow
itself so i'm going to bring down the
blur also to about eight pixels the
color of the shadow is fine being black
I like that and I'm going to make it
very opaque all the way to one hundred
percent and we're going to turn off
allow resizing because we don't want our
image to get skewed that's fine now hit
okay so now you'll see and I've clicked
on the move tool because i know i'm
going to use it that there is a nice
drop shadow between behind the text and
if i'm not quite satisfied with the
positioning of it i can use that move
tool and i can single click on the layer
and i can actually move around the
texture i can move around even the drop
shadow itself by highlighting the drop
shadow layer so now i can take that drop
shadow and i can actually move it with
my keyboard see that mm-hmm see what I'm
doing there so that shadow
but come something that I can manipulate
just by pushing the up and down arrows
on my keyboard put it in the exact
position that I want it to give me a
little bit more pop on the text there we
go and I accidentally move that vignette
layer there we go there we have it
that's a fairly good example of creating
a meme now text why's that look good you
like at alexs or anything like that we
can do anything that you like to it I'm
not a fan of italics hard to read oh
yeah okay right to each his own you know
um I use them occasionally yeah the one
final thing that I would do and the
thing to keep in mind of course you know
not only for the copyright holder and
the fact that we're going to have a link
to conform to the to the licensing terms
on your website but also the fact is
this the idea is that social media
shares your stuff around so the this
image the hope is that someone will
share it and it will include the link to
your blog and more things like that so
it becomes viral and then all of a
sudden you've got all these people
reading your blog and that's the idea
but somewhere along the chain somebody's
going to save it to their computer and
then repost it or because they like the
quote but they don't necessarily works
it's going to happen so the final thing
that we always need to make sure of is
that there's something in the image
that's going to direct people back to
you plain and simple so in your case
it's just going to be a link to your
blog not a not an actual clickable link
but because it's an image but strictly
your website address so I'm going to add
a new text layer here just like that
I've just grabbed an empty section I'm
going to put it down on the bottom right
hand side and just try typing Becca
Ferguson calm and i'll make that text
fairly small because it doesn't need to
stand out quite as much as the quote
itself
so something like that this is a great
image because the way that it's late
itself out because we've got this nice
black area down at the bottom right
where we can place your website address
if you don't have that you can always
add a little dark area where you can put
it in but there you go so now you've got
your website address we can maybe take
that website address bring down the
opacity a little bit so it becomes a bit
more of a grey and then it's not quite
taking away from the image as much but
then you end up with exactly kind of
what you're going for as far as the mean
goes so that is what you were hoping for
yes exactly there you go so let's let's
bring that up save that as a xef file if
you've ever used adobe photoshop you
know about the PSD file it saves your
layers so if you ever want to go back
and change the vignette or change the
drop shadow you can do that easy easy
breezy infants what I wanted to say so
we want to save it as an XE f in the
GIMP because then you're going to have a
copy that you can edit so I'm going to
save this one as jerks dot X CF just
that I remember what it is there we go
and now for our copy for use on facebook
we're going to actually export because
an XE f file is the layered file and you
have to have gimp in order to use it
mm-hmm facebook doesn't work with those
files you have to have a JPEG or a pin
ping is going to give you the absolute
best quality as far as your text goes
it's a lossless format it's probably the
best one to choose it's going to be a
bigger file though so it's going to take
a little bit longer to upload if you're
on a slower connection so let's go with
a ping and when I've clicked export it's
automatically defaulted to a ping but
you can change the extension to jpg if
you prefer I'm going to go with ping
because I know that's going to give me
the best quality possible-- so now I'll
export that and let's see what happens
there as soon as that's finished saving
will know how big it is jerk stop ping
is 1.7 megabytes and there it is so
that's what it looks like and I do
notice that I've got a little bit of a
an issue on the left hand side that's
when I accidentally moved that vignette
I'm going to fix that for Becca and
resave but that's not a problem at all
and there's our mean so perfect this is
category 5 technology TV thanks for
tuning in tonight you'll find our
website triple w category five dot TV
and of course tonight we've been
learning a little bit more in the GIMP
GNU image manipulation program which I
encourage you to download at gimp.org
fantastic program and you'll just find
that once you get used to it once you
learn the ropes and GIMP you'll be able
to do so many cool things with your
graphics and even in this case basically
creating a new graphic mm-hmm hope you
enjoy the tutorial you ready to do the
news mm-hmm alright folks there are the
top stories from the category 5 TV news
room researchers researchers are making
a smarter kill switch for phones that
knows when a gadget is in the hands of
the thief and kills them a little yeah
lazy watch out yeah software on the
phone watches how you use your phone to
build a portrait of your normal behavior
the software logs which apps were used
and when where the phone goals as well
as more subtle indicators such as how
the phone is held the software quickly
spots if a phone is not being used by
its owner and shuts down to stop data
from being stolen early versions of the
behavior logging software currently take
a few days to build up a profile of
average use the software gets better at
spotting its real owner the longer it
runs hmm research suggests that people
have to swipe or tap in their pin up to
a hundred times a day just to unlock
their handset and use it that system is
so cumbersome that many people don't
bother with any security measures at all
by contrast the behavior modeling system
would keep a phone unlogged unlocked as
long as it was in the hands of the unit
of the owner professor Lin Bailey from
the University of Edinburgh said you may
still have to use a pin but only when it
is really needed the extra security
measure
could be triggered only in certain
circumstances such as when someone was
shopping or trying to log on to a
corporate network and that interesting a
it's a little like your phone is spying
on you and so there's the whole security
aspect of not really wanting my phone to
know everywhere I go yes and log it but
then I guess it makes sense that the
technology would evolve to that point
interesting use of that technology I
think yeah I think especially for those
who find it too irritating to be
punching in their pen all the time and
the father phone is unprotected because
I would rather it be protected I would
rather like people will fall into this
mindset of I would rather have no pen
then have to enter it a hundred times
yes folks do you really pick up your
phone a hundred times in one day well I
guess if you let it down you pick it up
you say no but come on we are an
addicted society to these devices that's
ridiculous that's sad and scary just
that statistic alone yeah but yeah hmm
that's a whole nother story mm-hmm we're
gonna blog about it and make a mean
Facebook is fighting a US court order in
which it was forced to hand over data
belonging to almost 400 people involved
in a benefit fraud trial the social
media site said the request was by far
the largest it had ever received from a
government body photographs private
messages and other information were
supplied to a New York Court last year
but the process was only made public by
a judge this week the ruling described
Facebook as a sort of digital landlord a
judge said this definition meant that
the company must comply with search
warrants the original case the original
case investigated fraudulent claimants
of US federal disability benefits whose
facebook accounts apparently showed that
they were in fact healthy the web giant
was ordered to hand over information
from the 381 accounts which the court
said contained evidence of criminality
after an appeal is denied Facebook
complied with the request but protested
that it violated the Fourth Amendment of
the US Constitution which protects
against unreasonable searches and
seizures okay i can understand where the
cord is coming from i can understand the
perspective and i can even understand
finding that information on facebook and
having facebook hand it over but where
this becomes like i guess it really
boils down where is the line where where
is the line like if they can but they're
clean if they're calling it a digital
landlord facebook so is my air line of
thinking is the same their line of
thinking is if we can get a search
warrant for house and go flip through
your diary if we want to then why
shouldn't we be allowed to look at your
facebook but should you also be able to
so then you know does the line now
become okay so listening on my phone
calls i guess they do that anyways well
i think the key here is the search
warrant they can't just do it
indiscriminately you would have had you
don't have to have done something you're
in court for it and and a search warrant
has been granted it would be interesting
to know though but based on that okay so
almost 400 people under this
investigation were all of them guilty
because then it would yeah i think the
gray area would be if if there was just
anyone being investigated without enough
evidence behind it 384 people or
whatever it was are all of those people
are they actually do they actually have
a warrant for each one of those
individual people or is it is yeah my
question would be did they have evidence
that people were faking injuries or were
they just checking to see if their
clients were being honest like was there
any evidence behind the search yeah or
was it just lets check up on everybody
make sure yeah yeah so the line would be
i think you would have to have something
would have had to have happened to make
you suspicious of a particular client
right that you would want to investigate
further
mm-hmm okay what are your thoughts be
interested to know I mean email us live
at category 5 TV let us know your
thoughts or post your feedback on our
newsroom website newsroom category five
dot TV san Francisco has banned the use
of apps which allow people to buy and
sell public parking spaces of all things
parking is a huge problem in the city
and Rome Bay startup monkey park ii and
thought it had come up with a solution
the app lets users auction off parking
spaces that they are using and wait for
the buyer to arrive before pulling out
but the city says it's illegal to
auction off public land and has
threatened to find anyone find anyone
doing so San Francisco lawyer Dennis
Herrera sent a cease and desist order to
monkey parking and has also asked Apple
to remove it from the App Store for
violating local law the mobile
peer-to-peer app describes itself as the
first which lets you make money every
time that you are about to leave your on
street parking spot but according to a
statement from mr. Herrera it creates a
predatory private market for publix
parking spaces that San Franciscans will
not tolerate we will not abide
businesses that hold hostage on street
parking public parking spots for their
own private profit he said that the
company would be subject to fines of up
to two thousand five hundred dollars per
violation and it has been given until
the eleventh of July to stop operating
in the city users of the app would also
be subject to a $300 fine in response
monkey parking co-founder roberto donati
said that the firm is talking to his
lawyers about the letter I'll say Wow
okay at first that sounded like a good
idea and then really you could you
imagine you'd be watching the guy who's
about to pull out of his parking spot
and sorry you don't have the app yeah
the interesting thing here is that Apple
had the app available in their app store
even though it violated local law so it
makes you wonder who's local law right
in well uh San Francisco but it just
makes you wonder should Apple to take a
little more responsibility in making
sure that the
that they're providing in the store are
not where they came from I don't know
that's a really ty guess it would depend
on the at least right no but they were
selling it yeah yeah I guess but where's
the again that's that doesn't seem like
it seems almost like they found that
okay this is offensive so let's block it
let's find a legal loophole to make it
so that it's illegal yeah cuz they're
selling public land mmm or access to
public land that's the loophole I don't
know that Apple could really pick up I'd
be interested to know who discovered it
was going on yeah somebody who was using
it probably well but told us what was in
it right yeah maybe word of mouth but
someone who was using the service
wouldn't want to jeopardize that so but
maybe just word of mouth someone I think
where it would be really great I don't
know if you've ever gone to a beach in
Ontario and had to pay for parking but
if if they had an app for all of the
nearby houses that could subscribe to
this app and you could like punch in and
i will pay you two dollars to park in
your driveway yeah that'd be good and
then i can in your giant i'm not broadly
yeah yeah yeah and then I don't have to
pay the twenty dollars to park at the
beach I can pay the ten dollars to the
guy off the streets go to the free
beaches yeah but they're all rocks and
stealth no no I'm kidding can help
people our picture at Canada's just a
whole bunch of rocks that's what they're
good the Canadian Shield you've heard of
it right it's all that we see well out
our window is just Canadian Shield know
just messing with you it's not all e
blues that's for sure hey just because
it's summer names the stereo day yeah
summer our houses have melted oh boy
yeah we're really just sitting in our
backyard right now yep yeah an elevated
network of sky cars is to be built in
Tel Aviv a 500-meter loop will be built
on the campus of Israel area arrow
space industries followed by a
commercial network according to skytran
the company that will build it
two-person vehicles will be suspended
from elevated magnetic tracks as an
alternative transport method too
congested roads the firm promised and
this ish system sorry should be up and
running by the end of 2015 so just a
year and a half from now the firm hopes
the test track will prove that the
technology works and lead to a
commercial version of the network the
plan is to allow passengers to order a
vehicle on their smartphone to meet them
at a specific station and then head
directly to their destination the
vehicles will achieve speeds of up to 43
miles per hour although the commercial
roll-out is expected to offer much
faster vehicles cool as long as the app
doesn't allow them to choose where at
park they should be safe mm-hmm that's
cool that seems really future asked yes
see that picture but there you go the
future has arrived already know in a
year and a half the future will arrive
cool well because if they're suspended
on a magnetic field there's no friction
there's nothing to slow them down so of
course they're moving slow in the tap in
the trials but they can travel like
bullets yeah so yeah that's pretty
amazing neat stuff get the full stories
at category-five TV / newsroom a
category 5 TV news room is researched by
roy w nash with contributions by
Tennessee Frank and our community of
viewers if you have a news story you
think is worthy of on-air mention email
newsroom at category 5 TV for the
category 5 TV newsroom I'm Becca
Ferguson thanks Becca tonight the news
and the show is brought to you in part
by Bell tone and you can learn why Bell
tone is the choice of millions when it
comes to fantastic hearing care check
out Beltone first a revolutionary made
for iphone hearing aid visit Beltone com
or for a free trial call one eight
hundred Bell tone now this is category
five technology TV we're just about out
of time but before we wrap up wanted to
say hi to all of our viewers that are
watching from
around the world let's take a real quick
look at our viewer location map where I
see San Francisco we were just talking
about yes I'll be careful with that app
London and Oxford nice to see you
watching the show tonight Montreal and
Ottawa and there's haze just outside of
Manhattan and Cleveland Detroit it's so
nice to have so many people viewing from
all over the world this is category 5
technology TV and just fabulous having
you here with us tonight don't forget to
check out our website triple w category
five dot TV and while you're there make
sure you register for our community and
you can do that right on our website
absolutely free so hard to believe
time's up time to go watch some
fireworks happy canada day yeah that's
that's it for this week's we're going to
be over the next couple weeks going to
be a strange time I think for the show
because we're in this transitional phase
where I'm spending a lot of time at the
new studio space getting things kind of
set up and ready to move in then we're
going to actually move it in so
we'll try to keep the show going all
through that time it's going to be quite
an adventure so thanks for joining us
tonight next week of course Erica
lalonde is going to be joining us for
making the largest unboxing that we have
ever done here at category 5 TV I'm just
gonna leave it at that don't forget we
do need your help cat5e be /c is one of
the ways that you can support us and
that your contributions make a huge
difference especially now as we're
getting ready to move into studio d so
very exciting time and we love having
you as a part of it and thanks for
hanging out with me tonight it'll be
here mhm looks a lot everybody and have
a wonderful amazing week take care we
hope you enjoyed the show category 5 TV
broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven p.m.
eastern if you're watching this on
demand or through cable TV check out the
local show times in your area at
category 5 TV and find out when you can
watch live and interact in the community
chat room category 5 is a production of
prodigy digital solutions and is
licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada we'll see you
next time thanks for tuning in
