from Huntsville Alabama this comes to us
miss bill bill the erling game from
Huntsville Alabama I recently did a new
build it includes a rise in 720 700 X
CPU 32 gigabytes of RAM a samsung 960
Evo series 500 gigabyte nvme drive and
Windows 10 there's a fast system yeah
yeah we were talking about this
yesterday and we're like I wonder what
he's got there you go it's fast yeah
as a retiree I'm not a heavy office user
I tried to install my old copy of MS
Office and it said I had exceeded the
number of unit stalls allowed since it
was AOL product I couldn't delete old
installs from the MS database I decided
to install LibreOffice version 6.1 2.1
x64 the problem I have is that it takes
nearly 20 seconds to load I've looked at
the forums and haven't found a way to
speed up the time it takes the load I
see others also have the problem is this
something you could address on your
podcast or weird on a system with 32
gigs of ram into nvme to boot exactly
Wow
because I have it on my I have it on my
Debian laptop right here yeah I have 8
gigs of RAM it does have an SSD it has
kingston SSD and it boots up in about
two and a half seconds it loads loads
LibreOffice in June second and you're
running a flavor of Linux I'm running
Debian stretch now we're gonna make the
assumption that Bill our burlingame yes
yeah he is probably using Microsoft
Windows right yeah because we're trying
MS Office right right so I'm gonna make
that assumption and my laptop in fact
has Windows 10 on it so any ideas bill
okay so let's let's see if I can switch
over to my laptop here so that you guys
can see it any thoughts on this one bill
now I've got 6.1 installed so
LibreOffice so again somebody who's
trying the free alternative to Microsoft
Office because of a bad situation where
it's AOL or end-of-life so
can't call Microsoft and activate it you
can't have them right yeah I mean this
is where you know keygens which are
technically you know Shady
yeah that's where it's it's like oh man
I paid for this product maybe that's an
option but why is it not running fast on
your system let's try it on so I'm on
Windows 10 on my little laptop which we
know is not very great and it loads
practically instantly the one thing that
I would check is whether or not I have
LibreOffice Quick Start running and I
don't I don't see a libreoffice Quick
Start icon there so I can bring up I can
bring up any LibreOffice program and hit
tools options general and it has load
LibreOffice during system startup if I
hit OK on that and just so you're aware
what version I'm using here this is six
point one point two point one so it's a
match yeah so now if I close that and we
bring up to our tray
oh I haven't rebooted so I'm not gonna
see it so I can force it to load right
now by going into my C Drive and into
Program Files LibreOffice program and
then just do a quick I just typed qu and
there it is Quick Start so I'm going to
double click on that and it won't appear
to have done anything but down here you
see that it has in fact started and that
should make things a little faster now
if I right-click on that you'll see that
load LibreOffice during system startup
is checked and that's because I set that
in the options under general if you
don't want to go that route you can open
it just like I did with Program Files
LibreOffice and then right click on it
once you've opened it and choose load
during system startup whether or not
that will make a difference so let's try
text document it's that's even quicker
you could tell that that was quicker
that was instant
and it's strange because I did load it
on my my Windows 10 tablet last night
mm-hmm and have lit a tablet and it came
right on yeah two to three seconds so
what could it be
yeah because not only is Bill having the
phone but he says that others have had
the problems as well so you found other
people of like issue yeah in the forums
on my computer though like now that the
quick loader quick starter is open if I
click on text document like do you guys
get the sense of how instantaneous that
is I'm gonna count down from 3 so 3 2 1
click so it's very very quick now no
delay whatsoever if I do it from I
wouldn't be fast enough to start the
stopwatch yeah so that's that does make
a difference online a market difference
although mine didn't seem slow in the
first place but it is very much faster
now I'd suggest that you try that bill
any other suggestions or anything else
that you can think of I think QuickStart
is the first place I would looking
absolutely yeah absolutely and
unfortunately some of the forums and
some of the if you did a Google search
they give you advice on older versions
of LibreOffice oh and it yes it tells
you to go to tools options memory which
doesn't exist anymore oh okay it was
deprecated in 5.4 I believe or something
like that right well if and so maybe
they move things around so maybe it's
important just to make that mental note
that you can go in to see colon slash
Program Files slash libreoffice /
software slash quickstart and run that
program it'll load it into the tray
right-click on it and go low at startup
and they make that mental note yeah you
got that locked in I hope that helps
bill please let us know if that makes
any difference but your computer sounds
amazing
sounds like you should not be
experiencing that issue not probable so
let us know all right
[Music]
[Applause]
