hi I'm welcome to new everyday my name
is Harry and my name is Jen and I'm
Statia we are in part three of finishing
well so we've looked at pearls of wisdom
that help us to finish well and then we
look at some road blocks and on today's
show you want to end with a blessing
this is new every day
with Jen wagger and Carrie Webb
[Music]
hi and thank you for tuning into what is
our last show with new every day and
it's it's bittersweet if I feel like
closing a chapter is also something to
celebrate because we can look back on
these three years that we've had with
you and so many people have been
basically watching and we're so grateful
for that and it's also there's some
sadness to you know that were worth
finishing up a season and so you look
back with Thanksgiving and we look
forward to what is next for us we're not
making sure but what's gonna happen next
with new every day but certainly the
category-five network is still in place
and as minions coming from category five
so we're also thankful for Robbie and
his faithfulness to the shows who make
it possible so we're Dingell and we're
talking about finishing well Jen and
we've talked about the pearls on the
essentials yeah just finishing well up
daily communion with God yes appropriate
in the gospel and understanding that
it's for us too that we need God's
forgiveness and His grace to move or
Wrigley's also equipped us with
everything we need for life and
godliness through the power of the Holy
Spirit
yes like wow and then the third pearl is
it was your daily surrender and
sacrifice to God which is not a scary
thing when you understand good love it's
obviously yes is the fourth girl so we
did talk about some pitfalls when being
Pride and another thing money that's
misunderstanding of what sexuality and
theory really is yes and then what's
what's the final well I actually have I
know and because the final one is that
we would Plateau but before I get to the
final one I want to just slide in also
social connections can prevent us from
finishing well and you might be thinking
what is a social connection with
Facebook because yes I feel like that's
a problem that is a problem in my life
Susan lives but it's interesting because
in First Samuel there's a priest by the
name of UI
who is looking after the Ark of the
Covenant and Eli served the Lord but his
sons did not okay
and Ezra but he wouldn't he would not go
to his sons and rebuked them for their
basically misappropriating of their
status before the Lord so why wouldn't
he when he loved his sons more
he loved his sons more like so they were
basically Idol yeah they were taking
sacrifices they they shouldn't be taking
like traditionally taking they were
misusing the women that were serving at
the tabernacle and he didn't do anything
about that ground and so as a result the
boy Samuel rises up and he actually
gives the boy a pronouncement against
Eli who then Samuel goes it says because
you have honored your sons more than me
I will take the priesthood from you and
he will die on the same day and his sons
and he'll I all died on the same day and
Samuel was brought to the forefront as
the prophet priest and judge of Israel
and it's because he allowed his social
connections his family which is still
tough because we were called to love our
family well but if they rise up before
the Lord in honoring the Lord then
that's going to prevent us from
finishing ball and that's you know that
is such a I want to say it's like it
rubs against each other because we have
to love our family but we also have to
love God and God always has to come
first so asking for wisdom I think in
figuring out what that balance is
because ministry ministry and your
family right is different between God
and your family like God honoring God
and ministry are two different things
right it's like well I have to work the
church I have to work search I have to
go to the food bank I have to know well
not at Mitzvah of your family but
honoring God putting God first setting
that example before your family what it
means to love and honor God so walk them
through those for a pearl
actually is honoring to God is putting
him first and honoring your family as
well because one of the ten commandments
is on your father in your mother Lisette
honey comes after says you know you
should have no other gods before me it
comes after like the Lord God is mercy
so God has got to come first family has
got to come second friends have got to
come second yeah
and that's interesting again because
thinking about that it is actually in
combination with the Pearl of
understanding sovereignty and love yeah
I think it can be a perceived dissonance
but but it's not because in the one
story they sheriff's didn't know I think
sometimes you I mean I could pull from
that net oh like I have to love him as
do these things because I'm gonna get
names get smite me and you know watch
you know put everything else aside no
I'm not going to love like I'm not going
to you know get the attention to the
family gonna mean I'm only gonna love
God and follow these rules I think that
can kind of bubble up and yet it was the
sin the sin he winked at their sin and
God does not tolerate making at sin
right and he's like so he was calling
him to task saying you're allowing your
sons to sin and sin against me because
all sin is against God and so he chose
that's why I mean he chose his family
and and pacifying their sin and so
you're actually then not honoring your
family at all when you are choosing to
allow sin to happen because
unfortunately we often make it sin you
think oh well God forgive me look I'll
forgive me well God's grace which we
talked about and appropriating that
grace in our lives but Saul says very
clearly should I send more so grace can
abound and he and I mean by no means are
we to do that we cannot wink at sin and
that is one of the roadblocks to
finishing well is by permitting sin in
our lives because we're not going to
finish well that's like that's like the
athlete he says you know I'm gonna have
this beard before I run the marathon
they would never have a beer before they
run the mayor
like this is it at least and even at
least I have it would never do it
they're very strict on how to run the
race law so when we talk about social
connections like it would be like
because we've been friends for a long
time and if Carrie saw something in my
life and she chose not to say anything
about it she's actually permitted that
yeah Nina she said but she's committing
sin in my own life
and so she's actually choosing that
friendship over what God's best is for
me no gods that and not trusting God's
grace and sovereignty to provide an
opportunity speak inside you're choosing
the friendship and safety rather than
choosing God and what his he has that
right so that's where the story of you
light you have you sold careful with why
am i choosing to wink it's it is it
because of my own self well then that's
not good and then the second one or the
last top roadblock is plateauing I'm
good I read my Bible this is good enough
my god Church and yet we're told that
when David fell and we're talking about
the story of Bathsheba in second Samuel
it says and the king went you know did
not go out with the army in the spring
as Kings normally so he should have been
up there fighting with his people
you should have been but he was like
Unni - yeah yeah and at another point
Joab actually says to the king you need
to come out here and claim this like you
need to finish this war or else I'm
going to claim it for myself
oh yeah because he saw what was
happening to the king he was just in
this plateau and it's easy for the light
oh when you get old I'm getting older
it's easy to plateau because you're
tired you don't want to have to get up
early in the morning it's like you're
tired or you have you have a busy family
yeah and so it's just easy to say you
know my one verse or my one song and
that's like it's easy to like oh you
know just eating barely enough to serve
I and then to say you know what I've
customized this long now Mike I need a
pad I know and one of the things I catch
myself in because I've learned that God
is always painful and Hughes causes
people so you know in my mind I have God
has proven something that he always will
deliver right and yeah so I could I
could say well I'm not gonna work as
hard because God always delivers so why
am i why am I just like working so hard
and Kari knows because she it'll be like
a Saturday night I'll be working on my
message I'm like I just got to get this
done and it always seems like I just
have to get the Sun yet Sunday morning I
was like wow God you did a great job so
I couldn't say why are working so hard
just don't worry about it God will
provide and it's like well no then I've
got something I need to be you know
working what God has called me to work
at not because you know it's easy
because home yeah it's easy yes and say
what I feel you're talking about it's
like God has given me was yeah of
speaking and sharing and when you study
you share that with other people and
hanging in distress and so many people
benefit from so many people grow here
and then they favor in from to the like
choosing not to use your gifts because
you're tired
yes it's an uterus yeah yeah so often
Kari will come home late at night and
she'll start cooking meals because
that's when she is just working but but
often she'll be like well no I'm I'm I'm
making this batch but this is going to
this person and this person this is
because she has the gift of hospitality
and serving others she could very easily
say I'm so tired I have I have no care
for too many people today so I'm tired
I'm not seeing it and so my towing is
like when the spirit speaks to your
heart you're like hmm I did this and
this and this yeah so that should be
good enough yeah and it's like if the
spirit is
thank you and you need to respond
because I don't want to be caught like
David where I should have been somewhere
else and as a result I wasn't and so I
was caught in temptation and wrong in
yes a plateau and it's interesting
because in the physical self if you
continue to only do one type of exercise
in your body gets used to it and it no
longer actually accomplishes what we
want it to accomplish like maybe he
wants to lose weight but you've
plateaued well you actually didn't have
to change up how you're exercising we
have to be stressed in a different way
stretched in a different way and I'm not
no let's take a break
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap five dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official network shirt today cat5 dot TV
slash shirts hi and thank you for
staying with us on our last episode of
new every day yes this is the last time
I'm gonna have the opportunity to thank
you for watching and thank you for a
partner on our website never gave up so
you go to our partners page and you'll
see all the amazing businesses were in
addition to the public is still possible
for three plus years and yeah I'm so
grateful and I feel that I've been
stretched and differently even if doing
this show and thinking about okay well
I'm talking about God and I'm talking
about these principles in the Bible and
our life and have I actually been
stretched and I actually applied some of
the stuff that we talked about right and
like I'm one of the things that I've
often felt in viña shows I don't have it
all together you know but I'm pressing
on we're continuing or way depends on
has a stretch in ways that are
uncomfortable and genuine I like how
sometimes my timing is a bit long to
finishing well and you have to be
stretched in different ways and one of
the things
I mentioned getting older it does every
day a minute it's very show booth miss
holder one of the things that getting
older and not going I know I've seen
sometimes they become just full with and
not only and then and looking around and
other people that I see class homes and
I really struggled above the ear ago
looking at other older persons in my
life and and being drawn to the ones who
they're just like okay doing their pain
just meet the dynamic life-giving
relationship with God in their lives I'm
like oh and you get satisfied with where
we're at and then I look at this isn't
confidence how do you know the thing is
more than looking alike because if he
has got if Jesus is Jesus if he rose
from the dead and said that it's good it
was the nice thing spiritual days fresh
from the dead and now we're called to do
all the things that he has done like
there's more there is more and there's
more to living pecan and there's more
than understanding I love you there's
Lords of the daily hearing from him and
I don't know what that looks like but
I'm saying yeah one of my favorite songs
is by Steven Curtis Chapman which is
there's more to this life and he simply
says there's more to this lit life and
living and dying more than just trying
you know and it's like yes there's more
of the site because and you mention this
first in the last show that we are being
called heavenward we can get focused in
this world but there's more and that's
why Jesus says I want you to go to all
nations I want you to tell everybody
about me and that's one of the reasons
why we've done this show is because of
the filling of that call of Jesus to say
go into all nations and when you put
something on the inner
it's open you know to all nations and so
we feel like that was one of the reasons
why we wanted to do this show it was to
tell the story of Jesus and that he has
a plan and purpose for if you are living
and breathing he loves you and he has a
plan for your life and he wants to be
this he forever like that's the message
of the gospel and so when we talk about
finishing well a friend of mine he said
on on my funeral parents to stuff like
often that is the last word that you
have and he said it says they were
washed in the blood that means they had
been saved for eternity like that was
their final testimony where some have
said called home yes and and people
would go through the graveyard yes what
does that mean well then it starts a
conversation about the Gospel message of
Jesus Christ and he wants to reconcile
everybody to himself and that's why he
came like that is what when you talk
about new every day that goes right back
to his mercies are new every day great
is his faithfulness and its faithfulness
that is calling us heaven and so this is
fix your eyes on Jesus yes the author
and perfecter he's come on
he's completely the one who is more like
yes and so we don't look at things that
I've seen with excessive hunting though
it seems yes is hunting is eternal and
yes so was our last influence those are
worth uninspired yes and what's
interesting as we you know as we think
about finishing well I love the words
that Jesus was saying to his disciples
in John 14 because they were concerned
they're like what do you mean you're
going away like what about us and he's
like don't let your hearts be troubled
trust in God Trust also in me in my
father's house are many rooms or not so
I would not have told you I'm going
there to prepare a place for you for you
and if I go and prepare a place for you
I will also come back and take you to be
with me so that you may also be where I
am like that is the message of the
gospel that is the message and and and
even more than that you know yes we fix
our eyes heavenward like we are going to
heaven if he work here on this earth for
a reason
and now is not the time to put your
hands behind your head and take back
those words headed for heaven now we
just closed there yet he's equipped us
to bring heaven inside of us now live
that way here and part of his part of
Jesus hearty message this these things
I've spoken to you all being present
with even the helper the Holy Spirit
whom the father will send in my name he
will teach you all things and bring to
your remembrance all the things that I
said to you he said leave with you my
peace I give you
does the world is too like if you let
not your hearts be troubled neither let
it yeah so we are not to just kick back
and say ok I'm done but I know like we
have been given the Holy Spirit to share
the love of Jesus with everyone like
that's that's why he hasn't taken us to
be in heaven yet because he is moving in
as perfecting us making us ready for
himself but also to tell other people
like we have to be willing to share what
God is doing in our own life whatever
that looks like yes and we're all called
that's what we're all given different
gifts of whether it's hospitality or
sharing with words here to share with
others the good news of Jesus yes he
passed that torch on that to us yes and
as he said he was the light of the world
the Bible also says for you were once
darkness but now you are like yes a
torch we are like we have to bring that
necessary and so we are actually now
passing the torch on to you because we
don't really know what's going to happen
with you every day this is our last show
these are our last few minutes and so we
are passing the torch on to you we're
saying with everything that you learned
on the show we want you to share the
love of Jesus
with everyone that you need in whatever
weight got is called you want you to
finish well yeah we want you to bring
the grace of Jesus others maybe you need
to forgive someone maybe you need to
cook a meal and take it somewhere maybe
you need to let go of of a way of
thinking or a job or a friendship in
order to actually grab onto a goddess
college it you don't know well they do
you know that we want you to pick up
torch
we want you to share the love of God
with everyone that God brings to you and
one of the verses that God is speaking
to me about time to time again it says
let us hold unswervingly to the hope we
profess for he who promised is faithful
and as a good person so I hope that
you'll pray with us how I think that is
a good opportunity praying and then
leave a blessing yes so when we disclose
ahead crane salsa or thank you so much
Jesus that you use that you feel that
you endure you persevere you enjoyed the
cross and you rose again and you have
half that or from us and we represent
great and then you would help us in
Vegas understanding for me and that we
are yeah and I pray God that people
watching whether it's now or whether
it's ten years from now how would you
speak to their heart rhythm and what
you're pregnant
they are also included and I don't you
know them here building I mean you're
planning for this for their life and if
you help us to finish well for the
people who are watching who have no need
for a life or known about you have heard
of if you have time to finish that we
really know who you are
it's a feeling you have a sleepless
through the worth but people in our last
time that you can see who I was faced
with my father God thank you for this
opportunity to share you so many for the
S&amp;T bless others
they even encourage them it strengthened
your holds here would go before them
preparing opportunities and that's it's
how other people that haven't you number
we want something what if I surrender
all things not trust me sovereignty and
grace more awesome we praise your name
is opportunity business your honor thank
you so much thank you thank you thank
you for watching your every day and we
hope that this week you will remember
the love of God and has for you and
again thank you so much the years it has
been good until next time and some
you
