GIMP scaling will result in la cena so
if you resize an image it's going to go
blurry okay okay so I would use
Photoshop specifically and pretty much
only to scale my images because it does
a fantastic job but because that's all I
do I'm not buying the latest and
greatest Photoshop cs2
so now because this is such an old
version of Photoshop it's be activated
itself having increased to you know
change the computer basically it thinks
it's on a new computer now it says it
can't be activated because they no
longer have that particular oh right so
things that you physically switch the
computer yeah okay so the product is no
longer working it says click here to
activate it can't activate because it's
such an old version on the activation
server is gone it says call this number
you call that number and it says we no
longer have phone activation service go
to this website so you go to that
website and it wants you to buy this
Adobe license and it will allow you to
activate the newest and latest and
greatest but definitely not cs2 that's
us so all that said the only reason I
need Photoshop or had used Photoshop is
for scaling because GIMP had this real
issue with gimp 2.8 where if you change
the size of an image so shrink down an
image to fit it on your website or your
blog it will be grainy it'll be blurry
right a horrible thing to have happen to
your photos and not something that I
want when I'm building a website or
doing things like that so lucky for us
2.10 up the GIMP
is coming out now and I say GIMP it
stands for GNU image manipulation
program it has always been a free
alternative to Adobe Photoshop but there
was this well there are a couple of
things that are not as good as Photoshop
first of all CMYK support didn't exist
so it was all RGB so if you're doing
print that may matter too but for me
doing web I don't care I'm working in
RGB anyway so then the biggest thing to
me the main thing that made me need
Photoshop was just that lossy scaling so
that was a big problem
so with version 2.0
ten they're doing away with that problem
we're going to take a look I'm going to
show you first of all okay so we need to
install GIMP right to point nine point
five which is not available in the
repository let's get a look at my laptop
and see what this looks like here so
right now I've got GNU image
manipulation program install this
version 2.8 as you saw flash by there
two point eight point one eight so that
is the currently installed version on a
boon to I can confirm that that is the
latest and greatest that they have in
the repository by jumping into my
terminal and we'll go sudo apt-get
update to get the latest list throw in
your password there and then we're gonna
go sudo apt-get install GIMP and that's
going to tell us GIMP is already the
newest version two point eight point one
eight well we know that's not the case
so what we want to do is we want to add
a PPA with this command add apt
repository and then PPA : Auto - cache
cell goo-losh
slash gimp - edge don't worry I will
type these out for you
and hitting that command is just going
to give you some information about the
repository just hit enter and that's
going to add that to your system so now
when we do a sudo apt-get update it's
going to get some packages from that PPA
and I can again sudo apt-get install
GIMP and this time there are some new
packages for us so let's say yes and
we'll see what happens here that's just
going to go through the PPA downloading
those new packages you can see that
that's grabbing it from the PPA there so
you get 8 PPA Launchpad done yet / ohto
so it shouldn't take too long
and what we're doing here is we're
installing what's called a development
version of the GNU image manipulation
program on Ubuntu and we're doing this
so that we can basically evaluate
the features that are coming in 2.10 and
with that we're going to be able to get
around the problem of lossy scaling
we're going to talk a little bit more
about that in just a couple moments time
okay so that looks like it's done sudo
apt-get install GIMP again will show me
now you've got the latest version it is
two point nine point five suite how long
did that take us not very long
not long check it out see how things
have changed mmm
Maison Jim how very French this show is
going French today and how if we look at
the about we see two point nine point
five is the version of GIMP that we're
now running so it only took us like two
minutes not even that was real-time live
and nice and simple and so let's let's
grab an image and let's see what what we
can what we can do here so I'll show you
a little bit about what's different and
we're going to be getting into the GNU
image manipulation program throughout
you know throughout category five TV we
love the program and we're going to be
looking at some of the new features so
tonight we're not getting into the real
deep down you know we're not getting
under the hood too much but we're
looking at how highly improved the
scaling in the GIMP is so we're going to
resize an image just to show you how
loss lossless it is because one of the
things is is that they have set out with
2.10 to create lossless scaling so we're
going to go what are we going to do
pixels let's just go to pixels comm
texels comm is just free fragmented free
images yeah like stock imagery what do
we want to do do we want like a city
which has some some straight lines I
think that would probably be a good
example because we're going to see some
aliasing normally with the building
windows and things like that how high of
a resolution is that that's a bit of a
grainy photo so maybe not a good example
let's see what else we can come up with
that's pretty sleek that's nice I like
the looks of that one that's only got a
little really nice fog to it as well I
would hang out in my living room yeah oh
yeah and it's huge high res who the
great site folk speckles calm we talked
about it in the show between there we go
okay so let's grab that image Sasha it's
free its pixels so a download it you can
have a plaque I'm getting exactly it's
all you French it onto a canvas frame or
their Kendra's thing why not yeah I
totally just plaque it and mount it okay
I'm just going to throw that on my
desktop no problem there we go okay so
now we've got it and I have downloaded
it but I could have just downloaded it
like loaded it remotely - so file let's
see what's going on is my development
version frozen brain part it's possible
let's try again
oh I think it's actually my let's see my
can there we go okay so this image has
an embedded color profile okay blah blah
blah that's fine we can convert it or
keep it or whatever we want to do the
big image Sasha I wanted so many pixels
so you can imagine how nice an apartment
would look with that hanging won't be
low yeah yeah what if your apartment was
in that shot like you're just randomly
in one of those skyscrapers yeah so it's
photo section you're in the photo okay
if you're I know they're talking but you
can't see them because I'm like playing
on the computer but if you're a
Photoshop fan check this out Windows
single window mode boom looks a lot more
like Photoshop in it so that's that's
called single window mode so what we
want to look at let's let's get right in
there let's just hit one on my keyboard
to see Wow is that ever high-res look at
that
hah tripping out okay oh you could only
see people in there really yeah I'll bet
you if you went window to window we
might just be able to spy on some folks
there you know what we're going to do is
we're going to right-click and go image
scale image and you're familiar with
this dialog you've seen this before
what we're going to do differently
though is okay I'm going to say 1000 and
I wonder if cubic interpolation is going
to give me the results that the old you
know gimp 2.8 would have given it looks
pretty good although I did see some
aliasing there yeah definitely some
aliasing on the right hand side which is
kind of like jagged edges on the windows
so we're not going to actually use cubic
subsampling instead what we're going to
do is we're going to use one of the two
new options oh and what we're going to
do image scale image and now I'm down
scaling so there are two new ones no
halo and low halo so what's the
difference here low halo is essentially
for when you downsize an image that is
less than half of the original size so
that's the one that I'm going to be
using here today because I'm going from
like six thousand pixels to a hundred
thousand so I'm going to use low halo
there's also no halo which is good if
you are reducing the image only ever so
slightly for example okay you've
corrected the rotation of an image and
so then you've had to crop so that you
don't have the the lines right so so
you're not really scaling it down too
much you're going to use no halo in that
particular instance so by selecting now
low halo for this particular downscale
again because I'm going more than half
the size in image reduction and then I'm
going to scale that and there it goes so
this is an entirely new feature in the
two-point-nine branch and there we have
it that scaled down to 1000 pixels and
looks fantastic so it's really really
hard to tell the difference just looking
at it like that maybe you can maybe you
know we could
some comparisons and things like that
probably if you shrunk it down and blew
it up again you're going to see the
difference but there's a significant
difference because these two new options
are basically built into the product to
specifically provide lossless looking
scaling so that when you shrink it down
you're not going to get that blur right
traditionally we've had with the GIMP so
of course this again is development a
development release it's not to be
considered stable but it works fairly
well so if you want to give it a go you
can follow the directions from tonight's
episode and and give it a you know try
it out if you've got a virtual machine
try it in that first and see if you like
it before you deploy it onto your your
actual production system and it is
available as well I think to point 9.4
right now is compiled to two windows
which is going to give you those same
same features so this is great for me
because now I've done away with the need
for Adobe Photoshop entirely right which
also thank you which also means no need
to have Windows running on yes so
fantastic double win super cool you have
a get GIMP at gimp.org and you can find
out more about the product learn a lot
we've done a lot of tutorials here on
the show go to category 5 TV click on
search at the top right and just type in
gee I empty
[Music]
[Applause]
