hi and welcome back to new every day my
name is Carrie my name is Jen and on
stay show it's part two of the parable
of the sower talked about last week the
closer look on what happens when you get
walked on so stay tuned
alright we are just jumping right back
in here welcome back to new every day so
glad that you've tuned in last week we
opened the book of Matthew to chapter 13
and we looked at the parable of the
sower where Jesus describes a sower who
goes out and sow seed and that seed land
on different types of soil and the soil
representing the here people who are
hearing the Word of God and what comes
from that soil what happens to the seed
is what happens in their heart when they
receive that word right yes was that
gets over I know she's doing great job
cash until the first okay the first type
of soil that happens here is verse
number four as he was scattering the
seed to remember he's lavishly
scattering it and that's what we
answered the question to last week was
who is who is the sort the sower and why
does Jesus call it the parable of the
sower where we are commanded to just so
the seat just get out there and so it so
we are the sewers we are the sores
Christian Church yeah is this lower
price is the ultimate slower but when we
asked Jesus into our hearts then he is
working through us it's his seed it's
his seed we are the sewers okay point
all right so verse 4 says as he was
scattering the seed some fell along the
path and the birds came and ate it up
now the cook matching verse 2 that is in
verse 19 where it says when anyone hears
the message about the kingdom and does
not understand it the Evil One comes and
snatches away what has sown in his what
was sown in his heart this is the seed
sown along the path
so in one of the sermons I was listening
to about the parable of the sower one of
it one of them was by charles spurgeon
mm-hmm and someone was reading one of
his sermons that he actually wrote in
the 1800s that's why he was a lot of
hiring students it was very interesting
so he was describing what these paths
looked like because in the the
agricultural world of Jesus's time there
were the vast fields and there would be
small footpaths that you could access
different parts of the field yes but
then there were paths that might join
field to field and these were more
trodden and those were like the highways
so in describing this path it's like the
more trodden down path is that right
it's not that my word Tron yeah okay
it's harder it's really packed down
really pat down yeah walked on a lot so
the question that was raised in my mind
as I was listening it to this sermon was
what is actually what has caused that
soil to be pressed down yes and one of
the reasons that people can have a
hardened heart towards the Word of God
is that the people treading upon it may
have actually been Christians in the
past and then they've become inoculated
to the gospel because they've heard it
but it hasn't it hasn't grown in their
heart right and so they continually have
heard the good news heard the good news
heard the good news and different
preachers have come and gone and they
keep going to church but it's actually
making their heart more callous because
they are hearing and not responding to
it right yeah verse 19 says may hear the
message about the kingdom and does not
understand that the Evil One comes and
snatches it away because and it does say
that this the seed did go into their
heart because it didn't understand it or
seek to understand it would be a better
way because there's a difference between
hearing something like I can hear
conversation that Carrie and I are
having but to seek understand
ding is why is she saying it what
actually happened at worked you know
like I'm seeking to understand I'm not
just listening oh yeah because then you
know you can turn away and come back
though I have no memory of the
conversation we just had for the last 15
minutes right because i was listening
versus seeking to understand so you feel
that when people hear a truth if they
kind of ruminate on it that helps to
produce fruit i think so when you
reflect on the word yeah because it's
not just like because I taught probably
400 memory verses this summer easily
quickly let me think about 400 kids said
them also 400 x 6 2400 memory verses
some of them would simply just say them
back to me I know they had not actually
understood it but they said it right so
they didn't actually go in and process
it they set it to me because I asked
them and I just yeah and every tongue
confess that Jesus Christ is Lord I'm
like okay check but it's not that they
had actually thought about her or even
sought to understand what it meant but
you know when I think about my own
interactions with Scripture there are
some scriptures where I've just read and
heard and heard and heard for God so
loved the world that He gave His one and
only Son that whoever believes in Him
shall not perish but have everlasting
life you can hear it a lot of Christians
can just spit that out but it wasn't
until later at certain points in my life
when God illuminated that word because
as far as living and active and so it's
not that I had taken the time to reflect
on that at that moment but the seed went
in and later on I I feel like Holy
Spirit opened my eyes to receive it and
understand it you know they mean right
so it's a grace of God yes it's the both
and it's always always the both hand and
that's why okay so maybe this is this is
the question that's kind of rising in
your mind there are different types of
people here who
don't end up receiving the Word of God
and so there's no fruit and they're not
part of God's kingdom right yeah and
there's one that has good soil but is it
not God no one comes to the Father
unless the father draws him in so it's
the grace of God that he prepares the
soil right like the example that one
pastor that i was listening to use was
that before Jesus came and started his
ministry John the Baptist came to
prepare the way and his message was one
of repentance right to turn away from
what you know is wrong so that you could
receive the good news that Jesus was
coming to be that forgiveness of our sin
and give us new life to say no to my old
life and say yes to that new life so it
was repentance that led to people being
able to accept the seed right right but
God tells the soil yes but the cares of
the world can harden us right if we
choose if we choose to allow these
because it's that whole nature versus
nurture thing as well to ultimately God
wants all peak that is his heart he
wants every single person to come to
know him but because of the cares of
this world experiences in life we become
very we can be become can be become we
can we're having trouble come hardened
to the truth because of maybe Christians
in our life or people who call
themselves Christians but aren't
actually living it out so we don't
actually see the truth in their life so
we can and I've heard it said oh you
know I've seen people who call
themselves Christians or if that's if
you're going to call yourself Christian
act that way then I don't want anything
to do with it right that's the hardening
of the heart they're making a choice to
become hardened but I've also seen it
where because he still is not as if he
goes along and sweeps off the path
he still allowed the seed to fall there
because he very easily could have had
someone coming along behind him sweeping
off the path he didn't he allowed it to
stay there because I don't know if
you've ever noticed seeds have a way of
producing fruit in the weirdest spots
like you'll walk up like I hope I never
have cobblestone roads because you'll
see it right weeds yeah flowers all of a
sudden they get lodged in there and they
grow and they produce fruit and if their
continued to allow to stay there they
will actually work up all the
cobblestones are all the pavement so
even though it was a hard path because
the seed was actually allowed to take
root it actually will demolish the path
and so that's where I read that and I
see that there is hope that if the seed
falls into a crack in the pavement and
there and there are always cracks like
my mom she has her it's all sealed right
she gets her driveway sealed but the
grass still comes out of them and that
is because the seed is the word of God
living and powerful and active and it
goes in and so that's why I get excited
about the path because I'm like the path
is not beyond God's Redemption it goes
in so I want you to think about that
maybe there's someone in your it's
coming to mind right now that you think
is a hard path and there's no hope for
them and so we're just gonna we're going
to pause and we're going to take him
commercial break that's for you to be
thinking that okay as we can i'm
thinking of someone in my life who was a
hard path that God
amazingly so stay tuned I'm going to
tell you the story this is the story of
operation christmas child
it may just be a shoebox but to millions
is the start of the greatest journey
traveling the world
sent with prayer to box gets fill the
hearts of children from over 100
different countries with hope faith and
love welcome back to new every day so be
formed into commercial we asked you to
think about the people in your life that
might be considered the hard path people
were there just seemed so close to the
gospel and we were talking about that
picture of all we need is a crack well
it's not us who needs the crack it's not
crack no crack no crack but don't do
crack don't crack um but the but the
crack in the path because when you have
a crack in the path I don't know but so
often those seeds get in there and bust
it open and growth happens and I don't
know if you've ever seen a parking lot
that doesn't have any cars on it and
hasn't had cars in in a while it's full
of plants I was like how did that happen
how it was held over yes but it's
because people stopped walking over and
making it hard it was actually given a
chance to allow the cracks to come yeah
yeah and I'm pulling myself together
here because I even as Jen was talking
like I'm tearing up thinking about how
sometimes when I look at people's lives
and if they're just so destitute and
like so far from God and when I look at
what led them up to being in that place
a lot of it doesn't seem like it's their
fault like I look at even family members
who you know or friends who because of
past abuse and past hurt they that was
done to them when they were vulnerable
and not able to defend themselves but
those things caused them to be hard
and on the outside towards other people
and relationships and sometimes towards
the gospel they say how can a loving God
have allowed this to happen to me yeah
so of course they're going to be hard
and then that leaves can lead down the
train of addiction and all this all
these terrible things that I see every
day like in the people close to me but
also like the people that I work with
and and I guess sometimes at the end of
the day I sometimes feel like god I
don't understand if you are the God who
draws people to yourself where is the
drawing their lives and I feel sometimes
heavy hearted and guilty even though
it's not a good guilt that my life has
been so good hmm and I'm in such a good
place by the grace of God but I look
that people around me in there in such a
bad place I know there's hope in God but
sometimes I feel like my heart has been
hardened not because the things I've
experienced the things I've seen in
other people's lives that I think how
why would God do that but in talking
about the path those people have been
hardened my life situations yeah that
sometimes you can't control when people
walk on you no no you can't control the
number of people how heavy they are the
weights that they're carrying from
pastors that then squish you down yeah
but it's the hope of Christ that is that
tiny mustard seed that gets in the crack
and that God waters he says that he
sends his rain on the righteous and the
wicked s pray because he wants them to
come to him and that's why i love this
passage i love the passage because he
lavishes the seed he lavishes it because
he knows that there's still hope he
knows that there's still hope and one of
my
favorite quotes at least for the last
five weeks has been an act of true love
will melt are broken or melt a frozen
heart which is from Olaf and frozen but
it's true it is like the power of
Christ's love working through us
ultimately will melt a frozen or or I
want to say till up a path because it's
love love covers a multitude of sin love
softens hearts like love is as powerful
when it's done without ties without
anything in return but to genuinely love
it and and there's a story of this young
girl who was like anti-god like just
totally anti-god wanted nothing to do
with God in fact was quite combative
towards people who call themselves
Christians because she had just seen
something seeing stuff right so she was
very hard-hearted and so she said and
then I met my best friend and she was a
Christian she's like I have no idea how
we're even going to get along cuz and
she would go at it with her friend but
her friend just kept loving her never
judging her cuz it the way they met was
she was her friend was wearing this
bright pink shirt that said jesus is my
homeboy and boy and the atheist friends
said isn't that sacrilegious and she's
like no and that actually opened up the
conversation so but this girl was
passionate about her faith and just
loved her friend loved her friend would
listen to her friend and eventually the
young lady became pregnant and thought
what am I going to do with this and her
Christian friend just looked at inside
just try-try Jesus all right just just
try you've seen you know you've seen the
example and and she went to church and
she heard the music that talked about
how
that didn't matter what she done that
she was going to be forgiven that God
loved her no matter what and knew who
she was and she said I was broken in
that moment because I needed to hear
that and it was just very interesting
because the love of her friends cause
the hardness to break so the seed of
truth go in yeah and produce fruit but
it's the love we need and that's why it
says God so loved the world it's out of
his love that Jesus came and gave us the
gospel so that we could be made right
with him it's out of love it's out of
love and so when we talk about how do we
melt a frozen heart or how do we know
till up hard ground it really is love
how do i how do i love well like that
situation sucks but Lord you want to
know them so how do I love them how do i
love them into your kingdom yeah like
and it's and love and acceptance are two
totally different things right and so
it's not well I'm just going to accept
you except sin and that's not what it is
but how do I love that person well yeah
like how do i love them as you love them
would you give me a heart for that
person what are the keys to one of the
right you know garden tools if you want
that to dig up that soil so that you can
put you know so here see you can go in
yeah yeah that's that's really good and
sometimes looking at someone who's so
hardened like maybe it is your own
family member or maybe it's yourself
that you wonder there is no way in or I
don't know the right words to say but
you can do something or love them in a
certain way and I was thinking about my
my cousin who has been through a lot and
like his parents split up and then he
just he lost his best friend
and number of years ago and he drown and
it was really tragic and he's been
involved in in like substance abuse and
things like that and and of other things
in his past and things I don't know
about just like there are in everyone's
lives and I thought boy like I don't
know would he ever come to Christ I'm
not sure he's pretty happy doing his own
thing now yeah and he started having
dreams about Jesus and God's love is
like breaking apart the hard soil in his
heart that's so cool and he is he is
accepted Christ and now he is going down
to the addiction center where he lives
to witness to the people coming out of
there that there is hope then God can
he's like pouring water on their self
nothin the hard mad like yay God yeah
hey God yeah God wants all people to
come to know him that is the thing I say
over and over again he is heart is that
everybody would come to know him so he
lavishes his love on the just and the
unjust and so I don't know you know as
we're talking about this who might be
rising up in your mind who might be that
hard soil but we're going to pray right
now that that God's love would overwhelm
you for that person that you would look
that you would come before the Lord say
lord help me to love that person because
only true love can mouth or frozen heart
yeah so let's pray Heavenly Father I
thank you so much for your goodness and
your grace and how you lavish your love
on us oh how great the father that he
would lavish his love and so father I
asked specifically for our viewers Lord
who are thinking of people in their
lives are like the hard-packed ground
and lord help them to love well
help our viewers to love their their
friends and their family and these
people that you're bringing to mind well
so that that love will soften the soil
so your truth can go in and produce
fruit and break it up Lord nothing is
impossible for you we trust you Lord
that you you can break up the soil with
love your love pray this in the name of
Jesus to the power of the Holy Spirit
amen okay thank you so much for tuning
in I feel like you are now part of our
our little family and in our home
because it's so good to just be real
with each other and talk about the truth
of God and how it is living and active
and makes a difference in her life and
I'm just amazed at how God even even
today even tonight just kind of like
open my eyes afresh to His goodness so
we are praying that for you and praying
that you will tune in next week when we
talk more about the parable of the sower
so thanks so much have a great week
you
