hi and welcome to new every day I'm
Carrie and my name is jen and i'm james
and i'm shelly and on today's show we're
gonna talk about going on on your
picture be right back
hey and welcome back to new everyday so
glad that you've tuned in because we're
on a bit of an adventure today we are on
a road trip altogether and I'll let you
do the the spleen indent well a few
months ago we talked I was thinking how
cool it would be to visit all of the
Great Lakes this summer and a friend of
mine Vicki Singleton's I said what about
doing it in one day and I'm like whoa
like five Great Lakes one day and that
would be Lake Ontario Lake Erie Lake
Michigan Lake Huron and Lake Superior I
thought well that sounds like a cool
adventure so I messaged my good friend
Shelley and chains we talked to carrie
and james is like what no 550 great
lakes one day has already been done you
need to do six in one day and so he came
up with this really cool name called 6
and 16 so there you go so we're doing
six great six of the lakes in the Great
Lakes system there is only six we're
including Lake st. Clair which you need
to get go through in order to get to
Lake Huron and Lake Superior let me
started at about 6 16 this morning on
jun 16 2016
and so so far we have been to lake
ontario we have been to lake erie which
I must admit was the most cold very also
the most beautiful though it was very
beautiful and then we went to Lake st.
Clair and now we are on our way to Lake
here on and so as we're reflecting on
going on an adventure one of the things
that goes into going on an adventure is
planning and it's very interesting when
you think of well I'm going on adventure
means you just go like you just I'm
going to go but there's something about
planning that makes the adventure that
much more enjoyable at least I am a
planner we have talked about that before
the last time you guys are on the show
but the Bible actually talks about who
does not you know when they are planning
to go toward to build a tower do they
not sit down and then I sit down first
and count the cost and actually do the
planning to see what it will take to do
an adventure so now each one of us are
very different in the way we think the
way that we plan and to be honest James
is the one who looked through all the
details so James do you want to just
walk us through a little bit of how you
said about planning this adventure like
what kind of do research did you talk to
other people like why after we talked
about it kind of confirm that is
something we all wanted to do the
natural next step was to do the research
so plan online and kind of found some
other guys who had done the trip and
they had done the five Great Lakes I am
one day right so after I kind of did
that research and figure that out I'm
like well it's kind of boring to do the
five Great Lakes in one day it's been
down a couple times right but there's
actually six great lakes in the Great
Lakes system like you met you and so I
added that into the mix and what the
numbers worked out great right so and i
also went through it and kind of read up
on their mistakes kind of where they
fumbled the ball and i recalculated some
of their miscalculations and what do you
mean about fumbling the ball will he
drop the ball name like ran out of gas
got pulled over a lil ocean oh my god
whatever get pulled over three is that
um no when they got into Michigan so if
we're in Michigan now they over gotta go
in the lake in Detroit but they they got
caught in traffic because I'm short
array yeah right so so they decided they
were going to go into Detroit so they
lost a pile of time trying to find a
spot to go into the water at to em
detroit and they ended up going up to
where we're headed now but a little bit
further self and i thought well we can't
do the same spot as them so we're
actually hitting totally different spots
and they had okay and you know for the
most part we're all swimming carry my
feet swim and i'm i'm fishing all all
six of these lakes as we go the answers
I don't think everybody's
so it's gonna kind of cool haven't
caught anything yet but that's okay so
you know after that it was just finding
spots where there was water access right
and public access we're just going to be
quick and there was going to be a whole
lot of traffic or people around and then
just plotting the course and figuring
out the times and we're so glad you did
it so glad right Shelley and I just
showed up well even last night we're
like okay like clothing wise what is
this going to look like so I I put out
six outfits 65 towels actually I don't
know what I was thinking but and then
put them into our like a grocery bag so
that when I got wet I could take them
off and put them into a wet or a grocery
bag so that the wetness sit in there
they get all over and I can put on fresh
clothes so I'd be ready for the next
spot doesn't plan on getting all that
wet so I didn't bring six tells not a
problem well I problem what's
interesting as as we sit we talk about
planning James mentioned a really good
point he said I looked at their mistakes
and said I don't want to do that like if
I do those same things that those other
people did that I'm going to have the
same results and so he's on purpose that
no I'm not going to go in their way I'm
going on to find a better way someone
that will save us time because we gave
ourselves 16 hours we would really love
it if it was about 12
this is a whole lot of driving what
what's interesting is so often
throughout the Bible we hear stories of
people who said I saw so and so do this
and I'm going to choose not to Ezekiel
talks about how a son can see his father
sin and they can make a willful choice
not to follow in that way because they
actually thought they looked at said
that's not what I want to do I want to
follow God and so often I think we see
other people's mistakes and we're like
okay I don't want to do that I have
friends of mine who had one of their
siblings just was a real troublemaker
and they said I don't want to be like
that and so they made a willful choice
not to do the same things that their
sibling dead I found that's very
interesting that's a very interesting
perspective that well idea of looking at
other people or looking other piece of
mistakes and choosing I see the choices
they made that's not good I'm not going
to do that
now Shelly just got back from Hawaii and
so Shelly what kind of planning that you
put into that so I know that you had
been talking about it for a long time
yeah and so how did that plenty like the
idea come like did you originated the
idea or did somebody else for today did
here and the planning and I so we had
about five months to kind of plan we're
going to do that's good why my skin yeah
so we didn't start planning till about a
month before but this is what I did I
made a list of all the things that I
wanted to do and all the things that I
thought that we could do as a group
together okay and then I didn't want to
specify what time and day but I made the
list and I knew that if we wanted to
hike one day or if the weather was good
we would hike on that day so I kind of
made the list flexible yeah flexible so
it kind of depended on the day but we
did hit about ninety percent of the list
and so yeah so I'm really pumped about
that because I had a couple bucket list
things to check off and they got all
checked off so what we're like your top
three bucket by bucket list thing that
you checked on hiking seeing the
stairway to heaven going on e chi beach
because it's one of the most beautiful
beaches in the world but hiking was
definitely on top of my list and on the
different mountains and there was
different terrains as well
I was good but that goes back to that
whole planning thing like you made the
list you said this is what I want to see
and then you made can make a conscious
effort to do that because you said
you'll I want to see you had a wet and
dry list if it was drowning then you had
a list that you could oh yeah in the wet
and then if it was nice dry list that's
where you could do your you're hiking
and your event outdoor adventure and
yeah it's interesting like we always
talked about planning I feel like I
always talk about planning but planning
does go into making the most of the
adventure like I think like you said you
made the list you knew what you wanted
to see but then you were flexible right
you had the flexible plan in SC now did
you see things that weren't on your list
yes so they just sort of happened they
sort of happened yeah I think it's like
on the way kind of thing stop in the
mermaid caves just like stop it's like
that well I didn't know didn't know what
to expect for me no fortunately not I
know
so the question want to leave you with
before we go to the commercial break is
what do you think about planning when it
comes to going on an adventure so stay
tuned you're right back Jeff Weston
Yemen you're building a brand new
beautiful website what are you all right
you're terrible actor what does we're
acting comes into play I don't know
where I think you're supposed to act
okay I'm building a really cool website
are you building a really cool website
you need hosting one of the things about
a hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
it's true how much hard drive space you
have how many email accounts how many
domains can point to it well we've got
an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cat five dot TV / dreamhost
for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are going to get
unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name the rules are your own com
dice to put that amazing website that
you've been working on on there if you
run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat5 TV / dreamhost
just don't let the head of the papers
are just don't do it but hey it's a
great deal folks best deal you're gonna
find five dollars and change per month
go to cap five dot TV / dreamhost hi bet
your neighbor I will split my head see
y'all go spend my hair okay I get it
welcome back to new every day we just
took a little break and then we're back
to answer Jen's question which was how
do you feel about planning when you're
going on an adventure and
a couple of things we said it so
important to want to say count count the
cost like does it have an idea of like
what do you need to actually enjoy the
adventure like what clothes are you
packing in your suitcase in order to
actually enjoy it to the full and then
like Shelley said well you made your
list the things that you would like to
see and then you sort of hold them
loosely but you have a plan and then we
talked about knowing what other people's
mistakes were and so you could you know
learn from them and James just made an
interesting point of a quote that he's
going to share with us so chains want
you do that yeah well I was on facebook
and shows your memories i guess the
status that i put up a couple years ago
i was reading through the memories and
it came up and i said forget about
making your own mistakes learn from
other people's mistakes and make your
own decisions so I thought that was kind
of fitting like with the way that I kind
of approached planning this trip right I
wanted to see what other people did
where they fell short see if I can
correct for that
it's and you know I think that's yeah
we're going to talk a little bit about
that in the upcoming shows that we have
with James and Shelley that whole
concept of community the importance of
community we live in community not just
to encourage one another boat so we can
learn from one another as well so we can
share our i want to say our winds and
our losses where I can you know learnt
them so often you hear people with older
people especially saying well I did that
when I was your age and this is how it
turned out and for more often than not
we say but that won't happen to me right
and we turn and we do the same thing and
it ends up for the most part the same
way yeah and so this whole idea of
learning from mistakes is so important
because we like Jesus is called is to
have life and life to the full and part
of that is from learning from one
another and
and so looking at you know when you're
going on an adventure and you can that
you can liken that to life what are some
things that you want to accomplish in
your life and and like Shelley said have
a couple of lists like where do you want
to serve in church and you know what do
you want your family like what is your
goal for your family that when your kids
grow up they still want to talk to you
well then what you actually have to do
now and so in order that your kids will
still type that's the rule do you want
to go on a vacation 1c or do you want to
want a missions trip every two years or
you want to sponsor for kids how you
going to make it happen how you're going
to make it happen so what are those
things as Shelley said what are those
things that are on the list and then how
do you learn from other people's
mistakes as you so that you can actually
have success in those things and then
and then just doing the research what is
it that needs like where is it that you
want to go how are you going to get
there like that all comes from asking
questions doing the research figuring
out what exactly you want to do because
if you don't make a list of the things
you want to do then you really have no
idea where you're going to go now part
of the adventure as at least having an
idea of where you want to go what you
want to accomplish and I like the
problem that says there is a way that
seems right to man but in the in the end
to death like we can think we can have
it all together we can plan our our own
ways but God is saying no no surrender
your plans to me in and it says trust in
the Lord with all your heart lean not on
your own understanding and all your ways
acknowledge him and he will direct your
path so when you invite God into all of
these areas into the planning into the
list I love but Shelley said like have
that list and surrender it to the Lord
say or what is it that you would have me
accomplish in this life can and he will
direct your path so we want to encourage
you to be adventures to make that list
it do the research but first and
foremost go before the Lord and say what
adventure do you want for me like
surrender the adventure of your life to
the Lord yeah failing to plan is
planning to fail
plenty of fail planning to failing to
plan thank you failing to plan is
planning to fail so there we go and we
want you to be successful I want you to
hear the voice of God and respond so we
encourage you today if you've never
talked to God while today talk to God if
you talk to God Allah be if you're never
really thought about saying or what kind
of life do you want from me rich do it
today just say Lord what kind of life do
you want what are the things you want to
accomplish and I bet that you will be
surprised when you genuine we pray that
prayer so let's do that let's pray
Heavenly Father and thank you so much
that you have called us on the great
adventure and Lord there is planning
there is research there is making the
list there's learning for other people's
mistakes but also the purpose of having
life and life to the full and so father
I ask your name that you would helps to
surrender our adventures you would ask
where is it that you would have asked oh
so that we can truly experience the life
you have for us or god bless our viewers
today thank you for your goodness your
name we pray amen here you close your
eyes we're praying still counts how do
you know yours were closed ah thanks so
much for tuning in and join us next week
you're going to see another piece of our
adventure on our road trip yep so see
you later
you
