for those who prefer Linux or are simply
curious about Linux and other open
source technologies this is category 5
technology TV
welcome to episode number 272 of
category 5 technology TV it's Tuesday
the fourth of December 2012 then we
still don't have hockey I mean hey it's
great to be here don't you dare man oh
that's gonna be disappointing for you
indeed how are you don't know I've been
watching reruns of old leaf games yeah
and pretending like you're surprised
with a us yes hey how are you Robbie I'm
doing well all right what's it I mean
I'm here I had lots of time to spare
really good 30 seconds after the sound
check I don't know what them to chat
rooms getting all fancy about mm-hmm
here Arnie he's here ok hey jammer by
the way nice to see you tweet that we're
on yacht is out there saying hello or
jaw did you like to call them I do yes
I offered are instead joining us but
Iceland nice to see ya you know before
we get too far I noticed last time I was
here was day two of trying to grow a
mustache yeah and now we're we're
Movember is pretty much over so yeah I
think then you decided to make a
donation and hey a great big thanks to
the folks who made donation on my behalf
to you know raise awareness for men's
mental health and prostate health so
thanks I may just make this go away soon
but we'll see I like the clean the clean
shave is it looks good on you it shows
up my hockey sticks car there you go so
you make me look like a tough guy you're
really really he-man kind of that but it
is what it is I was thinking man my
daughter thought it was a shaving in
dust Flanders mmm doodle hide elijo Eric
hey what's coming up in the news man oh
well let me tell you what's coming up in
the news researchers in the US have
developed a new type of light bulb whoa
we already have a new tape light bulb
they keep on praying superheating a
memory chip to 800 degrees can extend
its life exponentially okay and 3d
printers might make for a lighter trip
to the moon soon your smartphone
smartphone you might know how you feel
sick around these stories are coming up
later in this inevitable I'm looking
forward to some of these stars you've
got coming up tonight I am going to
extemporize you know you don't know what
you're getting here at nitro don't even
know don't even know folks we've got a
great show for you though we're going to
be doing something really kind of a kind
of fun it from a geek perspective so if
if you're if you would consider yourself
a little bit of a geek the Linux fan
then tonight is definitely for you and
even if you don't we're going to learn
some some neat stuff tonight because
what we're going to be doing is we're
going to be creating the ultimate method
of backing up on linux we can back up on
this chair try backing up backing up
back in effect from a nonzero yo there's
something really cool happen I smell
cookies baking I don't
are they coming this the Christmas
season coming down to the studio sooner
what that'll be already delivered and a
real Rachel of that huh but yeah I mean
tonight definitely stick around also
we've got your viewer questions you can
send those in live at category 5 TV or
right there in the chat room and
greetings everybody who's joining us
tonight and of course if you're not in
the chat room and get there through our
website category five dot TV if you
click on interact you'll see the chat
room right there somebody had mentioned
in the chat room I was looking over the
chat log so that they're like oh I wish
I could get this chat up full screen and
that's how you do it go to our website
so if you're on live cat5 TV and you're
stuck in this little window built into
the browser and you know if you've got a
smaller screen that can be problematic
so put that up on the screen road oh
well that would cause some video
feedback but i'll show you another thing
for for the viewer who was who was
having that trouble there is something
really cool on live cat5 TV other than
our faces live cat five dot TV other
than I'll mute that let's just whatever
along and shall we who is that handsome
mustachioed okay show chat see this is
what they're saying is that all I got a
scroll down in order to see the chat
room but watch this there is an open all
button at the bottom there if you click
on open all you're actually going to get
a bunch of popups this is awesome so
right there you get the live feed you
get backstage pass which is loading
their and it's a commercial and at this
point my video curve rather just does i
don't want to play anymore but then what
you can do as i say is go to our website
category 5 TV and click on interact and
then bring up the chat room separately
and the reason i want to show you this
is because you can get it up full screen
so i've clicked on interact chat room
and then there are two options and one
of them is load the web based chat room
and look at that now you can make it all
you want to enjoy kids yeah and then you
can have those other windows open from
live cattle ion audio recapture again
someday yeah those are so fun those are
so much fun just type the words as you
hear them like your mother jaja be bored
okay yeah been there done that hey if
you are using a mobile phone or you want
to be able to watch the show on your
tablet computer I guess they call them
these days your iPad your Android tablet
whatever you're using check out and dot
cat 5 watt TV and by visiting that
special website you'll be able to catch
the show if your device is compatible
you can actually watch live on that
device we've seen we've had some
pictures sent in by viewers who are
sitting there with their tablet on the
dashboard of their card because they're
over you know the Wi-Fi or or they've
got high speed internet on their tablet
through their cell phone provider I
drove by Georgian call today and I see
they're offering a course in mobile app
development hey sounds cool that's good
yeah very good so there and let's see
yacht is telling the guests if you want
to change your nick you can change your
nickname by typing / nick and then new
nickname where your new nickname is
Flanders or something yeah okay so Owen
somebody's telling us c is for cookie
okay i'm going to say that run through
it hey listen I'd love to receive your
postcards this week send them in to us
category 5 technology TV postal box 29
00 9 Barrie Ontario Canada l4 n7w 7 we
love to receive your postcards eric is
the first time you've seen the postcard
walnuts it's kind of cool we've got
everything up there and bad yeah and
those who are watching b-roll or if
you're watching backstage you'll be able
to see that isn't that cool either is it
there's a newspaper clipping of us so
yeah when we're up in haliburton doing
the show from Silver Beach developments
newspaper did an article on it and there
we are so irate loads of fun okay we've
got to take a really quick break we're
going to be taking a look at an amazing
way to backup your stuff on linux and i
really mean that it's going to sit a way
cool way as a way cool its way whoa your
mind if you ever
trouble backing up stuff because it's
say in use or something and you know you
just long for that volume shadow copy
that you had on windows stick around
because we're going to be learning how
to do something similar on Linux so
don't go anywhere we're going to be
right back with that after this quick
break and Eric stash as well at eco
alkalines we believe you should be able
to trust your batteries not just here
but here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here Eco alkalines
of the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco alkalines provide
performance the rivals leading national
alkaline battery brands at a comparable
price find out more about the Eco
alkalines difference Eco alkalines calm
this is category 5 technology TV i'm
your host Robbie ferguson and i am the
co-host this week or gang or whatever
you want to call me call him Eric kid
Eric so we've actually changed the
format over the past several weeks and
and it's been about a month since you've
been here but so we actually are getting
in November yeah we're gonna yeah hard
to believe hey no groco / Eric kid of
yet there's still time to donate and
thanks so they're still accepting
donations as currently so oh that's cool
very good so there and you'll find it
more than sorry I interrupted I was just
telling you that we're going to do the
viewer questions at the end of the show
gives time to for people to send in
their questions in the chat room
especially through email live at
category 5 TV in the meantime you know
you didn't give me all that info in the
30 seconds I was here before the show
started sorry that was dedicated to
sound check yeah but we sound a race we
have no idea what's coming up next but
it sounds looking good listen to that
deep voice name okay so so Robbie tell
us what we are doing well here's the
thing okay if you've ever run I mean do
you ever run I don't really have a
runner
with a sarcasm also try to be serious do
you run virtual machines at all yeah
yeah I I use them a lot I mean my system
is essentially Linux as a host I've got
windows as a guest and I've got many
many virtual machines that are different
variations of linux and and typically
that's that's how I work I got I've got
two monitors on my desk at all times and
one screen is dedicated to windows one
screen is dedicated to linux and that
windows system is basically you know the
things that I absolutely have to have
windows for ya which is you know
Photoshop there's a program that i use
for communication is gambling websites
all those things you know that i would
rather be doing through windows because
what are you worried but that
virtualization has become a real kind of
a it's at the forefront of every
computer user that knows how to use it
actually you help me set up lamp stack
our virtual down and how great is that
that you can use physical server and
break it into little individual virtual
machines and now you've got multiple
servers running on one physical server
right so that said in a business
environment you tend to have you know a
server a physical server and a whole
bunch of virtual machines running and
the problem that we run into and in
business and through you know I T
administration is that what happens when
you want to back them up hmm usually
what ends up happening it is sense that
no usually what happens now this is a
discussion so you know I appreciate your
feedback wait what we usually end up
having to do is is suspending the
virtual machine so that it goes into a
sleeping state so that it's in a
hibernative state and everything is
within the VDI file and and it's in a
safe state that now I can back up that
file and then reinitialize the virtual
machine problem with that is it means
downtime so the guest operating system
basically needs to be put into a
sleeping state it's no longer
operational it gets backed up by the
host and then it comes back to a waking
state so that's great and it works for
backing up your virtual machines but it
does mean down
in production environment unless it's
you know if it's your domain controller
your DHCP server something internal that
nobody's at work at two o'clock in the
morning and if they are they need to
have everything shut down anyways and be
told to go home but if you're in that
case it's a little bit of a different
scenario but if it's a production server
that's publicly accessible say a web
server right something along those lines
where people in our case yeah I could do
maintenance on my server at three
o'clock in the morning but where does
that leave people that are in different
time zones because it's a global medium
right so tonight we're going to learn to
actually back up a virtual machine on
the fly while it is live from the host
so now talking about backing up from
within the guest we're going to back up
the entire virtual hard drive meaning
that you can take that and portably you
know you have a fire your server
explodes you can take that virtual file
that virtual hard drive throw it on a
laptop install virtualbox and your back
up and running from the laptop as you
wait for your new server to arrive you
do mm-hmm so how do we do that and why
are we doing this tonight well it's it's
kind of a use case it's just to
demonstrate how this can be done how
this can be used as an example but what
we're actually doing is we're creating
something that's very very similar to a
volume Shadow Copy on windows which is
to say you're able to create on the fly
snapshots of your entire operating
system files within your operating
system and you're able to back those up
you're able to move them around copy
them around and it doesn't affect the
running operating system and similarly
you're not going to have any sharing
violations so if a file is open in a
program such as a virtual hard drive in
VirtualBox you're still going to be able
to copy that file without any problems
so how are they get rolled it well we're
gonna we're going to go step by step
through this it's a program called hot
copy and it's available for free to you
as a Linux user and I encourage you to
check out some of the other software
that's available on their website but
I've created a hot link for you just to
get you there it's cat five dot TV / hot
copy let's bring that up cat five TV /
hot coffee and when we get there you'll
see it just takes you to the website
tells you a little bit about it read
over stuff it's awesome reading through
the FAQ how it works and then of course
download now takes you to a simple form
that allows you to register your
download and it's going to send you an
email link so you do need to use a
legitimate email and that will give you
access to this application called hot
copy so once we've downloaded that we're
going to get a zip file so here we are
zero hook oh if we got zip I'm going to
double click on that and you'll see that
there are many different files in that
so we'll actually go through the process
I think tonight of installing setting up
and using hot copy to create this backup
which is just going to be wonderful I
mean if you're in an environment where
you just can't shut down in order to run
your backups this is definitely
definitely a cool thing so basically
what we're going to do bring back up
that that folder where my downloads are
and in that zip file like I say there's
our PM packages there's def there are
tar gz source packages so that if it's
not debian or red hat you're able to do
it i am on a 64-bit debian based system
using Zorin OS so I'm extracting that
particular depth file so i can right
click on that and open that with like GW
package manager if I want to just
install it that way all the dependencies
should be met you should be all right to
do that because it's been requested
we're actually going to do this through
the terminal tonight end it is a
terminal application so we might as well
do it that way to really teach you how
it's done so I'm going to go into where
I've extracted that file there it is
there the deb package and i'm going to
use dpkg dash I for install and then the
idea at hot copy amd64 because I'm 64
bit I 386 as if you're 32 bit on your
host and this is simply going to install
that from the deb package that i've
downloaded which they emailed me when I
filled in the form so now the command is
HCP and we can write
dash dash help to get the information
here on how to use it we could use you
know we could create mount points and
things like that or we can just let it
go with its default way and create its
own mount point so what I'm actually
going to do is look at what hard drive
my operating system is running on you
can see that / is dev / sda1 so I know
that that that is actually my physical
hard drive so I'm going to try mounting
that before I do that it's probably
going to require that I do some setup
but let's try it yeah so the kernel
driver hasn't been loaded yet so we'll
do that so you don't just follow the
prompt user s pin hcp dash set up and
then I do dash dash help just to show
you that the command that we want to use
is get module that's going to retrieve
the kernel module for your running
system and it's going to compile
everything for you so that this is going
to work nice and easy so the command to
set this up we only have to do this once
is pseudo for super user do user s bin
hcp setup dash dash get module so now
it's going to go through that whole
process of getting the module package
compiling it for your kernel there it
goes
so essentially what we're going to be
able to do is we're going to be able to
create a live snapshot and to realize
what that actually means in reality is
to say that you are able to copy
anything from your hard drive without
any kind of sharing violations without
any kind of problems and things can
still be happening on your system and
yet it doesn't affect that copy process
so if things are changing on your system
you're still able to copy that file so
if it's a big file and that file all of
a sudden has changed during the copy
process it doesn't break that copy so
you're still good so it's building my
module but you won't have a current copy
of that particular file its current up
until that moment so consider that you
would be running this before you run
your backup run your back up and then
stop this hcp but yeah you're right what
will actually be doing is will be
creating a snapshot of our entire hard
drive and that is what we're going to
back up from and if I'm unclear at all I
mean chatroom let us know Eric let me
know but yeah you be you be creating a
backup from your snapshot which is what
is its powerful and amazing because
you're able to create a backup of
running a running system let's give you
another scenario let's say as this is
building here on my screen let's just
say I create a snapshot and I want to
mess around with some software that
might potentially break my system so i
can chroot into that snapshot run my
operating because it's read and write
this snapshot and my hot copy i can
actually chroot into and i can be
running my full operating system within
the hot copy and then break it and then
exit the chroot environment if you
understand what that means that means
that you will not have broken your
actual operating system it's still going
to be operational there we go that looks
good everything's ready to go so I want
to actually demonstrate I'm going to
demonstrate a cup
things just to show you what what I mean
by all s some of the folks in the chat
room were just talking about they've
gone to category 5 TV / you've got to
just go to the cat5 TV / hot coffee
that's right yeah category 5 DB is
available so a URL it's just the short
category 5 TV is our website cat five
dot TV is our short link wrecked cat
five dot TV / hot copy okay make sure
you're mindful of that if you go to
category 5 TV you're actually that's our
website that's unrelated to our
redirector it'll look like it didn't
work mm-hmm because it didn't work so
i'll try i'll try mounting this now now
you saw that I had tried to do it before
I did the colonel configuration so let's
do sudo hcp dev sda1 there we go how
instantaneous was that now what's
interesting about this I want to just
show you real quick system
administration system monitor and look
at my file systems I've got sda1 and now
I've got dev HCP one and you'll see that
those are identical see the first item
and the last item is they're absolutely
identical as far as my system is
concerned so my system sees that as
another hard drive so make note of where
it's mounted there's the directory / VAR
/ hot copy / sda1 HCP one so let's go
into that folder let's well we it'll be
fun okay VAR hot copy sda1 HCP one now
the permissions here are going to be all
the same as my my main computer my main
hard drive so this see I'm looking at
the hot copy okay so that my LS is
showing you the hot coffee now if I do
an LS / i'm looking at my actual live
active hard drive so my hot copy is a
snapshot that was created just moments
ago when I ran that command to mount it
so now if i go sudo touch test txt and
do an LS you'll see that it exists in my
hot coffee but do an LS / and it does
not exist so
now the two systems do not match but you
can see that I can make changes to
either system without affecting the
other if I go sudo touch / test2 dot txt
now if I do an LS on my hot copy there's
test txt if I do an LS / you see test2
dot txt so now that I've created my
snapshot my hot copy I have to virtually
independent file systems but they are
identical up until the moment that I ran
hot copy HCP space / dev / sda1 remember
i typed mount to find out what my hard
drive was mount for these are all the
different things that are mounted on my
system and I can see the / that's my you
know the home of the root of my hard
drive and that is dev / sda1 you can
back up you can do a hot copy of any of
your devices okay so that is essentially
where that leaves us there now here's
the thing we're gonna we're gonna
actually boot up a virtual machine
because I said that we would do this so
I'm gonna because it wasn't running I'm
going to unmount my hot coffee so i'm
going to go sudo HCP remember where this
was located it's dash are for remove and
we're going to go / dev / h CP 1 we're
gonna unmount that hot copy okay looks
like it there okay it was it's busy at
the moment no big deal oh because I'm in
the folder haha there we go let's try
again there I was in the folder watch
this we're going to go into applications
system tools Oracle VM VirtualBox and
again eric i'm i'm i'm using this as the
example the virtual machine kind of
scenario because i think it's a really
good example of something that's hard to
back up on the fly hot copy does it very
very well is hot copy a backup software
no it's not but it supplements your
backup software so if you're already
using backup software to backup your
linux system let's say it's backing up /
home which is your home folder and
everything recursively under that
then you would run hot copy first and
then instead of backing up your home
folder back up your hot copy / home
folder so the VAR / hot copy / sda1
underscore HD a 1 / home and that will
be an exact duplicate of your home
folder but you'll get a better copy off
of that okay right no corruption or
anything like that if the files change
during the process so on my computer
i've created a real quick windows XP
virtual machine just because i wanted
something that was going to be
lightweight but still demonstrate this
well for you what i mean by lightweight
is the the system is 2.7 gigs that's my
hard drive so that is my actual virtual
hard drive for this running virtual
machine so what we're gonna do is within
this virtual machine now there it is
welcome to windows does anyone miss that
will go properties I said I'm still
running it oh okay let's change our
desktop background oh do you miss that
not at all alright let's pretend we want
it to look like that and let's create a
new text file and note i'm not going to
shut down this machine this is a test
file and within that we're going to say
hello Eric Eric give me something to say
just so that people know that we're
doing this live and it's chat room tell
us somebody want us to put in bold you
like no need to use only one no me too
yeah hey good guy likes windows and
linux good guy likes windows and when X
yeah Red Alert okay so there we go
alright so I've I've done that there's
our file in windows in a running virtual
machine this is windows XP okay so now
with that running I'm going to create my
hot coffee sudo let's just fitting will
do it again sudo hcp
/ dev / sda1 because that is my hard
drive starting the hot copy and it is
done it is mounted in READ&amp;WRITE mode
it's good to go so now let's navigate to
that folder I'm going to copy it from my
window here and we're going to go ctrl L
and we're going to go there looks just
like my hard drive go into my home
folder demo is the name of my user
desktop 271 oh no for me to 72 is
today's show and there is that file that
I showed you on my desktop okay but this
is not the actual file this is the hot
copy okay so now i'm going to right
click on it and copy and now let's go to
my desktop and into that folder and
let's create a new folder called back up
now this is bad practice I wouldn't ever
back up to my desktop I'd like to the
same hard drive that the source is from
but I'm just demonstrating this in a
quick way I would you know you could
back this up to whatever backup device
you're using you can backup your hot
copy to an off-site backup you can back
it up to the server whatever you want to
do but in this particular instance I'm
just demonstrating it so I'm going to
back it up to a folder called back up
and that's really just so that you can
see that that file is different from the
actual running virtual machine hard
drive I'm creating a copy ok any
questions so far in the chat room that's
funny questions just duh all right so so
stick around folks we're going to be
we're going to actually finish that off
and we're going to boot up that virtual
machine this is just copying over its
2.7 gigs not going to take very long to
copy over at all but in the meantime
we're going to take a look at the news
and after the news Eric we're gonna
we're going to come back with with
booting up that virtual machine for the
very first time from our hot copy back
up well alright well here are the top
stories from the category 5 TV news room
US researchers say they have developed
a new type of lightning that could
replace fluorescent bulbs the new source
is made from layers of plastic and is
said to be more efficient while
producing better quality of flicker free
light the inventor of the device is
David Carroll a professor of physics at
Wake Forest University in North Carolina
he says what we've found is a way of
creating light rather than heat our
devices contain no mercury they contain
no caustic chemicals and they don't
break as they are not made of glass
professor Carroll says his new bulb is
cheap to make and he has a corporate
partner interested in manufacturing the
device he believes the first production
runs will take place in 2013 go flash
memory is widely used in computers and
electronic gadgets because it is fast
and remembers data written to it even
when unpowered however flash memory
reliability suffers significantly after
about ten thousand write and read cycles
don't try this at home researchers in
Thailand have found that a brief jolt of
800 degrees Celsius heat can stop flash
memory from wearing out of making them
last 100 million cycles Wow no expert
but that sounds like a lot of cycles a
lot more than they normally get
electronics company macronix have found
a way to redesign chips to put a heater
alongside the memory material that holds
the data so the damaged sections of the
memory chip can be healed on-the-fly
micronics said it planned to capitalize
on its research but gave no date for
when the improved flash memory might
start appearing in gadgets have you ever
been working on your system and thought
oh it feels hot especially laptops or
things like indeed you imagine if you've
got a flash drive let's say there and if
Jill says remember the old fuser
assemblies and all that kind of stuff
and I don't put your hand in there while
its operating yeah a memory a memory
card I did that was a custard Frank
ethic this thing is powered by USB to
write so oh oh that was a lot of heat
from us that's a lot of hours or a lot
of amperage coming off of 5 volts yikes
haha Andrew you have us researchers have
used a 3d printer makes
all objects out of melted simulated
lunar rocks they say the technique could
help future missions to minimize the
weight and the expense of carrying
materials into space as a digital file
would be enough the lead author of the
study said it sounds like science
fiction but now it's really possible his
team created simple 3d shapes by sending
a digital file and to a printer which
then built the items layer by layer out
of melted lunar regolith fed via
carefully controlled nozzle to form a
shape the process is known as additive
manufacturing Eric it's lunacy is that a
lunar rover she putting the technology
into practice may be some way off a
project put astronauts back on the moon
by 2020 was cancelled by President Obama
on cost grounds though NASA still has
longer-term plans for lunar return in
the not-too-distant future your
smartphone will be able to read your
emotions and emoticons but your emotions
and act accordingly new research
suggests researchers from the University
of Rochester have unveiled a new program
that can use human voice Q's to identify
how a person is feeling and they say
it's more accurate than anything else
like it out there so like calling mom
yeah like that kind of thing don't bug
me oh that sort of thing the the program
scans human speech for emotional cues
while ignoring the actual words okay
like recapture when it sounds like you
are trying to call mum ah oh sorry I've
got a story about that but oh yeah after
the show right um Wendy Heintzelman
professor of Electrical and Computer
Engineering said we actually used
recordings of actors reading out the
date of the month it really doesn't
matter what they say it's how they're
saying it and we're interested in that
by analyzing 12 features of speech
including pitch and volume it can
identify six emotions from a sound
recording with eighty-one percent
accuracy
wow that's I'm sorry their children
googie positively giddy doesn't sound
like you're filled with glee you can get
the full stories it category view rd
monastic dot for my phone sets Sheldon
wouldn't picked up on that category five
TV / newsroom is where you can get the
full stories the category 5 TV news room
is researched by Roy w Nash with
contributions by our community of
viewers if you have a news story you
think is worthy of on-air mention email
newsroom at category 5 DV for the
category 5 TV news room I am Eric kid
and kid by the way category five TV is a
member of the tech podcast network if
it's tech it's here and the
international association of internet
broadcasting fantastic there yeah follow
the links on our website category 5 TV I
kind of feel like you're taking over the
desk here by you this is like
Thanksgiving dinner with this guy I mean
you know what I'm having my vodka you
wish hey tonight's show is brought to
you in part by quarter e electric
quarter electric com that is quarter
electric com and they are the official
electrical contractors of category five
TV we love them we would love for you to
show your support by giving them a call
also netflix get your free one month
trial of netflix cap five dot TV /
netflix and of course they will show
their support for category five TV if
you sign up and it's free for you so
there's not nothing stuff there's gonna
be a free-for-all free for you Oh at
home but we were a hard month of netflix
absolutely free invincible mutant has an
echo oh cool you shouldn't be watching
this in the men's room at the school
okay just I'm just double-checking I
don't leave anything going right nobody
else I don't think you left a very thing
going okay fantastic well hey I've got
we've got our virtual machine is
finished copying so check that out there
it is notice that I've set that in to 72
which is where the actual running
virtual machine hard drive is in back up
there is the new one okay so now let's
actually close everything down but you
know a Jameson here
55 79 is kind of inspired me talking
about those echoes he wants us to yodel
you know what that's kind of give
limiters on these things I do yeah sorry
we'll stop right there and they work
that was for you easily unfortunately 57
I'm mute button is a little bit of
English you know I maybe if I get that
stick back from Christie I could maybe
get over there yeah all right okay so
I've shut down that virtual machine the
emotion sentencing thing that could that
be a no no job we're not going to
support a nagging wife app that would be
just politically incorrect even say that
on it so I'm not gonna do it oh boy you
are making my editing job post really
difficult all right Oh we'll just
pretend that whole segment just did so
the backup is finished copy back up
smack up all right so look good new app
we're gonna work on here now that that
is copied we are done with our HCP are
hot copy okay so of course what do I
want to do is I want to unmount that now
if i type mount it's probably there yeah
there it is see that dev / HCP one can
see a darn thing through your microphone
there you go okay so pseudo HCP is the
command dash are for remove dev / h CP 1
now keep in mind you can automate this
whole process it can be part of your
script right and a lot of backup scripts
will actually say well what do you want
to do before I run the backup and what
do you want to do after the backup so
you can actually add HCP as part of that
hot copy so I've unmounted that so now
you know that what we see is the actual
everything is they are the actual file
so back to this folder there is the
actual active virtual machine hard drive
there is my backup so I'm going to go
into my virtual machine settings and
we're going to remove the original hard
drive so we go file virtual machine
manager so let's pretend our system
rashed and now we need to recreate I'm
going to release that from the virtual
machine and I'm going to remove it okay
so now I've left the file there but
we're not going to use it we're going to
use the one that's in backup so right
click settings we're going to go storage
we're going to add a new hard drive
choose existing disk because this is
from our backup so there's the original
we go into the backup folder we created
this is the new one from our hot coffee
and then I'm going to go okay we're
going to boot that up and see what
happens so imagine of course we've had
some kind of catastrophic failure our
backup from our hot copy is here and
we're booting it up for the first time
this could be on an external hard drive
or something like that and there it is
desktop wallpapers you can see is the
same as it was when the running system
was live this is a test well is this is
a test file let's see if the data is
intact when data are in touch hmm there
you have it so we've effectively created
an on-the-fly backup of our virtual
machine just like that so any questions
in the chat room I'd love to feel them
for you and of course that as the
example make sure you keep in mind that
that can be for any backup set so that
you have an on-the-fly snapshot that you
can work with how does it work the
question comes in that basically if you
could imagine that here's your hard
drive with all the data on it and it's
running it's in a running state and like
I said you could chroot to this snapshot
so it doesn't use up any hard drive
space it doesn't use up any ram it
doesn't use up any system resources so
how in the world does this thing well
exist how how is it that it creates this
hot copy a copy of my entire file system
in a split second when I run that
command that's what's so amazing about
it so they take a different approach
than your typical you know this is what
I say it's not a backup
it's not persistent if you reboot your
computer your hot copy is gone so you
don't want to write things in to it that
are that are the only copyright it's
basically an on-the-fly thing that you
create and then back up from so how it
works essentially to put it into real
lay terms is that it it takes your hard
drive and doesn't do anything to it it
takes your memory and doesn't do
anything to it but it says okay now that
I'm running if any changes happen to the
hard drive those sectors that I'm
writing to now I'm going to back up
first so here's my whole hard drive is
how its able to load instantly it's it
is what it is sector by sector it
doesn't make any copies but if I create
a word document and then save it it's
writing two sectors on the hard drive so
it says okay those sectors that have
that are being written I'm going to back
those up to the hot copy first and then
i'm going to write them to the hard
drive so it all happens transparently it
all happens very very quickly there are
read write operations that are happening
while you're hot copy is active so on a
slow system you might see a performance
hit but of course most servers are built
to have some good overhead so you're not
going to have any trouble with that but
it's not using memory is not loading
your changes into memory it's actually
taking them and backing up the sectors
that they're going to write to then
writing to them so that's the only time
that is using up any extra space very
very cool the way that works so welcome
your questions in the chat room Thanks
invincible mutant nice to see everybody
you're not going to read that I you know
isn't the first time Robbie is more
facial hair than Eric first time ever
ever ever
there goes the windows XP all right so
we are in your question mode love to to
get your questions after you how you
must have I have some questions here
there we go hey thanks for sending in
your questions here is a comment from me
hail hail hello Robbie i use debian six
point zero point five after installing
skype i cannot fix sound when i call on
skype only see me looking but did not
hear ringing i can also try a test call
using al some Nelson mixer alsa mixer
that's it tried but it did not where am
I wrong well what is he doing wrong ok
I'm gonna bring up skype here hmm ok so
first thing I would check is your sound
preferences did you want to look at
these pretty pictures you always got
some screen yeah some screenies yeah I
can't bring those up on the screen but I
go ok real quickly glance at ok so he's
using also mixer to make some changes to
the card scroll down sound devices audio
device yeah it's it's it's a little
complicated too but I'll do my best to
to show you what I would check usually
what happens with something like this is
that you've got something selected
incorrectly in your sound preferences
now I see you're using also mixer so
that can cause issues if if you've got a
conflict between two different
applications that are taking over your
sound card so I tend to stick with just
the built-in you know sound preferences
here and what you can do is now you see
that I've got a high definition audio
controller and that one is highlighted
so right now if I made a skype call I
wouldn't be able to do it because this
thing is disabled and that's the default
I want to actually highlight that and
and then test so if i do a test call on
skype
hello welcome to skype call testing
service after the beep please record a
message afterwards your message will be
played back to you test test test test
test test test and more just well you
know what I just realized that don't
have a microphone plugged in so it's not
going to really work anyways but if you
did that's the thing that you want to
look for and just yeah thanks for the
pat on the shoulder there but but just
make sure that your your actual device I
think it's not when you show me the alsa
mixer all the levels are up right but i
think the device may be incorrectly
selected on your own in your sound
preferences but give it a try and and
please do let us know and it is kind of
a specific to each system we could
always try like a teamviewer session one
of the things that i really want to get
doing this season is is doing teamviewer
sessions to viewer computers oh so that
we can try to fix it I'm not sure yet
how much extra time that will add to a
question but at least it would give me
the chance to hands-on take a look at
your settings so maybe that would be
something that we could try maybe off
the air mihail so are you ever around
during maybe just before a live show
that we could try that plot me an email
live at category 5 DB and we'll consider
how we can do that so I can take a look
at your system and see if we can if we
can actually help rather than just
trying to point you in the right
direction cool alright and we have
something here from mog raphy yeah we'll
go with that from alright leipzig
germany hi Robbie and Eric or other
co-host i watch your shows since a long
time not live since I'm in Europe great
show thank you i always look forward to
the Wednesday's youtube upload or
thursdays coughs slightly I found your
show while I was looking for the right
linux distro for me and my question is
first I need to give a little bit more
detail I'm doing sometimes moving gif
files from movies from my tumblr roughly
cut the scene out with a video editor
using avid Emacs too
crop and GIMP to extract the pictures
since I don't like the way GIMP is
piecing together a moving gif I use wine
and unfreeze a tiny standalone free
windows program unfreeze gives me more
control how fast those images in the
gift or moving there's just a tiny
problem unfreeze needs gift pictures and
GIMP extracts the JPEG format this is
where I discovered mog raphy which can
convert whole folders at once it also is
it possible to resize the finished
moving gif the problem that I have is
that tumblr only allows moving gifts
that are one Meg large for the resizing
as far as i understand it mog raphy
expects a certain height and width is
there a way to tell ma graffiti produce
a one meg large file without resizing it
a hundred times or using ww online image
editor calm and resizing it there thanks
mog raphy with so many steps interesting
that that you love magalie i think is ma
graph I so good I didn't catch it at
first but ma graph I so much that he's
named himself yes why it is a great tool
Heather it's interesting we were talking
about about how people are doing that
very very thing creating these videos
for tumblr and putting them up and and
it's an interesting kind of regression
as far as you know but an interesting
way to present it but we're using now
animated gifs which that was the hot
thing when I was a good you know
interlaced video animations and things
fantastic right up there with high ASCII
so one of the things i see that you're
kind of holding on to your windows roots
here and i want to try to pull you away
from the google the big loads of your
roots oh yeah most of them are gone
unfortunately just check out the glare
but then will be a Ferengi but i want to
get you away from those roots i want to
try to free you from that that kind of
bonding factor that makes you feel like
you need to use a windows application
and linux because you don't have the the
knowledge I suppose
in order to do what you want to do with
the Linux tools you mentioned GIMP so i
know that you're familiar with that
application but it sounds like you you
have been able to get it to work with
what you're doing so i want to actually
let's actually take this as an
opportunity to show you how to do that
so we know that he wants to create
animated gifs from a video file just on
linux little too low you know pipeline
to blini shush shush oh we can make
Heather laughs than we're we're doing
well yeah so let's take this opportunity
to do that I'm going to use a couple
tools in Linux that you probably already
have gimp okay you mention that let's do
it you can change the speed of the
slides don't think that you have to use
that Windows application because you can
do it in Linux and also let's use ffmpeg
to create the actual screen captures
will use ping because it's going to be
higher quality than your JPEGs that
you're currently getting from a Vitamix
so let's let's do it I'm going to go
into my terminal and i'll just show you
here i've got a copy of last week so
we'll go with that okay so there it is
271 it's an mp4 file doesn't really
matter what it is CD desktop wherever it
is / 271 okay so there's the file that I
just showed you so we want to create all
of these little individual screenshots
so we're going to create into an
animated gif or gif or whatever yeah
what he said yeah so let's do it if you
don't have ffmpeg you'll find it in the
repositories you can install it with
synaptic package manager or apt-get so
we're going to go ffmpeg dash I for your
input file and we're going to type in
271 and I'm going to hit tab and it's
going to automatically escape out the
the spaces and things like that or
alternatively you can go quote 271 tab
and it automatically ends the quote too
okay so then we're going to say let's
start at seconds so start seconds 90 so
it's so we're going to skip over the
introduction
the show we're going to start at the
92nd point here we want to run it for
five seconds so time five seconds is
Dashti space five and then we need to
tell what we want to save too so I'm
going to go out just to call it out put
you know out and then we're going to go
percent for d dot PNG and what that's
going to do is it's going to actually
increment the file name to you know with
four four digits so it's going to start
a 0000 and work its way up zero zero one
zero to ten thousand nine nine yeah so
was that's going to cover us and the
reason we want to do that is because
then we can import those into the GIMP
and it's going to increment just fine
that's the only command that you're
going to need to get these files so
there it is ffmpeg dash I and then the
input file SS is for where you want to
start as far as seconds go so we're
starting at 90 seconds into the video
and we're going to record for five
seconds Dashti can you do something is a
smaller block like 93 or so that i don't
know i don't know no okay well it will
stick with 90 a you might but I'm going
to hit enter and let it go there we go
just because we're but we're coming up
on the end of the hour so this is
actually skipping over the first 90
seconds before it starts recording 2.jpg
oh and its record it's saving the jpegs
to the current folder or the pings i
should say pardon me so you see that
that used to just have the 271 with post
now it has out 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 2 and
so on and if I kind of move fast you can
see that it's actually a 30 frame per
second thing if I hold it in it's
actually animating the jpegs or the
pings pardon me and then I stopped
that's actually a 10-5 that's a nice
spot to stop isn't that great crystal
like that we should actually do a
capture on that well we've got the
customer so folks stick around because
we're gonna we're going to make this
available to you ok so that's done
Christmas card yeah ok so let's bring up
the GIMP graphics GIMP image editor GIMP
is a free image editing suite it stands
for
GNU image manipulation program there you
have seven penitence we are Borg
resistance is futile just saying all
right so I'm gonna grab that you know
what I'm not going to grab anything from
here instead what I'm going to do I'm
going to show you quickly well here's
the thing you've got all these files
we've got 150 decision may or may not be
the problem here okay I'm design we've
got 150 files though and so if I were to
take 30 frames a second which now
equates to 150 files that file is going
to be too big for tumblr because they're
frame frame frame frame frame frame
frame 30 of them in one second 115
Granger may each yes so that's not going
to work for you so what we're going to
do is we're going to we're going to cut
it down and so the way I'm going to do
that here's you know let's it's a bit of
a workaround but let's do it I've got
these in tile mode so i can see through
two in a row three in a row four in a
row for example so what I'm going to do
I'm going to grab the first one here and
I'm going to scroll all the way down and
I'm going to grab I can't do that now I
gotta grab it like this i got to grab it
with this marquee tool and I'm going to
go all the way up to the top so now you
see what I've done is I've left the left
column but I'm actually going to delete
all the ones from the right column and
that has taken my 150 files down to only
37 files but because it's going to be an
animated gif you're never going to know
the difference you don't need 30 frames
per second it's not going to matter to
you so let's do it let's take these into
the GIMP the way we're going to do that
is on our blank canvas we're going to go
file open as layers and then we're going
to go to desktop 271 there's all my ping
files start at the first one it's
already highlighted okay scroll down to
the very bottom holding your left shift
key and click on the last file and
you'll see that they're gonna actually
load in sequentially you know yeah they
are over it feels Bruce skip the numbers
yes that's right we've deleted some so
that we're not running a full 30 frames
per second so now each frame is see it's
still nicely animated so if I save that
as a jiff it's going to be animated but
let's do your cropping you say it's got
to be proportional so I'm going to use
my square mark
you up here I'm going to single click
somewhere and hold see I'm dragging like
that hold my left shift key and now I
can create a proportional block and I'm
going to now drag that block it's a
perfect square / Krista I'm going to
right-click and go image crop and you'll
notice what I've done is I've actually
cropped every single frame of my
animated Jeff so I don't have to go
through each individual file so now it's
still quite large 336 by 336 let's say
I'm not sure what the dimensions are you
didn't specify but let's say it's only
150 so we're going to resize notice
where I'm going to do that I'm right
clicking on Krista or the image pardon
me image scale image we're going to type
in 150 and it's proportional see it's a
perfect square and I can change enter
interpolation to sync which is going to
give me a slightly better quality so now
that's the actual size of my animated
image I'm going to go file save as and
let's just throw this in a folder called
test everywhere I go animated gif and
gimp automatically detects hey you're
trying to save as a jiff so it's going
to prompt me accordingly what do you
want to do flatten the image or do we
want to save as an animation and then do
we want to convert it to indexed
absolutely that's going to save you a
lot of space and an export here are the
things you need to do first of all we're
going to turn off jiff comment even
though it's nice to give credit where
credit is due it's going to take up
space we're going to loop forever and
we're going to set our delay 100
milliseconds is okay in this instance if
you had more or less you can adjust that
that's where you just your speed but
here's the thing you need to also say
use delay entered above for all frames
so if you want it to be faster you would
set this lower if you want it to be
slower you would set it higher okay
because each frame is going to show for
100 milliseconds or each frame is going
to show for 500 milliseconds or only 10
milliseconds
frame disposal where unspecified because
we care about space we're going to go
cumulative layers and what that means is
hey you know what the brick wall behind
us stays pretty much the same so we
don't need to save that every single
frame we're only going to save there's
Robbie's hand moving right so that's the
only thing that's going to save it's
going to save a ton of space in this
file so now we're going to go save and
there it goes so on our desktop in 271
there's a folder called tests and
there's a file called animated gif and
if I right click on that and open with
firefox web browser there it is and it's
going to loop forever because we told it
to and the timing is about right because
we cut off you know we cut Frank you
oughta have that on the website that one
might make a real I think so that should
be the the thumb enough for the episode
so we get sound so you see you can do it
and we did it there in what five minutes
eight minutes just like that with all
the explanations and showing you how to
do it so hey we did it don't have it I
helped a bunch total don't feel like
you've got to compromise the fact that
you're using Linux by installing
something that's a windows program just
because you're not too sure that's what
the show is here for we love to answer
your questions we love to help you learn
how to do some of the things that maybe
you're just not sure how to do it but
the you know that the tools exist so
good opportunity for you so thank you
very much for the question get your
questions in this week as well Hillary
is going to be joining me on the show
next week dad and it'll be good to have
her here I hope that you'll be joining
us in the chat room and
I'm gonna slide Eric all right I guess
what I'm getting any more questions or
it's all the time we have but hey we
love your questions we're gonna we
didn't get to you tonight level will
make sure that that we put in the first
pic you next week something thanks
everybody all right Eric man could have
a great week a hold on to this for a
while oh no I may go away or I may just
throw the whole beard back I remember
mobro co / eric kid there you go I'll
put a link in the show notes reps at
number 272 and anything that we
mentioned on tonight's show will be
listed in the show notes there as well
episode number 272 so if we mention a
link and you didn't catch it the links
will be there supper'll questions we
didn't get to get to those next we go
home absolutely all right all right
everybody take care have a great week
here see you buddy hey bye hey buddy
we hope you enjoy the show category five
TV broadcast live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven pm eastern
if you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV check out the local
show times in your area at category five
TV and find out when you can watch live
and interact in the community chat room
category five is a production of prodigy
digital solutions and is licensed under
creative commons attribution 2.5 canada
we'll see you next time thanks for
tuning in
