what you're about to experience is a
free worldwide interactive broadcast
from Ontario Canada we broadcast live
every tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time
get your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live and category 5 TV and
now let's again here's your host or I'll
be Ferguson welcome to episode number
180 of category 5 technology TV nice to
have you here it's nice to be here yeah
we've got so much coming up it is
Tuesday marks the first 2011 and lots
coming up tonight on the show we are
going to be learning to recover our
computer from a bare metal back up also
we were talking about last week so
that's going to be very very cool hey we
were glowing with zilla know we were we
actually had a working disk we did with
no crap I didn't break it this time
fantastic I kept it away from him we've
got a new way for you to watch category
5 TV are on your mobile device so make
sure you stick around we're going to be
telling you all about that and how you
can get access to our new mobile mobile
website which can be set up as if it
were an app on many different devices so
very very cool stuff excited about that
also this week is your last week to
qualify to win Wirecast for which is the
spectacular software that we use here at
category 5 TV to broadcast our show and
provide all different features such as
chroma key for example yes
mm-hmm it's been some construction
around here yeah speaking of chroma key
powered by wire cast for of course
welcome to the the new 2,000 square foot
studio that we have here at category 5
TV it's it's nice to have you here we've
got a lot more space to walk around and
lots more less more room to a little
cooler in a little bit it's comfortable
yeah it's really really quite cozy we've
got people bringing us different
sandwiches and things backstage just
before the show bong bones and if we got
bonbons we've got we've got cough drops
and I've got a water no bro how come you
don't have a water oh I told you I'd be
early and you know what and you know
what there's a term for almost late yep
that's called on time on time to go live
yes on time to go live with the new
chromakey studio hello there can you out
his heart until I make sound check what
did you miss me buddy I missed you Miss
Lee we're gonna have lots and lots of
fun tonight in addition you see that
we've got here on the new studio desk
here pull the plug pro oh I do indeed
have two of these to give away so stick
around your chance to win one of those
you've got to be in our chat room
category 5 TV or category 5 on freenode
and if you're a part of our chat room
you're going to qualify to to win that
awesome prize and we're gonna be talking
more about what the pogoplug interno me
what the pogoplug is what the pogoplug
does in just a few minutes time on our
website category five dot TV we've
actually got a pole right there on our
site if you scroll down the website a
little ways oh I'm not on the oh yeah
I'm okay there we go what is your
favorite segment of category five TV I'd
love to have you vote there 21 people
have voted so far and the verdict is the
favorite segments so far is pre-planned
tutorials runner-up is viewer question
and answer time followed by fun bits and
banter
and the category 5 TV news room get your
say on our poll category 5 TV we would
love to have you go there and let us
know what your favorite part of category
5 technology TV is nobody voted for
Christie's whether it's not it's not
even an option but under other was that
last week last week she's here in the
studio yeah and we had some fun ya know
lots of fun with Christie always fun
with Christie Becca is over in the
newsroom right now Becca I'll let you
tell us what's coming up in the news
coming up in the newsroom a complete
microcomputer that fits in your I could
be the medical device of the future
motorstorm apocalypse will not be
released in New Zealand at least for now
new research indicates mobile phone
radiation does indeed affect the brain
zelda turned 25 years old last week a
canadian space pioneer aims to prove
were not alone in the universe and she
has the technology to do it stick around
for the latest news from the category 5
TV news room
thanks Becca sorry what was that Hey oh
no no I'm that I was just wondering
where we were going from here oh ok
indeed lots coming up tonight so stick
around get into our chat room that's
your chance to to participate in the in
the contest for the pogoplug tonight all
right look at some new members we should
say hello to hey these are our latest
numbers and good welcome to all yeah we
got did to Shay I may be pronouncing
these incorrectly Robbie can have a stab
at them after we have Jay Lee and we
have a Smitty Smith from westland and
Stevie feel good is in the chat room c
SQ rd I having trouble pronouncing that
one I want to vow he surged from
winston-salem USA and to jmb Fiat grey
bear d 2025 Anthony fear severe Ian and
ant-man 1380 so a great big welcome to
all you out there just nice to have you
here you can join us on our website it's
free to sign up and you can go on to
category five dot TV register for your
free viewer account and actually you'll
get a bonus hundred points right now
just for signing up you're going to get
those category 5 viewer points and I'll
just give you a little hint if you want
to get stocked up on those points
because they are going to be redeemable
for prizes as the year goes on they're
going to be redeemable for coupons and
software and hardware ballots and things
like that so you want to have as many
points as you possibly can if you are a
registered viewer on our website and you
haven't already done so make sure that
you also fill in your profile
information that's going to be your next
step to redeeming as many points as you
possibly can right off the bat and this
is kind of a limited time thing because
of the fact that the viewer point system
is fairly new we're giving everybody a
good chance to get a whole ton of points
added to their account you get appointed
every time you log in every day that you
log in every day that you love him I
can't just login no you can't just log
on my own thank you eating bonbons
logging on and off but if you login
seven times a week seven days and you
get seven points got it so it adds up it
actually adds up sounds cool yeah so
we'll we'll head on over to to the email
box and okay see what's going on there
if you have questions for us it's live
at category five dot TV but indeed the
best way to get us during the live show
is to join us in our chat room which
you'll find on our website category five
TV and it's of course category five on
the freenode IRC server so there yeah
okay well we have one from Ziggy Asian
his system is mint Darien I'm thinking
Deb young Debbie I'm sure but ok we'll
go with that I cannot play the original
DVD movie copy on debian lenny 5.0 to
AMD oh this is a heck of a long little
description here and mint debian did you
want me to go through the rule yeah go
ahead ok i can optimize little DVD movie
copy on debian lenny 5.02 amd64 2.6 dot
30 BPO okay so w ok because debian we've
got time mint may step into my DVD model
is a matte cheetah dvd-ram UJ 850 fought
us but under windows XP and vista is
working fine i tried all the solutions
from google know when none is working do
you have any solution for this DVD drive
under linux debian or mint debian i am a
linux fan i really like to play DVD
under linux thanks in advance here's the
error i got when i tried to play the DVD
by VLC so summarize may not read all
error cracking CSS key for video TS so
right generally that error is going to
be telling us it's you've got live DVD
read installed everything's good there
judging by the error output here it's
the air is Error cracking CSS key which
most likely is going to mean that you're
you're using a region-specific disk on a
drive that is hard hard set in the
firmware to a specific region good thing
to try at most DVD readers and your
computer are going to be they're going
to have a firmware update that will
allow you to remove that restriction
whether or not in your country that's
legal is possibly another story the
region specific system is basically in
place so that people in America can't
watch DVDs from the UK in our world that
becomes a big problem because I how
Landon to you well though it's not it's
not the format it's the it's an actual
restriction that they put on it almost
like a DRM kind of thing so that you
can't buy DVDs from overseas and watch
them here which can be a problem because
things like there's we order a lot of
dvds from BBC co uk because we enjoy a
UK broadcasting from BBC but those dvds
are all region coded for the UK so of
course we get those and and our only
option is one either use a DVD drive
that has been firmware updated to remove
that restriction so that it's not region
one anymore its region 0 which is open
to everything or two to rip those discs
to files and then use the files to watch
so so it's it's kind of a weird thing
that this is still in place because to
be honest with you with the internet and
the ability to order from anywhere in
the world it just seems I don't know who
they're stopping from sharing discs
other than people who want to order from
overseas so check around see if your
your drive has a firmware update to set
it to region 0 hopefully some some
google searching or something would
would help you with that I'm going to
just quickly look this up matshita
dvd-ram you j 8 52 s locked region 4 so
there are different posts and you'll
find some stuff if you do it a search
for it remote region I don't think it
says whatever region that the optical
drive is locked to you can only change
it so many times and then it's it's
basically a dead drive so you want to
set it to region 0 and then you don't
have to keep then you don't have to
worry about it will work with any disk
so you'll have to you'll really have to
do some some digging on that it's a it's
an awfully old optical drive if it's a
five and a quarter drive and you can't
get it working i would just suggest
replacing it with something that's that
can be that's known to be able to set
region free otherwise you could run into
problems like this other option is
possibly try installing VLC on your
computer a different player that may be
able to get around those regions
specific firmwares that would be the
other options so didn't mention using
VLC media player so we're point / 16 16
VLC just want to check if you're on the
latest version zero point eight point
six yes with the current version 1.1
point seven but maybe that's windows
that I think it's different for let's
just double check make sure that we've
got them yeah that's one point one point
seven is current so you try updating
your VLC up to something brand new video
LAN org VLC you'll find the software as
a free download and you'll see that on
Linux the current version is one point
one point seven so not sure where you're
getting 0.8 from but I'm guessing that's
really quite old and possibly obsolete
so I want to try updating your VLC first
and foremost and then get into looking
at your firmware see if you can cetera
region 0 so seems to work on XP or Vista
is just yep mentor well there's
different there's different drivers that
you'll install on windows and things
that will get around those issues
sometimes you'll you'll change the
region yourself in Windows or it just
the software allows for that but in
Linux your it's a little bit different
is the way it works right the way the
drivers were some of the check if you do
get some weird errors oh sure see we're
raising your set alright we have another
I hope that helps let us know okay
canford um tell you what can hurt hey
hey struck me oh okay this is from
invincible mutant me invincible mutant
hi Robbie and friends you're stretching
our friends than here oh hi i am in
manchester due to the time zone
difference i can't follow your program
live most of the time however i can't
afford to miss any of them in the future
therefore i like it is it is i'll just
add it is very expensive to miss an
episode of category 5 what did that cost
you I'm just playing on your words okay
it's okay therefore I like to ask if you
have a mechanism to allow your fans like
me to follow you by email such as
newsletter email including the link to
the video and summary I would appreciate
if I could be informed when of the
recorded episodes are ready to I see
another school link to share with the
community HTTP call / / dub dub WL web
upd8 org going with a little bit of leet
speak there with web update org I'm not
familiar with the site but there you go
it's been dropped and it will be in the
show notes ok ok that's kind of an
interesting request to get an email now
I'll just tell you they're invincible
mutant what you could always do is get
an RSS feed aggregator which is going to
automatically get the latest version of
category 5 TV every single week as soon
as it's released your computer is going
to download the file in the best
possible quality format get the h.264
version you're going to get a really
really nice video so that's one thing
you can do is with the aggregator as far
as getting a notification by email
there's nothing in place for us to do
that if you'd like if the aggregator
thing is not going to work for you then
Paul me an email and just say yeah you
know what I'd like to I'd like to
receive an email once a week after you
post it with a link to the website
itself of course we posted on twitter
that kind of thing but as far as getting
an email we don't have anything in place
but I'd be happy to make something I'm
all about another project well I've
created all these systems that interact
with the database so that it's all
automatic so when I update pardon me I
update the database all of the RSS feeds
get spewed out our new mobile website
gets automatically updated everything is
all automatic so so maybe just a quick
email to everyone when it so we could
have it set up if you really want that
and if there are other people who are
interested in that pop me an email live
at category 5 TV and I'll put you on the
list we could certainly give that a go
and you can tell me exactly what you
would like to receive via just a note
says hey here's the episode information
and you know click here to to get to
watch the show could just launched right
right from your email that's always
possible cool what oh nothing I'm
just reading something from are they
making fun of the chroma keyer bhuntu
yes um no I'm not gonna do that yeah I i
I'm tempted to throw a ball or something
just to see where it goes but okay it's
all good it's just just the abyss the
abyss is beyond us it's all good Wow
okay that kind of hurt when I lost my
arm there actually okay that's painful
are we having fun yet okay look at what
we've got we have I've got my ipod touch
here now you checked it out I can your
blackberry now what what was going on
actually you know what I think it's when
I decided to fast forward to see what
was going on in the middle of the show
oh um and I was having trouble syncing
at that looks great I can't under off
the wireless here so I don't get a phone
call sure sure thank you but um it
looked great you know um except I've got
these i'm at an awkward age where yes
this or this I'm not sure but it looked
great and the sound sounded great okay
but after I sort of fast forward you
know right right rolling in the middle
of joe and it seemed like some of the
the audio was made a little to sync with
the video really no more that's inherent
to the with the blood the Blackbird up
now on the ipod touch I've been able to
skip to any point in the video without
any trouble at all I'll just show you
now we have a video here that was
submitted by s Hamill Smith let's pull
that up here there we are there is our
new app well I call it an app you can go
to mobile dot cat five dot TV and thank
you again to s Hamill Smith for
submitting this video of
of him working this on an ipod touch you
see as soon as you hit play so the the
app actually gives you access to the
latest version of the latest episode of
the show as you saw there and now he's
clicking on it now we did find people
have reported that it's a little bit
slower to load the video on an ipod or
iphone no but once it's playing you can
skip through and there's there's no
problem there I'll tell you what devices
have been reported to work we have s
Hamill Smith is reported that the ipod
touch works great the ipad was tested by
Tanner 64 on twitter as well as popy and
then we've got the iPod the iPhone 4 I
was tested by Cubs fanatic 86 the galaxy
s by s Hamill Smith as well Noel tested
it on the HTC Desire Michael Hill pot
told us that it works fantastically on
the nexus one Melendez reported that on
the third generation iphone it's also
working just fantastically and as eric
has reported here tonight the blackberry
is also able to access this service yet
without any trouble so this list here
that you're seeing on the screen is
actually that was actually a list of the
episodes and now he zoomed in on a
particular episode just by clicking on
it and then it gives you the option of
actually accessing that episodes
information and then of course watching
the episode directly on your device so
pretty cool stuff its mobile m.o.b IL e
dot cat five dot TV if you have a device
with iOS part of me which unfortunately
is the only device that i have to test
with you can click on Add to Home screen
in safari and you'll be able to actually
click that as if it was a nap and I'm
sure other other platforms have
something similar to that being able to
add it to your desktop or dashboard and
then when you launch it it's actually
being launched just like a nap and
actually that's how
s hamill Smith here set that up you see
he's actually got it right there see
that remo very nice so it's very cool
stuff not the typical way to do a nap
because we get around the need for the
app store or anything like that works
great so no LD Bruce we were speaking of
sure he's your the HTC Desire does it
yes right okay so and it actually loads
very very quickly on the Android devices
much quicker than the ipod touch a
couple of folks in the chat room were
wondering about the droids yeah
definitely but you know the desire and
if you have a device and you're trying
it out and I didn't name your device
there please pop me an email live at
category 5 TV or tweet me at twitter com
Robbie Ferguson and just let me know
what device you're using and what the
experience is like also we're going to
be producing a commercial for the for
the system and I'd love it if you would
do just like as hamill Smith did there
and just record a little video of you
using your device and if you want to be
actually in the video to that's cool
they decided just to zoom in on the
device itself but actually somebody in
the chat room Liz Lola no a big chunk of
bandwidth is gonna take up when you do
it like you want to have a dad
somebody's got 500 mega a month for
something like that you don't really do
you really would you honestly have that
low of of restriction what do you got on
here yeah yes probably on really using
use Wi-Fi if that's the case okay get on
your Wi-Fi because this is like the with
the ipod touches and things that i think
it's a it's a high quality screen it's
basically next to HD video on a little
tiny screen you're going to be looking
at probably around 200 megabytes per
episode that's for the entire hour so of
course you can click on it and it's and
it's not going to stream that whole 200
megabytes to you right away but if you
watch the whole thing right through its
a pilot they've only got 50 if you only
have 500 mega
might want to think twice but that would
be the case for anything I wouldn't go
on youtube or anything if that was the
limit that I had because you're looking
you know for a few minutes of video
you'd be using that up but I would hope
that people would have better like
higher data plans than that that's one
thing that I do like about the ipod
touch is strictly Wi-Fi I don't risk
right accidentally going over bandwidth
because it's strictly off of my home
Wi-Fi or wherever I am so that's pretty
cool okay I'll report back yeah and I
went over last night let's bring me the
bill I get a whole bunch of bills in the
mail and I so it's expensive when you
miss the show and expensively you don't
miss the show when you catch it on your
on your device through a 500 megabyte
battle ass you you can't afford dearest
Robbie I tried your new mobile doc
category five or cat five dunno me
hundred dollars and I decided that I
would catch up on all the videos that
I've missed since episode one ouch way
to break the bank there you go so do pop
me an email let me know how it works on
your device we'd love to know and we're
going to be putting together a nice
little website for that in the meantime
when you go to category 5 TV if you are
on your mobile device and it's detected
as compatible you'll see a little button
right at the top of the page that says
launch the mobile version so check that
out category 5 TV or go directly there
mobile cat5 TV you're not talking about
mobile devices through mobile devices I
never know how to say that one well you
know I jump between the two normally
these things come you know you just set
it to us English sure but you know being
in Canada we like to spell some words
like color with you in there or you know
so I thought I would set it for UK
English well that's pretty close now on
my bluetooth device when I oppressed it
is this say a command oh yeah it used to
say say rome and no it says i say a
command and I safe call Robbie Ferguson
right have mobile
calling Robbie Ferguson mo mile haha i
can let you hear it after that's fantast
yeah i definitely love to hear that will
record it and make it into some kind of
mash up so there is a difference even on
the bluetooth side of things when you
choose us as opposed to hmm UK fantastic
there is no Canada they're really hating
English probably just this way no boot
okay I'll try to be a terrible terrible
okay we've got a couple of minutes
coming up before the news I don't know
if there's any questions coming in the
chat well Doss bomber no I'm not quite
sure it's ready the time for the
Canadians to join the dark side and
start spelling color co lor we tried
that in print for a while but I think
most publications are spelling it Thea
how we digress the proper law I was
addressing the chat room okay thanks
Cameron here we go does anyone have any
questions for this technology TV program
yes are you ever going to adopt color
with a Z olor I'm not poking fun I'm
just poking fun well Raptor thinks we
Canadians should resist that was Raptor
222 yeah okay I'll stop that's what
makes us unique 8 Greg in Texas doesn't
really care exactly Greg in Texas has a
lot of people that are saying exactly
and john wants to talk about the weather
that's terrible seriously no questions
in the chat room that's a first we're
usually just swamped with questions this
is what's neat about our show is if
you're if you're new here we could
always thought yes we can talk about the
weather or we could you don't that's how
for why Matt
neighbor and some other I'm just saying
that if you're new here at category 5
this is an interactive show we do start
out every show with a with a planned
topic and where we want to go with the
show but we leave it up to our viewers
for the first half of the show to submit
their questions and you can get your
questions answered by joining us in the
chat room in category 5 TV which you'll
want to do tonight in order to win a
pogoplug anyways but also if you're
watching this after the fact make sure
you pop us an email live at category
five dot TV okay well we do have
actually what looked like it might be a
question but uh there as I digress out
of time for questions at this point oh
my gosh Evans watch the clock here we go
we formulated okay now all right we're
gonna hop over to Tibet in the newsroom
who's got those spectacular stories for
us Becca take it away
from my category five BB newsroom how
many microcomputers can fit onto the
head of the pen according to a press
release by the university of mission
my computer is smaller than the tip of a
pen and can be influent implanted in the
human eye to help cure glaucoma in a
package that's just over one cubic
millimeter the system fits an ultra-low
power microprocessor a presser sensor
memory a thin film battery a solar cell
and a wireless radio with an antenna
that can transmit data to an external
reader device that would be held near
the eye in the current third-generation
Phoenix chip the researchers have used a
new kind of architecture to enable the
chip to work with extremely low power
consumption the solar cells in the
system need to be exposed to 10 hours of
indoor late or one and a half hours of
sunlight to make the device work and
incredibly the storage in the system can
handle up to an entire week's worth of
information if things go to plan a
network of such devices will one day
track pollution monitor structural
integrity performed perform surveillance
or make virtually any objects smart and
trackable mainly targeted towards
medical applications these devices are
expected to be commercially available in
just a few years in the wake at the
devastating earthquake which hit the
city of christchurch on New Zealand's
South Island sony has confirmed that
they are pulling the launch of its
upcoming racing game called motorstorm
apocalypse in New Zealand the game which
features incredibly realistic gameplay
and graphics features apocalyptic racing
through active earthquake areas where
buildings fall down all around you Sony
may revisit the game's launch in New
Zealand in the future when it's a bit
less sensitive new research indicates
mobile phone radiation does indeed
affect the brain a study which was
published on Wednesday from the National
Institute of Health in the US has shown
that all those cell phones produce
nowhere near as much radiation as they
did in the analog days there is in fact
some effect on the human brain due to
the radiation the report also indicates
that there could be cause for concern
for cell phone addicts the scans
conducted in the study consistently
showed that activity was higher in the
part of the brain near the antennas of a
cellular phone these are still
preliminary findings and do not yet
indicate there is a significant
detrimental effect but it is concerning
concerning how often we are exposed to
this type of radiation for those who
spend hours per day talking on cell
phones it's only smart and not to not to
mention convenient to use a headset to
reduce his radiation even a Bluetooth
headset should help because the
intensity of radiation emitted by a
Bluetooth device will be far less than
those emitted by a cellular phone we
recommend you check out cat5 TV /
jawbone the ultimate bluetooth headset
among the most popular and well-known
gain game franchises of all time
somewhere up there with Mario Brothers
is the venerable Legend of Zelda series
last monday marked the 25th birthday of
the original game which was released on
februari 21st 1986 for the famicom
system in japan 18 months later it made
its way to North America on the Nintendo
Entertainment System The Legend of Zelda
game marked a big SEPs big step for
console gaming as it was released as the
first ever game to use a cartridge which
allowed games to be saved poster Zelda
memories by commenting on this new story
at newsroom category 5 TV and for our
final story tonight professor Sara
Seager is part of the team working with
information generated by NASA's Kepler
space telescope and she hopes to prove
we are not alone in the universe her
team recently discovered a fresh batch
of 1235 possible exoplanets the
celestial bodies orbiting far-off stars
during a recent expedition in waterloo
ontario sarah said for thousands of
years people have wondered if there's
life beyond Earth we're the first
generation with the technical capability
to show that there is potentially will
be the society that discovers the first
extrasolar life and in 1,000 years
people will remember our era as the
starting point of the interstellar
journey they've embarked on she says I'm
in this define life but the life I'll
find won't be aliens if Sarah's team
finds that life exists in some form on
another world it doesn't mean we'll be
high-fiving
consenting time soon traveling in the
kind of ship we now send to Mars a
traveler would need 500 thousand years
to reach the nearest star even in the
kind of souped-up craft that exists in
the wildest dreams of the most
optimistic engineers traveling at
one-tenth the speed of life would still
take 43 years to get to the nearest star
plus another 43 years for the return
trip get the full stories at category 5
TV / newsroom the category 5 TV news
room is researched by Roy w Nash with
contributions from gadget wisdom guru
and our community of viewers if you have
a news story you think is worthy of
on-air mention email newsroom at
category 5 TV for the category 5 TV news
room I'm Becca Ferguson thanks back this
is category 5 technology TV and this
episode is brought to you in part by
Pogoplug which you'll find at cat five
dot TV / Pogoplug and planet calypso cat
five dot TV / Calypso tonight we're
taking a look at restoring a busted-up
computer using clonezilla this free
software is what allows us to create a
clone of our computer and then should
the worst happen be able to restore it
back to our computer well that's the
approach to rotate mozilla just this
time I drop the computer so there you go
so we that's the approach that we're
taking of course there's lots more to
clonezilla which you will find out a
little bit more about on episode number
179 of category five tonight though we
are strictly looking at what happens if
our computer itself is is not functional
and we need to bring it back so let's
let's bring up this machine here there
we go there okay so this is the computer
we were working on last week as you can
see there's our fits our test from
episode number 179 with the body hello
there what we're going to do is we're
going to destroy that file just like
that just a quick delete are you sure
you want to delete it yeah let's let's
break some stuff cuz cuz you know it's
it happens hop on over to our C Drive go
into I don't know windows / system32
let's just say that we're destroying our
computer here and the computer is
destroyed so the hard drive is crashed
that something has corrupted our hard
drive something along those lines right
who knows could be any one of a number
of things but this computer regardless
is is pretty much fried after this kind
of stuff happens whatever it takes we
get to corrupt the registry whatever
right yeah do all kinds of so I'm just
wreaking havoc on the system just
deleting random files and just just for
the sake of a demonstration here don't
ever do this at home right professional
driver on a closed course don't do this
precisely precisely results may vary but
the point is is that here we are you
know it so we're going to start off with
a completely destroyed system something
where we can't even potentially boot
that computer system and we want to be
able to we want to be able to restore
that to a working working format
I don't know if you can do this or not
oh I try ok let's try rebooting and see
if this computer is going to come up for
us well you could have gone into regedit
and played around I could have reckon
all that would be really fast is fun
yeah these are the things that you never
want to do to your computer but we're
just going to demonstrate how we're able
to actually restore and fix a computer
that is completely dead I'm going to
hard boot this computer because it's
probably at this point it's probably
dying you put a goto this loser just
give it a quick hard boot let's see if
it's able to boot little punt hmm sorry
little kick yeah so is that that that
one yeah football day ok I see and it's
still boots look at that you try to
destroy windows into still boots almost
real good oh oh oh it went a little
weird there so let's let's change our
desktop wallpaper just so that it's
obvious that something has gone on here
and that what we've done is successful I
still think we're dead it'll be fun yep
sure
see if you're gonna delete the whole
tree
that would be scary don't ever try this
stuff at home hopefully it so but anyway
so what we've done I've removed that
file off of my desktop I'm going to
empty my recycle bin which doesn't allow
me to do anymore because I've probably
broken my recycle bin that's interesting
I'll remove QuickBooks from the desktop
I've changed the desktop icon and now
let's restart our computer so let's
pretend now that that computer is it's
crashed the computers crashed let's say
we put a new hard drive in and we're
ready to actually give this thing a
restore from that image that we created
last week so if you're curious about how
we get this image check out episode
number 179 of category 5 TV in which we
actually show you how to create an image
that we're going to be able to restore
on our computer should the hard drive
fail or something along those lines so
tonight we're doing the exact opposite
we're pulling a 180 here on episode
sandy damage on your samba server
somewhere yes yes it's on the server so
I'm actually doing this through the
network that said I saved it through the
server but I could put it on an external
hard drive I could put it on a flash
drive if I've got one that's big enough
for it and I can take that directly to
my computer and I could restore it
directly from an external hard drive say
proposed the file pretty much the same
size whatever you had on your original
hard drive it should be quite
substantially smaller because of the
know it'll take up about them the amount
of space as the data but it's not it's
not going to record empty sectors look
so if it's a 20 gig hard drive it might
end up being only an eight gig file
backup because it's leaving out those
empty sectors there's no point in back
in those uppity I guess it assumes so
again we're going to choose our language
as just default sorry what's that so if
you do it then the CD you'd have a stack
of them you would never do it to CD now
CDs are 700 megs or something like that
right so again I'm kind of skipping
through this stuff because we went over
last week we're going to start
clonezilla do watch episode number 179
to catch all this stuff we're going to
go device to image again not device to
device and we're actually even though it
says device to image we're actually
going image
to device so now we're going to go back
to our samba server or like I said you
could use a local device if you want to
throw it onto a hard drive or whatever
and plug it into USB Here I am going to
go samba server because I've actually
got this on my DHCP server I know the IP
address as per episode number 179 the
domain is empty the administrator login
and my directory is clone Zilla or the
the share i should say so it's going to
ask me for my password and now we'll see
if that was successful 1000 25 /
clonezilla is mounted to slash home
slash part image alright so we can
continue on with that just by pressing
enter as it says on the screen go into
beginner mode and now this is where
things get different from episode number
179 you'll see last week we did save
local disk as an image this week we're
going to instead go restored restore
disk which is restore an image to a
local disk so let's click on that and
now it's actually connected into that
samba share and it says hey here's one
from the 22nd of februari it's called
QuickBooks okay
it took about 30 only about 30 minutes
to create that yeah I know we didn't
with that just after the show is when it
when it finished off okay so now the
target disk this is asking me where I
want to put it and that is my internal
hard drive the only one that I have in
there so you would just select your hard
drive and then it's telling you a little
bit of information you can hit enter to
continue and keep in mind that whatever
we're about to do is going to overwrite
sector-by-sector that hard drive so
every bit of data on your hard drive
that you have selected is going to be
one hundred percent lost chances are
pretty good you're never going to be
able to get it back if you select the
wrong hard drive so be very careful if
you have USB hard drives plugged in and
stuff always wise when you're doing this
kind of thing unplug those external hard
drive so you don't accidentally plug-in
connect to the like tell it to restore
to the wrong drive other things are like
your your camera cards if those are in
the drive they may be detected as a hard
drive so make sure you eject any of
those kinds of things before you go
through this type of process because as
it says on the screen warning warning
warning the existing data in the
hard-disk / partitions will be
overwritten all existing data will be
lost all right so we're going to
authorize that I know that this is the
correct thing to do are you sure you
want to continue I'm going to say yes
let me ask you again it's being
redundant cuz it's worn in your hair and
I'm warning you you're going to lose
everything that's on that hard drive but
in this case that's exactly what we want
to do we want to get rid of that broken
windows and restore it from this backup
that we have okay let's do it so let's
do it so this could be you know your
hard drive has crashed and fortunately
where you were smart and you've created
a clonezilla backup copy and image of
your computer two weeks ago right and
you've got it there like I said it only
took 30 minutes so what's what's keeping
you from doing this kind of thing this
is something you really want to do
you've just got your computer set up
exactly the way you like it and before
your kids start mucking around with it
and before anything else starts at
anything at all free an image and set it
aside somewhere
keep it on your yeah network and again
it works with basically any file system
so that means that if you've got you do
this with our Mac I i believe so it
supports HFS and hfs+ sure I'm pretty
sure check the website you can pull it
up there clonezilla org I simply can't
because I've got this up on my screen
but so you can see that this is actually
very very quick to restore it says here
that it's going to take about 14 minutes
to to run through the restoration
process and remember this is through my
network so you could have this on an
external drive so file systems here you
see fat ntfs hfs+ they're still the mac
mac OS is supported as well so if you've
got a dual boot system or you've got
linux installed or you've got windows
installed or whatever you have on your
system because it's a clone of the hard
drive sector-by-sector you're actually
backing up everything including the boot
part of the boot table everything the
boot loader so let's say your dual
booting a windows backup solution would
only backup windows a Linux backup
solution if correctly configured could
back up both but a little bit trickier
to do this takes that entire hard drive
throws it together into an image as per
episode number 179 and now in a case
where our hard drive is crashed we've
got no access to that to that computer
we've let's say installed a brand new
hard drive and now on that hard drive
we're able to restore that computer back
to the way it was when we first backed
up to an image using clonezilla so
fantastic piece of software clonezilla
org this is going to take a few minutes
to run so we'll let that go and in the
meantime we got some stuff to give away
I do believe yes we do but hey you know
what um super cool Nick who used to be
guests in some in America ordinal that
said Robbie F hey found the show over
the weekend great job and I'm excited to
go through the backlog now Wow yes but
do it on your
I 54 using your mobile device we went
through that a little bit earlier a
smart smart advice hey look super cool
neck we've got a couple of these pogo
plugs to give away literally we've got
two of these to give away tonight and
all you have to do is be in the chat
room draw bot is going to check things
out right now category 5 TV that's our
irc.freenode.net chat room is category 5
the pogoplug basically is a cloud
computing device for storage that allows
you to share your hard drive with
friends and family it's next it takes
external USB hard drives and they can
access it from anywhere from any device
be it their iPhone or Android device or
whatever it is you don't have to be that
altruistic you can share with yourself
you can share with yourself 17 want to
list off absolutely but you can set this
up at a friend or family members house
and hook up your drive and use it for an
external or an off-site backup that is a
fantastic idea for redundancy and
keeping your data safe we talk a lot
about you know things like clonezilla
where we need to have a backup of our
hardware or of our software our files
this is another way we can do that is to
have a redundant copy on a pogoplug
device somewhere out there is this open
to anybody in the chat room anywhere in
the world or do you have to be answering
editor so we'll send it to the United
Kingdom will send it to anywhere in the
world here we go
there it is the pogoplug pro
robot is doing its thing
lots of names in the chat room these are
the people who are joining us right
there in the chat room and category 5 TV
familiar faces nice to have you here
good luck everybody we're giving away to
pull the plug pros there we go our
winners tonight black crime and
invincible me
congratulations we will
there you go wow you know cuz invincible
mutant just says will you send this
anywhere in the world oh yeah that was
now what I need you to do now we gave
away couple of these in January and
there's one of the winners that I still
haven't gotten their information from so
I want to be very clear and and for if
that's you if you haven't received your
pogoplug from january's draw make sure
you get in touch with me I've tried
emailing and things and can't get ahold
of you you need to pop me an email live
at category 5 TV with your phone number
and your shipping address as well as
your real name and how you appear in the
in the chat room that's going to get us
started so that we can ship that out to
you and I need that live at category 5
TV but in addition to that just because
you know you're in the chat room we need
you also to have watched the episode so
I need you to include in the body of
that email the number 5 14 2 which is
basically just a pin well to let us know
that you actually heard this award and
don't you go tell them than that in the
chat room everybody all right so we
don't want to give away prizes to two
people that are just kind of hovering in
the chat room so you've got two weeks to
send us that in and we'll be happy to to
send you off with pogoplug fantastic
congratulations again to black Haim and
invincible mutant ok so our software is
restoring back to to that computer
fairly quickly except for the bandwidth
I suppose you could use your pogoplug is
a clonezilla device you could well it
would it's all relative to whether
you're on the internal lan or on the
external network no but if you're doing
it through the internet but yeah you
could sure mm-hmm you can mount a
pogoplug through the software that it
allows you to install i don't know if
you've done this on your system on my
windows system it shows up as my pee
drive so any device any hard drive that
i logged onto my no okay it's free
software that you can just when you
login acknowledge sure you can use the
web interface is fantastic but with the
software that they give you that they
provide as well you can use it like a
hard drive and that's fantastic for
backups
on my window system for example I can
tell my backups just to go to the p
drive it's my pogoplug right and then
that pogoplug which is here can be set
up with what's called active sync to
another pogoplug that's at a family
member's house and so then it's copying
through my land at gigabit speeds from
my windows computer or my linux computer
or my mac or whatever device it is even
from my ipod touch from your blackberry
your android device it saves that
through the land and then with
activesync it's going to then say oh
look there's some new files on this
backup i'm going to sync it to through
the dsl if through the cable internet to
the other device that's outside of your
network so now you've got this amazing
redundancy going on and it's all with
this incredible device from pogoplug
well yeah sounds good oh it's fantastic
when you got going on we got a lot of
gradual ettore messages going to buy a
common Mitzvah mutant make sense makes
sense um I should mention that we do
have more chances for you to win a
pogoplug coming up and as we're on the
topic of contest this is your final week
to qualify to win that copy of wire cast
for that's the software that we use here
and that's what gives us this chroma key
ability to create these amazing studio
sets using digital technology and all of
reality we're just sitting in the
regular studio oh come on don't tell
them that it's a secret but from the
viewer perspective Wirecast for gives
you this incredible ability to do my
live ring t-shirt it was gonna I told
you to wear it this is live chroma key
which if you if you've ever done any
amount of broadcasting you know that
that's spectacular yeah live chroma key
a lot of software boasts that it has
chroma key but when it's live and it's
this good I'm very impressed it's very
impressive so we're giving away a free
copy of wire cast for that has a four
hundred and fifty dollar value and we
would love to have you participate in
that contest this week is our final
chance to take qualifiers so get on to
our website category five dot TV if you
think that you'd ever want to do some
broadcasting or live video production if
you have a church or a business that
would love to do live streaming on the
Internet this is a fantastic piece of
software that lets you do so much as
well as live recording to your hard
drive as well you know you probably
shouldn't let them in on the secret
because you know we could ask for
donations to pay for this new 2,000
square foot studio
there you go well if we can actually
step it up see the green down at the
bottom there that can be a screen so we
can with two thousand dollars upgrade
our computer system to give us that
amount of power we don't have that much
power yet with the we've got a very like
a quad 6600 intel chip so we need to
step that up big time if we want to get
into that maybe I seven or something so
all that said stepping back to Wirecast
giveaway get onto our website category
five dot TV and from there make sure
you're logged in so you have to be a
registered viewer it's free we will not
spam you and we will keep your
information safe and private as well but
get onto their be registered be logged
in and then go to support us and you'll
see one of the options there is
information about advertising on
category 5 TV somewhere hidden on that
page is information on how you can win
Wirecast for so just follow the steps
and we will look forward to taking your
qualification next week we will be
announcing who's going to actually be a
part of the voting process we're going
to be picking the top three that have
entered for the contest and then the
viewers are going to have a chance to
vote for who is the the actual winner of
the software oh all right Greg and Texas
make sure you get your ballot in and
that information as I said will be found
right on our website category 5 TV just
wanting to win doesn't do it no get in
there and editor you gotta enter cheers
hey invincible mutant you're very
welcome try to have little perks for you
for watching the show of course nice to
have everybody here and the giveaways
from the show I'm here and I was almost
on time you didn't even make me coffee
in my robe sorry dude yeah I had to
build this studio oh he doodle oh it was
a last minute well cuz what happened is
John called in oh this afternoon and
said I can't make it today well okay
first thing through my mind here's an
opportunity for us to green he's a
celebrity rehab too right no no no not
as Charlie Sheen
I have no idea what you're talking about
but with John away it gives us a chance
to use the green screen so okay that was
pretty rushed and and so you know I'm
sorry that I didn't have time to make
you a college been suggested in the chat
room that I just quit no coffee is good
that's fine well if I'm just quit ah
dear me okay we've got two minutes
remaining I hope that this is gonna be
oh yeah we're gonna make your
eighty-three percent look at that eh
that's pretty it's like we timed it or
something cuz we don't want to lose that
little notepad document that we had
there that's a very important document a
little there it's not about the document
oh it's about all the files that are on
that hard drive everything I tell your
home lifters here okay good all your
home pictures everything's digital these
days right what happens if it's on your
laptop and then your laptop gets
drenched big problem you know what that
is unfortunate correct no sensitivity is
it for those who have had that happen
I'm sorry for Eric so black upset the
sensitivity training didn't stick didn't
go well alright yeah we need to really
step that up I think hmm speaking gettin
wet I don't really want anybody to
analyze my dreams but I was having this
terrible dream last night it was in the
canoe the thing capsized this was your
dream but you had your ringer wraps in
your dream on the front seat of my car
but the blackberry got drowned and my
ringer reps were gonna Kerr and I was
taking energy yeah nope that's
absolutely true oh it deliciously random
I was so the moral of your dream is keep
your ringer wraps use your ruler on your
phone going canoeing Oh dear me we've
got look at this this is fantastic 30
seconds left to restoring this and if
you're just tuning in we're actually
recovering a failed hard drive here
using clonezilla which is free software
available for
download from clonezilla org it does so
much for us but generally speaking or
just to summarize it it is a cloning
software that allows you to make image
copies of your hard drive using free
software so no having to go out and buy
big commercial applications to do this
what are you snickering about I was
thinking we were covering for some other
stuff too but okay what's called my
three seconds left alright says a
hundred percent but says it's done part
clone successfully restored the image to
the device finishing the unicast
restoring your image good to go pressed
enter okay what do you want to do I want
to reboot will reboot in five four three
two one and then it lies because it says
oh by the way I told you you were
rebooting but you need to push enter to
a check to your CD so now I'll do that
and now we'll restart there goes all
right okay so drumroll please here we go
okay we're booting up this system here
it goes here it goes well what wallpaper
do we have
oh there's our document everything is
back to the way it was before our hard
drive crashed and that is exactly what
we want and privileges available as a
free download clonezilla org check it
out and it's been fantastic having you
here with us we'll see you next Tuesday
night same time seven o'clock to check
out our mobile app mobile dot cat5 TV
I'll see you next Tuesday have a good
week take care hey
you
