welcome to episode number 311 of
category 5 technology TV it's Tuesday
the third of September 2013 nice to see
you I'm Robbie Ferguson I'm Eric kid
Eric how's everybody out there I'm gonna
tell you what's coming up in the
newsroom awesome yahoo's news and
community services have shut down in
China following the closure of its email
service last month a man has used
Twitter's Promoted Tweets to get through
to british airways okay and Microsoft is
buying nokia's mobile phone business and
if you're sick of cold calls on the
phone here's a fellow who is that
getting paid dancer sick around these
stories are coming up later in the show
all right hey we've got an amazing show
for you tonight we've got this guy here
the rikomagic mk802 we're going to be
looking at it it is an amazing device
that will turn your television set into
a smart TV please smart that don't go
anywhere we'll be right back after this
this is category 5 technology TV
at eco alkalines we believe you should
be able to trust your batteries not just
here but here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here Eco alkalines
of the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco outlines provide performance
the rivals leading national alkaline
battery brands at a comparable price
find out more about the Eco alkalines
difference Eco alkalines calm this is
category 5 technology TV i'm your host
robbie ferguson and I American better
known as co-host or gang or crew or
homeboy something like that some of us
come all the way because we're so old
school indeed hmm well you're gonna tell
them but the mobile say I guess I could
hey check out our mobile site hey m.com
five dot TV just scan that code or go to
that website using your smartphone using
your tablet you'll be able to listen to
the show live you'll be able to watch
on-demand video and even tune in to the
live video broadcast here category five
every week and remember category 5 TV is
a member of the tech podcast network if
it's tech it's here and the
international association of internet
broadcasters all right one of the other
things I want to look at tonight a
little bit later I want to look at
google calendar and how we can get that
integrated into your website so I into
that hey stick around were going to be
looking at that as well I want to say
welcome to our newly registered viewers
on category five dot TV we had a few
this week and it's always nice to have
people joining us in registering if
you're watching the show and you're not
so sure humming hon you know do I really
bother to register is it really worth my
while well hey it's three worth your
while it's free and we encountered it
last week where you know if you don't
register right away then you're losing
out on some of the time that you could
have been registered because we have
timed awards that happen so
you've been watching for 250 weeks for
example well the only way we can know
that is when you register so it's
advantageous for you to do so so
greetings tonight to our new viewers
time folks to come up with stuff we can
pronounce I'm not going to touch it hi 9
and 13 menon and nan and 13 nana nana
and d13 nana and d13 one of the unknown
thirds thanks for joining us here at the
category 5 came in to be nice to have
you here I also love your license flight
JSP 21c hey can you go to bring to it
does it's like I want to know what it
stands for JSP 9021 see it's like a
rhyme no and how do you pronounce this
there are too many consonants in a row k
BQ t KY or alpha Bravo Queen tango
Killough yellow impressive if yes I
first of all the the field that says
nick name user name that's where you're
supposed to put your username the
password which you entered in there I
suppose I'll go into the password fields
don't you hate when you I've done that
you know you're you're doing start
tickling somebody and you realize that
you just posted your ass password to
twain into the username and like the
folks sitting there then bull that's a
nasty password yeah it can happen to you
we have an interesting night ahead of
head for us because we did not now aware
you had an interesting week of you know
I know but we're not we're not tardy and
we're not um we're not we're not hurt
trying tonight I was here with three
minutes to spare before the show's
recive impressive but the fact is okay
so yesterday I'll just really really
quickly basically we got hit by
lightning we survived you had long
blonde hair my beautiful umm so so
backing up a little bit yesterday
morning we thought while I was brushing
up some vegetables that my mom had
dropped off she brought in a whole box
of them from her garden and lots of
tomato go mom
I didn't get in yeah well hey I'll give
you a tomato save me one uh I've got
lots of tomatoes and zucchini and and I
had a great big eggplant there and I
Soviet I'm looking at that I still got
of it because in there bit chilly I
wasn't I was like I know i'm not putting
eggplant in my chili just doesn't
doesn't see the aubergine so I I was
cleaning up and getting some tomatoes
ready I was gonna make a nice chilly on
Monday night which I did and you know
you start that early age that's what you
need to make with it okay yeah so I'm
making it early in the morning because
it's gotta simmer on the stove for many
many hours so I'm standing there and all
of a sudden this little storm cloud
rolls into Barry and brings with it all
the one kind of like that and literally
I'm standing there at the window in the
kitchen and a lightning bolt strikes
right down outside of the window you
know little ways down just over the tree
line but so close that all my golden
beautiful hair got singed off if you're
wondering why I develop tonight that
closable it was so loud like the house
shook and the kids were you know freaked
out for a moment's time but fortunately
we didn't lose any equipment here at the
studio because we've got UPS is on
everything my dog made it underneath the
coach I don't know how she did ya like
that and she's it wasn't happy at all so
we didn't lose any equipment thanks to
the UPS is we did lose to UPS as though
because the surges that came in and you
know it protected our equipment but it
zapped the devices that were hardwired
into the wall and also i guess the
coaxial cable running into the cable
modem also carried a charge and fried
our cable modem so fortunately that's a
rental so they we were without internet
for about 20 hours and they brought one
in today and replaced it for us so up
until very close to show time we were
are we going to have internet or we're
not going to have internet usually it
takes many hours to prepare the content
of the show tonight we did not have the
liberty of all the time that we normally
have because we didn't have internet so
and you really realize how reliant you
are
when you don't have it and you're about
to do an international broadcast on the
internet speaking of international
broadcast can I just commend our friend
jot whom we know and love and have for a
long time but you said coaxial it should
be coaxial oh yeah and and drop pointed
that out for us I was going to and I bit
my tongue but when I'm backed by the
almighty jot I'm gonna start saying
coaxial just you said betta instead of
beta of course why not it depends on
whether you're talking about the fish or
something that is embedded testing well
beta testing know betta you make it a
sick it was a beta tape versus VHS you
mean it's not vez hey listen okay so
back to back on the air our UPS is two
of them got fried every vegetable yeah I
did all that the chili was magnificent
as hairs gone fortunately the power
didn't go out because I would have
really felt bad having cut up all those
tomatoes and not having powered to
complete but we lost two UPS's and they
are not fixable so I've got them in
e-waste fortunately though I was going
through some old stuff cuz i priced out
backing up a little i priced out what it
would cost to replace the two UPS's and
it's one hundred and eighty dollars each
is there fifteen hundred volt amps and
you know they're fairly powerful for the
equipment that we plug into them and
decent little UPS's but rather than
going out and quickly buying them may be
a good thing that it was a holiday
yesterday because I didn't have that
kind of temptation to not shop around
but so what i did is i actually took
three UPS's which we had that had dead
batteries right from the past and they
were from the old studio b they were
powering our lights and we had to 1000
volt amps and a fifteen hundred volt amp
in the server room and those three UPS's
were completely dead because the
batteries were gone so instead of going
out and buying two UPS's at 180 bucks
apiece took the old three UPS's into the
shop and ask them to quote me on
replacing the batteries all three UPS is
120 bucks plus shipping plus tax so for
Less little less than the price of
buying one
single UPS essentially we're going to
get three UPS's out of it so and you
know what although you sacrifice some
UPS is what a great job they did they
saved they yeah that I can't I can't
complain about the fact that we fried
save your yes because one of the ups's
were plugged into server hardware in the
server room so you know it could have
been much much worse so easy easy to fix
so we're going to replace those and so I
wanted to thank those of you who were
able to donate this week of course it's
it's an ebb and flow where the funds
from donations go depending on the need
from week to week whether it be internet
hosting bills and bandwidth bills things
like that this week it is going to be
these batteries for the ups's and we
really appreciate your support because
we need them in order to operate right
now tonight fortunately no storms we do
have a couple of peripherals that are
unfortunately having to be plugged
directly into just a search for the
surge protector living dangerously so if
the power goes out we could lose some of
our gear so so hopefully that doesn't
happen tonight but that's where we're at
so I think that's you know being a good
steward of the money that you donate
because I want to be open and honest
with you about where it goes and and I
think being able to get three UPS's for
the price of one is a really great thing
and they just happen to be old hardware
that we happen to have in stock that was
basically broken but very very fixable
so okay also if you'd like to you can
send me a private message on freenode
its category 5 is our chat room you can
double-click on Robbie F or Eric Kidd
and if you'd like me to use teamviewer
this is kind of cool eric i can use
teamviewer to get into your computer and
we can do a remote session and help you
out really love to do that sometime soon
time may not allow it tonight so if if
you do want to do it I may not be able
to do it tonight but I just kind of keep
putting that out there because I think
it's a cool way for you to be able to
get some free support and a fun way for
us to interact with our global audience
as well indeed so so also if you have a
question you can call us on our on our
phone to 5452 to 85 88 which is
translated to 25 dash 45 Cat Cat
5t TV w 5 45 cat5 TV hmm rhythm dummy
are you guys ready to see this thing mmm
this thing is way cool it's awesome oh
is that right there doesn't it whoa
awesome it's a quad-core I thought it
was a 2 core quad core awesome even oh
that's the GPU is a dual-core CPU
quad-core GPU 3d acceleration OpenGL
open VG flash 11.1 Android jelly bean
cortex a9 main frequency up to 1.6
gigahertz 1 gig of ram 8 gigabytes of
built-in storage it's got t-flash
expandable microsd up to 32 gigabytes
it's got 80 to BGN bluetooth and a
microphone and camera you got to check
this thing out ok so microphone and
camera alright I've got it plugged in
here I'm going to just show it to you
yes um we've got the camera up at the
front and what's really really neat
about the 802 the MK 602 i should say is
that it actually mounts on top of your
television set so a couple of real quick
you know just a really quick overview on
the back here I've got power AC input
it's got an AC adapter you don't have to
monkey around with getting power to this
thing no USB or anything like that to
power it it actually has AC power so you
can plug it directly into your UPS
you've got an on-off switch you've got
get this audio video output so you can
we're talking backwards compatible I'm
talking backward compatibility here's
the inner of the box and we're talkin
these bad boys RCA started yeah yellow
white and red so if you've got an older
TV VCR DVD recorder whatever it is you
can plug this thing into it if you're
using a CRT TV you can plug this thing
in and now all of a sudden imagine this
you've got a CRT TV from 1976 and you're
my guitar was bored effectively you've
turned a CRT television for the first
time
possible into a full smart TV well
internet connected with androids Oh
operating system okay so that's amazing
because you do not here's the things you
do not have to upgrade your television
instead you throw this device on it
which is $95 thereabouts maybe get it on
sale online and it will turn your
television whether it be a CRT or an
HDMI input TV into a smart TV so as I
say it has hdmi output as well 1080p
full HD but its downward compatible all
the way down to 480p so well you can
scale that down tonight we're using it
at 720p just because that's the scale
that we broadcast an has two USB ports
for peripherals I've got a USB mouse and
a USB adapter here for a device that i'm
going to show you in a few minutes time
and then of course as i was mentioning
it has the capacity to put an SD card in
there microsd up to 32 gigs save as much
as you want yeah you want to save your
google earth data or lots of emails
things like that onto the SD card that's
brilliant nice and easy so so just
simply firing this thing up with the
power switch i'm going to just reboot it
just so that you can see what happens
here so there you go so we've got a red
light off the get-go flip the power
switch their lead a blue there we go
there we go good to go and we'll switch
over and we're booting up I love that
this gives you the ability to create a
smart TV out of one that is a dumb TV TV
if you haven't done the TV this will do
it for you so there you have it we're
booted up to our rikomagic device I've
got my mouse here and you can see I can
move that around I'm going to actually
just bring it up a little larger on my
screen just alive because we're looking
at a little thumbnail here at the studio
let's see what we can do about that
there we go okay so what I want to do is
take a quick look at this device it's
magnificent this is the rikomagic mk802
set-top box and you'll see that it is
Android 4.1 and we can go in and and set
everything up so first thing we want to
do is connect to your Wi-Fi you can see
it's detecting all of the Wi-Fi that's
nearby and you can connect and there we
are where the new kid on the block so
we've connected bluetooth Ethernet
whether you want those on or off
everything is default we just plug this
in for the first time today and I just
set up my Wi-Fi and set up a skype
account but you notice that it actually
came with the stuff that we need to get
up and running it's got a web browser
it's got the Play Store of course but
it's also got skype already
pre-installed and that's kind of a bonus
performance on this device as you can
see is is really really good we can
let's activate something on the live
wallpapers and just kind of see this is
not a de facto way to test performance
but you can see that even with them with
alpha alpha stuff and 3d GL whatever you
call it it runs really really smooth so
that's really nice ok so a couple of
things that I want to to show you
tonight first and foremost answer your
questions about the device but this is
like I say it's full HD 1080p and pear
tree was emailing me today and had
commented on YouTube a while back to
saying are they really 1080p i have
heard otherwise or i haven't been able
to find any in-depth information i just
want to show you here if we go into
settings here pear tree and just scroll
down to display no it's screen pardon me
and you'll see there on this particular
device this is the mk6 02 we've got two
outputs so our first output interface is
the hdmi and hdmi mode is currently set
to 720p at 60 frames per second or that
maybe 60 Hertz pardon me and then you
can go up to 1080p and down
as far as 480p so that is as you see it
is there 1920 x 1080 p that's true 1080
it's not 1440 x 1080 and that is
entirely achievable beyond that you've
got the second output interface and that
is your TV and that's as I was saying
there's composite cables included with
the device and you can set it to pal or
NTSC so that's going to give you the
ability now to use this thing like I say
connected to just a standard TV and all
of a sudden you're chatting with ma and
pas your kids that have gone away to
school I mean give them one of these
until might put this above the TV and
all of a sudden you can skype call and
you're having chats with the kids you
know it's fantastic so full 1080p HD as
I mentioned it's got Wi-Fi and ethernet
connectivity so where do you go to get
one well you can go online I'm at
rikomagic calm and we've got links in
the show notes for episode number 311
but it's it's all available through
rikomagic there the manufacturers so
what I wanted to show you now we've
mentioned the mouse thing they're closed
and it's good a nice break sorry is that
whitening mmm you guys see that I love
lasers okay so we took a look at this a
little while ago the MK 7022 to this is
the ultimate HTH HD pc home theater PC
htpc remote best thing you could ever
get i'm going to show you why okay so we
know it's why you take the dongle which
I've already taken out of the box
because I had to take a look at this
thing and just plug it into the USB
nothing to it well yes will be no no
none of that I'm kidding doesn't run
windows it's only windows the bsods we
plug in devices okay
check this thing out universal remote
and I'm gonna tell you something it's
programmable via infrared okay okay so
where's the manual how do I get the
codes to program if it's multi remote
it's got TV VCR DVD cable satellite CD
audio game all in this remote it's got
all the buttons that you may need well
how do you program it you take your
other remote the one that came with your
TV and you pointed out in your program
done whew it uses it uses infrared in
order to program itself so very very
easy to program this out of the box it's
really really simple that is the
infrared portion of the remote then
we've got the bluetooth portion of the
remote which is a full qwerty keyboard
air mouse everything all entirely
integrated into this side of the
keyboard well this is the ultimate htpc
remote then are you ready for this take
a one step further what are we going to
be using this thing for skype video
Google Hangouts things like that but
it's hooked up your TV that's maybe 10
feet away from you in front of you and
you're not gonna sit there hey mom can
you hear me so this bluetooth remote in
fact has a Bluetooth sound system built
into it blue so you've got a speaker
you've got looking use not like right
one nope nice how good it is we'll do it
so I can sit here talking on skype with
my remote and it becomes my microphone
as well as my speaker with skype so
let's see how hard it is all I've done
is plugged it in there's no drivers
involved or anything I'm going to bring
up the device now I'm going to move the
that's the laser mouse I'm going to just
simply turn this on this is the MK 7022
and now you see the blue light that
means that bluetooth is enabled so I
don't know if what do we need to do oh
it's already active there you go so this
is an air mouse I'm actually just moving
it back and forth like this and you'll
see that my mouse cursor is
moving so using this device what that's
know when I first started at the TV
station and I put in the first NT
network ya dumb terminals with keyboards
sure if you know the first person i will
set it up yes yes is holding the most
and plenty of my dealer it's not moving
now you're doing it no well now I'm
doing it and it actually is designed for
this purpose so flipping this over so
I've got the qwerty keyboard on this
side I've got a left mouse button as
well as a right mouse button and mouse
hold button so that is what I can use to
simply control what's on my screen so
this is of course the MK 7022 is you can
use this with any device because it's a
USB device so i can simply move around
it's going to take a little bit for me
it's going to take a little bit of
getting used to because i've never used
that or this and looking over there so a
little Gordon is yeah it's true too
because here in the studio we're kind of
set up a little bit differently but you
can see the accuracy is very very good
so I'm going to click on skype here with
my controller there we go and again
performance you can see is exceptionally
good and it's going to just connect into
my skype account oh I can wave it around
not gonna call ourselves nice thing
about an air mouse is that are with this
particular device having an air mouse is
that everything is built into this
device you don't need another control
you don't need 15 remote sitting on the
desk that's all that there is to it and
with the qwerty keyboard you can use it
to type to send emails to do all that
kind of stuff bring up your web browser
this is already done and so you can see
I can go through and click around I'm
going to simply let's see I'm going to
see how I do this I'm going to try left
click and drag see if that works yes
there we go
and I'm going to have to turn on our
skype on the other system let's see how
it goes internet reason yeah goes there
we go bring in skype up over there so
that I can call myself because they're
just so lonely that okay so a video call
up here because we want to actually see
the video portion of this device ok so
we're dialing and now oh I guess I need
to answer over here don't I so
complicated k2tog running though you
don't answer so I don't know house let's
see what happens here you should be ok
switch over to this computer and let's
see what's uh I think it's making the
connection it's making the connection
there it is oh it says it's ringing I
don't hear a thing well answer yeah did
I accidentally dial the device let's try
again ok I'll disconnect call dropped ok
hmm it's complicated doing this on three
screens here all right try again train
myself to use an air mouse there we go
okay okay called category 5e calling
calling myself come on
it's been suggested maybe I could hold
something for you know kind of since I
need the lovely assistant he'll be
making faces at it and everything thanks
money let's give it one more go okay
you're both machines using the same
account Robbie know what are we done
here just ended go ended the call I
think that there's something up on my
computer doesn't that figure come on we
want to actually see the camera all
right let's try making an outgoing call
to the device here we go folks here we
go folks call dropped now what it says
well that's what it says they're
connecting connecting talking I'm able
to it doesn't like you today rub I know
you know it's because we've had so much
internet trouble nobody wants to talk to
you that's what it is it works great I
promise yet does what I what I can do
hey want you to have somebody call us
well because it's not getting an
internet connection and that's only
we've had in case you're just joining us
we did have a lightning strike yesterday
morning and it took out our internet
connection and a few other things and
before the show tonight we did not have
the time that we normally have in order
to prepare for the show so I apologize
for that so let's see what else I can
show you here on the place okay and
bring it up your heads okay in that
connection yeah I do all right
there we go okay I can try you know I
can try whatever but it doesn't seem to
want to connect to myself through the
land it could be a Microsoft issue with
the blue screen of death very quick dude
okay I'm gonna you know what i'm gonna
do i'm going to close down skype on the
computer i'm going to bring it back up
just in case there's a skype issue on
the computer itself because that i can
easily resolve and then let's try giving
a call you call coming in let's ring is
it notes as it is are your something
boom
so you don't see the call coming in do
you see the call you think that you
would get an alert or something but it's
obviously coming in yeah your something
hmm hmm hmm well folks so not a perfect
example tonight of how the device can
function but it does have a built-in
video camera which you know hopefully we
could we should take a picture no we can
show you that aspect of it anyways if I
don't freeze things up but there's us
okay here let me hold this again and
there's our picture alright got it well
I moved it just as you did that Thanks
so we got a little bit of motion blur
that's pretty nice so the camera
obviously okay so it works pretty good
it looks nice but it's it looks like
it's a 4 over 3 frame so you know it's
not it's not like a widescreen HD frame
but that's fine because its first skype
video right that's kind of what we want
it for is to be able to make those video
calls and that's really all that there
is to it so go on so I'm sorry that I
couldn't quite demonstrates guy got room
think you need to keep calling a
different account looked like you were
calling your own account I was not
calling my own again all his own color
ok look a boy so I scare the camera
works pretty good this keyboard is
fantastic this device runs really really
well and i love that it mounts just to
top your TV so despite the little if
there's any issues with skype or
whatever that's tonight i could have
fixed that in a few moments time i'm
sure if it was just me playing with this
thing on top of my TV I don't have any
lack of confidence in the quality of the
device that is just us as per we know
what I've mentioned we had some
technical issues tonight that had
removed some of the time that we would
have to prepare for tonight's feature
but as you can see the device is that
really really cool it's fabulous I love
the way that it mounts to my monitor it
has just the design of it is very very
well done and it actually clamps on
really really well to any width of
monitor so and i'm quite to quite like
that little android yeah you've got the
the mini pc which we originally reviewed
and they've got the four core model as
well all of it is available through cap
five dot TV / mini pc check it out check
out rikomagic they're just they're one
of these companies that came out of
nowhere and they're bringing out these
excellent intuitive devices and somebody
said to me well what good is turn on
your TV into a tablet well I'll tell you
what we've got netflix we've got youtube
and the ability to sit and watch youtube
on the TV using a remote like this and
actually controlling it like this is
awesome you can watch things like
category 5 technology TV on demand
anytime you want commercial free you can
watch all those kinds of things and you
can sit there and watch honest movie
trailers and and whatever else you want
to tune into and it's all available
through you through this device euless
really really handy us the way things
are going I think cable TV is really
starting to hurt because they're
realizing that people are really making
this switch and this is how you can get
your existing set without having to go
out and buy a new TV like a smart TV to
turn your existing television set into a
full smart TV with all the latest
features using android OS this is the
mk6 02 from rikomagic we've also got the
rikomagic mk802 IV which is the four
core model and we've previously reviewed
the original mini pc on the show as well
but check this out and of course the
remote that you've got to get for your
htpc i don't care what model it is what
device you're using if it's got USB
you've got the ability to use the MK
7022 and we'll post links for all this
stuff in the show notes for episode
number 311 so there you have it it is
cool stuff how cool is we've just
recently started watching youtubes on TV
and we
you have a CR GT so having one of these
set up is fantastic for controlling
things like YouTube and Netflix is that
we canceled our cable long ago so we
don't need it anymore so well with
YouTube and that and everything else
it's Android get RSS feeds whatever you
want to do it's all there so if you have
any questions for us beyond what we
answered tonight so far just send me an
email live at category 5 TV as I say
full 1080p on those devices and it's
true 1080p 1920 x 1080 love it so are
you ready to hit the news let's hit the
news all right but here the top stories
from the category 5 TV news on Yahoo's
news and community services have shut
down China following the closure of its
email service last month the yahoo local
in china contains a farewell message
citing adjustments to its operations
strategy as the reasons for the change
the yahoo china home page now redirects
users to a site run by ali baba which
manages Yahoo's chinese operation in a
farewell message which appears before
the redirect the firm says it is
adjusting its operations strategy it
also implies that its staff will be
working on alibaba content instead and
thanks users for their support
interesting mmm so just shutting it down
they've got a lot of competition in
China more so than they do here I mean
we've got you know a few major players
in Google being of course you know the
big one but in China it's like they're
trying to get into a market that's not
their own so I could see that would be a
challenge so to us it's like but it's
Yahoo can you read that could certainly
try as he 2012-2013 it's all I got it's
all I got all right this is kind of
funky way to use social media to impact
the company that is driving you nuts in
a modern spin on the tail of David and
Goliath a disgruntled customer has found
a new way to use social media to take on
a big corporation
fed up with the way british airways was
handling the issue of his father's lost
luggage businessman hassan see Eddie
decided to complain about it but he took
a unique spin rather than posting a
normal tweet he actually paid to have
one promoted the Promoted Tweet bought
by mr. see Eddie reads don't fly British
Airways their customer service is
horrendous Promoted Tweets are generally
bought by advertisers who want to reach
a wider audience the paid for tweet is
given high prominence in the Twitter
feed of the relevant company 00 it
otherwise acts as though it's a normal
message so it can be retweeted by others
and people can respond to it and within
very very short time he had a thousand
responses and retweets and and of course
they found the luggage and send it away
interesting I mean we are we going to
start seeing stuff like this like you
know like disgruntled girlfriends
promoting tweets to destroy the
reputation of their loser boyfriends and
you know like there are we gonna start
is that what it has come to yeah part of
this makes me a little uncomfortable
yeah yeah but using advertising to yeah
yeah I think they're gonna have yeah
it's tough because they'll have to at
some point they'll have to put down some
kind of a rule because it's meant to be
advertising but he's kind of taken it
and giving it a new spin what cool is it
all right who knows what do you think
what do you think all right Microsoft
has agreed to to a deal to buy nokia's
mobile phone business for a mere 7.2
billion dollars yeah nokia will also
license its patents and mapping services
to microsoft nokia shares jumped
thirty-five percent on the news where as
microsoft's fell more than five percent
the purchase is set to be completed in
early 2014 when about 32,000 nokia
employees will transfer to microsoft
critics say
microsoft has been too slow to respond
to the booming market for mobile devices
it launched its surface tablet pcs last
year but sales of the devices have been
a relatively slow yeah that's a yeah I
heard this on the news this one mm-hmm
that's and the heine feels like two
companies trying to find their way in a
world that they have no foundation in
like Microsoft as the critics have said
is that they're not ahead of the game
that's for sure they've been holding
onto the pc market yeah I've been you
know oh well we'll make our operating
system kind of look like a tablet OS
Microsoft's pretty resilient pretty rich
you know and and rich you know this has
got to be scary for my beloved
blackberry folks I got somethin you know
another everything carries I'm though
oh no another smartphone came out
before our blackberry z10 huh another
one back to the drawing board for
another two years that's a whole other
story yeah but who knows how its how
it's going to be played out but be
interesting to see whether or not this
partnership with this buyout is going to
increase Microsoft's ability to saturate
the mobile phone market because they
haven't been really doing that great
it's not really a android heiresses iOS
so you know that old age old Mac versus
PC is now Mac Apple versus Linux how's
that for a twist this is a twist hmm
okay what else have we got for you a
final story for the night here something
this guy is a clever guy he's a targeted
he's been targeted by marketing
companies have you ever had those
solicitor calls that just hello is mr.
kite there yes okay mr. Ferguson I get
it all the time and you get sick of it
it's just the world that we live in
we're on the only video calls and how
are you today sir you know yes you know
what it is you kind of know if there's a
delay like their auto dialer is a patch
through to the operator then you know so
yeah we all get sick of it even if we're
on the do not call list here in canada
we still get it really really helps to
be i have one about 17 cruisers over the
last couple of months congratulations
this is your captain calling yeah yeah
it's lovely I love getting the very word
up folks so this guy has been clever
about it okay he's sick of it he's
getting all these calls like crazy so
what does he do in November of 2011 Lee
Beaumont paid 10 euros and euros to get
a premium pay to call number you know
like those dignity looks like a 976 here
in Canada like hello this is Debbie
speaking you know like that so he bought
one of these things and that's what he
gave out to people who might start cold
calling him so he fell in love the
little information thing in the store
and you exactly known so it's his number
ok but here's the kicker it charges you
when you call him 10 pence yeah it tase
him seven pence per minute ok so he told
BBC radio recently that the line so far
has made him about 300 pounds mr.
Beaumont has been able to increase his
revenue working from home by keeping
cold callers on the line by asking them
for more details about the products and
services that they're offering phone pay
plus which regulates premium numbers
said it strongly discourages people from
adopting this idea clever guy these are
stories like how why didn't I think of
that yes but there may be a spate of
folks trying to line up that kind of a
service and they may actually discourage
it more vehement a maestro but hey let's
be up front I'm sorry just so you know
you're being charged ten cents a minute
to talk to me here so talk let's talk
badly how's how's your sister
oh my well you can get the full stories
at category 5 TV / newsroom this week
the category 5 TV news room is
researched by roy wa ash with
contributions by our community of yours
if you have a new story you think is
worthy of on-air mentioned email
newsroom at category 5 TV the category 5
TV news room I'm Eric Kidd thanks Eric
this is category 5 technology TV it's
episode number 311 thanks for joining us
if you're looking at this on demand you
might notice something different because
this week we are really working hard i
mentioned it last week been working on
building new transcoders for the show
and we're adapting a whole new format
whole new structure to the back end of
our website and how the video is
distributed so this being episode 311
probably be one of the first episodes to
go through the new cramp transcoding
process what it means for the end users
for you is that high quality video is on
is available on demand very very quickly
after each broadcast so we're talking
where it used to take 12 hours by using
a third party like blip TV we take about
12 to almost as much as 20 hours to get
the video online and available to you
now it takes about 40 minutes so the new
transcoders is something that I've been
developing is going to make a huge very
huge difference the other thing that it
means is that everything is going to be
hosted not on third-party servers but on
our own content distribution network
which you know I've kind of hinted I've
been working on this for quite some time
we started with integrating syndication
into mainland China because we wanted to
be able to be viewed by you our viewers
in China we love having you watch the
show but it's difficult when you've got
to go through a proxy server because
your government is blocking Western
video sites such as YouTube or be a blip
TV all of these sites are blocked
because they're these I guess because
anyone can broadcast on them so they get
blocked because they can't really tell
who is broadcasting on them so that's
another thing is that it makes us
globally accessible so it's a it's a
really really big move it's really
really exciting and I hope that you'll
enjoy the new way the video is to strip
through the show you should already
notice that our RSS feeds are extremely
fast to download you're going to find
that that is getting even better and
we're introducing the new LD feed the
low definition for those of you who have
limited bandwidth they don't want to
spend the money on bandwidth and want to
still be able to watch the show episodes
of category 5 the full hour between 50
and 70 megabytes to download so it were
very very excited about all of the
things that are coming so do watch our
website category 5 TV to find out more
about what's available to you and how
you can get active in the community and
we're going to keep on bringing out
these great new features for you and
making it better and better for you as
we go and as we grow we're coming up on
season 7 so season 7 starts the first
week of october and Joe's getting old
we're getting old been around all up oh
and we're getting to the point where you
know we're a really long standing on
line show and and we've been doing this
faithfully every single week for 311
weeks here we are so we love having you
here thanks for joining us for the ride
it's going to be a lot of fun going into
season 7 because we've got all these
exciting things on the go all excited
mm-hmm one of the things that I wanted
to look at tonight was how to integrate
Google Calendar into your website I've
had the question because you know one of
the things on our website if I could
just bring up our website real briefly
here category 5 TV on our website we've
got a few different calendar options if
you go to the show and then program
schedule you'll see this is actually a
google calendar that comes up and you
can tell that it's down in the bottom
right hand side it's google calendar but
it's nice its interactive and its really
really easy for me to administer because
it's a part of my google account if you
scroll down though here's something kind
of neat it's got some information about
upcoming shows and what's going on here
at the show who's going to be on the
show and did you know that that is
actually sourced by the google calendar
api well so i only ever have to enter
everything once and then all of the
information is you
cached on our server and it's
manipulated and it's moved around but
the actual google calendar is found
under program schedule so this is
actually bringing in an iframe of google
calendar you see how easy that is so
this is an iframe and an iframe as you
know or maybe you don't but an iframe is
is like a frame within your website that
allows you to load another website
within that so using something like
Google Calendar now you've got the
ability to bring that into like I have
here a lightbox right it doesn't have to
be like box it might be just a portion
of your website but see I've actually
brought it in as a lightbox using fancy
box to which I really like as a piece of
software so it allows you to to have
that kind of as a part of your website
so in order to get that setup all you
need is a google account you're going to
go to google.com or dot CA wherever you
are and within your Google account now
I'm going to post links to all this
stuff but really it's easy once you're
in Google all you have to do is go up to
the top here and you'll see a button
called calendar so you may need to
create a google account if you need to
do that you can do that just at Google
just create an account over the top
right and once you're in there let's see
i'm just going to disable a couple of
personal calendars here there we go
we'll just leave the category five
calendar active so you see that my
calendar looks something like this so
this is in fact the calendar that powers
this calendar so you see that tonight
co-host aired kid episode 311 so on
right so over here I actually enter that
stuff in google calendar by clicking
there we go and i can add information to
it i do that for the episode info you
see that we have the descriptions and
these descriptions if you're subscribed
to if you actually receive our emails
before each show you'll notice that this
is exactly the same text that you will
have received in an email at six o'clock
tonight one hour before the show and it
will have said eric kid was the co-host
and robbie takes a look at the next
generation rikomagic mini-pc etc because
it also sources that information see I
get that information from my google
calendar using the API using a PHP
script and that it emails aired so it's
all automatic so a lot of automation
send it 14 different directions it goes
hundreds and hundreds of directions so
that's all through building third-party
scripts that can now interact with your
calendar and there are other ways that
you can interact with your calendar that
you have created so once you've got your
calendar built so this is I'm just using
my google account but you can create
your own if this is for a client job you
might want to create one but what's nice
is I'll just let you know that when
you've created a calendar so i could
actually create a calendar with in my
account for my customer and then i can
share it with them so i can go share
calendar and i can add you know Eric
Kidd and I can tell them that they can
make changes to events but they cannot
manage sharing right so i can go eric
and category five dot TV and I can go
permission settings and I can set that
to whatever I want see event details but
I want the calendar to be public in my
case because it's going to go up on a
website right but this person I want
them to be able to make changes to their
events so then I can add that person and
now Eric if I did that would get an
invitation that would say you're invited
to be an administrator on this calendar
category five technology TV and then you
accept that invitation it adds it to
your google calendar ok now you make
that as you can add event you can
depending on the permission settings
that are configured there in the share
this calendar options so then we want to
in fact that's fine I don't need to save
the changes because i was just kind of
playing around there just to show you i
want to go up to jag calendar details up
at the top top left here once i've
created this calendar once i'm ready to
put this calendar up on my website now
is the time to do it I've got it all
ready to go and so I can actually scroll
down here and I'm just going to make
sure that there's nothing proprietary on
the screen before I do go
and there unfortunately is a little bit
which Google didn't do that there are
buttons for XML ical and HTML output so
with the HTML output I've pushed that
button and it gives me this link so now
if I click that link bring it up in a
new tab you'll see that that is my
public version of the calendar so now I
can take that link and I can do whatever
I want with it and it is going to give
me that on my site so I can link to it I
can just use an href or i can use an
iframe to make it look like it's a part
of my website or even more I can use the
configuration tool and I can make
changes to the way that it's laid out I
can change the way that it looks by
going through the configuration tool
here so that's kind of cool it's purple
and then I can add it to my website
that's a very very easy way to do
anything to be a week for a month or an
agenda absolutely and whatever you
change here it's going to make that
change for your embed code so if I
change to agenda version so there is the
agenda and I can put that up on my
website that's good for bands who wanted
to show a list of their upcoming
concerts and things like that but you
may not have enough to you know you you
get all the time but I'm thinking about
you know when I was a band in a band we
may have had a concert once every few
months Rose we weren't we weren't as
active as you are but we wanted people
to know so a month to month calendar
looks kind of dumb on my site because
it's going to be empty for two months
right and look inactive but the agenda
view looks pretty good because you can
see oh yeah we've actually got calendars
booking in the next September so our
concerts booking at inverse next
September so that's kind of cool so easy
easy breezy and then once you get beyond
that point and you want to learn more
about how to use the API get into the
google calendar api and you can start
doing some cool coding like what I do
with the website in order to integrate
it directly into our weekly mail outs
are and it's all automated so I only
have to enter the info once and that's
I'm a beautiful beautiful thing fulfill
yes if you have any questions let us
know in the chat room category 5 on
freenode hey everybody we haven't really
said hi to everybody in the Cherusci
kick a kick always doing masterminds huh
glad Master jaws was given me a rough
time healing up well it's nice to see
you and good to have you joining us been
nice seeing people in the chat room
throughout get me cuz well Rob Gore nice
to see a sansa riff slick Draco
invincible mutants out there you say
like mega modal i am boris karloff nice
to see ya Chazz linux oops alright well
your questions I mean we we don't have a
whole lot of time to get into your
questions but hey we're we're here for
you and again tonight you know forgive
us for the fact that we were limited on
our time tonight usually we have a very
good amount of time to prepare for it I
was here a good three minutes before I
never know what the big deal is it was
just like a lightning bolt shooting down
outside my window Dennis Kelly's back
after a reboot hey I've been through one
of those tonight are you running windows
too hey no windows 7 no else happen Wow
no actually he didn't say that all right
okay so what do we got do you want a
question I blue line for a question
we've got time for two questions made by
Robbie and crew hey because I'm crew
with all the concerns regarding social
networking privacy i EV NSA GCHQ
snooping on everyone then here is an
alternative free open-source
cross-platform application allows secure
audio video data transfer and messaging
it seems to be a good alternative to
skype mmm of course referring to jitsi
uh-huh jit si yes he's used successfully
to access Google Talk service and hosted
for person conference with no problems
hmm maybe worth a few minutes mention
on-air sure one of the viewers here
we're doing we're matching happy to
mention it absolutely jesse is as you
see on the screen there open source
video calling so it's like a open source
version
skype if I understand correctly though
it's also encrypted and it's it's built
to be quite private and not have to
worry about that kind of thing which is
brilliant but it takes the community
adopting and I think in order to really
make it usable because for me I wouldn't
be able to just you know switch to jitsi
as much as I'd love to explore
alternatives to Microsoft skype but the
fact is is that like anything right it
takes everybody making the move so if I
want to do an interview and I say well
you can jitsi video call us all rights
that but if i say i use skype video call
us everybody has it knows it got it on
me on their smartphone so that's really
what we need to do so everybody
installed jitsi jitsi dot-org jit SI and
the links will be in the show notes for
episode number 311 check that out thanks
for the tip what's he got for me well
let's see this is a question don't know
all excellent shows as usual thanks for
the smallest computer show a month ago
yeah and today and again today I've been
very busy and moved oh well popping all
the way and thank goodness I can catch
the show later if i missed it thanks
again indeed and i hope you and no idea
was the news feeds and everything hey
steve-o in our friend kick hey khaki
khaki hi Robby and gang I haven't called
a lot of things but here I am gang
whoops I lost it I'm really enjoying
loads of past episodes via the RSS feeds
somewhere I think Robbie described how
to retrieve some of the early episodes
by going to cat5 TV / archive and
changing the three digit number at the
end of the URL to the episode I want oh
yeah this seems to end up at ustream but
after the ad finishes the little wheel
in the center of the screen just spins
and nothing happens yeah I've tried this
with firefox chrome and opera with the
same result any ideas that love the show
especially the geekiness of it the
geekiness keep up the good work that's
curl that link
cat5 TV / archive is archived in and of
itself it just is so old we're on CDN
now like that was way back see you see
it actually resolved to Robbie f calm
that's before we even owned category 5
TV as a domain now what you would do is
play dot cat five dot TV / 100 to play
episode 100 right just like that and you
can actually tell it what episode just
by adding the episode number at the end
of play cat five TV right very nice so
that's how you do it these days play
five dot TV that's how you do it all
right and that will probably remain for
four years because that's our content
distribution network so that's the way
things have gone and the old one is no
longer in effect so what I'll actually
do i'll edit that how would i edit /
archive and i got a redirect to the new
one just for you a kick kick kick I'm
sorry thanks for pointing it out yes
that's bound to happen where you know
been on the air for seven years and gave
out a URL five years ago and forget all
about us those go say nothing don't know
I'm this is like being married and you
know say something five years ago it's
remembered sorry the one thing I should
check here kick a kak is episode 1 ready
well this is the thing I don't know how
you get 2 episode 10 okay that's how
closed on 0 0 1 0 0 1 it's a young guy
it's just simply one so that's the first
episode so in order to get to the sub
tens so it's not 0 10 0 11 as it used to
be formed because we have three digits
we actually change that so that it's
actually the number so 12 11 right so
that's that's the difference cool time
for one more oh sure thing so I thought
okay some of those chats linux is
mentioning in the in the chat room there
are available through Miro internet TV
and that is certainly the case our RSS
feeds as well have some episodes that go
way way back but keep this in mind
community that if you're watching your
subscribe to the HD feed we was not HD
when we first started up yeah so if
you're subscribed to the feed which is
720p HD you're not going to find the
first season of the second season or the
third season or the fourth season I
don't think whenever we brought in HD
video that would be where that feed
began because that's when HD begin so
and that's all changing to our feeds are
going to be changing over the next
little while to make it easier for you
to find stuff but keep that in mind all
right here's a question from Garth from
London take RF hi Robbie hey I need help
my pc won't shut down while in point
linux but is fine with windows so not a
hardware problem i really don't want to
have to reinstall can you help well if
you can't shut down the first thing that
i would try is you know determining if
it's the shutdown script that is not
working for you really really quick way
going to your terminal and type sudo
halt and hit enter and see if your
computer shuts down make sure you save
your work before you do that because
that is what you're about to hit man who
I was not don't or you can hit alt f2
and do a similar thing gk sudo halt and
that will do the same thing whilst gkj
over well that means we're in the GUI so
we can't use sudo because it's gonna
prompt for a password right so if i do
gk pseudo echo hi it's going to prompt
me for my super user password because gk
sudo says run it as oh right but echo
obviously that's for example for example
eric gk sudo is like pseudo for a little
bit your desktop all right another one
for me sure here's knock some of these
ok this is one Dave him Boris Karloff
hey blocked land Australia
else hey Robbie is there gonna be a
creating no I got told 90 say good day
right guys in ski already corrected this
so throw another shrimp on the barbie
makes you sound like a freaking tourist
hiking and said a Taurus yeah I would
love to be a tourist in your country
house mr. Gerson ski doing okay hey okay
hey Robbie is there going to be a
creating a virtual machine of your real
system part two thanks Dave yes Dave and
in fact we talked it a little bit about
where you can find our calendar on our
website category five TV you'll see that
it's in the calendar so check that out
of course when we schedule things it is
subject to various things so it's it
could change but the calendar generally
speaking is set fairly firmly we set it
about what four to six weeks in advance
give or take is usually when we have
things kind of planned in so check that
out on our website category five TV
alright one more one more all right okay
and this is from the naked cook hey
Megan it not the naked chef than they
could cook it's a different thing
altogether well they can put from united
kingdom asks hi Robbie your program goes
out here at midnight on a working weeks
so I'm sorry for not being able to chat
to you as I needed my bed I did say up
hoping you'd be able to help but as you
said your program ran over time so you
were unable to answer you we're trying
point Linux won't shut down or reboot oh
hey we have this must be girth no this
is making book okay is this the same
thing or just the same guy or oh it is
girth also perhaps we don't need to read
this one again twice in a row maybe yeah
well hey thank you for for sending in I
hope that I hope that gives you any kind
of help what else is in that email looks
longer than the last one well he goes
into more detail a Quattro decided to do
a reinstall so on Wednesday I you
easybcd to delete grub and write the MBR
one problem the bootloader was gone okay
I always boot to windows first a sound
thing and then boot linux I done this 10
minutes before I decided to do the
reinstall everything worked fine except
the reboot / shut down from point Linux
we're fine with windows so is not a
hardware issue i've loaded Zoran for the
meantime just to keep me on the Linux
side of things but I'm wondering if this
could happen again I did have to
reinstall windows help if you remember I
asked you a question about hardware I'm
beginning to wonder as my system seems
more prone to crashes using AMD drivers
earth it could I mean it could be issues
but quite frankly Garth they just
backing up to your first question there
once you've figured out if G case if if
halt shuts down your computer then you
would know that okay it's just a script
issue so something in the power off
script is for some reason not working
because when you click on shutdown it's
running the power off script and for
some reason it's not responding in your
particular case so it would just be
diagnosing why that is and it could be
hardware-specific but doesn't
necessarily mean that there's a problem
with your hardware so don't think that
that's necessarily the case alright
thanks for sending in the emails so
where are we are we out of time we gonna
do one more got something here flow you
guys are leaving lovely gonna start the
tunes from the lovely and talented Roy w
Nash hey Roy hi Robbie and Eric hey
after watching your segment on mog
refine mother mother i phi i
should tempest ode 310 it inspired me to
write a script you done yes it's write a
script that would do the job without
other terminal ok aimed those those who
fear the terminal don't feel
please feel free to improve or modify it
in any way it would be nice for instance
to have the progress bar increase in
real time etc well that's I need anyway
if you can't find a use for it then send
it to the trash can a case Scorpio 55
kind regards ok so era de luna is this
as envie script awesome soz entity is
like a way to create GUI applications
and linux based on bash code also really
really cool I'll take a look at that
I'll post it in the you know what I
almost want you to put it up on like
github or something so that I can post
the link to it right because then people
could make their changes and suggest
updates and things like that in the
meantime you know you could post it in
the show notes on the comments section
of people could comment on it so i'll
post it in the show notes for you thanks
for sending it in and of course if you
have comments about the script feel free
to comment in the bottom of the of the
show notes for episode number 311 but
hey that's all the time we have for
tonight folks Eric it's good to see you
both this age is good movie scene sorry
just shot my pen out in the air and it's
down on the ground now erika lalonde is
going to be joining us next week we're
going to be talking to somebody from a
company that has recently partnered with
VMware about how they are impacting the
vCloud you don't want to miss that it's
gonna be a fun show so have a great week
a great week you have a good way nice to
see you yeah it's pretty soon thanks for
stopping thanks for having why we're
gonna go play with our htpc and have a
fantastic week everybody see you next
Tuesday see ya rabbi
we hope you enjoy the show category five
TV broadcasts live from very Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven pm eastern
if you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV check out the local
show times in your area at category five
TV and find out when you can watch live
and interact in the community chat room
category five is a production of prodigy
digital solutions and is licensed under
creative commons attribution 2.5 canada
we'll see you next time thanks for
tuning in
