welcome to category 5 technology TVs
what you're about to experience is a
free worldwide interactive broadcast
from Ontario Canada we broadcast live
every tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time
get your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category five dot
TV or email us at live at category 5e
week's and now here's your host Robbie
Ferguson welcome to episode number 201
of category five technology TV nice to
see ya i'm your host Ravi Ferguson how's
your week going good so far yeah I get
my life in order a little bit getting 11
yeah yeah you don't really realize how
much junk you have much to say junk I
want to keep most of it but how much
stuff you have till you have to like
haul it all the way across town laughs
what storage rooms are for for me is so
i don't have to realize how much junk i
really know oh yeah you know here's
another piece of hardware and I kind of
put that in the pile band crystal how
about you busy busy it's been very busy
yeah we've got like this is like
birthday time of the year I think you
know you probably know if you follow me
on Twitter but it was like it was uh
what was your birthday first it was my
birthday Valerie Hilary and then Becca
and then Zach my son Zach just turned
four yesterday so we threw a little
party for him and cook you had a lot of
fun if you're following me on Twitter
you you saw the
we got him one of those race car tracks
where he wears ipps around just kind of
tanka you can that you can see the
photos on my twitpic profile twitter.com
/ Robbie Ferguson I'm speaking of
twitpic we added twitpic to our website
this week you've probably noticed a
category 5 TV we've got this this guy
down on the left-hand Twitter it's a
chance for you to still be able to get
access to that cool huh just realize
that we don't have audio when we switch
over there this is the joys of 0 casting
I was just saying that's twitpic and
even if you don't follow us on Twitter
you'll be able to access our Twitter
profile by a by switching over there
let's see if that work there we go okay
we'll get everything solved for sure one
more they're all right so as I was
saying twitpic is over here so check out
our website category 5 TV and any time
we post something from one of the mobile
devices or anything that goes up at
category 5 TV on Twitter it will go
there kind of cool so there's some
behind-the-scenes pictures there a video
even of the gang having fun during the
show last week behind scenes so check
that out this week we've got a ton of
viewer questions I was seen your inbox
there when you first logged in and it's
just ding ding ding at email email email
so I know that you fit a lot coming up
but also as far as news goals would love
to hear what's what's coming up in that
anything's have a look at that so some
of you may remember those of us who made
it through last Thursday can tell
generations that to come that we
survived the hottest day ever lenox
three-point oh has been released and
while it's strikingly similar to linux
to
point six point five point three point 2
108 it's better sony continues to suffer
since the big hack attack in April but
Xbox sales are through the roof stick
around these stores are coming up in
under 30 minutes mmm boy it was hot last
week oh it was deathly I swear and just
running around I don't have
air-conditioning in my vehicle so we're
driving around and we've got all three
kids in the car and becca myself driving
and I went to renew my plates and get
there because you know July it's time to
renew my flights right so get there and
sure enough we have to go in for an e
test vans more than five years old and
so it's time to go and get it checked
out you got all the kids in the car it's
like 250 degrees Fahrenheit outside
seriously so needless to say run and run
and run and trying to get everything
done this week it's madness JV SCC is
observing that I had trouble determining
what color shirt I would wear tonight so
I just trying to split it all to get I
just kind of got three shirts and cut
them up and I just had all the time in
the world so I just SAT there just
stitch together yeah I bet with with my
bare hands I'm all blistered there's
there's actually no back you on
backstage pass you can see that I've got
a bareback but I just I ran out of time
I like a hospital again what can I say
jb sec what can i say uh and it's funny
that 30 people just brought up backstage
pass really it's not true if it was i'd
be sitting a little further away i think
if that was sure i'm sitting on the
leather item you know would be too
comfortable for sure anybody new joining
us in the chat room for the first time
tonight we'd love to hear from you a saw
a couple of people that I didn't
recognize there let us know say Robbie F
or not Krista what's with that the
Kasbah felt like being awesome today
someone else was christened so you're
the alpha or the
Krista oh I mean that's more Canadian
and deism right Krista hey maybe next
week all right we didn't get any of your
pictures this week I'd love to get those
for me of course it makes sense because
last week was their 200th episode hard
to believe I was afraid I was going to
say this is episode number 1 90 oh wait
but no I actually pulled it off it's
like that whole you know the mcdonalds
billionth burger kinda or 100 billionths
burger you know y2k oh really yeah
remember the y2k scare ya so everything
was going to go from 99 to 100 and
everything was going to crash train were
like three I think how long ago was that
no that was 11 years holy cow that is
really crazy 11 years now but the
mcdonalds sign had ninety nine billion
burger served that's the whole thing was
that they were gonna have a burger crash
Wow when they served the hundred billion
burgers scarier stuff anyways how did I
get works what was I talking about Oh
nope I'm hungry episode two hundred and
here we are at 201 but last week you you
know we didn't make a call for you to
send in your viewer pictures or anything
so obviously nobody did but i'll let you
know this week send you is send a
picture of yourself watching category 5
TV email it to live at category 5 TV and
when we get that we're going to keep in
track of everybody who sends them in and
we're going to award you with some
viewer points and as well we're
accumulating those we're going to be
putting together a photo gallery on our
website as well so lots of fun good way
to get involved in the show thank you to
everybody who who has donated this week
as well there are several people as well
who have subscribed to monthly donations
and so we're being that they started
that last month we're starting to see
those come in as well and we appreciate
that very much it's it's so helpful with
the you know the month-to-month expenses
and things as well as and I keep saying
as well I think that's my crutch tonight
I'm gonna try to avoid it but you know
we have the issues with the servers i
think we are so close to finding a
solution to that right now we're still
on loan or hardware and we're still
trying to figure out the microphones and
all this stuff but your continued
support is both encouraging and when it
comes down to it and when the bills come
in and when everything you know when it
when it's all said and done it's so much
less stress for us when when you know
there's there's some money there that we
can pay the the hosting bill pay for the
domains when they come up for renewal
things like that so i just want to
extend a big thanks to you and and also
to those who are subscribed to monthly
donations as well there's that as well
their last time last time never let it
happen again well i was at the data
connectors conference in toronto right a
couple weeks ago that was a lot of fun
again if you follow me on twitter you
already know this and you've seen the
pictures and all the fun things that
happen there but I met up with Jen from
ESET and that's the first time that I've
ever actually met somebody from ESET
these are the makers of nod32 antivirus
they create a great antivirus product
they have banner ads on our site which
I'd encourage you to click on because
that supports the show as well as
provides you with a great product I'm
very particular about who's allowed to
advertise on the site so much so that we
actually pulled down even though it was
paying us we pulled down the Google ad
words or Adsense the the banner from
google just because I didn't have enough
control over who could advertise
so so know that the ads that are there
we picked up B&amp;H audio video
professional audio video suppliers from
the state their advertising on our site
you see the banner today so make sure
you click on those and check out the
products just ways to support us but as
far as oh you have trouble tonight all
right where was I Erin stickiness very
organized sticky notes are all over the
place I'm serious if you could see this
sorry about the if somebody's mentioned
some audio issues we'll deal with that
for sure still working with that with
the hardware as we have it so cool well
we can jump right into questions if you
are in the chat room and you got a
question for us let us know nobody said
that their new here no no one wants to
admit that they for you
oh good everyone yeah hey Troy oh we got
guests 5324 demands pretending hey buddy
JV SEC thinks I should just put all the
stickies on my forehead oh I be a good
place phone it's too hot today well
thank you just like which everyone falls
off first okay well I know we're only
five minutes in but it's it's time for
the news well all right all right hey
Troy 74 thanks Chris right Jedi tour
night or tonight tour guide well says he
is new nice to see ya nice to have you
here well we can jump right into
questions and if that's if that's it in
the chat room for the moment sure so our
first question night comes from Joe cool
says is their utility or script to turn
my 11-point 04 into a server or can i
install lamp on till 11 point oh four
and tweak it to work I am wanting to
install and run addy toe to toe ssl VPN
thanks Joe all right I would say your
approach can be a little bit different
these days because of virtualization so
depending on what you have on your host
a lot of times what we'll end up doing
it and the quick answer to what you're
what you're asking their yeah you can
install lamp into the standard of wounds
and installation or any linux install
the PHP 5 meta package and that gives
you a patchy and PHP then you can just
install MySQL you're good to go but what
you can do instead to kind of keep
things a little more controlled as you
can go with appliances you'll see if you
go on to our website category five dot
TV I'm going to just find the episode
for you
and the way that will do that on our
website just scroll down a little ways
on the home page and you'll see the
search just type in Wow well let's do
turnkey
there we go episode number 169 turnkey
Linux lamp stack click on read more and
what this episode covered is how to
deploy a turnkey linux server for a frap
in a fraction of the time of a
traditional build using turnkey linux
virtual appliances why that's
advantageous for you to do that
essentially is the amount of time that
you're going to cut off of your build
time using a turnkey appliance or any
appliance for that matter but turnkey is
a fantastic group that assembles these
for you out of the box you fire it up
and you've got your lamp stack running
it's got PHP it's got MySQL it's got
Apache it's running on a very bare-bones
lightweight Linux build and as well it
comes with a web interface called web
min so you can just you can get it up
and running and then using your web
browser you can administer that entire
server it's got SSH so you can ask this
age in just as if it was a physical box
and and that works fantastically it's so
good that that I feel confident in
recommending that as an alternative to
just installing lamp and getting lamp
going in your own PC because that has
its downside in that you're you're
putting it on the actual on the actual
metal of your system like it's going on
your ear core OS these days because of
the power of processors you're good to
virtualize because then you can take
that appliance and you can move it to
another server you can move it to
another computer or if your hard drive
crashes install virtualbox on your
laptop and move the the the lamp stack
over to your laptop for a temporary time
as you rebuild the server and you have
little to no downtime so really really
nice that way so if you head on over to
turnkey linux org and you'll see there
are a ton of different
appliances to choose from appliance is
basically a way for them to say it's a
prebuilt computer that runs in a virtual
machine so there's the lamp stack and
you just grab that like I say follow the
episode number 169 and we'll go through
the whole thing and that's a I think
that's the route that I would go if I
was going to be setting that out it just
gives you so much more than just a lamp
stack because you get webmin you get
everything that's pre configured and
working you've got the ability to host
your own email at the domain you can do
all that stuff all through a web
interface so very very nice well thank
you very much for the question before we
jump to the next question that actually
quite a few comments about the audio
what's up so sound like there's some
popping and hopping stuff like that
really say they think it's my mic yeah
it's probably your mic I'm the problem
sorry guys okay well I'll just give it a
quick sound check check one two check
check check check check check is that
better check one two I'm not overloaded
so yeah I know is that better how about
if you could give a sound check checking
check check hello that better Cameron oh
it happens when both of us are talking
oh ok let's talk talk talk no hello
hello yeah sure it's better now
interesting to note
talk to me krista hi and i will talk at
the same time no just say there's so
many things seems okay close the lid on
the Mac thanks that's what was the thing
Dominic is that better sorry again hmm
as long as it's bearable I will continue
so you let me know because you know
where we're live and that's a tough
thing if there's something going on
alright well try to ignore the popping
Emily will continue on do how a bass
jump in the next question from Chris
Reich concerning the selection of an
optimum video card for a new computer to
be built running Linux exclusively much
web searching has yielded only some
braids hints that and video brand
graphics cards are preferred as long as
one uses the nvidia propriety driver the
best employ found is from the mythtv and
faronics websites the information
offered is somewhat dated however Oh
somewhat dated however oh sorry there's
still a preference for NVIDIA brand
graphics cards over AMD ati cards when
considering that either will exclusively
be used for linux i'd appreciate your
pearl of wisdom and sage advice on the
relative merits of nvidia vs AMD ati
separate graphics cards for exclusive
use by linux all my best chris rake
rochester new york he also wants to just
chime in and say temperature at 1600
hours local time is 80 degrees
Fahrenheit alright hmm so toasty thanks
Krista and vidya vs ati you're going to
get me in trouble here Chris because
that is a debate that's been long going
and I think you know from from looking
on the web that it's it's a debate
that's been going on for forever and
people in the chat room are very quick
to say nvidia
I'll tell you what happened Chris back
in the early days of computing when all
of a sudden there was this boom that
things were starting to go 3d there was
direct deck and there was OpenGL OpenGL
is an open source product directx was
developed by Microsoft and as you know
Microsoft is not that despite what
they'll say they're they're not that big
of proponents of open source at least
certainly not at that time so direct x
versus opengl you've got a TI at that
time which is now owned by AMD and they
call them radeon the ati cards went the
the route of really putting a solid
focus on the Windows platform which is
to say they went the route of DirectX
and making sure that their cards were
the best possible cards they could be
for direct tax so for Windows they were
a great card nvidia had a different
approach in that they really put a solid
focus including providing drivers before
the linux platform or for open platforms
such as opengl to be more technical so
the progress of development went more
the opengl route for nvidia more the
DirectX wrote for ati at that time so
these are the early days right since
then things have really sort of changed
because every card is basically capable
of the same thing it's just that each
one has its benefits and each one has
its downfalls nvidia cards they have
something called cuda cores which allows
your your video card if it's an nvidia
card to actually offload some of the cpu
on to the GPU so when there are games or
visual applications that are able to tap
into those cuda cores your cpu load time
is going to go down so the cpu is not
having to run as high
a lot of that that work is being put
onto the GPU ati you know they've got
cards that are just fine for both
windows and linux now general you know
Andrew Jameson I think you've worked
with some ati cards how do you find the
experience I've always found a TI not to
be as out-of-the-box friendly on Linux
so that's the unbiased just true that's
kind of how I saw it if I were to have
an ati card which my wife's computer has
integrated versus an nvidia card which i
have in all my computers because I
choose to purchase those cards when i've
installed linux on on my wife's computer
it's more usually more challenging to
get it set up the way that I want and
less feature-rich on linux on windows
there i'd say they're about equivalent
on linux i still say that nvidia is is
going to win out nvidia of course
they've got nvidia settings everything
is so easy to get and install if you
can't get the drivers to install just
using the GUI because when you boot into
ubuntu or any linux distribution is
probably going to detect that you've got
an nvidia card and it's going to try to
install the drivers for you the
proprietary drivers so you generally
don't have any trouble with 11.4 though
I did have trouble with my my 460 my gtx
460 card and its ability the operating
system's ability to detect and install
the drivers automatically so easy enough
I think I mentioned in a show a couple
weeks ago and you can refer back to the
show notes to find out easily enough i
just i closed out of x i ran the
installer that you can download for free
from a videos website because they have
the linux drivers right there and it
installed and then I didn't even restart
my computer just rear an ex after mod
probing for the module for nvidia and it
just run works fantastically so you'll
see on my system now
it's pretty dreamy the zoom effect that
I have is all powered by my ability to
have compositing and everything else
that's a part of the 3d architecture
it's it's just as simple as that that's
installed and it works so so I do think
that Nvidia is still kind of wins out
but where you know if you're getting in
this serious serious gaming then you
need to look at benchmarks because if
you're going to be dual booting you want
something that's going to provide a good
product for both windows and linux I
think nvidia is going to rule them all
as far as that's concerned and that's
part opinion but also experience based
on slightly older hardware so currently
I I don't have I haven't used a current
ati card because i have no reason to
when I price out my video cards I go
straight for NVIDIA but I welcome
comments in the chat room Chris watch
for those gadwal believes that a TI is
actually easier to install by hand as
far as drivers and Vidya can require
some work to learn if you are new and
having to install the drivers by hand by
hand meaning actually going to terminal
and install them that said I think it
was easy breezy but yeah I can
understand if people don't want to have
to go into the terminal and definitely a
TI wins out as far as GUI graph driver
installation because nvidia does require
if you can't get it to work in the gy
you have to fall back to the terminal
basically get out of X because you can't
install them within X from their website
so so yeah I hear you there but that
doesn't really speak to anything of the
quality of the video card Emil 1976
however Chris thinks that a TI is faster
for gaming and I think that's why I say
a meal that when if you're going to be
dual booting and you're going to be
doing doing heavy gaming you really need
to compare benchmarks and get apples to
apples try to find a couple cards that
are in your price range ati and nvidia
and compare
their benchmarks somebody who's actually
run some benchmark tests on wells but if
you're going strictly Linux which I
think Chris is then I would you know
chatroom tell me if you agree or
disagree but I think that Nvidia would
be the way to go I do think the GAD will
makes a valid point that it's not always
as easy to install as an ati card as far
as drivers go but once it's up and
running it's it's flawless and works
very very well and and I quite frankly i
love the interface of nvidia nvidia
settings because it gives me access to
some of the more advanced features of my
card gadwal has always had trouble
installing nvidia through ex perhaps
it's the particular car that you're
using I never had that problem until
1104 Chris Reich is not a gamer so
that's that's partially a deciding
factor but like I say these days is so
different and I don't want to I don't
want to ramble on too long for about
video cards but because everything is
pretty much good these days like even
the Intel vs AMD chips it's like
everyone that they're just so good these
days as long as you're not looking at
the low low end everything is pretty
good so it's really just finding
something that's in your price point and
deciding you know what what way you want
to go and it's the same with video cards
in the price point they're probably
going to be pretty similar but I love
having cuda cores because our software
Wirecast is able to tap into those in
order to improve the video quality so we
do a lot of video encoding and that's
a really excellent thing that nvidia daz
well so well I'll welcome you in the
chat room to continue the conversation
but we'll move on to the next next
question and then we've got some time
set aside for the news in just a few
minutes thanks for the question Chris I
hope that that helps to some degree all
right well here's a very suggestion from
gadwal says the flux is an awesome tool
to automatically dim once monitor when
it gets dark out or brighten it when it
gets light out based on time it's very
neat and the only drawback for it is you
are watching the show or if you are
watching shows NetCast movies or gaming
then college to start to look a little
faded but for general use it is great
also it is a hundred percent
cross-platform with a GUI version for
ubuntu on the site source code for
others to compile themselves i'm also
starred in fedora has a package
somewhere even though i can't find it
since i don't know where to look and for
the arch linux the users wanting to know
the EU are does have it in there just
have it in there as flux GUI i believe
and it's found at https stereopsis
stereo stereopsis com / bucks how you
have it up there perfect there you go
interesting suggestion here and I wonder
what the purpose would be other than now
they say basically when you're looking
at your computer monitor just to
summarize that at nighttime your you
know your your eyes are tired so to have
the monitor up full brightness is really
really tough and I can attest to that on
the ipod touch the ipod touch has a
similar feature where as it gets
brighter or darker the screen actually
changes brightness when you experience
that on your iphone
you yeah my mac actually does that is on
your mac does as well so uses the web pn
or something there yeah before actually
my old one used to have sensors through
the speakers and if you could this
obviously doesn't be covered the
speakers that actually damn so you can
see it do it right in front of you I was
straight make sense it was really
strange i don't know if it was
intentional or not oh damn so cool so
flux apparently will do this for your pc
and for and it has it for mac as well XP
vista linux whatever and will dim the
screen based on time of day and i can
see that being useful if it provides
power saving ability what you think it
would on a laptop would it not if it's
actually toning down the bright
brightness output right hand just
overlaying like a darkness or so i don't
know how it will work but but then on
the laptop you've got the ability to dim
it anyways yeah you always do yeah you
see that little end key on your keyboard
that's the function key then you got a
little sun with arrow down and the sun
with the arrow up so you're able to do
that without any software still it's
kind of nice not to have to think about
it sometimes i know you can override it
on the mac so my timings so bright I
wish I flux installed so I didn't have
to push function sundown but tell you
mean why else come on my G what I meant
but sometimes I turn the brightness all
the way up and then if you're staring at
it for so long like I live behind my
computer and sometimes you notice that
yeah my eyes are burning quite a bit and
and uh it would be nice if it had
actually thought about stars back again
ah interesting anyways it says
stereopsis com / flux if you'd like to
check that out cheers thanks for the
thanks for the tip i was saying a little
bit earlier that i went to the that's
where i got my mind was lost but i was
at data connectors conference in toronto
a lot of fun met with jen from ESET and
because max have got viruses now i
picked up a copy of vino everyone has
virus
not linux but they do have a linux
version this is ESET cyber security for
mac and it's available at smart
antivirus dot CA and you can get the
windows edition and get server
protection they've got a promotion on
right now if you if you pop them an
email they'll give you six months of
free service if you're a new business
client and you and you subscribe for I
think it's if you subscribe for two
years you only pay for 18 months oh
that's not bad yeah so no copy for you
this is a one-year subscription to the
cyber security for mac oh so that will
be safe very cool those nasty viruses
but you know for the record Robbie is
like a little child she hear that
everyone admire you going with this at
linux this has had a son yeah but
there's a hotel yeah you tell her Robbie
you tell her this has no viruses because
we're not gonna run as root I'm just
saying there's like a couple mad
supporters in here every platform can
have viruses if you're running as an
administrative user plain and simple but
would you run the Nexus route not a wise
thing to do and that's where lindos
linds fire people said you know this is
never gonna turn in anything because it
was running this route so
never anyways I know you've gotten used
to talk about so I'll let you turn that
away the theme a little more important
yes it's very important to learn about
what's going on in the news that's
always yeah thanks Kristen great Oh a
heat wave Big East Room parts of the US
and Canada late last week as
temperatures search the record-breaking
highs in some parts one New Yorker said
being outside is like sitting in the
sauna all day long the mercury in New
Newark New Jersey reached 108 degrees
Fahrenheit which has for a degree
Celsius on Friday the highest ever
recorded in the city in Canada an
extreme heat alert remained in effect a
day after two dozen cities and towns
broke their previous single day heat
records stay cool my babies a cool
Glynis torvalds announced on Thursday
that gone are the 2.6 insert big number
here days us to insert a big number
there aren't I two point six point eight
point four three okay and three point 0
is out speaking of the release of Linux
three-point oh well there are no special
lamb work features or incompatibilities
related to the version number change
it's simply a way to drop an
inconvenient numbering system in honor
of 20 years of Linux in April Sony
discovered that hackers hackers had
gained access to 77 million users
accounts on its PlayStation Network the
playstation network was shut down
worldwide for more than a month while
sony reviewed its security procedures he
agreed to pay anyone who lost out
financially as a result of the incident
but even now they're still being sued by
a number of users sony faces a court
battle over how it will pay for legal
claims made in the wake of a massive
data breach and even one of the
companies ensures has asked the judge to
rule that they are not liable for losses
related to the cyber attack the
devastating blow to Sony is still
playing out as sales of Microsoft's Xbox
system are through the roof helping push
their profits to the highest ever which
reported 69.9 4 billion net income this
year holy smokes well I got the full
stories at category 5 TV / newsroom the
category 5 TV news room is researched by
roy w national contributions out by our
community of viewers if you have a new
store you think it's where these on arab
mention email us at news room at
category 5 TV for the category five dot
TV news room I'm crystals thanks Krista
this episode of category 5 TV is brought
to you in part by pogoplug at cat five
dot TV / pogoplug and as well you'll
find planet calypso you can download for
free from cat five TV / Calypso can I
ask you an off favor that is just weird
but that camera that's on the top there
the EOS if you could power that off and
turn it back on for me while I speaker
users thanks Krista because sometimes
things don't always work the way that
they're supposed to she even know where
the power switch was you've done this
Paulo I have one thank you so much oh
you have one yeah that's the eos rebel
smarter than I look
all right yeah that's a that's crazy
news about Ted Sonia and going through
all that I know it was kind of expected
yeah I knew that this was gonna be just
like oh my like this is so big thinking
back in April when two weeks ago I I'm
like this could be the end like and then
and i really regret to happen to to
bring it up but the tsunami and
everything and everything like how many
blows can this company take yeah exactly
and and it's like and now Microsoft is
rising up and showing numbers like that
and saying well our xbox is doing
fantastic in fact this is the most
profitable year that we have ever had
court that's insane and a little
frightening because I think of Microsoft
and the only issue they brought out
windows 7 and that's you know they've
got it on pretty much every desktop in
the Super Centers but you know I guess
I'm a little bit separate from that
because I run linux when all my systems
except I've got one windows seven system
so but they're doing well what are your
thoughts about that post in the chat
room category five TV tonight I wanted
to take a quick look we were talking a
while back Eric and I about protecting
our systems and and what we need to do
in order to protect ourselves from power
surges and things like that we looked at
all different power bars and
understanding a little bit about how
many joules we can handle through our
surge suppressors and things and and
looking at some UPS's but the problem
with a lot of ups is is that they don't
have a lot of power protection beyond
just if the power goes out your power
stays on but if there's a really bad
surge it probably won't protect you two
up in walks cyberpower who is available
pretty much all over but now in canada
us and i picked up this for the studio I
know you can't see me now this is a
fifteen hundred volt am
so that means about 170 minutes worth of
battery backup on a normal system that's
a lot of battery backup but it's also a
900 watts and you'll remember that our
our system here for example is 850 watts
and this thing is super super powerful
as far as that goes but what's really
impressive if we look at the specs is
that it also protects against fifteen
hundred joules so that's how you know
pretty good size spike a lot of times
the ups's are going to start around 400
joules but also even though it's a
decent one you'll see here I don't know
if you can see that on the screen but
Krista can see that in front of me this
is five hundred thousand five hundred
thousand dollar connected equipment
guaranteed and that's lifetime so what
that means to to us and what that would
mean to you as you're looking for
reliable battery backup reliable surge
protection is the fact that here's a
device that says okay well we believe in
our device so much that if your stuff
gets fried that's connected to it will
cover you up to five hundred thousand
dollars so that's pretty tan baby get
it's a you're you're buying into
insurance so you think that it would be
super expensive the units only 220 bucks
is what they suggest the the prices on
their website and there's so much about
it I'd encourage you to check out their
their product lines cyberpower systems
com and what's really unique about them
is that they're developing technology
for UPS's that really generally only
falls under the higher-end UPS market
for a lot more money and essentially
they're falling in you know forty
percent to fifty percent cheaper and
even more than that then
then competin competitive products as
well anybody here who's used a cyber
power-ups before I'd encourage you to
pop us a message on the chat room I've
actually got the device here and you
were picking it up earlier it's pretty
heavy that's really happy boy but it's
small it looks good there we go and
what's really cool about this as I say
it's got some features that you would
expect from a higher-priced if I bite my
losses on my life's not bad right now
you see certain that show is steady 120
volt which was their daddy level up here
and the indicators of this play they
don't need any comments on your puter
the law because it's effing right here
there's our voltage there isn't any
verse the swearing-in ceremony present
this is very very cool the Disco's
coming to feel the power you're actually
drawn from the you guess is that
so that basically taught you to budget
and understand how much your hardware is
costing because you know perhaps gain
tenses until the one-hour to your
private both of us that's very very
useful data that the normally inhabit a
also so much is so much just for advice
to be able to tell here is the current
the current load which is a total zero
does it have you put into it and then
this is actually the estimated time so
you see a 100 and that I just 100 in it
I mean it with my criminal judgment i
think i've got a murder that's river pub
and that i will actually take a
count-out the low low so if i can do
that on a little bit
really really point i press this one
here oh that's eaten every five parties
agree so pretty cool as far as that goes
there we go sorry guy so it's a good
unit but they also have drivers for
linux not just drivers but their
software is available as a download off
of their website for linux there
specifically supporting linux users with
software for that but also it's one of
the first UPS's this is what i mean
they're kind of cutting edge one of the
first UPS is that is completely
compliant with rohs as well as being
recognized as being environmentally
friendly and it will actually save you
between 70 and 75 dollars per year to
run this UPS versus a different ups
reason for that as you know is that UPS
is and power transformers anything that
has a transformer and it is always
discarding power so any time the
transformer is running you're actually
using power it doesn't matter if it's
actually if you've got your device is on
if the transformer is running its using
power so traditional UPS's are
constantly running the power through the
transformer through the batteries and at
the other side so you're always wasting
electricity so this particular unit is
has a bypass system that is that
specific to cyber power and what happens
is when it when it's not necessary for
it to be using the transformer it
doesn't so yeah when hydro is reliable
so you've got stable hydro eighty-eight
percent of the time say the rest of the
time it may need to switch over to
battery for power spikes or power drops
but in the case where little power is
fine right now you're getting a steady
110 volts in our case here in Canada it
doesn't need to be running through the
transformer and
what doesn't and it saves you like I say
it will be running without the
transformer about eighty eight percent
of the time so very impressive
technology for the price again 220 bucks
is cyber power systems com encourage you
to check them out and certainly price
them out as you're looking at any
battery backup solution I would compare
the pricing to cyberpower and with that
guarantee I feel confident now that you
know with the surges that we've been
through I I had to put my foot down and
I had to say like this is ridiculous
we've lost so much equipment over the
years to surges because we're always
buying the high-end UPS is because
they're supposed to last longer and do
better but they don't come with a
guarantee and they don't they don't
provide the same kind of quality power
they do pretty well that come you know
with a great big surge apparently they
don't work too well because we've lost
obviously what server a couple
microphones and a bunch of other stuff
so cool so that's that ours is the 1500
watt of fifteen hundred volt amp with
the 900 watt power you'll find that at
cyber power systems com and i'll put a
link to our specific model in the show
notes of category 5 technology TV
episode number 201 cool
category five dot TV is where you'll
find more information about the show
we'd love to have you join us there join
the community it's a free service and
we'd encourage you to actually register
on our website for your chance to get
some viewer points and participate in
the community in that in a more solid
way and we'd love to hear from you when
you're when you're joining us and let us
know that that you're new here did did
we miss any questions in the in the chat
room there just I see a couple questions
that I'm not quite so sure like Sammy
says said how big yeah you answer that
Daniel how big do you mean like the volt
amps or what do you mean by how big it's
1,500 bolt amps with 900 watts that's
pretty substantial as far as power goes
that will power a fair a fair system
like that will power our system no
problem one of them UPS is 900 watts so
keep that in mind Andrew you were you
were looking in the chat room we were
looking at getting a power supply for
your computer that was in the 1200 watt
range which seems a little excessive to
me for a standard PC but keep in mind
that if you put something like that on
your system then you're going to have to
battery backup that and you're looking
at way more money potentially to put a
UPS on something that's pulling that
many watts ours is 850 watts here and
the UPS powers 900 watts so we should do
just fine
cool
the price of that same he says was 220
bucks that's the MSRP off of their
website will post links but you can pick
them up you can get them at any store in
North America diving or at least on a
definitely online there there a growing
company they've they've really been
doing doing well to expand their company
and so we're starting to see more and
more of it I Joe hey he doesn't to me
everything Joe Harry head guy Joe Harry
a guy that is his rapper named our Linux
distributions features are going to be
commencing in two weeks time so not next
week but the following week quite
potentially now we are looking to get
the new server hardware I hope to get
that bill that's when things are really
going to be able to get back on track as
far as running everything and making the
work cool I think some people are
getting some lag in the chat room
because questions are coming in a little
ways after I've already answered them so
so do if you missed the answers of a
price and things like that make sure you
check back at the video or someone in
the chat room can answer for you so we
must have a couple more questions oh
there are lots of questions thanks
Krista thanks everybody for sending in
your questions live at category five dot
TV so our next question here to Robbie
said that I'm a disabled person live in
Los Angeles California and TV viewing is
my primary companion therefore this is
also very important to me I now have
time warner cable service but due to
economic hardship i can no longer afford
to pay for cable TV therefore i would
like to change to free internet TV
programming via my computer and watch it
on my TV i have tried to do as much
research as i can on how best to do this
it seems to me that the new Boxee Box by
d-link might be the perfect solution my
TV is a panasonic model th 50px adu
plasma TV Cee Lo is my computer
information would also include the
computer from both because my computer
information below for your review I
would like to know if you think that an
hdmi cable connection from my computer
to my TV would be fine and would a Wi-Fi
wireless set-up be better I have a
second TV in an adjoining room and I am
wondering if there is a way that I can
receive the same video on that TV also
and if so what would that require
simultaneously here just in general it's
at the same time it might be a little
more difficult but we'll talk about that
okay I'm making notes here sounds like a
lot of questions ok I watched your
online video answering questions that
trust your judgment expertise and
thought it would try to contact you and
ask you for your advice when you please
advise me on whether this is the best
way to go if you have any technical
suggestions regarding any aspect of the
plan change I would be extremely
grateful I am hoping that I will hear
from you and thank you for your time
advice Sincerely Yours and bored ok yeah
thanks so much for the questions I'll do
my best any suggestions in the chat room
I welcome them as well I'm looking for
your TV on the web just because that's
going to help me to see what kind of
inputs you have now you mentioned HDMI
so I presume that you actually do have
an hdmi input on your TV quite often
you're only going to have one of them my
first question that I made some notes
here as Christa was reading your
question there for ya is do you have
unlimited bandwidth on your internet
connection because as you talk about
time warner costing money and I
understand cable TV can be very
expensive especially if you've got some
of the you know the movie bundles and
additional channels and things like that
digital cable and having to rent the box
and things so the question becomes if
you get one of these internet boxes is
going to allow you to stream it through
your internet are you going to have to
pay more to your internet provider for
the bandwidth
so that's my first question for you
because if it cancels itself out then
it's probably not worth it if you find
that oval to watch it online is actually
costing me just as much money as having
it on cable then really all you're doing
is moving the the cost over to a
different company so that's a very
important question your TV hdmi input
with an HDMI output on any computer
definitely cool you're going to get
1080p resolution on that i'm not sure
what resolution your your TV is but i'd
expect that you're going to get as good
of a resolution as you're going to be
able to support on your TV boxee box is
a fantastic device and there are other
devices as well out there I would
encourage you to shop around before you
settle and find out the best thing to do
is find out what programming is
available to you what you need to
understand when you get into something
like this okay so here's the boxee box
for example when you get purchasing a
they're getting rid of that ok there's
the actual boxy there that one ok so
boxee box there you can see it there one
of the the bits that people have with
that is the shape if you have a
traditional kind of entertainment center
it's not going to work very well you've
got a flat screen TV so chances are
you've got like a table or something
like that this is not going to fit into
where your VCR or DVD player used to
used to go because of the the shape of
it right it takes up a lot a little bit
more kind of weird dimension so you
can't stack things on top of it and
stuff boxee box Roku there are a variety
of different devices suggestions in the
chat room let us know what you like the
the thing about these devices is they're
not going to give you the same
programming as here
understand so time warner gives you your
specific shows if you'd like to watch
house or what some good shows you
probably like the kids like Sesame
Street but all these shoulders are down
laptops have actually house might be but
some of the shows are not gonna be
available to you one of the advantages
are sometimes you can get around
commercials and things like that but
what you want to do is find out what
shows do these devices have you're going
to find this on their websites boxee for
example you see that they have partners
with Netflix so that means that you're
gonna be able to rent movies on it
that's pretty cool also a lot of shows
are available on netflix that's a good
bonus feature also category 5 TV is
available on on the boxee box we're
available on a ton of different devices
but you can actually watch category 5
through that device but is it necessary
what you need to determine you talk
about having two computers do you hook
up a computer to your TV at all there no
I'll tell you what I do and sorry I
didn't catch the name because I think
you designed it with your initial but
what I do is my wife's computers in the
living room and we have that computer
actually connected to the TV so when
she's not using it it becomes something
that we can pull up on the TV screen
just by switching to that input
advantage to that is I don't need extra
hardware reason hardware that already
exists and the other advantage is we're
not limited to the programming that's
provided to us we can download through
miro internet TV which is a free
application any of the software that we
let's go for example get in a row
let's actually show you the software
and actually just go to mural mirror is
a free piece of software that allows you
to subscribe to all different shows so
what happens with this software you
install this on your computer and it
allows your you basically tell your
computer okay i like this show i like
this show i like this show and every
time that show brings out a new episode
it automatically downloads it to your
hard drive to that computer so you want
to have quite a bit of hard drive space
or a server or something like that or
something on the network but to get you
started you can just install mural
connect that computer or laptop to the
to the TV with mural installed and
subscribe to your favorite channels
there's a lot of great channels there
check out mural guide at Miro guide.com
mir o GUI de com if it comes up for me
you can actually go through and see what
shows are available on on mirror you'll
see that there are John Rizzo ver on the
right hand side here and the form you
know the layout could change by the time
you see this or whatever so if you go in
for example to technology you'll see
that there are a ton of shows that are
available regarding technology and you
will find that category 5 is a part of
that list so you want to watch category
5 for example there's one of category
five speeds we've got a few depending on
the quality that you'd like so there are
different options I think connecting a
computer to your TV to start is the the
best starting place because then you're
doing it with existing hardware do it
through hdmi because that's been give
you the best quality get mural internet
TV installed free software let you
subscribe to a ton of different shows
just watch a few if you subscribe to ten
shows you're going to be downloading you
know ten episodes as they come out if
you subscribe to a hundred you may think
well there's a hundred really
great-looking shows but that's a lot of
hard drive space potentially so and you
want to look for ones that have the HD
logo so you'll see on the mural guide
that you know this one for example has
HD logo
this one here with category 5 does not
so we do have HD feeds in mural so you
want to find the one that that actually
has the HD feed in order to get the best
quality because you're watching it on a
nice big screen TV you want to be really
good so check the chat logs I think
there's some suggestions there for you
as well Emil 1976 we are on XBMC yeah
we're available on pretty much any
device except for tivo well and of
course if your device doesn't have
category 5 TV you can always subscribe
to it through it through our RSS feeds
you can get those on our website
category 5 TV click on watch the show
and you'll see the ability to subscribe
to the actual show itself that is on our
site called subscriptions and RSS feeds
that just lets you actually get the show
on other devices if you have a itunes
compatible device you'll be happy to
know the cat a category 5 has been
renewed on itunes so if you actually go
over to cat five dot TV / itunes just
like it sounds okay as soon as you go
there if you're using a you know an
iphone or ipod touch or mac anything
even a window system that has itunes
installed you'll be able to get the best
quality copies of category 5 TV so there
are so many different ways you can get
shows like category 5 and other
out there as well but just know that
you'll probably be seeing different
programming so you'll have to get used
to the fact that your shows are a little
bit different and you'll learn to weed
out the ones that that you find you know
a lot of times a lot of one of the
problems with internet TV that you'll
find as you start to get into it is that
a lot of shows or clip shows and you get
a lot of these little five-minute
segments so it sounds like a great show
but it's only five minutes long and you
want to sit down with a bowl of popcorn
and enjoy your stay eating really really
fast yeah done liquid popcorn not the
same Chris right on the other hand much
more than popcorn all right gang hmm I
hope that that kind of helps point in
the in the direction that you need to go
but if you have more questions let us
know I hope that is helpful I think it
could be good I think that's a good
starting point and then if you decide to
install hardware if you think it's
working for you then you go with
something like that like the boxee box
or Roku something like that Wi-Fi is
probably not the best it's going to be
slow but it's convenient if your laptop
has it go for it but as far as actual
streaming video through Wi-Fi it could
be a little bit slow but
you could always try it it's not too bad
I don't get we don't get very good Wi-Fi
here because there's so many signals but
you may have better better luck second
TV just I'm just looking at my notes
here final final note was if you can
stream it to your second TV you can do
that through through Wi-Fi like d-sub
connectors or some RCA but you're not
going to get very good quality your best
just to have two different like to two
laptops for example or too boxy boxes
something like that by the time you run
a 50 foot hdmi cable it's so expensive
to buy that cable you might as well have
bought the box itself it'd be about the
same price and then you can just tune in
but it'll use twice as much bandwidth if
you're not using a centralized server
mural if you get down to it you could
put a centralized call it a server but a
computer with a big old hard drive and
tell it to download and then you could
put a couple of cheap computers on the
tvs and and connect them to the server
so it's going downloading to the server
for example so itunes is not available
for linux no unfortunately there are
alternatives but it's not the itunes
store and but you can install virtualbox
and install windows XP or windows 7 into
that and and you've got access to
installing anything like that
well we're just about at a time oh my
goodness if we ever covered everything I
guess pretty much I I think that was
pretty much thanks for hanging out with
us dude it has been a mad week I'll be
honest and I was running around today
we're trying to get this microphone
situation solved and I understand
there's been some audio issues to this
this evening and and we've got the the
wonderful team at music pro on the south
on the berry go say hi and thanks to
them they're trying so hard to get to
the bottom of this forest is so much so
that they even even fabricated cables
for us so we've got these adapters that
they've made for us for these
microphones to try to make them work Wow
and they don't work so so I you know
we're still in ice chest it was a very
nice gesture and they're trying so hard
to help us get this thing solved and
licked and done and you know so running
around and driving around to get all the
stuff and then finding that we're still
not getting any further so so we're
taking taking our time as best we can
but at the same time pushing forward and
trying to get things resolved so I
appreciate your patience through that as
well as your support and and we'll get
through it so I think one of the cool
things that you can do as well you
notice the banner ads and stuff on our
website make sure you click on those and
support our advertisers we have some
fantastic opportunities to work with
some wonderful advertisers but it's very
important that our viewers respond to
those advertisers so that they know that
that you're actually interested in the
products that they carry for example if
we have an ad on our website for a
particular product B&amp;H photo video for
example they
fantastic store that ships all over we
order stuff from there even though
they're in the States and we get it very
very quickly up here in Canada rather
than going to their website please click
on their banner on our website because
they're there watching that stuff and
they see that you actually follow
through the banner click and based on
that that will determine you know where
their support goes and that indirectly
if you're going to buy a digital camera
there's a chance for you to support us
indirectly because you're getting a
great deal because they've got really
good prices but at the same time you'll
be supporting the show as well because
they'll say oh this came from category
five and they slip a little bit of money
in our account so looks very hmmm what
are you convenient so yeah so so think
about that as you see the banners it's
very important that you know that people
click on those and support us in that
way and it's such an easy way for you to
support us and so I appreciate you just
taking the time and if you find a
product that you like that you've seen
on the show make sure you even pop them
an email and say hey I heard of you guys
on the show even if you can't ship to
you know wherever you're located you
just wanted to say looks like you've got
a great product and you know pop them an
email and let them know that you
appreciate them advertising here on
category five and that encourages them
again to to continue supporting us so
thanks everybody have a wonderful
wonderful week time really really flies
and you're on vacation much I'm on
vacation wonderful can I head that I'd
why not back to my homeland yeah so like
yeah this is like on another planet yes
well you know I've actually had friends
that ask me like what country or why'd
you come to Canada and you know I'm
actually from from Canada you know
Saskatchewan we're actually in the
middle of Canada bleep you're not so ya
gonna go visit some folk we love you
Saskatchewan hang on to your socks is
capture on your boat it rocked oh boy
all right you'll see Krista there next
week you'll see me here next week and
also Hillary will be joining us next
week we're going to be looking at a very
cool motocross video camera Oh Michael
so you can film as you're doing extreme
sports definitely join us tested and you
have an extra I will be fantastic yeah
I'll miss you guys are probably yeah of
course I'll miss you this week see ya
and then i will talk to you next Tuesday
