welcome to category 5 technology TV
episode number 392 for Tuesday the 24th
of March 2015 so nice to see you my name
is Robbie my name is Sasha tonight's
asha we're going to wrap up our series
about creating the ultimate slideshow
from still images tonight we're going to
be actually piecing them together into a
slide show format and also adding music
learn how to do that tonight I get the
best episode i get to wrap it up episode
where everything comes together hmmm
doesn't do it also oh oh yeah I have to
do my news team we're throwing you off
tonight cuz I got her own co-host asks
don't tell counter up on a laptop there
we go here's what's coming up in the
category 5 TV newsrooms would you let
Facebook host your content the worst
case scenario for Linux users could be
on the horizon as Microsoft tries to
push hardware manufacturers to make
secure boot mandatory in time for
Windows 10 locking out other operating
systems which users are being told to
change passwords among hack fears a tiny
new tracker designed to monitor be
behavior is being tested by ecologist at
Kew Gardens in London researchers have
discovered a new method to breach
air-gapped computer systems granting
two-way communications between adjacent
unconnected computers using heat stick
around the details are coming up later
in the show this is category 5
technology TV
starring Sasha dramatis
Hillary rumble
crystal wells
our kid
and your host Ravi Ferguson
this is category 5 technology TV thank
you so much for joining us tonight my
name is Robbie Ferguson mine is Sasha
there made us and tonight we've got a
lot in store for you I just want to say
hi to our chat room everybody who's just
kind of making their way into to join us
tonight thanks for being here of course
all of our viewers on roku as well
enjoying the show through our roku
channel you know what's exciting about
roku what that that's what I've decided
everything everything that's what I've
decided I'm gonna buy myself for my
birthday yes bro can you have this
discussion your birthday's coming up
it's coming up soon yes almost my
birthday month send her a roku send
Miroku please no or just buy one what's
category 5 yeah cat five dot TV / Roku
that's where you want to get one uh
what's tipped you over the edge to buy a
roku Dennis Kelly yeah Dennis Kelly
viewer in our shower yeah way to go man
well what is it wait just the ability to
walk I think yeah well yes the ability
to watch anything I don't know anything
about the Roku yet however let Scott
category five it's gotta be good okay so
yeah that's got try by it well that's
that's the thing i want to try it so
that i can try a buy it was that the
idea that is my idea upcoming review of
the roku 3 I don't know yeah maybe which
is the one that is the best 333 I'll do
the three I like the three for you
review coming up on try it ya see so
sometime after April 24 nice well played
way to work that in there our address is
at the bottom of the site if you want to
wrap it up put a bow on it just off to
the Miller still time stuff that you
want to know some really exciting news
what is it so as you know my birthday is
April 21st and I'm not even shy about
how old I'm going to be alright so I'm
turning 34 where you going the legal
drinking age here in Ontario is 19 there
is a direction
there is the direction I'm going with so
I've been doing on birthday the other
day I went into the lcbo which is where
you go to buy delicious bottles of wine
um and o's asked for ID wow that means
we thought it way to go 18 night well 18
yeah they thought you're right you
couldn't see my grades way to go more
importantly category 5 TV is a member of
the tech podcast network if it's tech
it's here cat five dot TV / tpn and the
International Association of Internet
broadcasters cat5 TV / IA ib thanks
fashion you're welcome Robbie Linden
joining us in the chat room nice to see
you also shot and mo maravilla whoa
dreamweaver 909 is back again we must be
doing something right sweets also I love
hearing from dreamweaver 909 and others
later on well on Ted following us on
Twitter you can go to a category 5 TV on
Twitter or myself Robbie Ferguson I'm
there are you are you one Twitter yet
why would you do this to me I I I ask
that 30 good question 35 seconds before
we went live i was like i have not on
Twitter Oh know anything about you're
not on Twitter yet no I thought it was
like one of those things it would be
like a flash in the pan or like just a
it would fizzle well we've been through
that already it didn't fizzle and it's
it's pretty big I was I think twitter's
gonna be the next big thing I would okay
well maybe i'll get on twitter I'll
start tweeting but I was late joining
Facebook too I joined facebook like four
or five years after it started hmm so
maybe how old is Twitter now four or
five probably no Twitter's not 20 the
Internet's 25 yeah twitter is maybe but
if you're thinking about getting on
Twitter we have we have episode we have
episodes Eric and I did an episode and
so you can go to our website category
five dot TV and do a quick little search
for Twitter for example you're going to
uh we did an episode on how to set up an
account perfect for someone such as
yourself uh my wife Becka was on the
show and we did a special on how to use
Twitter to promote your products maybe
you have to buy or something try it by
it the newsroom with Sasha der made us
two shows that are available on roku one
of which has over half of a million
views since launching only five months
ago that's pretty good that's like a
hundred thousand per month how's that
for mathematics ok so i will rainy me
possibly maybe get on Twitter maybe
definitely get a Roku maybe get on
Twitter that's the way it'll go make it
so you know the best thing the best way
to convince me to do these things does
have me do the episodes where you're
introducing huh because for example we
did like blogging for example yeah yeah
that one and now I back sometimes yeah
and I showed you how how's that been
going that's going better in two weeks
from now I love to blog I haven't
updated my blog lately Aloha but it's
going to happen remember we did the face
are not Facebook the password box
interview yeah and now i'm all about
password box I love password box and I
did install it on my phone because I got
sick oh yeah well you know what happened
is I let I I leave Facebook logged in on
my wife's computer 1 and I I get to work
and I've got all these replies coming in
on my facebook and some okay what's
going on so check the replies and turns
out I've been sending crazy bird
Smiley's and stuff to all different
people so somebody got a hold of it and
started sending crazy weird smiley said
one of your children it was definitely
one of my god so I said I said okay well
then I got it changed my password again
so I changed my password but I you know
of me being me I changed it to something
crazy long and
on good thing you're not at which user
whatever that is coming i will hear
about that but so I never remember my
passwords because they're massive and
crazy yes on a phone I would never be
able to type one of those passwords so
all that said I put password box on my
phone specifically because I had to
change my facebook password here's a
funny story about password box and those
passwords yeah this is a good one but
funny one turn okay so I have password
box I don't even know my passwords
anymore because I have all my passwords
on password box and why didn't they
generate the exact well here's why what
did you because I went to Jamaica a
while back right and I didn't have
password box well I didn't bring my
phone or anything but then in the little
sign in lobby area they had free
internet on their computer so I was like
I'll just check my facebook no right I
don't know my password and you have to
download password box actually you have
to put it into which is fine I mean it's
fine to be unconnected disconnected not
with with my finger not on the pulse
thinking along the lines of security I
wonder if that's almost a good thing
that you couldn't login to your facebook
on a public network probably because
that's how a lot of times your passwords
do get sniffed and compromised right
that who knows but yeah that's that's a
little bit of a catch oh well but that's
said if you had your phone with you you
could have brought up password box and
actually looked up your password and
then typed it into the computer exactly
that can reveal it on your screen I put
password box on and it's pretty neat
because it works just like a browser on
my phone so it's like it's a replacement
for Chrome for example or Safari if you
have a an iDevice and then I just put in
facebook com and asked me which profile
do you want to use and it actually logs
in as that profile I love it I use it
for everything I hope beyond hopes that
with the buyout with Intel and Intel
security bought password box that they
will continue to provide the free
service and the pro service that I use I
think they will I think so but they are
working on they are going to be creating
an export feature that's already in the
works so that
if anything did happen with the company
which I don't think it will because it
was purchased specifically because hey
this is a great product so they're not
buying it to shut it down there buying
it to absorb the feature set and create
you know keep the product going but you
will be able to inevitably export your
password list in which case you could
save oh that would be smart yeah you
won't be careful with that yes repetto
if you have it with you yeah leave it on
in the hotel floor what is this yeah
okay that makes sense so if you have no
clue what we're talking about that is on
another episode the password box episode
yeah you can just search for these
things on I say I want to just stop the
show right now and just say Nelson hey
nice to see you joining us in the chat
room for the first time in a while good
to see ya uh if you are not already in
our chat room like with the likes of tik
tok right and all these wonderful people
like DJ quad yeah kale calm you can go
to Cat Cat five dot TV / chat and go
straight to category 5 TV / chat and
it'll bring up a chat window on your
computer or if you're on freenode just
hop on over to category 5 and you'll
find us jots got some good advice for
his password just as you know enter 1234
oh that's so good I that's what you use
I think it's important to have at least
12 characters to your password so one
two three four five six seven eight nine
zero one two I like that yes I like that
fear just do 10 10 10 and it's like
binary is that what that and you just
type it like this nobody will ever guess
exactly so I used to just use I won't
tell you what word um but I used to use
one word all these words are flying
through my mind right now my end it with
whatever was so if it was like Facebook
it would be like that word face no it's
my password great oh that word oh yeah
miss ya
that's quite the password recipe which
is another keyword to search for on our
website password recipes of course a way
to secure your password I even taught my
daughter how to create a password recipe
and now she's doing it she's nine years
old and she's creating these big massive
cryptographically sound passwords that
no hacker could ever get into and she's
nine because she's using our password
recipe I don't even know what that is
you're just gonna have to check our
website I will co-hosted by Hilary
Rumble so you know it's a good episode
what are you saying about when it's
cooked wait what about me I would have
said that about you I said that about
any everybody there for people who work
here yeah I wasn't very nice Xena no
one's gonna dissing you I'm how is it
possible that to compliment Hillary is
dissing you that's just by default no
that's true i love her too it's adam
you're a nice guy would we can you tell
him a middle child hey least adams
laughing okay alright so let's uh we
ready for him that's yet okay the long
we are wrapping up tonight a three-part
series on creating the ultimate video
slideshow from still photographs we're
not talking about setting up our camera
and snapping you know pictures that can
be used in panoramas and things like
that because this takes no pre-planning
what we're doing is we're taking
photographs that you already have and
saying oh I really wish that I had a
created video or I had have may taking a
picture with the kids in the foreground
and then got them off and then took
another picture so that I would have
those two layers well we don't always
have that ability sometimes we just got
a really great photo it's a Kodak moment
if you will or it's just maybe it's an
old photo maybe something you know you
found in grandpa's closet or something
when you were cleaning up and it's like
this is great I want to turn this into a
slideshow and there you go what we're
learning to do over the course of this
three-part series is create that really
nice beyond Ken Burns effect where we've
added peril axing and created a bit of a
reedy effect going back to last week's
episode of course we actually got into
the animation portion of it and I'm just
going to quickly show you what we were
able to generate so that you can recap
kind of where things are at with this
slideshow let's hop over to my computer
screen here there it is and that's the
kind of effect that we're going for so
we've got this real 3d parallax in kind
of look to our slideshows we're able to
do a lot more than just the traditional
moving in on a photograph so last week
we were able to create the effect the
first week of the series episode number
3 90 we were able to create the crop
lines the images that we require in
order to do this so since last week's
show i've since created yet one more so
this is episode number 392 and i have
created a couple more here so i've got a
picture of my wife there she is so this
is just a still picture that she's
sitting that's the backyard at the
cottage and then I've got I've got a
couple of nice pictures that I brought
here i'm not using all of them tonight
i'd like i'd love to see what i've done
is i've gone through and i said these
are photos that would work really really
well with this and and that's something
that you have to do in the course of
creating these slideshows you almost
have to look at the photo and think okay
how was this taken as far as angles go
if I pulled them out of the back out of
the background and create a foreground
layer am I going to be able to move
around that effectively and get a really
cool effect and so these photos I've
chosen because I believe that yeah
that's possible with these photos this
one here of Becca you see that the
bricks behind her are pretty close to
her almost that they're almost touching
her back so it's it's not I can't create
quite as much of a parallax in effect
because it's not so far behind her that
it would have a lot of parallax but it's
still a good photo on it and I love that
picture of her so I'm going to use it
this photo would work wonderfully well
with this effect because there is a lot
of dimension to the photo you look and
stuff that's over here is very distant
compared to the foreground basically the
people in the foreground are
are really really close and we've got a
lot of depth to that photo by default so
work really well here's another one that
we do have a lot of really great depth
so I could take the kids out of that
photo bring them forward remove the
remove them from the background and
parallax them with the trees in the
background and that would look really
fantastic I would even go so far as
taking becca out of that layer so she
wouldn't be in the foreground layer but
she would be one above the the
background and one behind tally so then
I would then move becca peril axing just
a little bit behind tally so she should
actually going in there would be three
layers there would be three in that case
okay so you can do that too so you pull
each person out and you kind of create
that effect i'm going to show you how
how that's a cheap would there be a
maximum number of layers you would want
to do in this sort of situation well
it's guy the goal is to make it look
fairly realistic at least I mean we're
not going for it's not video obviously
it's a still picture but we want to have
an effect that the pair relaxing is
realistic enough that it doesn't look
like a background moving behind a
foreground or right you know something
silly like that so essentially you know
photo will have maybe three or four
layers of parallax to it because when
you think about how you take a photo you
have your subject which would be maybe a
person right and there might be a lamp
post behind them there's a second layer
of parallax and then one behind that
there's a building right so you only
have three layers in the actual three
dimensions of that that scene oh that
you could possibly work with so what
we're doing is then we're emulating
taking it out of the two dimensions and
creating that mm-hmm 3d scene again but
doing it in a faux way it can look
pretty neat awesome way yeah going
through these photos still there's a
picture of me pushing the kids in the
parking lot at the grocery store in
haliburton a lot of our great photos
come from trips to the cottage with the
kids and stuff because that's when i'm
off work and i can really enjoy
time with I'm smiling that you're doing
I know look at all the glare coming off
of his forehead look how dark my faces
and then there's a bright white light
right on my head that's just that's
because we are the Sun see ok so there
there you have it those are the photos
that I brought with me today to kind of
play with them and get a look at so the
picture of Becca what I did is you
remember what that one looked like right
there's our foe background so you see
what I did is I actually pulled Becca
out of that background and then i
recreated the bricks i recreated the
leaves I removed the Liam's head from
the bottom right and I removed the
camera back from the bottom left and
gave a real nice background for for this
to work if you're like whoa how did he
do that watch episode number 391 or if
you're watching this on the next text
show you can just watch part two of this
series and you'll be able to follow
along and that is done pardon me that is
episode 39 t that is part one yeah it's
the first step of this process okay so
we've got the background layer for that
photo and we've got Becca the next one
was a little more challenging because I
don't know if you remember but there was
a pickup truck in the background there
and so I did have to remove it because
it was just going to be too hard to to
recreate the bottom end of that pickup
truck because it was blocked by my head
the you know the shiny round thing so we
I just decided let's remove the the
pickup together Cael calm says that that
shiny thing is your halo halo how much
do you pay Cal com I I gotta see it visa
card if somebody hasn't already spent it
it's yours thus end of my visa nice yeah
don't know where we're going then the
silence yes the awkward silence all
right there you have it so you see what
I've done not ideal not perfect but you
know what remember i'm gonna be putting
us back on the photo so it's not going
to be obvious the background is gonna be
quite locked yeah why would anybody look
beyond you and I wouldn't do that you'd
be just looking at the the fun can burn
the effect yes I did discover through
working on this photo asphalt is
incredibly easy for this because it's
just a whole bunch of specs so it was
really really easy to duplicate the
asphalt however take only pictures on
asphalt and you'll see kids lay down on
this this gravel there it's perfect the
parallax in sucks because they're so
close to the gravel but it's really easy
to remove me from the background and
there's definitely only two layers been
there definitely uh dear me so with this
photo the challenge was pulling that
pickup truck it wasn't really all that
challenging but beyond the truck is also
the wiring you see all these wires I had
to recreate those two using the exact
same effect that we learned on episode
number 1 of this series or episode 3 90
if you're watching category 5 technology
TV ok so the foreground for that there
it is that's what she looks like good
job thanks buddy I was here while you
were taking the gravel asphalt out of
each little tiny oh yeah the cart the
cart don't do that I said to Sasha what
was I thinking cuz this only took five
minutes right and I really had to rush
it before the show yeah what was I
thinking I chose one with a shopping
cart a shopping cart so as you can
probably see there are all these it's
like when I had to put you in prison on
try it buy it right I oh and i looked it
looks like i actually missed a couple
see oh I did I actually missed a couple
but the grass
novel was shot or the asphalt was
showing through so I created most of
them are transparent see I missed a
couple I I would not have brought that
up had I known that you mystical don't I
look dumb zoom in on that cart kick yes
what is that an error like I said it
took five minutes alone Hillary is so
much cooler all right I gotta load this
up in the open shot I've got the I've
got you stop i I've got the the file
that I created last week and I have also
added the clip of Becca so if I look at
what I've done of that cuz here I've got
the background okay and if I go to
properties and for those of you who are
just catching this for the first time
maybe watching category 5 technology TV
if you haven't seen the rest of the
series this is all free software that
we're working with so the photo editor
that I use is a GNU image manipulation
program it's absolutely free for you it
works on Windows Linux or Mac and get it
at gimpo RG g impl RG the video editor
that we're using is called open shot
video editor in it is also free but it
is only available on Linux so if you
don't have Linux you can download it
linux the operating system is absolutely
free the one I'm using tonight is point
Linux from point linux org ok so with
becca's background you see it there i
have simply set the initial height to
125 and proportional I want the height
and width to be both 125 pixels and then
I moved it up a little bit minus ten
percent so that as i zoom in so the end
of the clip is 175 a percent zoom and
move it left twenty-five percent that's
why it's minus 25 and up to five percent
so is it moving five percent no because
it started at minus ten so it's starting
down here since moving sorry 0 minus 10
is up I don't know
it's up so minus 10 is starting up here
and going to five so the camera is
actually moving down fifteen percent
right okay mathematics remember simple
stuff really but it takes experimenting
and I I'll admit and then it's cool for
you to play with the numbers Bob with
the numbers hey just adjust them a
little bit here and there and say oh you
know what oops i meant to have the
camera go down I needed a negative
number there to start with them and then
move it that way that's mostly how I
learned trial and error I couldn't just
know this I would have to go in just
don't like minus 10 and then go hey plus
10 we were to set go absolutely and I
just kind of drag things around and the
sliders help as you're experimenting and
then when you get a little more familiar
with things and you can start punching
in numbers and really it comes down to
after you've done it 10 times you start
to realize that oh that's probably about
twenty five percent to the left yeah
yeah yeah so it's a pretty simple
program if I can understand it it's
pretty you that are anyway we're gonna
get a sash a meter dis actually get this
okay hey Sasha what do you think I don't
know what next just gonna have to keep
explaining did you miss that before the
show do we explain oh that was good that
was great ah have you ever hear her say
what's this internet it's a great
internet I misheard she was asking about
what was happening in the show so to
bring it up problem you know giggles
yeah all right practice back on track
yes alright so there's the background
we've got it moving around and I can
actually hit play and preview what it's
going to look like so now it's gonna
show me a little preview oh that's
perfect yeah so I can get an idea so see
how it's moving down fifteen percent and
you notice what do you notice it kind of
has and we're looking at this extremely
lowers a resolution because it is just a
preview window that I have zoomed in on
for the sake of you at home
so if you're watching this on a 50-inch
TV well that's grainy it is here too
yeah so and I'm just on like a 21 inch
so it's it's kind of going in on the
photo like this and that's because we've
got the zoom happening and we've got the
tilt or not the tilt but the the moving
up and down happening as well so because
it's happening at the same time what
happens when a camera goes like that
right it gives an effect like it's
swooping a little bit it almost seems as
though there's a bit of an axis on the
camera and it's moving in with an
animated look to it right nice so going
out of that shot now we've got Becca in
the foreground as well so I can look at
that and see how things are looking
there I've got them both set 25 seconds
and with her we've got it moving in like
that so put the two together here we are
now it's going to be a choppy preview
because I've got I believe I've got
smooth scaling turned on so that preview
itself will be slow and choppy but you
can get an idea as to the movement of
that shot right so you see how that how
that's happening because of how it's
going it like her eyes are glynn your
eyes are flickering and that is just
because of the preview right right
rendering low resolution leave you frame
by frame Wow yeah yeah okay so that's
basically we've got our two shots here
to start and our next step now I can add
the third shot but because we're limited
for time the Kart shot may be added
after the fact that you saw how i
created those shots and and what we're
going to do with it but tonight we're
just going to use these two shots so
that we can create the transition
effects kind of get things started for
you so that you've got all the tools
that you need to get this going for your
slideshow but because of the limitations
of time we're just going to work with
with those two shots so in the meantime
we're gonna head over to the newsroom
and sasha is going to have to work her
way around the block sneaking into the
newsroom here let me know when you're
there alright it's it's way way on the
side of Barry hold on here huh usually
I'm far more prepared this is this is
fun when when you're working both yes
yes I forget right I get into to co-host
mode and then I'm like who's our news
anchor today let's see okay I'm ready
take it on my here yeah you're actually
you're in the newsroom physically
obviously this great desk that we bought
for you that cost 10 million dollars I
love it I yeah absolutely it's Tuesday
March 24 2015 and hear the stories were
covering this week Facebook is getting
into the hosting game the worst case
scenario for linux users could be on the
horizon as Microsoft tries to push
hardware manufacturers to make secure
boot mandatory in time for Windows 10
locking out other operating systems
twitch users are being told to change
passwords and mid hack fears imagine
tracking I imagine a tracking device
tiny enough to a fix to Abby it's a real
thing and it's being tested in England
hackers can use heat to steal your data
and these stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere how would you like to
have cheap web hosting we've got some
for you go to cat five dot TV /
dreamhost use the coupon code cat five
TV and when you do for only seventy
dollars you're going to get a free
registration for your domain as well as
unlimited web site hosting and unlimited
email accounts amidst other things go to
cat five dot TV / dreamhost and remember
on checkout use the coupon code cat five
TV to take advantage of this offer back
to the newsroom Sasha I'm Sagittarius
and here are the top stories from the
category 5 TV news room early this year
is Facebook was touting its incredible
growth as a video hosting provider
speculation began to mount that Facebook
would look to host content beyond video
would Facebook get publishers to let it
hosts their articles it appears that
such a plan
is now in motion the New York Times is
reporting that itself as well as
BuzzFeed National Geographic and others
are joining Facebook and testing a new
format that will see content hosted
inside a facebook so users won't have to
go to an external site the tests will
occur in the next several months the
idea behind this is that it takes too
long to go to an outside website and
wait for the page to load this content
could load faster particularly on on
mobile if Facebook just hosted it itself
that makes sense to me to be honest
Robbie because I will sometimes click an
article and let it try and load for
maybe two and a half seconds and then
I'm like oh I know no true cleaners was
so impatient the society first of all
your show tonight is sponsored by a web
host so we have to tread carefully the
answer is no you would not host with
Facebook bad idea um but ya know I can
see just like the infrastructure of you
know of the way that the internet works
if you had it hosted on facebook it
would come up faster and you click on a
message or something that has been
posted and it's instant right but then
you click on an external link and it
takes forever yeah on the facebook app
why don't they instead take the approach
of building some kind of a proxy service
or something that preloads content for
links that have been shared on the
facebook platform oh that makes sense
that would be kind of good or you know
those kinds of technologies exist that
they could be doing more to to improve
the performance without I'm is their app
right yeah they want they want control
of everything no I control why wouldn't
they want control really mm-hmm
microsoft unveiled new information about
Windows 10 at its win heck conference in
china on friday and the news is deeply
concerning to anyone who values the
ability to run non Microsoft operating
systems like Windows 8 Windows 10 will
ship with support for the UEFI secure
boot standard but this time the off
switch which was previously manda
worry is now optional sit so that's bad
news for Linux secure boot is meant to
protect pcs from certain types of mal
well malware that are typically loaded
before the OS boot process has begun
with secure boot active the UEFI checks
the signature of any program that it's
told to look told to load including the
OS bootloader while multiple Linux
distros support the capability the
problem is Microsoft mandates that
secure boot ships enabled this causes
this cause panic in the open source
community back in 2011 because if an
alternative OS bootloader isn't signed
with an appropriate key on a secure boot
enabled system the UEFI will refuse to
boot drive Microsoft diffused the
situation back then by mandating that
all x86 systems ship with the ability to
disable secure boot with windows 10 the
situation is changing those who build
their own desktops will be will retain
the ability to disable secure boot since
the manufacturer doesn't know what kind
of operating system you're going to load
on the board but laptops are a different
story some laptop vendors will
undoubtedly continue to ship a disabled
option on secure boot but vendors may
simply decide that closing the attack
vector is more important than user
freedom particularly when the margin on
PCs is so low to begin with support
calls cost money so eliminating the need
for such interaction is extremely
attractive but sad really right Robbie
like yeah I guess that's the driving
factor I mean money is really what it
boils down to it if you go into a
supercenter and buy a two-hundred-dollar
laptop any and they have to kind of
include support to some degree even if
it's not I don't know I guess you kind
of you have to be able to pick up the
phone and contact the company so does
that mean that the safe for somebody who
really wants Linux right yeah I would
have to then build your own system
that's kind of what about that's the
impression like I wonder if we're taking
this transition if this happens
back toward thinking of the early days
of mac for example where there was Mac
hardware and there was PC hardware and
PC being it could have been UNIX it
could have been Linux could have been
Goren it could have been windows
whatever you were running ms-dos dr. das
or whatever and Q emm 386 are cute you
know all these I love reminiscing but
would we be transitioning now to windows
hardware so that now if I want to buy a
laptop there's a windows laptop and
there's an open laptop that is you know
i can install whatever OS i want on it
but you won't necessarily be able to
walk into a supercenter and get one for
200 bucks anymore right you have to buy
it some other place like either a
specialty store which means what to me
as a consumer more money yeah so I'm not
going to save the money quite quite
possibly we'll make it work we'll make
it work will hack the firmware we will
hack the firm of them right here and
show you how it's done exactly if it can
be done it will be done then the
conversation becomes like I start
thinking what if for example we were to
sign up with verisign and get a
cryptographic signature for UEFI for
grub the bootloader that pretty much
every linux distribution use as well
that's that's put it in general but a
lot of big linux distros use grub the
bootloader so if they had a signature
couldn't you then distribute that
version of grub with the signature but
then it comes down to well how secure is
that now because then wouldn't every
hacker create their exploits to use grub
right for example so there's there's
this really so that's why it's like okay
so how much power we giving Microsoft in
this particular thing how much control
does that give them over the hardware
that stores are able to sell because
stores simply won't probably carry Linux
laptops right there going to be windows
laptops knowing that someone may install
Linux but if that is taken away from us
the consumer it's more than just a
freedom thing it's
monopoly yeah its monopoly is what it
looks like hey whoa here we have it
users of the Amazon owned video game
streaming service twitch have been
instructed to change their passwords
amid fears the site has been hacked
twitch told users that their names and
phone numbers were among the details
fear to have been leaked it said it had
deleted passwords which were encrypted
and disconnected users accounts from
Twitter and YouTube but the site came in
for criticism after it appeared to
condone users setting week replacement
passwords after complaints for some
users that the minimum requirement for
replacement passwords was too
restrictive twitch lowered its threshold
required only eight digit password no
you don't do good you could use Cohen is
a password pin 12345678 becomes a
legitimate password under these rules
wow that's not SAT obviously prompted
criticism from security experts Yasha
switch did not directly admit that it
had been hacked instead they simply said
there may have been on authorized access
to some twitch user account information
well twitch goodness gracious passwords
why would we give the end users control
over the security too hard why do they
yeah why do we create restrictive
passwords in the first place for your
safety so here's what happened in my and
how I understand it so it was hacked so
no no no they have not ran that but they
had to change your passwords because of
the security intrusion is that what
happened and then people had to
re-submit new passwords just up until
now it's been they've allowed only an
eight character password with low
security Wow and so if that makes it
pretty easy to brute force I think and
services like that who's watching the
brute force logs to make sure that
someone's not trying to guess your
password would you know would you know
if someone was sitting there using your
facebook login and trying to guess your
password would you know no you wouldn't
know that you wouldn't know that except
in certain programs I know my my blog it
locks people out after a certain amount
of password it sure does it does but my
Facebook doesn't Yeah right how is it
that we are more secure than Facebook oh
here's the best story no way yeah
there's more there's more a tiny new
tracker designed to monitor be behaviors
being tested by ecologists at Kew
Gardens in London it is made from
off-the-shelf technology it is based on
equipment used to track pallets and
warehouses readers used to pick up a
signal are connected to raspberry pi
computers which log readings the device
has a reach of just 2.5 meters which is
a huge improvement over the previous
generation which ranged only one
centimeter whoa crazy small one
centimeter is like the length of the
actual antenna on that be yes really the
tracker consists of a standard RFID chip
and a specifically designed antenna
which is thinner and lighter than other
models used to track small insects which
allows them to boost the range the idea
is to have readers dotted around a hive
and flower patch in order to track the
signals as the bees move around freely
in the wild the engineer who is a
technical director at the
newcastle-based tech firm tumbling dice
is currently trying to patent the
invention I love this I love though I
asked you earlier it's worker bees
they're putting these antennae on yes
not disrupting yeah you look at that
antenna you think the poor mating be who
gets jabbed through the heart exactly
all sin is very praying mantis or
something yeah no nothing like that
these are worker bees so they're not
mating but they actually glue these with
some kind of crazy glue or something
takes they're probably just like swaps
off at some point right like I wonder if
yeah but it doesn't seem to harm them it
doesn't affect their flight it's it's
lightweight enough that they're still
able to go up
their business yeah there's no business
it looks like the worker bees have a new
uniform is that not like if they can
make stuff I know that this is only a
what did you say to meter yes range yeah
so could it not be used like if they I
think of a shopping mall we talked about
shopping mall and security of the
cameras and stuff it you could place
enough rfid scanners to pick up anything
within a two meter radius no matter
where you are in that mall so for
tracking and stuff do it for stuff like
that either that's good you just take
that into a dark place I do that what
just happened I just I picture a bee and
I and little tiny cameras on in them and
the NSA with a remote connect oh that's
lipper II slope I'm sorry I'm sorry but
did you see this thing I love this idea
only because there's such a problem
right now with bees dying off right
there's and bees are in charge of what
we eat we are only eating because of
bees and their ability to pollinate I
saw the cartoon I know it's true I
believe it's true I didn't see the
cartoon but i think that i believe that
these are in charge of you know almonds
that's important yeah so if we can use
them and track what's going on with
their daily lives and find a way to make
them live longer and stop dying off in
such large wall though those antennae
might not help them for longevity just
realized okay if it can be used for good
it might be then that and certainly
that's what they're doing exactly we
just not for good though here
researchers have discovered a new method
to breach air-gapped computer systems
called bit whisper which enables two-way
communications between adjacent
unconnected pc computers using heat bit
whisper bridges the air gap between the
two computers approximately 15 inches
apart that are infected with malware by
using their heat emissions and built in
thermal sensors to communicate it
establishes a covert bi-directional
channel by emitting heat from one pc to
the other in a controlled manner
this blows my mind according to the
researchers the scenario is prevalent in
many organizations where there are two
computers on a single desk one is
connected to the internal network and
the other is connected to the internet
bit whisper can be used to steal small
chunks of data passwords for example
especially the 8-digit ones and they can
use them for command and control that is
scary so I had this great idea that we
just put little coolies on top of the
towers I think it's perfect no heat
transfer at all then I think that they
could bring back ice block delivery and
you just set one in between your two
computers keep you safe folks you know
what this is great for people in
cubicles cubicle workers can now ask for
a larger cubicle you want your computer
to be more than 15 centimeters away from
your neighbor's computer you need your
own office with walls into every I know
I'm on your side all right for all your
tech news with a slight Linux bias visit
the category 5 TV news room at newsroom
category 5 TV for the category 5 TV news
room I'm Sasha der made us thanks
actually this is category 5 technology
TV welcome to the show this is episode
number 392 can you believe only eight
weeks to go and we are hitting the big
ol 400 400 500 episodes old goodness
gracious mmm golly gee my name is Robbie
Ferguson I am Sasha drew made us so nice
to have you here and hey we are working
our way through our series tonight
wrapping things up let's get going on
transitions so we're using the open shot
video editor and with this tool we're
able to create basically video edits of
our slideshow here so a couple of things
that we talked about previously is the
ability to add more tracks that's
important especially because we're going
to be doing transitions between
different videos here I'm going to
actually right click on my video and go
let's see or no on my track sorry and
add a track be low see that so I'm doing
it the opposite direction add a track
below and I'm going to grab that
background layer and drop it down there
and that one right there and so you see
now I've got this first clip is
happening in my first two tracks one and
two and then three and four contain the
next clip which is Becca sitting at the
cottage there so in order to transition
between them now we've got the ability
to add transition effects using the open
shot video editor typically this would
be used to transition between videos for
example if you're creating a video
itself you can transition between clips
and do some fancy effects we're not
working with video we're working with
stills and creating that kind of video
look to it so we're going to use the
same kind of thing so by using our
transitions tab which you'll find up at
the top left-hand side here you can see
that open shot even though it is free
does include a fair number of excellent
transition effects so we can grab any
one of those and what we might want to
do now interesting fact is that we're
working with two different two different
layers in all cases so so the first clip
is two layers and the second clip is
also two layers so I don't necessarily
have to use the same effect for each
layer mm-hmm how interesting that I
could make the background come up and
make the foreground come down and do
some really kind of funky things as
we're doing this and we can we can play
around and we were talking sash about
how you can you know just play around
with the the numbers yeah mess around
with it and just see what works right
exactly easy to undo well you're not
even really on your zip exactly you're
not even really undoing anything you're
just playing around right and drop
dragons just like that so what I might
try is say okay well my foreground layer
here pardon me the first image with the
with the background and foreground looks
like that
and then I've got Becca comes in now
what I'm going to do just to improve
performance watch what i'm going to do
preferences and use smooth roll smooth
scaling pardon me i'm going to set that
to know now i want to re-enable that
before i start rendering the video to a
video file but just while I'm editing it
it's going to improve performance
tenfold so now when I hit play it's
actually going to move quite a bit
faster and we're not yet I'm not waiting
for it so let's say I want to grab a
wipe diagonal three ok and I'm going to
drag that between that background image
and becca's foreground image and you'll
see that it the fade Direction is
pointed down so I love this about open
shot I wish that cyberlink powerdirector
had this on windows right the ability to
change the direction of a swipe a
transition if you want to fade from one
video to the next video cool but if
sometimes you know cyberlink has an
example if it detects incorrectly it's
going to stutter it's going to fade in
at the wrong radio and then it's it's
not gonna look right so this one allows
me to say oh you got it wrong i can
right click and go switch direction can
see that era arrow so i can actually say
oh no no no i actually wanted that the
other way and now it's wiping the other
way and no no no no no no I want that
the other way right so I can do that and
it's beautiful so now when I push play
on that notice that the background is
going to transition in the back of the
foreground so it's going to go something
like this see that background and
Becca's probably back there somewhere
there she is ok so that the background
of the previous image wiped it
disappeared before if I do a little bit
of a drag here so that I can frame by
frame it see how it's wiping out the
background but the kids are still in the
foreground so it's kind of interesting
the kind of effect that you can create
for this transition it's not a simple
fade out one fade in the next
how boring is that you can fade the
different layers we can do all kinds of
things we can spin one layer out of the
scene if we want we can do whatever you
like okay so I like that and let's grab
now let's move some things around here
I'm going to move this one up remember
it works in late no I can't move that
one up I can move this one do i need to
move my foreground up there we go so now
i'm going to change it so that the
backgrounds fade into each other the
four grounds i'm going to make them so
that they also fade into each other okay
so let's we've gotta wipe diagonal three
which is coming from the bottom to the
top right and let's let's do the
opposite let's grab the other one and
place that there it's auto detected the
wipe direction which is beautiful now if
I hit play let's see what happens here
wait for it wipe wipe and pop pop okay
so we need a transition to bring them in
so I've effectively wiped out the other
shots but not wiped in these ones so
that has to do with the duration of our
wipe sequence so I can right click on it
and go properties and I can actually
change the length of this to a lower
duration higher duration pardon me or
what I can also do let's just zoom in a
little bit with this tool at the right
hand side here and I'm going to
re-enable my mouse here again we let's
just go gk sudo just for your sake
compiz dash dash replace and that's
going to give you a mouse cursor if
everything went well
compiz dash cashing place there we go
and boom now you got a mouse cursor so
that just helps you to see things so now
if I actually take that background and
move this background / just a nudge then
I'm going to be able to transition a
little bit better let's see if I regain
access thing you're sorry there ok so
now i can drag and that was just so that
you could actually see this so i'm going
to put that there let's see what happens
to my background now see I've got two
transitions one for my foregrounds one
for my backgrounds and see what happened
there background watch it's
transitioning into the other backward
that's perfect you know so now I'm going
to take back to hear from the foreground
move her back as well and we're going to
do a similar kind of effect but the
opposite direction for my foreground so
now the transition is going to look like
this remember we don't have smooth
scaling on there it goes and because we
don't have smooth scaling it's not going
to be perfect but ok so we want to fix
that fun things you could do with this
you know and there's no end to it and
again you see how we're just going to
drag drag dragon it's not a difficult
thing at all but you can create these
really really cool effects and you're
just kind of experiment and see what
happens here foreground and background
white Becca comes in kids disappear and
there's the next shot so we're getting
pretty close to a cool effect something
that I would that I would say is usable
and that's the kind of final outcome of
our transition so then we create more
more of those sequences so you followed
along with the series so you know
exactly how to do that and you're able
to create you know it could be a
25-minute slideshow a slideshow yeah and
you see things like slideshows at
weddings now sometimes at funerals
you'll see them in birthday parties so
you could really get that in the
best-looking way
and I think to wedding is a perfect
example they can take the bride and
groom pictures you know of them growing
up and doing this kind of a thing to it
even taking them and think about this
you could take a background from the
groom's photo and bring the bride into
the photo and move them around you can
scale all this kind of stuff cool
they're five years old and there they
are in the photo together all of a
sudden find a similar beach shot of you
know the two kids and you can do those
kinds of really cool things and move
around in that scene and all of a sudden
it's it's created this whole new thing
so then the final thing to do now we're
just doing a real quick this is only if
I don't know half a minute video kind of
thing but the next thing is just to add
another track here for our music so this
one is going to become our music track
and and it's as simple as simply
pressing that plus button to create that
I can rename it and I can actually call
this music and then we go to project
files here and right click and import
files just to keep things simple for us
what I what I would do is just grab our
theme music for example because that's
perfectly legal for me to do that I can
do that so if I if I didn't if I wasn't
completely out of time you simply browse
to the file itself it's an mp3 file a
WAV file anything that's supported it's
going to show up just like a picture and
you drag and drop it onto your timeline
and there you have it so then all of a
sudden what you end up with is rewind
our video here
and there you go our little slideshow
and you'd want to turn isn't that cool I
love the effect I love what you can do
with this and there's really no limit
beyond your imagination and just the
little bit of time that it takes for you
to put this stuff together and from
there all you want to do is rien a
balloon scaling and then render out the
video in full quality and you'll get it
will just look beautiful that transition
for example it's not going to be choppy
like that in the full rendered video
we're looking at this without smooth
scaling and this is just a preview for
our sake so that we can make sure our
shots line up and all that kind of stuff
so this is category 5 technology TV
thank you very much for joining us this
week once again and hope that you've
enjoyed the course of that series
how we how we get through that now we
can create something amazing with free
tools wow this is again the fastest hour
of the whole I know the word 20 seconds
left now I'm just thinking about all of
the slideshows I could create oh don't
get to it no you have blogging to do
I've blogging today it's got blogging do
you can blog about creating slideshows
don't add slideshows to every blog I
don't even know how to add images i
justjust know how to add a rigid a
little peanut-shell come oh how to add
slideshows to wordpress there you go all
right folks will have a wonderful
wonderful week and we will see you again
next Tuesday night I'm Robbie Ferguson
I'm Sasha through made us we'll see you
next week night we hope you enjoyed the
show category 5 TV broadcasts live from
Barrie Ontario Canada every tuesday at
seven pm eastern if you're watching this
on demand or through cable TV check out
the local show times in your area at
category 5 TV and find out when you can
watch live and interact in the community
chat room category 5 is a production of
prodigy digital solutions and is
licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada we'll see you
next time thanks for tuning in
