welcome to category 5 technology TV
episode number 402 for Tuesday the
second of jun 2015 welcome to the show
and tonight we are going to indulge our
need to code our needs a code we are
going to start learning how to do PHP
functions with our eight segments in the
series beginner to intermediate PHP
stick around all right I should do the
news oh yes here's what's coming up in
the category five TV news room one
person's junk is indeed someone else's
treasure one of the first 200 Macintosh
computers ever manufactured was
unwittingly donated to a recycling
center who later turned around and sold
it for nearly a quarter of a million
dollars Facebook is to expand its
artificial intelligence research opening
its first lab outside the US in Paris
Danish toy company Lego has launched a
rival to popular video game Minecraft
max older than a year are vulnerable to
exploits that remotely overwrite the
firmware that boots up the machine a
feat that it allows attackers to control
vulnerable devices from the very first
instruction stick around the full
details are coming up later in the show
this is category 5 technology TV
starring
Sasha dramatis Hillary Rumble
christo wells
and kid
and your host Ravi Ferguson
you
this is category 5 technology TV hey I'm
Ravi Ferguson I am Sasha dradis welcome
to the show hey category 5 technology TV
is a member of the tech podcast network
if it's tech it's here cat5 TV / tpn and
also the international association of
internet broadcasters cat five dot TV /
IA ib you have thats how it's done crazy
I have to definitely get that done how
did I ever memorized that cuz you wrote
it oh yes uh if you have a question that
we might be able to answer give us a
call on the cat phone 2545 cat5 TV
nobody's calling us we'll call you
asacol make it ring Oh give us a call
today live that would be awesome why not
all right um JP JP 0 JP oh maybe on
Twitter got his hands on a new roku and
is watching from his TV which is nice
awesome I want to Roku and you might
also want to Roku which you can buy from
cat five dot TV / Roku it's felt are
okay you check out and JP nice to be on
your big screen TV yeah our address has
changed oh yeah you can this is
important this is important this is
important especially if you want to
stamp postcards or premium vinyls
category five stickers oh come on do
that the first five people to send us
the stamp postcard will get premium
vinyl stickers oh we give them a Nepali
well giving you an autographed business
card as well well what we're gonna do
now you're going to get the vinyl
sticker if you send us a postcard that
is stamped so don't put it in an
envelope actually stamp it send it to us
and the first five people are going to
get the vinyl sticker and everybody who
sends one and that it arrives before
july we're going to put you in a draw
we're going to be giving away a full set
of the autographed business cards as
well
loads of ways to win are so our mailing
address has changed of course the new
mailing address is on our website
category five dot TV so make sure you
get that send us a postcard send us a
Hello whatever you want to do and and
you will have a chance to win some stuff
can I stamp my stamp on the thing as
well you tell us about the stamp you've
got the stamping I didn't bring the
stamp i forgot it at work i've been
using it at work you've been using it
are you loving it yeah what's great is
we ran out of pens we do a lot of
drawers well wasn't that convenient see
all our pens and I the only one who
could sign stuff yeah exactly so secret
shopper came in this week I pass you
feel I passed that part if you're
wondering what on earth we're talking
about check out episode number 3 99
where Sasha actually created a stamping
pen I wish she had brought it with you
please bring him actually show people so
it worked out it's perfect does it look
like you actually signed it totally
until I nice I did handling same people
the same like stamped receipt like same
table as they mated notice exactly and
as I was walking by they were like I'm
sure this is a stamp I could hear them
grumbling under their voices I saw this
on category 5 technology th this is a
stamp she's lazy Shane Milton from
YouTube why you draw your attention to
another great tool from Linux to find
out what's eating your hard drive birds
oh yeah so like last week's with a with
the yeah we're looking at space sniffer
thingy so what changes one is called GD
map and it's available in your favorite
package manager thanks for the tip Shane
awesome possum and duty I like this I
can just sit and drink my coffee I know
good planning Robbie yeah Sasha does all
the talking perfect c 1 28 d called you
out no what did I mom well there was an
error last week the computer that was
having trouble with the card reader was
a laptop oh right so I recommended
unplugging the USB from the internal
motherboard isn't possible yeah so with
Houdini oh kudi who who'd we know what's
your name what
instead the viewer who sent the question
about the laptop is named yes who do we
know maybe yes instead try going to the
BIOS and making note of the settings and
then load the optimal default settings
so reset to factory defaults basically
your BIOS right then reenter the bios
and restore any settings that will not
boot from SD card the SD cards but even
that might be remedied if your computer
manufacturer offers a BIOS firmware
update thank you for that message on
YouTube c128 d so what what he's saying
is what you could do is go into the bios
reset everything to factory defaults
then you know maybe shutdown might be a
good idea to shut down pull the battery
pull the power cord let it power out and
then plug everything back in power back
up go back into the bios set everything
back up and that's going to force the
bios to wake up and say oh let's
reconnect to that device right good
suggestion thanks for calling me on that
i didn't even realize obviously i
thought it was a desktop computer so my
advice was sound however it did not help
who do we know what so ever it's
probably got his laptop apart keyboards
all broken up to shreds and trying to
solder off the USB peripherals from
motherboard sorry about that so sorry i
sorry you had two more at the end of the
show is there a disclaimer there is yeah
you break it you buy it nice first trace
last try school name reflects on last
week's news story and share is concerned
that servers will generate the heat then
that will create or generate quite a bit
of electricity and who's to pay for it
so oh the heater heater they grab your
servers so like a wrong a lot of
electricity in order to run good
question i think that it would probably
be offset by the amount you're saving
you think it would i guess it depends i
mean how much does heat cost mystically
because if I'm powering a furnace versus
powering a server is it not a balancing
scale kind of thing I still like my idea
best that they should just put them in
community centers my biggest concern
is not so much about the electricity but
the fact that that the company that's
doing the the servers using them as
heaters radiators is they require fiber
optic internet so you already have to
have a really strong expensive internet
connection wait I think that they are
doing that they're laying the lines for
it do you think they are doing like if
they would come into my house and say
I'll put in the internet I'll pay the
hydro you just reap the benefits of this
free server there free heat from our
server yeah that sure sounds too good
they're making money because they're
selling access on their cloud and it's
got you know docker apps and everything
on this cloud that's based on radiators
I live in a basement apartment so I
don't know where this is but if you're
in Barry talk to me because I will use
your feet sounds good um I I should just
make mention for you that I did send a
Twitter message a tweet to the company
that's making those and I haven't heard
back oh so let you know well certainly
let you know if they get back to us on
that company might be the middle of the
night I realized that it's true yeah
seven o'clock Tuesday here what you mean
they're not watching they're not come on
and that of course is due to do nurdle
eyes so tweet them nerda lies with the
zen right um thank you so much to
anybody who donated it or used our
affiliate links and partner links this
week we have pressing needs and your
donations definitely help affiliate
links are a great way to support the
show because you can shop on amazon you
can shop on ebay you can shop at B&amp;H
photo-video pretty much anything that
you want these days can be bought on
amazon it's unreal and they've really
done a good job of creating a service i
ordered something on sunday and it was
here yesterday overnight I and I didn't
even pay for shipping I heard on the
radio that they're starting to do at
Amazon will do same day shipping if your
amount is over thirty-five dollars
really same day shipping Elfie as long
as you pay 35 yeah I can't believe that
I get stuff as quickly as I do unless
there are situations like I mentioned
that we ordered a case for the Raspberry
Pi I did order it from amazon but it was
a third party seller right and it's
coming from China it's on a boat
somewhere and it's taking its sweet time
to get here but anything that I've
ordered that is sold by amazon gets here
right away so you can actually go to our
website category 5 TV click on support
us and then affiliate links and you'll
see Amazon and a bunch of other shops
there that you can shop with all you
have to do is every time you're going to
shop at amazon anyways or any of these
shops you click our link and it takes
you to amazon right whatever it is
exactly and then it just I've done it
before it I have done it before it's
easy you cannot mess it up it's better
gauge yeah so anytime we want to know
how easy something is we just email it
to Sasha like sorry can you figure this
out and if she's if she doesn't email
you back in five minutes then you know
it's not any good I'm still trying to
figure out your email that's the problem
that's the problem she hasn't figured
out email um mike n on youtube was
watching the backyard BBQ bash episode
four hundred and commented that it
reminded him of some barbecues he hadn't
Barry that had you know less food more
beer but still that means he's in barrie
which we know you're watching live here
in studio like my mom and my sister are
today hello it's my mom's birthday happy
birthday happy birthday she's 29 Barry
has changed so much over the years and
our yard is we have the beautiful forest
and the trees and and it's glorious and
then it's rare to you know it's becoming
more and more rare to find that in the
city and it's it's a really great city
but it has changed a lot glad to help
you reminisce exactly come out to the
next wouldn't it really works so well if
we had a whole bunch of beer though no
might have been easier for me you all
noticed how awkward it was for me to
stand shorter than everybody else while
it was interviewing them you were on a
hill at the bottom I was at the bottom
of a hell yeah we understand that set me
up for failure what are we doing today
today we're learning how to create PHP
functions and I want to take you through
it we're going to learn
specifically how to save ourselves some
time save us some redundant coding right
are we ready for it is that what you're
you're getting I yeah I'm well then are
you ready at home bring up your text
editor because this is gonna be a lot of
fun we're not using no GUI I might even
do this in nano what do you think of
that I think that's a great idea that's
what I would do mm-hmm thanks Asha
appreciate your support ok so I'm going
to just bring up I am actually you know
I'm going to have some fun with this
we're going to do this in the terminal
let's see what we can do so I'm going to
just jump over to my temp folder is a
place that I can work and what we're
going to do now this is I'm going to
give you a number will be at the bottom
of your screen there but that number you
can go over to this website address cat
five dot TV demo doc appt five dot TV /
there it is and you can actually get
this code as well okay so we're going to
use the terminal so that we can really
have some fun and I want to get that
here we go ill prepared you jump you
threw me into this I'm going to get it
23 0 0 23 that's what we're working on
okay so where does this what are we
actually doing here i'm gonna i'm going
to create a file here we're going to
call this our index well I may have do I
have an index no I don't index dot PHP
there we go so we're creating a new file
in nano called index PHP how do we open
and close PHP just like that the thing
that we may be tempted to do when we're
coding PHP with what we're what we're
about to do we're wanting to save
ourselves some time when it comes to
calculations and taking calculations and
turning them into Lang language or
verbiage so if I for example if I say he
wanted to compare 15 items right I might
be tempted to in that scenario say okay
let's say number of items equals let's
make it a player
number so I might be tempted to say if
number of items is greater than one then
we're going to say echo what did I say
he wanted to compare number of items to
compare number of items item right so I
might be tempted to do it like that and
then for the singular because if number
of items is greater than one we're going
to say he wanted to compare a number of
items this is a long way this is how
we're thinking we kind of think in
linear terms and we think in logic
logical terms that this is how right I
might think to do this so then i would
say else because now we know that
actually number of items is not greater
than one so that means it's one or zero
but we're not going to encounter that so
we would say echo he wanted to say look
at number of items or I could just say
one cuz I know it's one and this time we
have to say what item item right because
it's singular so programmatically it
makes sense mm-hmm and we would say okay
looking that in a linear methodology or
mindset that that works but it's a lot
of redundancy I hate redundancy and when
you're working with different languages
say you've got a situation where you've
got English French Spanish and or
perhaps you're just working with a lot
of text and having to make sure that if
I make a change to that I need to also
make sure that I make a change to the
singular form of that let's run this
code see let's run it so that you can
see what it looks like so if i type PHP
index dot PHP he wanted to compare three
items oh that's perfect now if I open
that file again and I say number of
items is one and save it run it again he
wanted to look at one item notice the
difference see
got singular plural yes okay now this is
where PHP gets exciting because now we
can start using a programmatic mindset
to solve the redundancy issue of having
to type things multiple times having to
use the logic of if it's greater than
three then do this if it's less than if
it's one do this and we've got that
redundancy and we're really greatly
simplifying it with this example but I
know that there are ways that this can
be used to save you so much time but at
the core of what we're doing tonight
we're really learning about how do PHP
functions work at their base how can we
create a function that we can then call
over and over and over again to
basically perform the same operation but
not have to redundantly type that over
and over and over again throughout our
code and sometimes code can become quite
lengthy and quite large this has to do
with anything from something that's low
locally running in the command line like
I'm doing here it could be a website
could be an online cart system and you
want to know hey did they put one item
in their cart or two items right right
well how do we get that verbiage without
having to be redundant that's what we're
gonna do okay so let's open up that file
again and let's say let's take a
different approach ok Sasha yes we're
going to say create a function and this
works like this okay function first work
and will say plural that's what we want
to do and it looks like that okay okay
so we need to now tell our function what
it is that we want it to read the data
from so i'm going to say i'm going to
create a string we're going to call it
amount so now if I open that up in turn
so see I put braces around that that
those braces say okay now that's my
function anything that happens in here
is part of the function if I type echo
dollar sign amount not an apostrophe
sorry now outside of that function after
its declared I can go echo plural and
then what 500 notice that I haven't
entered dollars an amount because what
I'm actually doing is I'm commanding it
to run
function and then here's the amount that
I'm giving it and what's it going to do
it's going to echo it so if I now run
that program it echoes out 500 you see
that at the beginning of my line so
let's make it smart let's instead say
we're going to start with them out and
then we're going to do something kind of
fun here we're going to go singular this
is where language gets exciting and we
can go equals quote quote apostrophe
apostrophe what that does is that
declares that blank is the default so I
don't always have to declare this and
plural let's set a what would be a
default for something that's plural item
or item s yes right typically plural
would be an asset in ass english
language yes so that will be our default
we can always override it by sending
something in the third place for our
function what that means is is I can now
go echo plural 500 apostrophe apostrophe
for Singler is empty comma head or as
and it will instead add as right okay
that's going to make sense to you in
just a second so with that information
now I can go if notice I'm within my
function dollar sign amount is greater
than 1 do this we turn because we're in
a function we can actually send
something back to the two outside of the
function the code that's running in did
you use Pico Pico ya know okay why well
what is Pico is that it like nano I'm
using nano yeah it was like nano okay is
that a different version of the the
program yes all right hey I'm the chat
room for them to say something something
that i could say out loud that sounded
really smart it's that that was it all
know that PHP is pre hypertext processor
well done also smart okay continue okay
alright so now I'm going to return
something so what does this mean and now
i can return dollar sign plural because
amount is greater than 1 notice amount
was passed through on the first variable
so else notice how simple that is
there's not a lot of code here return
singular okay so now we've got a full
function that if I go a number of items
let's say equals three okay so now if I
go echo plural number of items which we
know is three it's going to be it's just
going to output an S see that ass at the
beginning it says surabhi mm-hmm so how
does that work so now I go echo item dot
plural number of items so now in my
language it says items see that what I'm
going to do here i'm also going to add a
PHP end of line and what that's going to
do is make it so that doesn't put it
before Robbie that just puts a carriage
return so now it's items okay so now if
number of items is equal to one of
course when I run it it's item it's not
going to run it as it's not going to see
it as plural so I've now created a
function that fully works with anything
that I send to it if the first item is
an amount a number okay so 5 10 so I can
do things like this I can instead of
number of items equals 1 I can instead
take an array and I can go my array
equals hello my array equals hi so I now
have an array that is valued at two
there are two things in that array so
now I can within that I can go count my
array and if I run that we know that
there are two so it says items so watch
what happens now if we take that and we
put it into the context of our cart so
we say he wanted
to look at or we're going to use the
verbiage compare and then how many items
let's say count dollar sign my array
item and then plural or singular okay he
wanted to compare two items alright so
now if i change my array so it only
contains one item and run it he wanted
to compare one item notice it's not
there's no s at the end of that so where
this gets exciting now okay well you saw
that i created a singular form as well i
can input something for singular and
plural so we can do some interesting
things here with our function and there
it is that's all that there is to it
that's the entire text for this function
that we're going to add to our code and
use it anywhere we want to now because
it only has to be declared once and then
you can use it a million times so let's
say instead compare well how can you
possibly compare one item you cannot
doesn't make a whole lot of sense does
it so to say he wanted to compare one
item to why right so instead we're going
to say watch this this is kind of neat
plural count my array because that's the
how many items are in the array we know
it's one right now see the array just
above there and so we're going to assign
what would it be in singular form that's
our first string here so we would say he
wanted to look at say okay but then the
plural would be compared close that off
if I've got my syntax right
then we need to add a space syntax
syntax is like that I didn't do a typo
okay grammar okay programmatically
grammar basically he wanted to look at
one item see that so now our function
not only works with the numbers but it
also works with the verbiage so we don't
have to rewrite redundant multiple
copies of this verbiage so now if I take
that array and I say okay let's let's
actually make it a few like that okay
run that again and watch what happens he
wanted to compare seven items so it's
changed not only the number the weather
it's plural the word item but also
whether he's comparing or looking at
right all within the same function and
so that with those little those few
lines of code that's all there is to it
I'm able to do all that one thing that
we can do to now improve this even
further is we can do something really
fun because you know what I don't like
you're like really fun I think it's fun
look at the joy on my face unlike a
little boy when it comes to code i love
it i just love code and it's such simple
stuff but it's so fun to when you figure
this stuff out I don't like this count
my array and blah blah blah ok so I'm
going to get rid of that my array well
of course we're going to have a big
problem there i'm going to show you why
so anywhere within my plural i'm going
to do that now what I'm doing is I'm
actually sending my array to plural well
that's not going to work because my
array is not what it's not a number
right it's an array right so what we
instead do is we say if is array dollar
sign amount hey if it's an array do
something a little bit differently let's
do this
dollar sign count equals count see how
I've now put that my know it was a mount
sorry can't talk n tight ok so now
dollar sign count is equal to the count
the number of variables in the number of
keys in dollar sign amount so now it's a
number it's converted it to a number
called count so just change all these
now just that one I guess and then else
here's the this is hey if it's not an
array we know it's a numbers so let's
say count equals int Val so it's an
integer value dollar sign amount so now
we've said if it's an array count how
many how many there are and that's going
to be our account if it's not an array
we know that it's a number so we're
gonna and we're going to force that by
changing it to an integer value so that
somebody can't break the code by
accidentally injecting something else I
feel like maybe both myself and songbird
will probably be watching this show over
and over again like it repeated like
three seconds exactly three seconds
segments pause ok wait what did that
mean well that's all there's to it so
then well you know what's changed now is
my array looks like that but look at my
calls my call is simply plural my array
I'm actually now sending the whole array
to my function I don't have to count it
manually anymore right I don't have to
create that here I don't have to send a
number it's now the only time that i'm
still using count in this is when i say
the number of items ok my array items
because that's outside of my plural
function ok so let's run it ok so
nothing has changed other than the fact
that we are no longer count we're
sending an array and there we go he
wanted to compare seven items and it got
it just from that and i sent the array
so what I'm going to do I'm going to
post the code that i just created live
on the show i'm gonna post that for you
at demo cat five dot TV / 0 to 3 and
that way you can look at this you can
use that function if you want
use it in your your own software use it
in your own websites I do find that kind
of functionality pretty handy but I hope
that you've been able to follow along
with that look at the code at that
address okay and figure out I think
that's a great way to learn is yeah it's
someone else's code figure out how does
that work and I hope that the having
featured it on the show tonight also
helps you to get your head around it as
well I think it really really will help
like there were definite parts of that
that I def like that I felt I could get
there you go and as we already
established earlier on in the show if
sasha gets it then it's easy you said it
I did not say it start in many ways I
feel like a jerk saying that in many
ways different when it comes to
programming mm-hmm little lesson we're
learning though oh by the way I'm going
to the news desk she's like hey
everybody oh he's a senator she's gone
well over to the category 5 TV news room
are you ready no I'm not ready over
there may be some time oh well this is
category 5 technology TV welcome to the
show visit our website triple w category
five dot TV find out all the cool things
that we've got going on we've got other
shows available for you as well if you
want to add the category 5 TV network
roku channel to your device go to cap
five dot TV / roku channel and that will
allow you to subscribe to all of our
programming here at category 5 TV thanks
for tuning in tonight now off to the
newsroom here is sasha tomatoes it's
tuesday june the second 2015 and hear
the stories were covering this week our
recycling firm is trying to track down
the woman who dropped off an extremely
rare macintosh one computer worth almost
one quarter of a million dollars
facebook is opening a new lab in Paris
focused specifically on the development
of artificial intelligence Lego is
finally bringing out a Minecraft
competitor a newfound exploit for max
has been discovered that lets an
attacker remotely overwrite the firmware
that boots your computer these stories
are coming right up don't go anywhere
if you need website hosting for your
website for your blog head on over to
cap five dot TV / dreamhost use the
coupon code cat five TV we've got fully
SSD hosted lamp stack servers that are
just waiting for you there and for only
seventy dollars a year you're going to
actually receive a calm domain name
you're going to get that along with
unlimited hosting space unlimited
bandwidth unlimited email addresses and
the ability to host an unlimited number
of domains all covered within that
seventy dollar fee per year so go to cat
five TV / dreamhost and again use the
coupon code cat five TV back to the
newsroom here Sasha I'm Sasha to
radisson here the top stories from the
category five TV news room it turns out
that one person's junk is indeed someone
else's treasure a south bay recycling
firm is looking for a woman who in early
April dropped off boxes of electronics
that she had cleaned out from her house
after her husband died about two weeks
later the firm clean Bay Area discovered
inside one of the boxes a rare find a
vintage apple one one of only about 200
first-generation desktop computers put
together by Steve Jobs Steve Wozniak and
Ron Wayne in 1976 the company had a
backup of donations and didn't
immediately go through her boxes the
recycling firm sold the apple one this
month for two hundred thousand dollars
to a private collection and now because
the company policy is to split proceeds
5050 with the donor he's looking for the
mystery woman who refused to get a
receipt or to leave her name oh I know
to get her $100,000 check the woman just
needs to show up at the company's
warehouse because the man who accepted
the donation said to prove who she is
all he needs to do is look at her that
is really sweet Robbie like it firstly
it's sad and secondly it's really sweet
it's nice to know that they're doing
their best I mean here we are in Canada
and they're trying so hard to track her
down yeah you imagine though dropping
off what you think is junk and this is
old stuff
I mean it look it how would you know
that it was not just a bunch of circuit
boards and and junky stuff two hundred
thousand dollars it's sold for well and
I mean I'm just trying to empathetically
putting my feelings on to her but i'm
thinking like she her husband just died
so she's probably going through all this
stuff and she's full of emotion and
she's already heartbroken about having
to get rid of this stuff so once they do
track her down and give her the check
it'll probably just kind of put a nice
sweet lining on you know such a bitter
process in that process so hopefully I
find her they give her the money so
Facebook is to expand its artificial
intelligence research opening its first
lab outside the US in Paris the team
will work on ambitious long-term
projects including natural language
processing and speech and image
recognition Facebook's chief technology
officer Mike short fur said that the
threat of a I had been overblown in
recent months yan look hon who heads up
Facebook's AI research said that we have
nothing to worry about in the near
future he believes it will be several
decades before we see human level AI and
says this gives the AI community and
industry plenty of time to talk about
the ethics a is one of the three pillars
of investment for the company the others
being virtual reality and connectivity
initially six research scientists will
be based in the Paris lab growing to 12
by the end of the year why Paris of all
places like why I don't understand the
Paris because they like their wine their
ladies and their a I it's it's so good
well you know what there's a there's a
large number of people focused
specifically on artificial intelligence
development in Paris so it really is a
good location for facebook to go to but
with the comments about you know well
it's were so many years off from
artificial intelligence you know and and
we're why are we afraid I I think it
really reminds me of what the
conversations must have been like you
know before pollution and you know well
oh well we're so many years
off its you we don't need to make wise
choices yet and it seems a little bit we
should probably talk about these silly
yeah we should talk about the ethics
before we go ahead and do all of you i
really think you kind of need to plan
for ethics when you're building
something such as you know that's what
you're working toward okay you're
obviously you brought it up so you're
working toward artificial intelligence
that is human-like mm-hmm realistically
though I mean it starts with okay
they're gonna create advertising systems
and so I think your advertising system
should probably have a certain level of
ethics as well maybe they don't have
arms and legs and I can't go around
beating people up but they should be
ethical yeah I'd say slippery slope once
you start right so this is fun news the
image to accompany Lego has launched a
Lego world is available now at a four
hour 11 nine or eleven dollars and
ninety-nine cents not with pounds but I
don't know how to say that 11 11 pounds
ninety-nine pen sir via the steam gaming
platform its final release featuring
classic and modern playsets and popular
min mini figurines is expected in 2016
features will be added in response to
feedback from players of the game Lego
already sells minecraft playset so
gamers can physically build their
virtual collection or creations and lego
worlds will invite fans to do the same
in reverse Tom stone managing director
of TT games which will release Lego
world's said it embodies the physical
Lego brick building fund that consumers
have enjoyed for decades on a digital
platform that now delivers an entirely
new type of experience with the beloved
bricks from the brick by brick editor to
discovering an expansive range of items
characters and creatures to populate
your world the creative possibilities
are endless he added Daniel Goldberg who
has written a book about the growth of
Minecraft said that he was surprised
that it had taken this them this long I
agree now that i think about it because
lego and minecraft seem like they're
sort of blocky the same you know what's
funny about that statement
that when people say to me I don't
understand the appeal of Minecraft or in
our case mind test I tend to say it's
really like a modern-day lego it's your
building you're creating and revenue
jank is in the chat room and says
virtual Lego I'd much rather the real
thing and it's true but as a dad of
young kids a lot of space and a lot of
money they're extremely expensive so to
be able to we may not understand the
currency but 11 pounds ninety-nine pence
yeah I think its patents panzon so we'll
just wrap oh yeah we'll just well 12
pounds about 12 pounds I it's a lot
cheaper than going out and getting the
real thing to be honest with you well
plus you can't like in the middle of the
night when you're getting up to feed the
baby step on a virtual Lego block oh
that hurts and there that obviously
there's there's the whole tactile feel
of real Lego but I think there's a
really good place for it and it's about
time they did this it just does make
sense yeah they said minecraft is
exactly what Lego should have done ten
years ago here here so kind of awesome
feat that allows attackers to control
instruction the attack effects max
shipped prior to the middle of 2014 that
are allowed to go into sleep mode a
malicious user could reflash a max by us
using functionality contained in user
land which is the part of an operating
system where installed applications and
drivers are executed by exploiting
vulnerabilities such as those regularly
found in Safari and other web browsers
attackers can install malicious firmware
that survives hard drive reformatting
and reinstallation of the operating
system the attack is more serious than
the Thunderstrike proof-of-concept
exploit that came to light last year
while both exploits give attackers the
same persistent and low level control of
a Mac the new attack doesn't require
even brief physical access as the
thunderstrike did
means attackers halfway around the world
may remotely exploit it at the moment
there isn't much use of vulnerable
machine or there isn't much users of
vulnerable machines can do to prevent
exploits other than to change default OS
X settings that put machines to sleep
when not in use so if your if your
computer never goes to sleep then is
that if it never goes to sleep it'll
never be a problem I guess that's where
the problem lies I is hey during the
sleep mode transaction or whatever but
that's kind of scary I mean these aren't
even really that old systems you talk in
five years and older right so definitely
the one that we talked about earlier
that one's susceptible he hates anything
else that has been released in the past
couple of years yeah well and see it
makes me worried because people i think
go under this false sense of security
that macs are safer safest safer it's
really letting sense what oh you know
where well a mac and linux fall into the
same kind of blanket of it's not that
they're impenetrable it's that they are
safer than the Microsoft alternative so
max are bound to have exploits just like
Linux is but it's going to be a lot less
than say windows for example but this is
this is a big one and because there's no
real fix for it at this point I mean
hopefully there will be something that
comes out but we're talking flashing
firmwares on every Mac that was sold
before five years ago that's pretty
messy I wonder whether or not they'll do
it can they do a recall what they do
like a car recall know what they do a
computer Mac fanboys I just have to
upgrade that's the rule right is
obsolete you gotta upgrade yeah oi yeah
well big thanks this week to roy w nash
and our community of viewers for
submitting stories to us if you found a
story a news story that you'd like to
send email to newsroom at category 5 TV
for all your tech news with a slight
linux bias visit the category 5 TV news
room at newsroom category 5 TV for the
category 5 TV news room i'm sascha
dermis
thanks Sasha this is category 5
technology TV welcome to the show it's
episode number 402 that means there are
four hundred and two hours of this stuff
available for you on our website
category five TV or of course you can
also find us on roku find us on YouTube
finest pretty much anywhere you get your
programming from we'd love to have you
participate in the show and become part
of our community all right do we have
some viewer questions leave we could get
in do you have you requested great
they're coming in where hey to our chat
room is well nice to see everybody I
love the chat room well no I said that I
know I said that on the four hundredth
episode I will say it every episode I
love the chatter we need to say that
that's fine yeah can I say hello to some
of our newly registered viewers we've
got vbd 1804 who just recently
registered on our website category 5 TV
sometimes people have been watching for
some time and then suddenly decide oh
maybe I should register for the website
that's a way that you can accumulate
things like viewer points and
participate in some of the competitions
that we have there to find yourself on
the homepage of our website there is a
new register here called grumpy hamster
grumpy hamster oh I like it Alasdair and
drais or it's nice to have you
registered on our website as well
joining our community in Spain gando me
a new and alpha omega 777 7 7 7 welcome
to the show those aren't even seven
sevens I will say that's 67 s right Alf
omega-6 Evans okay now we got figured
out welcome alright question from Bob
hey Bob I would like to watch the google
hangout you mentioned on the cat5 show
but i don't want want to join or use
google in any way if i can help it is
there a way to watch without John O'Shea
in your face Google machine okay so via
Roku not affiliated with with Google in
any way shape or form go to cap 52 TV /
Roku ROK you we've talked about it on
the show
already get one of those you'll be able
to find Google Plus hangouts in special
features you'll see all that kind of
stuff there there's backstage videos
there's behind the scenes there's extras
that have been submitted by co-hosts
stuff that has nothing to do with the
show that's just like home movies and
stuff that you can enjoy fun stuff on
our roku channel as well okay so you
don't want to sign up for google but
there are ways to watch that without
actually signing up go to linux tech
show com it looks just like that and
what that's going to do is it is going
to redirect you to our YouTube channel
Linux text show and that's fine you're
not going to have to sign up for google
in order to access this as you know you
can use YouTube without having a google
account now i'll just say out the gate
that we prefer you to have a google
account because then you can like our
videos you can share our videos more
effectively you can give it the thumbs
up you can comment those things are all
very important to to us and we like to
interact with our viewers as well so
jumping over here what do you see I've
clicked on playlists and then you see
Google Plus hangout that's the who I
almost wore that shirt again today oh
yeah so there you go it's as simple as
that and then you've got the Google+
Hangout you can you can scroll through
that's a full hour behind the scenes
with the crew here at category 5 TV and
that includes your live tour of the
studio as well yeah that's a lot of fun
see studio D that's how you can do it as
well there you go two ways you can watch
awesome dreamer sorry Dreamweaver 909
says i love my Roku it's great I don't
need high priced cable I have this
discussion with garbey earlier today
says I don't understand the what the
Roku is really for because I can use my
chromecast and I think for the novice
user especially for my kids for my
family and me included in that to be
able to sit down in front of the TV with
a Roku where I've got a remote control
that's a TV remote control it's not a
smartphone it's not a right it's not a
computer device it's not a keyboard or
anything like that it's a it's a remote
control and I'm literally
quite literally channel flipping without
the need for cable and finding all these
great channels that are available on
roku and being able to just go from
channel to channel and find out what
programming they've got there we found
some really great shows on roku and it's
on demand in a lot of cases there's live
video as well but because it's on demand
you can just start a video at the very
beginning of the show at any time that
you want so so for me it's really about
being able to sit down in front of the
TV big screen and joy and HD experience
that is TV not computer so I don't feel
like I've got a computer connected to my
TV and I'm bringing up websites and
streaming to my TV right it's not like
that it's like TV but without the
expensive cable it's kind of awesome
it's really awesome really looking
forward to getting one hasn't happened
yet very well can you Roku your home
videos Reb D Genk asks and there is a an
app that you can installer a channel
that you install on your Roku called
plex there are other ones as well and
I've experienced many of them but Plex
is the one that I absolutely adore you
install on one of your computers you
install the plex media server it can be
a linux computer can be a windows
machine it can be a server I've got it
installed on my unraid server for
example as a virtual mission or as a
plug-in and so then what it does is it
transcodes the video on the fly sends it
to your Roku and it works just like a
channel to so all my home movies we can
flip through and watch them on our roku
and as many Roku's as we have in the
house so yes you can it just requires
that extra thing be installed well
that's not a problem is it oh nice okay
I have a question from voodoo Sandman
it's actually not a question it's a
comment in Panama coding tool so he
wants you to check out this great coding
tools yes arduino a coding tools yeah
arduino so if you could share that link
let me pull it up here super I'm just
bringing up the email cuz I didn't
actually have those dark I like to do
that oh by the way yes um that Pico
thing that's not nano that's a coding
thing from before nano from a long way
back in the day way back playback
when I had hair that's right and I knew
that yeah this comes to us from voodoo
Sandman it's the alternative arduino
interfaces software i will post the link
for you in the chat room as well as on
our website category 5 TV category five
dot TV and business will be on the show
notes page 4 episode number 402 are do
block a programming environment designed
to make physical computing with Arduino
as easy as drag and drop instead of
writing code worrying about your syntax
and miss placing semicolons our do block
allows you to visually program with a
snap together list of code blocks that's
pretty cool so it gives you a way to
code your Arduino without actually
having to do a whole bunch of code kind
of reminds me that interface really
looks a lot like unreal for for me okay
I think that that is how I think oh yeah
yes so what's the green one well that's
probably those little cool any things
that you put on all right yeah okay got
it mr. Chris Chris Lee hey Chris Chris
Lee 2511 okay I live in the UK I can
tell the difference between the sky and
skype logos do you know that oh boy that
was like six weeks ago in the news so
you live there and you can tell the
difference oh you're in the minority my
friend apparently yes because the
government or the the court system
doesn't really understand he does
understand that the word skype does have
the word sky in it hmm but he can see
you know the difference between the
color scheme and the cloud around skype
that's just the way this so thank you
for supporting us Oh c128 d who we heard
oh yes commenting on YouTube now sending
us e-mail as well thanks for
participating on the show okay so sorry
that I couldn't be on the live stream
last night I had a meeting to do the
reason why is it not X with a yes
knoppix says that it's a problem with KD
and lies this must be referring to that
question where he was having trouble
with the interface yeah
the menu system yes is that the
installer creates the incorrect syntax
in the start menu and that they should
fix the Installer instead of knoppix
fixing it on their end okay so when you
install kdenlive it grates bad links the
other distros did not suffer from the
same problem wonder what causes it then
I would love now we only have about
eight minutes left the show and so maybe
we could set this one aside I know if
you want to leave it unchecked recycling
weekend so if we come back to this
question next week and you think you've
heard it before I'm hoping that we will
come back to that for you see 128 d
because perhaps we would have time to
bring up knoppix I'll I'll see what
happens when we install Kate and live
and then see what what it does you can
see if we can help you with that but i
think my original suggestion was maybe
try creating your own links that's
there's no problem doing that throw them
on your desktop whatever you want to do
um Michael hey Mike um went to balnaird
calm and there's no talk about the new
street address so is that the new
mailing address aren't actually our new
mailing address yeah he says street
address and I'm wondering if he's
wondering where we are physically right
now or where to send thing uh well new
street address it would be referring to
the mailing address we haven't
physically moved we've been here since
last year but there's a studio D but
we've closed our postal box so now when
you send us a postcard you're sending it
to a physical address as opposed to a
postal box so that's why that's
partially why things have changed so
bald nerd calm is my blog and there's a
blog there that talks all about why we
made that change so check that out if
you follow me on Twitter I've posted it
there but go to bald nerd calm at the
current time and this is june second
2015 it's the top blog because it's the
last one that i've posted but at the
same time you can you can do a quick
search on my site as well for pele box
or canada post down with canada post
know maybe that's not a search query
down with canada post's alright so we
don't have a p.o box anywhere which
saves bunch of well I caught ya about
one hundred and fifty dollars a year
yeah saves us that so the new address
does it cost
money it is technically it like we're
paying for a box but it's a hundred
fifty dollars less per year than Canada
Post Canada Post us through the roof
expensive I know his shop around and
that's not I hate to say it but they
unfortunately decided that they didn't
want our business but that's the way it
goes yeah so we're saving a boatload of
money by going somewhere else that gives
me better service and that's what my
blog is about what is really really cool
about where we are now when I get mail I
get an email oh that's ideal how cool is
that I always thought why is Canada Post
not doing that hmm because these days
there is no flag that you can put up
right so it's not like the old days
where we had a mailbox where you could
put up a flag and you see as you're
pulling into the driveway I've got mail
cuz the flag is up I'm surprised they
haven't done that because I mean little
things I I get an email when my Fitbit
battery runs low yeah and it emails it
emails me to say to charge it I get I
know that you can text the transit
system here and find out when the buses
is going to be at the next stop but our
postal service that covers all of Canada
right has no tech technology behind a
postbox that costs three hundred dollars
a year that's crazy what are you guys
doing geez crazy so yeah I got an email
is I before amazon told me that my item
was delivered i got an email saying that
it was there that's how awesome is that
so Michael can not find new every day
anywhere but the rope Roku box so
nowhere but Roku okay and also can't
find the show show boy oh boy I know
that okay let's let's back up real quick
Michael thank you so much for your email
and for those of you who have been
having any trouble finding things as we
grow we were category 5 technology TV
for eight years mm-hmm then all of a
sudden now we're category 5 TV network
and we've got seven shows and the
infrastructure is having to be
completely revamped and everything is
being remodeled but category 5
technology TV has 400 episodes 400 pages
of content and everything has to be
moved over to a new system so it's very
slow going but the new shows
have their own new websites so when it
comes to say new every day that is a
program featuring you remember Carrie
Webb who is co-host here season 1 season
2 ah yeah and if you go to new every day
dot TV that's where you would go okay
Michael so it's a web site on the web
takes you there that's their website and
what it the reason that I suggested that
last week is because if you point to
category 5 TV you'll notice they're on
our new system for the network so they
have a list of all of our shows and
those shows if you click on them they
will take you those links will take you
to each of our programs and that reminds
me that I posted a new video on nature
sounds of Ontario Canada as well so make
sure you check that out if you're into
solitudes relaxation and and just even
listening to bird songs while you work
yes I'm just ambient noise in background
um if we have helped you out tonight or
at any time in the past please consider
throwing a little tip into our tip jar
at donate category 5 TV so if Robbie's
helped you figure out a problem or if
I've helped you you know somehow have
you enjoyed the show yeah made you laugh
thanks for support everybody yeah hope
you enjoyed the show that's pretty close
to all the time that we I know I we have
another question but there's like not
enough time so let me just straight up
say that spin gando we will get to you
next week I promise you will be the
first question next week very good
another hour Reb D Jenk thank you so
much for being here everybody that's all
the time that we have don't forget make
sure you get to our website category
five dot TV you'll find our new
addressed a new address on the contact
us or if you scroll down to the very
bottom of any of our pages on category
five dot TV you'll see our new address
send us a postcard the first five
postcards to arrive at our new address
are going to automatically win a premium
vinyl category 5 logo sticker it's two
up so you get one dark one light so if
you've got a silver laptop you can put
the dark one on if you've got a black
laptop you can put the light one on
you've got two stickers and they're both
they're both yours also anyone who sends
us postcard with in before july first is
going to be included in a draw to win a
full set of autographed category 5
business cards that's from category 5
technology TV and some of them are rare
finds as well because there are included
in that business cards from people like
Abigail oh and Eric who hasn't been
around for quite some time so those are
all included in that as well you find
out more go to shop category 5 TV to see
the whole set and have you would love to
send that out to you don't forget to
make sure you stamp your postcard
include your return mailing address so
that we can send you your prize and send
that to our new address and forget about
the old one forget you'll I'm sorry it
ever happened okay have a fantastic week
everybody see you next week thanks Sasha
thanks Adam Cathy bye bye mum happy
birthday cheers buddy we hope you
enjoyed the show category 5 TV
broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven p.m.
eastern if you're watching this on
demand or through cable TV check out the
local show times in your area at
category-five TV and find out when you
can watch live and interact in the
community chat room category 5 is a
production of prodigy digital solutions
and is licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada we'll see you
next time thanks for tuning in
