welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode number 516 for Wednesday
the 9th of August 2017 nice to have you
here
thank you so much for joining us tonight
we're going to be showing you a device
that will allow you to miracast
basically clone the screen of your phone
your computer whatever other device in
this case our phone directly to HDMI so
if you want to hook up your phone to the
TV to the computer to Wirecast in our
case pretty cool stick around were going
to be showing you how to do that we're
also going to be giving you an
opportunity to tell Sasha what kind of
computer she should build we'll be
learning a little more about that in
just a little bit time and you're going
to have an opportunity to share your
thoughts about what components she
should buy in order to build her own
computer stick around
Sasha open the news room what do you got
for here's what's coming up in the
category 5 TV news room from the irony
files the security researcher who found
the kill switch could want to cry has
now been arrested for creating an
unrelated malware IBM scientists have
set a new world record storing 330
terabytes of uncompressed data on one
piece Weiland has been confirmed as the
default display server for a boon to 17
point 10 Canadian ISPs don't mess around
an entrepreneur accused the piracy for
his Kodi add-on website has been grilled
in his home for hours and not by the
cops but by pochi company reps and cable
TV for cable TV and ISP companies and
the US Army has banned DJI drones over
security concerns stick around the full
details are coming up later in the show
this is category 5 technology TV our
live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston FF teen category 5 TV streams
live with telly stream wire cast and
nimble streamer tune in every week live
on roku cody and other HLS video players
for local show times visit category
five top TV category 5 TV is a member of
the tech podcast network if it's tech is
here cat 5 TV plus PBN and the
International Association of Internet
broadcasters cat 5 DV / IAI be welcome
to category 5 technology TV folks nice
to see you nice to to be here this week
beautiful day here and bury you Mike den
I biked in there's nothing to report it
was a beauty day gorgeous absolutely a
weekly bike report dinner you'll see you
man but well I know it has a I'm back
from Mars and you were you were doing
some traveling around yeah yeah my legs
are still tired I'm all the walking but
coast to coast I was pretty fun Fred oh
it's good to be back you know because
homes where the heart is
and category 5 so had to come back
looking for some cliche - yeah I know
it's being back our forum is back so hey
get over to forum dot category 5 dot TV
great place for you to interact with the
community and we want to grow that place
so it's a spot where you can go any time
of the day or night and people will be
able to reply to your forum posts so
head on over to forum dot category-five
dot TV now I had some down time over the
past couple of weeks and finished
editing Becca's newest novel so back as
my wife the an author and she's written
several novels but really exciting time
for us because her newest novel is now
available that is Jeremiah well we've
started seeing various stores around the
world starting to pick it up oh oh
that's kind of cool I think there are
five stores as of tonight I mean it just
went up like the 48 hours ago kind of
thing for sale well but but we start to
see them populating in various stars so
well mean five stores so far plus of
course Amazon and things like that so
look for Becca Ferguson and it's spelt
Bek aah and same last name is me so
there you go and right now we're
actually giving away two copies so
Amazon is holding the draw this is a new
feature
oh so then how do you become part of the
draw then just head on over to cat five
dot TV slash giveaway and you can win an
actual paperback copy of the book it's
called when the fog cleared it's a
Christian romance so if you're into that
kind of thing then that would be for you
so check it out but cat 5 TV slash
giveaway and that's that's there it's
kind of cool that Amazon is the one
that's fielding the yeah they draw
itself so they are collecting you know I
think there's some criteria that you
have to qualify for and then they're
giving away two copies of the book and
then billing my credit card yeah yeah
but they they set it all up so that's
kind of neat that's cool
do you want to talk a little bit about
fashion you were you're having trouble
with getting into chatter I am yeah
phone there we're trying to figure out
okay well how can you get your phone up
on a bigger screen and so on and so
forth we've encountered this with
broadcasting where we're always looking
for ways to bring in other camera
sources so whether they be cameras
themselves computer screens or mobile
devices oh thanks right so you know
we've done slimport slimport is amazing
this is so cool
I don't know if you knew this or not but
that little USB port on your Android
phone yeah can do other things it's USB
so it's not just a charging port it's
not just a transferring for it you can
install a slim port adapter by simply
plugging it in there nice tall and that
is a full-sized HDMI output for my phone
huh so now I can hook up my phone to the
TV or projector
right that's not smart pretty cool right
yeah so we've used that in the past here
at the studio anytime we want to bring
up the phone yeah but it's wires more
cables have you ever seen our floors
here if you ever watch titan on research
you know there are wires everywhere and
more wires more hdmi cables make a bed
of Io thank you it does work very well
but if you know it's
it is what it is so my guess is that you
have a wireless solution what if what in
mmm well miracast is something that's
built into your android phone it's also
you know there there are drivers that
you can install it on a boon to that are
kind of under development Windows 10 has
it built in so it's a it's an open
platform open protocol for screencasting
for getting the the screen of your
device onto another device wirelessly
okay called miracast so the neat thing
about it is that because it's an open
technology it's coming into the place
where you don't have to spend 150 bucks
to get a device that you can cast - yeah
it's not chromecast
you're familiar with chromecast but that
has you know it's going to be a
compatible application or it's going to
have you know the chromecast capability
within the app itself or you've got to
do it through the browser so a little
bit different miracast is just if
anything that's on the screen absolutely
anything so it's like using an HDMI
output but it's it's all there
so as I was saying the cost comes down
because more manufacturers are able to
bring them out truth be told more
Chinese manufacturers are able to bring
them out right there more and more
readily available and then all of a
sudden you get things like this from
anycast the m2 plus which as you can see
here is just a little dongle
it looks like Chrome cat litter it
actually does it even has like a little
circle yeah it's like a knockoff logo
but it's actually like yeah it's like an
eyeball yeah anyway so let's get into it
so what this allows us to do is stream
wirelessly from our phone to this device
so getting into the box just get a quick
look at what we have here some cables
yeah cable we wanted to get away from
cables all right but here's the thing
this cable goes into the back of this
device it's not going to plug in to our
phone and all that kind of stuff even
though it is just microUSB so okay
that's micro USB that is a Wi-Fi dongle
and this is USB presumably for power ok
now the key thing here with our m2 plus
which incidentally you can get through
our shop you can go to cap five dot TV
slash anycast and that's going to be
able to hook you up with one of these
they're dirt cheap so there you go
so this dongle as like a chromecast has
simply an HDMI full-size plug on there
so you plug that into the side of your
TV your TV has a USB port for service
but it also gives power so then this
goes into the side of the TV as well for
powering the device and then we've got
USB micro right there which is going to
power the anycast device and the Wi-Fi
is going to give it its own access point
so guesses why would it have its own
access point built in you've already got
Wi-Fi in your home network any guesses
just put that out there chat room
alright I'll give you a hint and by way
of hint I mean the answer traditionally
with these kinds of devices you plug
them in and okay how do I get it now
connected to my Wi-Fi network I've got
to plug in a keyboard to it I've got to
bring it up on the TV I've got a set up
networking I've got to plug in all these
more cables and so on and so forth so by
having this now this Wi-Fi is not what
we're going to use to connect to it this
Wi-Fi this Wi-Fi is going to allow us
first of all to connect to this device
to configure it to then connect out to
existing Wi-Fi so we can do all of the
setup from our phone from our computer
from anything at all its app free you
see some of the reviews that will say oh
well the app was you know in Chinese or
the app was garbage or you don't need an
app for this
why are you installing an app for
miracast it's already built into your
phone I'm going to show you that in a
couple of minutes time but because it's
already built in and because this is
configured through Wi-Fi so all I have
to do is just connect my phone to its
built-in Wi-Fi login to the interface
set up my router
and then it's working boom plain and
simple
ah perfect so we're going to take a
really quick break while we're on break
and you're enjoying this wonderful
commercial I'm going to simply plug this
into our Telestream Wirecast broadcast
computer you can plug this into your TV
you can plug this into video capture
device like I'm going to do tonight and
what this will allow us to do here is
bring up a phone on the screen so if we
ever want to do an app review or if you
want to be able to look at your phone
the chat room cool on a big TV or
something like that is miracast to
wirelessly stream it and your phone is
still something that you can stick in
your pocket and to simply turn on and
off miracast okay so that's that we're
going to come right back after this Jeff
Weston Gela you're building a brand new
beautiful website what aren't you no all
right you're terrible actor what does
where acting comes into play oh I don't
know where Isaac you're supposed to act
okay
Farrah I'm building a really cool
website are you building a really cool
website you need hosting one of the
things about a hosting account if you
don't want to have limitations put on
your website it's true how much hard
drive space you have how many email
accounts how many domains can point to
it well we've got an amazing deal for
you for a very limited time cap v dot TV
slash dream host for just five dollars
and a bit of change per month you are
going to get unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the rules are your own
com dice to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat v dot TV slash
DreamHost
just don't fulfill the papers just don't
do it but hey it's a great deal folks
best deal you're going to find five
dollars and change per month go to cap
five dot TV slash dream host welcome
back this is category five technology TV
now the miracast device the m2 plus from
anycast is available at cap 5tb slash
any cash
just like it sounds and it's plugged
server into a mage well capture card so
that's HDMI input for a computer that
allows us to stream from our cameras or
from any HDMI device now we've got five
HDMI inputs in our server so I've just
plugged it into one so all I have to do
is just click on for wire cast to switch
screens and that is what I see so you
see the SSID up there that is the
built-in Wi-Fi that we were talking
about and the PSK that's the pre shared
key that is the password that I can use
to connect to it right now or that you
can use if you're within about two
kilometers to hack our network you know
that you want to keep that private that
allows people to make changes to the
settings of the device but that is
essentially it so now in order to access
that of course all I need to do on my
phone is look for that anycast SSID just
like connecting to any Wi-Fi hotspot and
then bring up my web browser go to the
IP address which is going to give me and
then I can just do the settings for my
router now I've already taken the
liberty of doing that just to expedite
things today for the sake of a live
broadcast but just know that if you have
any trouble setting it up it is actually
quite simple just kind of trace your
steps first step is connect to its Wi-Fi
that's built in then on the screen on
the TV screen so this screen is going to
change screens to say here's my IP
address all you need to do is connect to
it so then I connect to it from my phone
or my other you know my laptop with
Wi-Fi connected to that device and then
it will allow me to set up my router go
my router is my existing in home or in
office network and that's the Wi-Fi
connection so that this device can now
connect out to all of my other Wi-Fi
devices so now when I'm connected to my
own personal Wi-Fi I can access my
anycast device from my phone cast to it
so it is kind of a moment of truth
because you know I've had everything
unplugged and it's just been sitting
here on the desk
put it back in the box so that we could
do fancy unboxing and here we go okay so
on my phone being that this is Android
all I need to do is just bring down
settings up here and scroll over and now
because I have this feature enabled you
may need to turn on this on your menu
but I actually have a miracast icon up
there at the top and I've taken a
screenshot there just so you can see
that at home now when I click on that
I'm going to switch modes over here I'm
going to switch over to this now because
I'm on the same Wi-Fi network as this as
soon as I click on miracast my phone now
says connecting to any cast DF and there
goes like as quickly as that little bit
there you can see there's the miracast
icon up at the top there so now I've got
this ability to actually use my phone
and I'm casting directly to it so why
would I want to do this obviously for me
here in a broadcast studio it makes
sense if we ever want a demo an app
right Android how fantastic is not that
I can do it wirelessly just from my
phone if you're at home a lot of live
streaming happens on your phone right
you think about the countdown you know
New Year's Day New Year's Eve night yeah
and the countdown is always available
through their app you can always you
know tune in on your phone but what
about being able to cast it up in 1080p
to your HDTV exactly you don't want to
have to buy like a million dollar add-on
in not or what's a cape I mean even for
sharing photos like if you're sitting
around yeah we're not you're old-school
like the slideshows ok we kind of are
every time Dave and I go away we have
people over and we shall are my photos
allow me to miracast them yeah that but
we actually like why isn't it like I'm
days shooting them off to the TV right
and we have like we have a fun big TV we
have comfortable now so we have people
over and we sit them down and we show
them their the pictures so miracast the
pictures would be easier it works right
you can see if I switch back to miracast
that I have done very miserably with my
steps today if I bring up my media and
video I can bring up you know there's
podcast attic which allows me to watch
and listen to podcast bring up YouTube
and there's our channel now
interestingly enough I mean the first
question that you're going to ask is
what happens if I take that and I rotate
it
mm-hmm well what does YouTube do my
lease is supposed to there go take its
time prove me wrong I don't know why my
phone is slow to rotate but anyways
miracast is going to follow suit
oh it's faster on miracast no it's not
it's just I thought that one time yeah
but there you have it it is actually
going to now I'm going to rotate my
phone there you go so it does it like
that okay that's that's cool can see so
now if I obviously hit play on the video
you're going to see that on here so now
it's nap milk in our bandwidth for all
this work did I even push play
no I didn't there we go okay so the show
is playing and then I switch back to
miracast and you'll see this simulate a
knee ously it's playing there now the
quality looks horrendous well what's
that about YouTube hello 240p No thank
you
I'm here at the studio we've got
miserable internet on LTE so I'll just
switch to 720p and we'll see there we go
doesn't that matter yeah so it's as easy
as that
so we've got the ability to have it on
in both places at once you've got a
tablet you've got a TV 2 or VR goggles
oh and share your experience exactly so
I'm playing a VR video game right which
I can't normally share with anyone else
because it's on my phone it's in my
goggles and I'm playing like this and
they're wondering what's going on now
they can watch it on the screen as well
your glass full screen anything else
I mean games on these things these days
are pretty impressive what's the what's
the performance like do I have anything
even worse well I've got lego starwars
yeah the kids want right does it even
play on here what do I find out yeah one
way to find out
so this is just live casting miracast
sewed 5:16 episode where Ravi plays
video game looks superb but actually
looks really good
my phone is not you know it's an lg g3
so it's not really that it's not a
hugely impressive phone I mean your
phone may be better than this but so
that's that's live streaming through
miracast from my phone well be great if
you have kids and stuff too and they can
play on the big screen and not everyone
has to like huddle around a phone I
think so yeah we're just to be able to
bring it off yeah so there you have it
that this would be anycast m2 plus
they're available really cheap go to cap
5 dot TV slash anycast
I'm sure you can think of a ton of ways
to use this it's just one of those
things I like to have I like one so that
if I ever need it
we've got it I do have a question from
the chat room just about your experience
with it and battery life who wants to
know I haven't I haven't really observed
any difference in battery light that's
good honest with you I usually keep my
phone charged anyways you know I've got
a phone soap over here yeah when I get
to the studio I plug in my phone when I
get home I plug in my phone that's just
that's just me I keep my feet at a full
charge whether or not miracast uses more
life now it is going to be tapping into
your Wi-Fi so as you know you're using
your wireless internet it's going to
drain your battery life faster than if
you're in airplane mode but it is that's
all its really doing is you know it's
processing it and sending the content
over Wi-Fi
as opposed to battery life just to let
you know now I have experience slimport
because this is what we originally used
here at the show and my phone gets hot
with that that's interesting there's a
lot more processor usage with slimport
whereas when I'm using miracast there's
no notable change in use like as far as
heat goes when I'm using my phone so I
can be casting from my phone and it just
is operating just as if I was on Wi-Fi
there's no additional heat there's no I
don't notice any anyways
never you know put it into a
spectrograph or anything like that but
so I find it it's really quite efficient
but and it obviously works really well
oh yeah surely does let us know what you
think and thank you for watching this
little minor unboxing review I fun yeah
this is a category 5 technology TV we
get into some interesting little bits of
tech here and there and that's just one
of them that I thought I would show you
Sasha speaking of interesting bits of
tech done 10 days no no isn't that time
already
yeah it is what sorry let me wind my
steampunk watch this is my fitted
spinner does it does it run on steam or
is it so you just how often you have to
wind it twice a day but I wind it more
often than that just because it's like a
janitor sitter not like I got thinking
about these fidgets spinners and friend
and I'm like okay when we were kids we
had watches that we did this with we had
you know all kinds of we had Jacobs
ladders
remember those you yeah yeah this is the
the ladder that you know it just keeps
going and it keeps going that goes
inside out and it just that was our
fidget spinner well yeah the thing is
it's cute I don't understand what people
are like looking down upon fidget
spinners as much as they do only because
you're forcing kids by and large to sit
still when they really don't want to llh
they rip it's really difficult from a
course tool that's right
justice any goals you like yeah yeah
great for school I don't know if you
guys know what we're sitting on here
tonight but four stools these are these
are actually like this there you go so
can you see that you know it actually
works your core as you're sitting
there's no you know it's there's no back
to it there's no and we're all around
and how did how to sit on them without
looking like we're very tracking over
drunken sailors but then you can look at
just the heightened stuff too so it
could be like really short compared to
you guys or Sasha can be just as tall as
I because you're really excited about
this
but you mean I carry my ground actually
gogo chair okay oh here her feet are
four feet off the floor
[Laughter]
okay well we'll let you take it away
with the music okay and then we're going
to talk about tech yes we really need to
I need your help with this this is you
know important my friends you viewers
are going to help Sasha because she
needs to build a computer I need to
build a computer and I'm so excited and
nervous about it and I know you can help
you're going to help her choose the
peripherals that she's going to use and
then I'm going to help her put on the
CPU paste now it's a squatch I'm doing
it okay stick around we are we getting
into that right after the news after
take it away here are the stories were
covering this week in the category 5 TV
newsroom from the irony file the
security researcher who found the kill
switch for wanna cry has now been
arrested for creating an unrelated
malware IBM scientists have set a new
world record storing 330 terabytes of
uncompressed data in one Tet tape
Weiland has been confirmed as the
default display server for bloom 217
cops but by pushy company reps for cable
TV and ISP companies and the US Army has
banned DJI drones over security control
concerns these stories are coming right
up don't go anywhere
now here's another great way you can
support the shows you love for the
category-five TV network by shopping
gearbest that's right Jeff cat5 TV slash
gearbest
it's an online store for the geek streak
in you or the loved ones
of course I mean especially your loved
ones right because cat5 DV / gearbest
quite frankly has all of the greatest
tech gifts that you could ever hope for
at rock-bottom prices to that cell
phones you bet you cap 5 DV / gear best
has a wide assortment of unlocked
Android cell phones and tablets global
compute consumer electronics those
mechanicus absolutely from high tech
watches to action cameras headphones
even virtual reality headsets cat5 DV /
gearbest have you covered they literally
have it all Jeff literally really it's
like a superstore right from the comfort
of your own chair at your computer
through the interweb yeah I there's no
way they have it all it's true that's
just a bunch of random electronics test
me
what about clothes yep both men and
women fashionable apparel at rock-bottom
SuperDuper prices kinda like this well
look at this coat what do you think it's
a slimming mock leather jacket I love it
it's available for less than $30 plus
free shipping at camp v dot TV slash
gear best yeah all right you kinda got
me there Wow any other questions for me
Jeff
now that the winter is past flying
season do they have any good deals and
say to encompass oh my goodness well
check this out dude
they have everything check out over 500
various drums and not only that they're
available marked down by about 32 up to
63 percent off the regular price love
what's website again while you're going
to find gearbest on our partners pages
for any of your favorite category 5 TV
shows like new every day
category 5 technology TV the pixel
shadow but of course if you want to shop
absolutely right now and you want to go
straight to the site all you have to do
is visit cat5 TV slash gearbest so
that's easy tech 5 dot TV slash gearbest
that's right happy shopping I'm
Sagittarius and here are the top stories
for the week of August 9th 2017 remember
Marcus Hutchins the security researcher
who single-handedly found and used the
wanna cry kill switch well he has now
been arrested and charged with unrelated
malware offenses in the u.s. not so long
ago Marcus Hutchins a 23 year old
British security researcher with the
blog name malware attack became an
accidental hero when he discovered an
effective kill switch to stop the
biggest unprecedented want to cry
ransomware attack that had crippled
thousands of computers the ransomware
spread to more than 300,000 computers
across 150 countries around the world in
May 2017
however this savior was arrested last
Wednesday at the black hat and DEF CON
cyber security conference as part of an
FBI investigation for his alleged
involvement in an unrelated malware
attack much before his wanna cry heroics
apparently Hutchins is involved in
creating and distributing malicious
software Kronos a Russian banking Trojan
through emails with malicious
attachments to steal users money using
credentials such as internet banking
passwords the US authorities said on
Thursday according to an indictment
released by the US Department of Justice
Hutchins faces six counts of helping to
create spread and maintain the banking
Trojan Trojan Kronos between 2014 and
2015 the indictment alleged that
Hutchins created the Kronos malware and
the other person who was not named later
sold it for two thousand dollars online
the malware had been configured to
access username and password information
on banking websites and was used in
Canada Germany Poland for
it's the UK and other countries the UK's
national cybersecurity center said that
we are aware of the situation and this
is a law enforcement matter and would be
inappropriate to comment further digital
rights group the Electronic Frontier
Foundation said it was deeply concerned
with his arrest whilst Naomi Colvin from
several civil liberties campaign group
courage said mr. Hutchins did the world
an enormous service when he stopped a
wanna cry attack so I just want to just
say quickly just if I were his defense
lawyer I would say well yes he did this
really bad thing and it is a really bad
thing he did but perhaps he felt so
guilty about it that he decided to
change his ways and decided to live on
the oh that's a hard thing light side
cuz it would be different if you did the
bad thing after the good thing are you
suggesting that he's Darth Vader and
like in the end like you through I don't
often wait I don't know the end really
spoiler alert awesome
father no I like I just feel like like
what he did for the wanna cry wizard
amazing it was his Redemption story yeah
it probably would have been best on a
fuse best policy if you said like in his
press conference Alexander so what I was
doing was redeeming myself you may have
heard of this this Kronos Trojan that
was me I'm so sorry please but thank you
I would be like I don't know what to do
anymore my son when he was like six
years old he came downstairs and he's
covered in shaving cream oh yeah and he
said to me where try not to laugh he's
just covered and he says dad I did a bad
thing it's just like okay maybe that's
what he might be done hindsight in
hindsight yeah oh by the way while I'm
your hero let me tell you a little
something yeah that's tough because his
involvement is in Kronos was very major
like it's not like he was just some guy
he may have been a part of it no he's
like the Creator he is the
yeah and he didn't sell it somebody else
sold it for only $2,000 which is sure
lazy also it's a tough game where are
the lines where are the lines because I
call hacking you can you can hack for
the good and you know what he did with
want to cry can't ask why so has he
changed his ways or is it just another
hack well really Larry just like a habit
one's bad as far as you know our our
measuring system goes well that's the
thing is that people say that hackers
are like white blood cells on the
internet you know like they help like
they get into places and they help solve
problems like that right really
so it's just like there is ethical
hacking but then it's like you get into
like a whole like yeah it's sorta exact
I don't want anybody accessing my
banking information except you except me
sometimes I forget my password call this
guy you can give it to you scientists at
IBM research have created a new world
record for storing over 330 terabytes of
uncompressed data on a single tape
cartridge that can easily fit into the
palm of a person's hand wait a tape 332
here in my hips
here we are we were in a story we use
tape I showed my what a cassette was the
other day I blow there my son the same
the shaving cream boy he said sorry what
is that just just like that yeah here we
are doing 332 terrible you know and the
thing is I had an 8-track when I was a
kid of course he's a la ok this storage
capacity is more than the world's
biggest hard drives the record set by
IBM in collaboration with Sony surged
media solutions can support data storage
densities of 201 gigabytes per square
inch which is more than 20 times the
density of commercial tape drives that
hold data between 5 gigabytes and 7
gigabytes per square inch
what yeah the researchers showcase this
feat at the 28 magnetic recording
conference in Japan and I was thinking I
was going to go to that I just
they have a conference called the
magnetic recording process how does
Japan the fifth time that IBM scientists
have set a world record of tape storage
since 2006 when at that time density was
a measly six point six seven gigabytes
per square inch with a total cartridge
capacity of 8 terabytes the last time
IBM announced it had made advancements
in the space was 2015 when the cartridge
capacity was 220 terabytes and 123
gigabytes per square inch the
achievement by IBM comes as a good news
as good news for cloud service providers
who need to back up and store
ever-expanding volumes of information
from big data applications ranging to
scientific research to security and
surveillance videos all the time in
order to develop the new tape based
storage prototype and to achieve the 201
gigabytes per square inch IBM
researchers had to develop several new
technologies IBM made use of its reading
and writing technology with Sony's
sputtered magnetic tape to stir data
sputtering involves coding the storage
medium with several nanometer thin
layers of different conducting materials
including a five nanometer overcoat of
diamond like diamond like carbon the
scientists also use several layers of
nanoparticles to extend the tape length
furthermore IBM also incorporated their
advanced servo control technologies and
innovative signal processing algorithms
IBM exploratory tape scientist Mark
Lance said this really demonstrates the
potential to continue scaling tape
technology basically at historical rates
of doubling the cartridge capacity every
two years for at least the next ten
years
that's really good news for our
customers that could rely on tape
technology it's kind of an integral part
of their storage infrastructure to
really preserve their data in a
cost-effective manner did anyone else
own a vic-20
you didn't like until you own a vic-20
do you remember the cassettes do you
remember the tapes
unbelievable weather like a few
kilobytes if even that I mean you
could've took that tape and just record
and it used audio to save the the data I
I think it's cool like I don't
understand the layers but it's cool that
they have the sputtering thing which
means I think that they can have data
like on layers on the tape some and you
know I would assume that they have to
have some kind of read heads that can
read at different densities yeah so
you'd be looking at now like 201
whatever conference like this like think
about that folks
201 gigabytes in this much space yeah so
it's like nuts in a little piece of
plastic I mean they're measuring nano
nano meters right yeah like crazy not
sure what that is that's kind like you
can yeah sure that's like like a little
manager different fingers yeah yeah like
gotcha although always the ultimate
plant ability devs expressed doubt about
making the switch to Weiland last month
with will cook Ubuntu desktop team
leader saying he felt Weiland isn't
ready yet
but several weeks later after a lot of
testing a decision is now in place a
boon to 17 point 10 will ship with
Weiland as the default session if you're
an NVIDIA user a big gamer happen to be
using hardware that this next-gen
display server tech doesn't yet play
nice with do not panic
although Weiland will be default it is
in compulsory Ubuntu will still have a
next session available out of the box
ready to roll a click or two away
and that should come as a huge relief
for the majority who feel that Waylon
doesn't currently work well enough to be
a daily driver have you tried a boon to
on Weyland yet what's your experience
been like let us know by sharing your
comments below if you thought American
or British copyright sites were petty
consider the case of Canadian Adam
Lachman who had a bailiff lawyers can an
computer experts for
into his home sees this gear and Grill
him for hours
Lachman a self-described tech
entrepreneur hosts the TV add-ons
website which links to add-ons for Kodi
the open source media player suite
formerly known as XBMC typically you
install Kodi on a little gadget that
plugs into your TV so you can watch
stuff from files or streams over the
Internet people install add-ons such as
those indexed by TV add-ons to scrape
video from places like BBC's iPlayer and
ESPN and then show them on their
televisions broadcasters and commercial
content creators love to hate Kodi and
it's an unofficial add-ons because the
software can be used by viewers to
bypass DRM and region locks to stream
and pirate stuff they shouldn't there's
an ongoing battle against equipment
makers that help folks ripoff material
online and Kodi is often at the centre
of it the case against Lachman rests on
claims that 23 of more than 1500 add-ons
listed on his site can be used for
copyright infringement amid a civil
court battle brought against em by
Canadian cable giants lawyers and IT
experts on behalf of the TV and
broadband broadband companies his home
was invaded in a move later ruled
unlawful first a lawsuit was filed by
bal Rogers and Videotron against the TV
add-ons creator alleging copyright
infringement they then obtained a court
order which allowed a plaintiff to enter
the premises to preserve evidence in a
civil case after getting the order a
bailiff two computer technicians an
independent council to oversee the
orders execution and a lawyer
representing bail rogers &amp; Videotron
knocked on the door of Lachman salman
began questioning him 16 hours later
they were still there and he and had
subjected Lachman to many hours of
grilling Lachlan says at this point
there is no choice but to fight at this
point he already is already 100 thousand
dollars in the hole for legal fees and
he still can't get his computer
equipment and phone fact just yet
because even though the courts have
since ruled him in his favour the
plaintiffs have filed an appeal
Lachman set up an IndieGoGo page to tell
his side of the story and fund his
defense against the telecom Giants more
than $25,000 u.s. has been raised so far
in the meantime Lachman has resurrected
the TV add-ons website I will just like
maybe mention a little bit that $25,000
you asked which is a lot like a million
million dollars Canadian yeah these are
people who likely are pirating shows
because they don't want to pay their
cable bill but they're willing to pay
for this guy's defense it's a matter of
ethics it is funny the irony in it I
know I mean Cody can be used for non
piratey things we have we have yeah we
give it to you free exactly so it it's
not cody itself that's the problem it's
the fact that this guy has these add-ons
that can be perhaps infringing on
modular system it would be like saying
you know let's sue Microsoft let's shut
down my croissants because on Microsoft
Windows there's a bunch of pirate again
like yeah and you can like download
BitTorrent and like it weren't some
stuff and exactly come on
well that's an exam the infrastructure
is like that operator of the sentence
it's like it can be used for negative
things right and it's like what a lot of
things can be used for bad things it
just it depends on people right you look
it's hard it's a double-edged sword in
this side right so I feel like going
into a guy's house and grilling him for
16 hours it's not Meghan move hope they
apologize they probably did Nikhil sir
we're so sorry to bother you would you
mind having a seat can I get you
something just the Canadian grilling no
no sorry we misread that they actually
grilled him some pancakes that's right
Canadian bacon and the US Army has
ordered its members to stop using drones
made by Chinese manufacturer s said DJI
technology company limited because of
cyber vulnerabilities in the products an
army memo posted and verified last week
forbids the use of all DJI drones and
even systems that use DJI components or
software
requires servicemembers to cease all use
and install all DJI applications remove
all batteries and storage media and
secure equipment for follow-on direction
the memo says DJI drones are the most
widely used by the army among
off-the-shelf equipment of that type DJI
said in a statement that it was
surprised and disappointed at the Army's
unprompted restriction on the DJI drones
as we were not consulted during their
decision the privately held company said
that it would contact the army to
determine what it means by cyber
vulnerabilities and was willing to work
with the Pentagon to address concerns
the move appears to follow studies
conducted by the Army Research
Laboratory and the Navy that said that
there were risks and vulnerability in
DJI products the memo cites a classified
Army Research Laboratory report and a
Navy memo both from May as references
for the order to cease youth of DJI
drones and related equipment I just
watched the Snowden movie so now I just
feel like everybody spying on everybody
I just really just feel like paranoid
perhaps I'm not the right person to
comment on this because probably think
Henry might be I can go for hours about
like that but we looked at we looked at
remember the DJI Osmo yeah well yeah
yeah it would be effect yeah we banned
well it's funny because two things
firstly it's like name an electronic
device that isn't built in China or uses
like servers in China things like that
nowadays about the same time it's like
you're banning like a device so let's
say like a drone or whatever from like
the Department of National Defense
because it might be used against you but
the thing is is that like we've had like
instances where people can hack into
like their multi-million dollar like
Predator drones right um so it's just
like their main concern is like security
especially when it comes to that because
it's like oh well um maybe the Chinese
military might hack into this or things
like that
well you I do ji yeah exactly how much
now I know with the Osmo camera I had to
activate an app yeah so you have like
it's a free app that you download right
what is this app doing
that's called what are in the permission
exactly if you read the small
permissions right because they might
collect like usage data things like that
geolocation data yeah exactly right so
like you have geofencing and things like
that right so and then at the end of the
day you have like your flight logs so
like where you flew how long you flew
things like yeah exactly if you're on a
military base and it's like you're doing
like a exercise and somebody hacked into
your account can they see like where you
did stuff things like that right the
thing is is that it's like it's not just
DGI though it's like there's so many
other drone companies out there that
have networks drones like this sure so
like you might like see parrot or like
all that they're like hundreds of other
operators like creations out there you
know I don't fly such sophisticated
drones but you know thinking about the
cameras and thinking about how you know
the Sony camera has a built-in GPS my
phone has a built-in GPS
yeah you've got you wear a Fitbit yeah
and you know so all of this data is
being collected anyway so yeah it's all
it's all in the cloud somewhere right
and it really is like where are the
servers and it's like other copies of
the day more so than where where are
they because we we pretty much know
where they are they're going to be where
it's cheap to host it oh yeah and so
what are the security measures that are
in place in order to protect
confidential information and if it's
government data how much control do they
have over the the security of that data
that's a great like I'm really interest
to see where the story goes because it's
like add friends in the military and
they took they take pictures and stuff
all the time right you're just like I
know this is just for the US but our
other country is going to follow suit or
we'll DG I talked to the like the
American military and kind of sort this
out mmm like I'm interested to see where
this goes
yeah well you hear over the next little
while with egi approaching them I think
about police too that are using DJI oh
it Isis in order to track down criminals
and you know chase back guys so it's a
double-edged sword it ain't lost animals
at the same time you could bring drugs
into prisons all using drones not
recommending it but
I reckon it would be done it could
happen would be done yeah but again it's
double-edged sword right like it's
amazing technology let's use it for good
people ensure deliver doughnuts to
people I'll be nice big thanks this week
to roy w national community of viewers
for submitting stories tests this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category-five TV newsroom I'm
Sasha tomatoes thanks Tasha this is
category five technology TV please visit
our website at category five dot TV this
one over here is about to get married
it's true okay so here's the thing now
Dave knows a little bit about this
because well I had to tell him a little
because if I didn't he'd probably buy
his own computer but okay we're getting
married and we're getting married in the
birthday month so combine between his
birthday in the wedding I want to get
him a nice gift now the computer at our
house is older than the Sun I don't even
know how old it is it's old and it has
been failing of leads and he keeps
talking about wanting to buy a new one
and I thought to myself since I have
such an interest in learning more that
perhaps I could build him a computer as
a gift like a wedding / birthday gift
building a computer here on the show get
your help get your help and and really
like get them the best and also know
what I'm doing in the project like learn
I want it to be an opportunity to teach
right as well so those of you who have
never done such a thing I want it to be
magnificent but I also want it to be
something I can do okay so one first of
all I'm thinking we should totally also
build a piece of garbage that you could
give him as a joke
um I can't get like an old like ps2 or
something I'd be like you know like a
Windows 3.1 on it oh my goodness like
present maybe maybe not
that would be hilarious it would be
super super funny to somebody else we
want you to be able to pitch in your
advice so get your questions in the chat
room we're watching the chat room to see
what what questions you have for
missions Rickman over here yeah me so
chill be Rickman
first of all boils down to what's the
budget well here's here's the honest
truth I don't know much about this so
yeah I don't know where it is what and
this is part of the this is part of the
fear factor when you don't know about
building your own computer don't know
what you're really getting yourself into
so the budget is whatever I need to
spend to get a really good daily
computer with a little bit of wow factor
but not like you know you want to woo
him beautiful funny impressive
I want it yeah I want it to be a source
of pride and I want it to be easy to use
and I want it to have some cool like
you're edgy things I know what you mean
because whenever we have guests in the
studio yeah people look at our
Thermaltake snow edition and they go wow
I want that yeah that's what I want is
that and you know I open the door and
show them the giant cool yeah and you
know that's that's what that's what it
is
so LEDs are a thing now that's a cheap
way to really spice things up yeah so
what I would start with Sasha is I would
I would get on two websites that sell
pre-manufactured computers and that is
to get an idea for what is the
approximate cost that you'd be paying
for a gaming system so for example I
would go over to our website category
five dot TV and on our website we have
partners and our partners allow you to
support the show by shopping with our
partners so I I click on shop with our
partners there's one on here called
Newegg and the only reason I'm going to
go there I don't want a shot there
Amazon is much better to us but it gives
us a chance to go computer systems
gaming desktops I presume David
going to want a game on this thing yeah
alright yeah so let's just say that
that's the case
okay so let let's just jump over here
and say okay well what what are
currently the best sellers on on here
and get a sense for okay well what are
people really what are people buying
right now and I can see that okay well
these are you know yeah yeah no those
are I don't want one of those those are
not very I will say I mean because the
chat room has asked about size
requirements yeah I will say that the
computer we use now it is very big and
if you know I mean it's not horrible
it's a date built it a long time ago but
it is in a nice spot beside our TV
because we use the TV as the monitor
right right and so it can be a nice big
full tower because it's going to be a
little bit of the display I don't sell
it right people are going to see it and
I want it to look good so it can be big
okay alright so I'm looking at the
Republic again our G systems from Asus
and that gives us an idea you know kind
of what's submission this one has like a
gtx 1070 with eight gigs of graphics has
got an i7 7700 it's got 256 gig SSD so
things we need to think about is hard
drive so this just gives us an idea so
this is a pretty decent little system
for 2,100 bucks and that's Canadian so
that's like four dollars u.s. so you
look at that you think okay well 2,100
bucks is that reasonable is that kind of
where we're aiming for
is that too high too low and then we
take that as our target right because
that's and because then we can say okay
well what does that system have that we
could reuse in our shopping because
we're going to build it ourselves right
no can we save money can we get better
bang for the buck by building it
ourselves what are the advantages to
doing it ourselves so first of all what
is well not first of all it asks a
couple questions already but what are
the the main uses for this system
yeah media center and maybe thrown Cody
on it he'll be free yeah for sure I want
to install Kodi on it so then we say
what
TV they get 60-inch is it 4k yes that's
going to take some power right before ke
is going to require a 4k HDMI output on
a computer so instantly we've taken that
price and we said okay now that's up a
little bit on the graphics and because
1080p is just not going to cut it for
you right and you also need enough
processor power to be able to handle 4k
video right I also want good USB ports
only because I know in good AI
accessible yeah
fastening sighs well I want them to be
on the front of the tower and I want
them to be whatever is better than what
he has now because you have to be able
to put stuff on top of the tower can it
be like a rounded bezel which could be
ports on the top it can be rounded bezel
with yes okay because that's pretty
common for kind of sleek and natural
looking so okay so far we know she needs
to have a 4k video output over HDMI I
would presume is a good connector yeah
for your TV we're going to need to have
I would say with that you're going to
need at least 16 gigs of RAM would
probably be advisable he's going to be
doing anything on there at 4k resolution
do you think he's ever going to want to
do like VR stuff because if you're
getting into a high-end system not
something that you could just add to be
goggles for right is it a huge thing to
add it in it probably would be cool to
have it do you know like if you were to
throw a VR headset on there not it has
to be a part of it
ya know as soon as you get into VR
that's when things get a little more
complicated you need I know with like
the video I think it starts at like a
newer series like the GTX like 10 60s or
even like the 900 series oh um so what
that is it's the video cards like the
graphics card right so if he is doing
gaming things like that and a new like
the video like again that's the car that
I have um the newer ones the 10 series
newest cards I have the cheapest one
which is the 10 60 and it works
perfectly fine for me like I do all my
video editing all my gaming surfacing
there oh and like it's like the cheapest
of the new versions that you really need
right now interesting fact is that you
can always upgrade your video card to
thank you if you bill
the computer with even a 10 60 or 1080
card then you could then later remove
that mm-hmm pawn it off and buy a better
card right so you that's that's always
an option to that's one of the nice
things about building it yourself is
you've got that room to expand grow and
I'll know how to be you know replacing
things and taking things apart and
putting them back together right now for
me it's just like it's so daunting to
think about
I would never open his computer right
now and try and swap things you've done
a pie so this is a big step yeah hard
drive space is he going to be storing
the videos on the computer or we do what
we do have an external hard drive that
we use often to take things off of his
computer because it maxes out ok um is
that a USB drive external yeah that
could be fairly slow yeah starts when
you start yes so having better storage
in the computer would be great so I
would suggest probably an SSD for the
operating system and a supplemental
storage drive or even if you have the
budget for it two drives that would be
in what's called a raid 1 that would be
for your data so that if it's say a 2 4
terabyte drives you wouldn't have a
terabytes you'd only have 4 terabytes
but if one fails you don't lose any of
the files right you have that redundancy
like a server so then you don't lose and
have to react you late all your videos
and things like that that's not
something to consider
ok ok so think about that folks at home
viewers at home we should know about is
that you know things that specifically
you want to be able to do with the
system there's I mean as much like it's
mostly just day-to-day stuff right like
we're not super like like we're not
super programmers great a day so
basically high-end awesome exactly that
it's gotta be sexy as anything it means
it be friendly yeah it's a gift like if
it needs to be cool and low maintenance
low maintenance so I'm thinking you know
I would I would lean toward water
cooling but if you ever maybe a
self-contained water cooler that doesn't
require refilling ok that would be
alright if we define one that's sleek
and looks nice
works within the chassis otherwise
you're looking at a CPU fan which is
fine but it generates a little more
noise and it's not quite as efficient
house where cooling goes the water
cooling would be water cooling might be
nice although with something too
self-contained also that we don't have
to refill it ok and then I'm excited to
introduce some more to Linux right so
then I was like I want it to be not like
I want the desktop environment and I
realize that we've been looking at that
a lot I want it to be not completely
like out there different from Boram
Florent but I don't want it to be too
similar either right like I want it to
be intuitive but obviously a bit
different so that when he's bringing if
he brings his computer yeah with you but
he shows people and it's a really good
window into people what would it be into
showing off what happens on the display
like if we were to make it from now this
is operating system so we're going Linux
so you probably want to avoid any kind
of BIOS features that are going to have
trouble with Linux if we have things
like cool 3d effects and things in the
environment so that you know he can do
you want a touchscreen do you want to be
able to mess with things not a
touchscreen because the screen we use is
our computer or our TV oh you use the TV
a TV is the screen always ok yeah cool
all right more case crazy yeah yeah yeah
all right cool
keyboard mouse we should get something
that matches make it woman okay so
anything else you can think of and
obviously wireless keyboard mouse any
question Wireless okay yeah that's a
good idea but it's got to be frank know
the awesome it's got to hold a charge
yeah chat room if you had any
suggestions or anything yeah Bob 5450
yeah let's get to get some barrel 3d on
there may be some competition we're
gonna get the wobbly windows and throw
the cube on there for you cool it's not
that that'll be cool anything else just
looking at the chat room right now real
quick
have you seen anything there folks all
right so viewers at home comment below
if you're on YouTube comment there if
you're on our website category 5 TV
please comment below and also we have a
thread over at forum category 5 dot TV
and you'll see in the category 5
technology TV forum post for sashes
computer built so any suggestions that
you have please post them there I
presume like shopping on Amazon is an
option and things like that yes now I
mean shopping on Amazon is great cuz I a
I can use the links and be I have Amazon
Prime so I get we're shipping for many
things
um but getting it to not my house is the
thing too because they can't get shipped
to my house okay we can happen to our
category 5 address beautiful yeah just
choose when you order ready want to ship
it to so yeah the only thing Dave Wright
really knows right now is he's just not
allowed to watch the show between now
and the wedding and not allowed to buy a
new computer which means he probably
knows he's getting a computer ok right
but he doesn't know I'm - what scope in
anyway and he doesn't know I'm building
it or else he'd probably have an anxiety
attack
oh just from the chatroom Linden does
can you know it concur with me that a
raid one would be a good idea for the
data ok yes you know I haven't know the
image voice of category 5 technology TV
Jodi Crangle she has a computer with
multiple hard drives just for that
reason and one of the hard drives she
mentioned was having some trouble and
it's beautiful that she's not at risk of
losing her data exactly because it's on
two hard drives at once I'm sorry pull
out one you pop in another and too bad
so sad you know you lost the cost of you
know you got to pay a couple hundred
bucks for another drive but we see them
lose your stuff right perfect
there you go wait here alright so get
your posts in get your recommendations
in over the course of the next few weeks
we're going to be well the next two
weeks we're going to be looking at the
components themselves assembling these
for you so that we have kind of a
shopping list if you will and then I
guess you'll just go shopping yes we're
going to get going on the the builds
themselves so make sure you're here make
sure you participate in that and we look
forward to hearing from you
if you don't want to communicate by
commenting and things like that head on
over to our website category 5 TV and
you'll see the contact us and you can
simply send us an email for the live
show thank you so much in advance for
your help the thing I cannot do myself I
can see this being on the forms and just
going pages after pages yes presentation
another coming a 40 of 40 video series
I'm going to say we're going to we're
going to opt for Nvidia and we're going
to opt for Intel processors a new i9
nice go with the best of the best ever
so there we have it folks thank you so
much for tuning in that's all the time
that we have we're actually a little
over time tonight thanks to these two
for being here with me on the show and
we will see you next Wednesday night so
have a great week hey guys good night
[Music]
