all right we've been talking about the
smart home and cameras are something
that are definitely part of the smart
home these days as that smart home kind
of evolves but wise has brought out two
particular cameras that are just
revolutionising basically the smart home
because they're so unbelievably cheap
first of all I've got the Y's v2 this is
the wise cam v2 and this one goes for
$25 I'm gonna open the box and get into
there and show you what what that comes
with and talk a little bit about it then
we've got the pan as well so this is an
actual PTZ camera so it pans tilts and
zooms and this one is only $38 so if
you're looking at smart cameras for
surveillance or anything else this is
the the most unbelievably economical
solution so let's get into the box and
we'll take a look at what these come
with so we'll get into the v2 first the
wise cam v2 let's pop into the box and
when I think of the Smart Home and
surveillance being tied together I'm
just blown away at how this can be done
so incredibly cheap there it is so let's
get in there the camera is very very
small what else is in the box it almost
looks like a little Bluetooth speaker
the size of it anyway is very very small
small what's in here okay so we've got a
USB power adapter cable oh come on there
it is okay so what do we have this is
how many amps oh it's very very little
power thousand milliamps there we go
we've got a USB micro we've got some
magnetic plate that we can stick on to
the wall if we want to be able to
magnetically stick this up but let's get
in here you already know about all that
so this again is only $25 it's 1080p
both cameras are 1080p they both have
two-way audio so that you can
communicate with with somebody on the
other side and hear what's going on so
we've got power input there and we've
got a USB jack and this pops open here
it's cute it's cool
so stamp can be audio you mean you can
have two microphones talking back and
forth well you can talk from your smart
app okay so the wise app so it pivots
the one thing that I don't see here is I
do not see quarter-inch capability and
there's nothing under the sticker here
I'm just scratching to see if I can feel
a quarter inch screw hole and I do not
so unfortunately this is not something
that you can mount on a tripod or like
on a wall adapter such as something like
this for surveillance but it is
something that you can put on a surface
or as I mentioned it does come with this
magnetic plate so if you don't have
something steel that you can mount it to
this double-sided sticker will stick
that to say a wall or whatever else and
then I guess this has got yeah that's
got some nice strong magnetism that just
means it would stick on your fridge too
if you needed it oh yeah you could put
this right on your fridge and monitor
late-night stats there you go so that is
all that's in the box there and the only
disappointment if you will I would say
it would have been nice if they would
have put a quarter inch hole on that and
they've certainly got room for it that
would have been the one bonus so that it
could have been put on a tripod or
something along those lines though could
you not use the double stick tape on a
try what do you mean like say you want
to stick it to a wall or something you
could use the double stick tape for that
good yeah well you just use the magnet
right okay right that's really strong
for me and then that way you can pull it
off you're not damaging the wall you'll
just have this circle on the wall it has
infrared so we've got night vision
it's got 1080p and the infrared is about
30 feet view
and of course a 1080p camera which we
will be looking at on a future review
this is just an unboxing just so that
you can see what comes in the box
but that is something that we're going
to be looking at more closely you'll
notice on the bottom here a couple quick
things we've got a button here which
allows you to look this is like your set
up button and then we've got an SD card
slot for micro SD cards because you can
record directly to your SD card so that
not everything is going to the cloud
it's going to actually save to your SD
ok let's get into the pan so the one
thing about this is it's stationary
right it's gonna sit there and where you
point it is where it's going to be
pointed and there's nothing that you can
do to change that now why is heard the
call of the community and said ok we're
gonna bring out another camera this is
called the pan the wise cam pan and
let's pop into the box of this one as
well this one goes for $38 on amazon.com
and you can actually get both of these
through our website which is a way to
support category 5 TV if you appreciate
the reviews and the unboxings that we do
please head on over to cap 5 dot TV
slash wise and you'll be able to get
them there it's still through Amazon but
you're supporting us through their
affiliate links ok so this is a
significantly larger unit ok come on
come on come on get out of the box get
out of the box seriously I'm gonna have
to destroy the box to get into it that
is a snug packaging folks oh my goodness
no wasted space I know oh my there we go
we got it ok oh good holy cow all right
there we go this oh alright first of all
this is significantly larger so I didn't
realize it was as big as it is in the
pictures it looks like it's quite small
this is you know there's a wise cam what
can I compare this to I mean you look at
you know the power adapter which is
similar
what you'd have for your phone and you
can see the difference in in size you've
got your phone as well you want to okay
I'm just thinking form factor uh that's
a Samsung a8 oh yeah all right there you
go yeah so you can see it's a big boxy
thing again this is only thirty eight
bucks and it's got pan tilt and zoom so
the camera will move up and down which
you can control from the app and then on
the base it will rotate and then the
zoom presumably is going to be digital
it has a 1080p sensor and this one does
have quarter inch so nice thing about
this being PTZ now I can in fact mount
this this is just a cheap little
surveillance wall mount that I picked up
is like four dollars on Amazon big deal
right so I can actually mount that
quarter inch on the wall and I don't
have to invest in the overpriced
proprietary like designed for this
particular camera mounting unit which is
good for outdoors but for indoors I
don't need the weatherproof housing and
the problems that come with it with the
the interference that it causes with the
night vision for example you might read
that in some of the reviews but this too
has 30 30 feet of night vision two-way
audio 1080p and there's not much to it
there's the power input on the base I
like that it's on the base because as
the camera moves the base is going to
remain stationary see that then we've
got a USB jack which we're gonna look
into what that can be used for again on
the bottom here we've got a micro SD
card reader writer I should say because
that's where you're going to be able to
store your video and we've got the setup
button as well something else here which
I'm not too sure that must be the
microphone right there in the base and
just quickly there's one other box here
in the package
and I presume this just the same sort of
thing yeah USB cable and there's our USB
brick Tic Tacs and that's it
I was saying what's neat about these is
that they use cloud services but they do
something very very different and I know
that this is an unboxing this is not a
product review yet we are going to be
doing that and of course the links will
be below as soon as that's available for
you but what it does is if there's
motion detected it's going to ping you
in your app it also has sound
recognition like intelligent sound
recognition so if the fire alarm in your
house goes off your app is actually
going to tell you that the fire alarm is
going on because the audio in these are
able to determine oh that's a fire alarm
oh that's a co2 alarm and it's going to
notify you of that fact that something's
going on that you need to check out so
you bring up the app and you're able to
watch the video see what's going on now
with the PTZ model you're able to turn
the camera you're able to move it up and
down and you're able to zoom in and out
with this one it's stationary video
again twenty-five dollars thirty eight
dollars the price point is astonishing
so so this one has zoom I thought it was
just paying well it's PTZ so we're gonna
review we're gonna hook it up we're
gonna test it over the next week and
then we're gonna come back on the show
and do an actual product review this of
course is the first time we've been into
the box so we haven't fired the rep and
tried them yet but it does market itself
as PTZ which means pan tilt zoom okay
does it have zoom I don't know yeah it
may be digital I don't see an optical
zoom apparatus it's just a very very
tiny retina on the on the camera so I
doubt it's optical it's going to be
digital if anything but digital can be
pretty good in this space because we're
talking about a 1080p video right and
you know if you pull in a little bit on
that it's pretty good you're still
getting at something your standard
surveillance cameras significantly less
than 1080p so something like this with a
1080p sensor the video quality is 1080p
you're getting HD video it's better than
your typical surveillance system and so
it connects through Wi-Fi great does
yeah so could you have
this connected through Wi-Fi say to like
your Google home or or some things that
they do have Amazon Alexa support so if
you have an Alexa show for I I'm I beg
your pardon an echo show and I'm
apologize if I just set off your your
device I shouldn't have done that but so
mute your device because I sometimes
mess up if you have an echo show or
another device that has the screen then
you can actually say let me see the back
yard and you'll see the the camera
that's in the back yard that's
identified as such and in your app you
can in fact name each camera and you can
have multiple cameras set up so you
could have five of these guys stationary
placed around your office and then you
can have a couple of these where you
need to be able to pan and tilt right
right and they're all available with
some same use these for like a bunch of
different things absolutely right like
if you have young kids say you have
young kids and you have like a pool in
the backyard now it's fenced off and
everything but you want to make sure
that you're notified at all if there's
any action so make sure to work just
insane exactly just mount one of those
and it would just ping you if if there's
motion yeah if there's something going
on if there's someone stealing Amazon
packages off your front porch right you
know these kinds of things this could be
the answer or somebody dropping Amazon
packages off at your front porch
although I do get it when they're
dropping waiting eagerly exactly I want
another wise cam has it arrived yet yeah
I do know that like I mean you can see
it right there on discord that gwg has
ten of these ten right sees a price
point so you think about that and you
think that's absurd ten of these wise
cams think about the price point at $25
so two hundred and fifty dollars and
this is not a sales pitch and this is
not I'm not selling anything tonight
even though you know I'd encourage you
to buy them through our links because it
does support us yeah but to say that
think about like the the next best
option
smart cameras for nest for example nest
cam right two hundred bucks even right
so see this you think you can have 10
mole ten of these for just a little bit
more money well this is speaking to me
heavily because about two months ago I
bought a security system for our house
because you know
cul-de-sac we've had an issue of weekly
attempted break-ins to the cars
oh no and a couple times they've gone
into my wife's vehicle but our neighbor
went and bought a nest when they were it
was a Black Friday sale and yes we
picked up a nest over to mock so I got
two of them I'm like I don't want to
spend 200 bucks yeah yeah so but I
bought a camera it's only four cameras
1080p for 200 bucks with a harddrive
that does upload to the cloud 200 look
at this board okay and you already spent
that Oh burn okay let me just put
something out there so the car break-in
thing is a problem yeah this is what's
happening in the community right now 25
bucks yep okay it's powered by USB okay
what do we know about USB with our power
adapter our charger that it doesn't our
little brick that yeah the charge is our
phone right we can power devices exactly
a little portable phone charger can
power something like this for hours
right hours so plug this into your
battery pack phone charger and leave it
in leave it in your car right put it on
the dashboard but as it meant for
Canadian winters of minus billions
degrees sure sure
absolutely I give it a try man it's 25
ok so right so say you say you have a
cottage right yeah and and you don't
want to leave like a whole security
setup at your cottage all the time but
while you're there you want to make sure
that everything is well you've got the
SD card capability so you don't need a
DVR right if you have Wi-Fi available
it's going to have the cloud options so
that you can then bring it up in your
app and be able to view what's going on
this is why I think like putting in the
driveway in the car on the dash looking
at the window put two of them put one
looking at each side and for $50.00 you
now have full car surveillance connect
it to your home Wi-Fi so from your
bedroom on your phone you can see what's
happening in your car cool somebody
walks up to it there's no more having to
oh it's too blurry of an image from the
front deck looking out at the car this
is sitting right on the dash in 1080p
about this close to the thief
huh think about that for a second I like
that a lot yeah so hey check them out
it's cat five dot TV slash wise to find
out more information about them or to
pick up some for yourself again there's
no DVR there's no hub needed you don't
need any other peripherals it's just it
connects to your Wi-Fi it's really easy
to set up you're going to use your phone
or your tablet to be able to control
them and that's going to give you a
really cool cloud-based home
surveillance or business surveillance
system love it also love how all these
mailboxes always end up products in my
home WG mention that you can get 10 of
them for 250 something we're excited
about though because what's happening is
with the growth of the smart home kind
of mentality we're seeing prices come
way down oh yeah the echo dot 3 for 39
bucks Canadian still that's like four
dollars American guys so you think about
the price and how they're dropping
dropping dropping and you can get a
surveillance system like this that
cheaply PTZ for 38 bucks and 1080p with
cloud connectivity ridiculous that's
nuts
yeah like unheard of and they're
changing like companies like wise are
changing the entire industry for
consumers whereas now it's accessible
now it's something that we can all get
in on on and have this type of
protection for our home well exactly I
love that absolutely love it
[Music]
[Applause]
