hello again to episode 2 of new everyday
on category 5 TV my name is Carrie and
I'm Jen and we're here to talk about
existential aspects of biblical reading
to affect our sanctification which leads
to glorification
or two roommates we've been sharing this
place now for about three years and one
of the benefits that we've had is every
day we talk about our days and how God
has sort of moved in and around the
events of our day mm-hmm and how his
mercies are new that's our theme verse
lamentations 3 22 and 23 and the fact
that we can have hope can you just read
the verse again done sure let me just so
lamentations Old Testament what's
interesting about the book of
lamentations is we believe the Prophet
Jeremiah wrote it and he was just so
broken about what was happening to
Jerusalem and that he wrote he's called
the lamenting prophet he was just so
broken and the whole book of
lamentations is basically a written
lament in the Bible about God where are
you God where are you do not see your
people and so right like and so as I
read through limitations I'm like okay
God where are you and then you get to
basically the middle of this short
little book it's five chapters and like
Jeremiah's saying I remember my
affliction am i wandering the bitterness
and the gall like he is I know I well
remember them and my soul is downcast
within me and he says yet this I call to
mind and therefore I have hope because
of the Lord's great love we are not
consumed for his compassions never fail
they are new every morning great is your
faithfulness I say to myself the Lord is
my portion therefore I will wait for him
hmm so that's our theme verse and so we
basically we're going to talk for the
next little while about who God is and
how he interacts in our life and and
specifically how do we even know it's
god mm-hmm and I'm like why I read the
Bible and why pray and you know is
Christianity really relevant today you
know does it really matter
what you believe as long as you treat
people nicely how does why is faith
important you know why should I bother
even telling people you know why are we
even having a show about this hmm you
know there's there's so many other
things that you can we can focus on that
we could talk about but why is this
important yeah are alive so that's why
we wanted to yeah have the show so and
one of the things that you talked about
in the last show was how reading the
Bible helped grow you in your faith yeah
yeah um now what's interesting is the
Bible was actually written like over
well Oh close to 2,000 years ago yeah
like by the time they put the whole
thing together was about 300 AD and yet
we are still reading it today mm-hmm and
like every day I cannot go a day without
reading my Bible I there have been times
where I've gone to bed and I'd be like I
didn't work it we got to read it and
I'll get out of bed and I'll read it or
turn on my phone yeah um the Bible app
you know open it up and we'll put a link
to that on our website and because it's
for me reading my Bible every day is
like feeding my soul and for me to grow
in my relationship with God but also my
relationship with the people around me I
need to know what's in in this word
because we as Christians we believe that
it is not just a book mm-hmm we believe
it is the inspired Word of God what's
that what's inspired what which because
some people believe well did God take a
hold of the prophets hands or the
writers hand and like teaching a kid too
right yeah is that what he did and we
believe that inspired means that God
spoke to those people writing the Bible
and those people wrote it out ok so it's
written by Pete
bull but inspired told by God's what's
God's story it's like a biography of
God's love basically some people have
said its the bee ible which is if if
your first language is not English Bible
is what we call it but basic
instructions before leaving earth and so
the Bible was written to tell us about
who God is and how much he loves us and
how he desires to have a relationship
with us and right at the very beginning
in Genesis 11 it says in the beginning
God mm-hmm created the heavens and the
earth and so we we believe that God
created us but he created for a purpose
and that purpose was to have
relationship with us and so the Bible is
full beginning to end about that
relationship and the cool thing that I
love about it in our in our church we've
been going through a sermon series
called the story yeah so we'll put that
link up on our website new every day at
category 5 TV but basically what I like
about it is it helps us you know it's
like cools notes of the Bible and it
helps us to actually get the full story
of what it is like what is how is God
interacting throughout history to
connect with his people and what's
interesting is as you read through the
Bible even though it was written over
like 1600 years the st. and written by
like 40 different authors 40 different
authors yeah the same message keeps
coming up yeah God loves me he has a
plan for me come to him he'll receive
you and even in the Old Testament like
the old Tessa was written before Jesus
yes and we're reading that and thinking
this like this even relevant it's
talking about Israel and Egyptians and
all of these different things yeah and
yet now
I see that there is a common theme about
Jesus even in the Old Testament hmm so
very very interesting I think I've
developed a new respect for the Old
Testament because even Jesus like he was
talking to the Pharisees which were how
would you explain a Pharisee Jen there
were people who lived during his time
period right right and so leaders during
there's the Bible is broken up into two
parts an old testament or means old
covenant ok so that's like before Jesus
and then the New Testament or the new
covenant which is about the story of God
through the life of Jesus and how the
church came about and so in the period
between the Old Testament and the New
Testament God is orchestrating time
basically that there's a term called the
fullness of time where God is preparing
for Jesus to come and so he did that
through the coolest part is he doesn't
use a prophet he doesn't really use the
Jewish people at that moment to
accomplish his plans he accomplishes
plans through people who don't even know
him so while God is orchestrating that
the Jewish people sort of break off into
four different groups one of them being
the Pharisees who are teachers of the
law like the law of God the law of God
so they're like keepers of the law so
they would write like a how-to book on
well hat what does it mean to honor the
Sabbath day mm-hmm with all these rules
you can do this you can do this and you
can you can't do this Nick it's oh right
yeah well what does it mean to honor
your parents what does it mean to do
this so they were the keepers of the law
because their faith was the only the law
meaning the Old Testament because their
faith the book the Old Testament the
Torah was the only thing they had right
because the Romans now had come over and
and the end so they didn't necessarily
have control of their land the only
thing they had control of was their
faith and their culture and so the
Pharisees teachers of the law were the
people that were saying we act we've got
to protect this so that we can truly be
the people God has called us to be I
never thought of it that way mm-hmm so
they were like so they were the keepers
they were the keepers of a lot like and
that's why you know Jesus it's so often
he comes against them because they they
read the letter of the law but they
didn't hear God's heart yeah like him
even referred to the Old Testament way
said you're searching the Scriptures
because you think that in them you you
find light he said no does these
scriptures point to me and I was like
what that's the Old Testament but what
the those people were studying at the
time was the Old Testament and Jesus
even is in there before he was born and
that's part of how you know God was
telling things before they happen and
that certainly we can talk about more
yeah now what I found interesting is
that you said it occurred to you that
Jesus was in the Old Testament and so
often especially why should say
especially like how do I don't go about
reading it like we know like how do you
even get started yeah because that's
something that I I struggled with right
I said last week Latin there was no one
there to teach me how to do it
necessarily so like what do you do like
you know I'm new here are people going
like okay speak to me BAM and then
they'll read something for they are like
a breath of air their days are like a
passing shadow you know what's a random
birth without context like is that the
best way to read our Bible or what you
know what do you recommend i think
there's different ways for each person
and sometimes sometimes i'll read it
differently depending on my mood like
there are some days that i set and i'll
just sit down and I'll read the Bible
like a novel like wow I can't even like
get away from it sort of thing like I'm
just going to read it and then there's
some days were there will just be one
verse and I'll just read it and read it
and read it and read it and it'll just
it'll sink in one of the and one yeah
one of the ways that I often read my
Bible is I set aside a time usually the
same time every day just to keep it part
of my schedule yeah okay and I have my
journal and this is my bookshelf by the
way these are all of my journals from
like I don't know eons and as I work
through Bible I'll read a passage and
something like okay I'll do what Kerry
did all right so uh it says well this is
Jeremiah 28 I said so this is this 2816
so this is what the Lord says soon i
will remove you from the earth you will
die this year because you taught the
people to turn against the Lord I'm like
okay Lord what do I do with that right
cuz it sounds like what and so what I
often will do is I'll actually write
down the verse because I tend to be a
visual learner hmm so i'll write down
the verse and then i'll ask questions
Lord to the Lord like what does it mean
to teach your people wrong like cuz
that's what the verse said because you
taught the people to turn against the
Lord I'll say Lord have I ever taught
people to turn against you what does
that look like um please protect me be
with my words you know help me to say
the right things help me to be in a
place so that would be applying the
Bible because ya see that was like
really weird right just to open it up
read random verse because it's not in
context to and I think yes you know I've
done that before and sometimes it
doesn't make sense but you have to be
able to read things in context yes so so
if you guys it's not always best just to
open it up and be like what should i do
this morning and it's like you know go
take a young goat and I don't know
whatever and so if you happen to do what
I just did open it up then you go back
and you actually read the whole thing
and that is so important to read the
thing that burst in context and if I'd
gone back to the beginning of chapter 28
of Jeremiah it says the false prophet
Hananiah and as you read the passage you
start to see that oh he was teaching the
people wrong he was teaching the people
one thing whereas Jeremiah was teaching
the people about actually what God is
saying here Hannah and I was saying you
know peace is coming and Jeremiah's like
peace is not coming and so that's you
get context by reading more of it yeah
yes I know I've I found it helpful and I
don't know about you done but like say
you're and start in the book of John
like I'd actually just read one chapter
yes and then just ask god can you show
me you know one verse and then I'd read
it again and you know one verse might
kind of stick out in my mind it wasn't
like I heard God saying John chapter 3
verse 1 and be like John chapter 3 verse
1 you know not that I doubt that God
can't do that now but I know for me that
some first might just stick out and then
I would write it down and think about it
and pray about it I didn't know who God
was at that time right and yet i found
that suddenly that verse that stood out
to me would start applying to my day
like for example i remember reading you
were not your own you were bought at a
price meaning Jesus came down and paid
paid for us bought us back we were
slaves to sin but lies back by dying on
the cross so you are not your own rubato
the price therefore honor god with your
body and you know as a teenager I
thought well what does that what's that
mean God like was I need to honor you
with my body that mean hmm you know
don't get my face all pierced or
whatever but I thought okay well if I'm
honoring him with my body does it mean
I'm gonna actually use my body to serve
other people so I'm actually going to go
when I'm going to help serve and I found
that the verse would come to mind or
like bad company corrupts good character
and you know I'm I remember that first I
was with a group of friends and the
first came to mind and I thought you
know what this is not a good set you
for me to be in hmm I was like 14 right
at a party interesting yeah and so God
just kind of like started talking to me
that way through the Bible right kind of
interesting and what's interesting is
what you just said is as we read verses
they come to mind throughout the day
yeah and I don't know if you can see on
Carrie shirt it says Rumble camp for the
Deaf um which is a camp that we support
and encourage and pray for it was at
camp now not this camp when another camp
that I started along with church memory
memorizing okay Scripture and so because
the Bible says you know plant God's Word
in our hearts and so you know I grew up
memorizing the Bible for the exact same
reason that you just said so that I
often find at different points during
the day because I've been in the word
and I'm training myself to memorize
scripture that something will happen and
i'll be like okay Philippians 4 6 &amp; 7 do
not be anxious about anything but in
everything with prayer and petition with
Thanksgiving present your requests to
God and the peace of God which
transcends all understanding will guard
your heart and your mind in Christ Jesus
and it just reminds me of how much God
loves me because it says don't be
anxious about anything but in everything
with prayer and petition with
Thanksgiving present your quest to God
as when we tell God about everything the
good the bad the ugly then his peace
comes I love it I would if I had not
read his word yeah if I had not hit it
in my heart it says memorizing by
memorized day then so many times I think
I would just stay in my anxiety hmm what
it's like when I'm feeling anxious I'd
be like wait a second the Bible says and
think of it and suddenly your mind is
turned away from the situation it's time
back on to God yes you know who really
is the only one to solve the problem
because what I find happens then because
I have hidden his word in my heart which
means I've planted it I've memorized it
I spent time with it when the problem
happens my eyes turned towards Jesus who
is the only one that can really help me
in the situation but then my attitude
changes right yeah right it's like okay
Lord change my attitude give me the
words I need help me show grace to that
person and that all started because I
made time to read his word and I think
you know if we were honest there are
some mornings some days where we all
read it yeah and we don't get you know
perceive that we don't get anything from
it yeah but I know I have to read it
just like there are mornings where I eat
my breakfast I don't necessarily enjoy
it but I know I have to your breakfast
to the reading my breakfast and I'm like
aw it's okay i know i have to eat it
right so i but but then during the rest
of the day whatever i read that morning
even though in that moment I might not
have gotten anything from it it comes to
my it comes to my yeah yeah so now I
know that sometimes happens with you at
work it does and I've had several
situations where sometimes I think I
don't know I have questions about what I
read in the Bible and that's something I
thought well you know if I'm a Christian
then maybe I shouldn't have doubts or
shouldn't have questions but it's in
asking those questions and like writing
down writing them down and then I
talking about having our coach time and
talking about it or you know praying
about it asking God that I really
learned from those times of doubt right
and so I don't necessarily shy away from
asking questions anymore and I'll just
share a quick story so I I work as a
nurse and any story that I share about
situations at the hospital I've changed
the information for patient
confidentiality so that's not a concern
but I was looking after a young woman
who
she was quite ill and this was I was
working on postoperative floor and she
was there and I was I went in the middle
of the night and I was walking past her
room and I could see that she was
shivering so I went in the room I said
oh are you okay and she said no I'm
really having some pain and not feeling
well I took her temperature she had a
fever I neighbors in Tylenol and I was
just kind of settling her back into bed
and I noticed her Bible on her bedside
table I said oh like date is that yours
do you read that she said yeah I said oh
that's that's great you know and then I
left the room and I felt I just got to
go back in and talk with her I just
gotta go pray with her so I went back in
the room and I said it is it okay if I
pray with you and so I I prayed with her
and I shared a verse that a hint that
had encouraged me and it's def and I a
317 for the Lord your God is with you he
is mighty to save I will take great
delight in you sees me he will quiet you
in his love and he will rejoice over you
with singing shared that with her and
then after we're done praying she was
like crying crying crying and she said
you know I'm going for a biopsy tomorrow
to see if I have cancer and i just don't
know what to do when I'm nervous and I
said I don't know what the answer is but
I know that God is real any promises to
be with you and she believed that 22
years later I actually met her again um
and she was my patient again and she
recognizes me she's like hey are you the
nurse that prayed with me I was like
yeah I totally remember you and yet she
still had cancer and I I struggled with
that I was having more of a hard time of
it then she was and she said um uh I
said how are you doing and she said you
know I I used to pray you know God why
haven't you healed me and I'm and I read
after I had seen her Psalm 103 you know
God is the one he forgives all my sins
and heals all of my diseases he redeemed
me from death and crowns me with love
and tender mer
zzz he fills my life with good things my
youth is renewed like the Eagles and I'm
like but I read that and isn't it true
and yet here's this young woman and
she's quite sick and anyway she she
would did not do well that day it was
very very sick and she said Carrie I
understand now that I can have peace in
god and his ways are not my ways and his
thoughts are not my thoughts and yet I
know that he's with me and that one day
I'm going to be with him and she's
sharing this with me she is preaching to
me and I am the one wrestling with it
and I write it you know that's where I
said God like are you not the one who
heals diseases and yet here's this woman
and she she died and I was with that for
a long time but I kept reading I just
kept reading and maybe you have doubts
and you're struggling with things but
just keep reading you know yeah so I
read that again and God forgives all our
sins and he heals us from our diseases
and one day we were going to be with him
in heaven we're gonna be made new and
he's making us new inside every day as
we spend time with him and always seen
people change in how they are but yet he
gives us this promise that this life is
not it no right and that those those are
the words that hope that i read in here
that we you know are going to encounter
suffering we promised us to be with us
he will forgive and forgive us and heal
all our disease and one day we will be
fully restored hmm after we die and my
patient had that perspective despite
being the one suffering and I'm still
wrestling through these things and I'm
still learning about it but through that
experience I learned it's okay I can
question but I can also trust that God
is trustworthy yeah if I don't know
what's going on that the words are true
and we just got to keep reading and
being encouraged and talking it out and
praying about it so yeah that's one of
like a million things that have happened
in stories or if God has brought to mind
scripture and then taught me from it and
I think like you said you kept reading
so often I hear about
people who pick and choose what they
read in the scriptures so like an alec
hartman like an ala carte menu and I i
really encourage you like to at some
point read it all the way through yeah
because it's like picking up you know
one of these books and opening it to the
middle and only reading a page but you
don't you don't know what happened
before you don't know what happened
afterwards so you can read you know one
of the passage that says something about
God's character and yet you're only
having a small a little piece of a piece
of it like you said reading it in
context i greet what is the rest of the
passage say but what does the whole
Bible say so when we talk about healing
or suffering or you know we read that
where he seals everyone right but like
he will heal and then we go to the New
Testament and it says that jesus healed
everyone that came to him but yet when
he went to the pool of us alone he
walked past everyone and healed one man
and so it's so important you know and so
you can't just read about the healings
you have to understand that passage in
Isaiah which says like you're the lady
said his I've learned that his ways are
not my ways he does not do things the
way I want him to do things and so we
can look at Jesus and go how comes
sometimes he healed everyone and other
times he would walk around well as we
read through scripture as we talked
about which is so important like I find
sometimes and we do this so much right
hey I read this today what do you think
of this what do you think because I den
this is weird and so you know then our
life experiences can play into the way
that we understand it or we hop on you
know internet commentary and but are
like people who have studied the Bible
say about this because that's so
important like not don't just read it by
yourself I get involved in a Bible study
like attend a church that actually
preaches the Word of God but knowing
what the whole thing says so that like
you said you were you're faced with the
situation that you didn't understand and
you struggled and you doubted but you
kept moving forward yeah and you saw it
wise counsel and you continue to pray
and ask the Lord to to sort it out and I
think sometimes he puts things on pause
and then as you continue to read reread
all of a sudden you know week later a
month later something happens you have
an interaction with someone and then
it's like unpause and you have that
peace or the answer that you were
looking for but like you said you have
to keep keep at it like keep keep at it
even with the doubts i know sometimes
even though i've been serving the Lord
my entire life there are days or I'm
like COD are you in there hmm really
yeah like if you're there like why why
did this happen your word says right I I
heard someone say one time n if you're
questioning ask God like can you pray
God if you're real can you show me like
is that an okay thing to pray I think so
because that's a genuine question but
also be prepared that he might show you
in a way that you don't expect like so
often it's like okay an angel of the
Lord has now appeared in our presence
right yeah um I remember but when I
first became a Christian I were saying
you know okay if I'm supposed to go over
to this friend's house then make that
glass of water fall over well the glass
of water didn't fall over you know oh
yes I'd be like God if I really can do
all things for you the remote control
that's over there I'm just going to
believe that I can do all things
although okay so this was in high school
I don't have talked a lot about growing
up and yeah we'll be able to share
stories later about life now but anyways
member i was in high school and I was
really wanted more time to work on this
project and it was stressed about it and
it was wintertime it's a god can I
please have a snow day tomorrow I woke
up and it was a snow day no I was like
he's real I'm not saying to pray for
snow days but you know I think it's okay
by me like to pray for things as they
come to mind it doesn't have to be
formal mmm you don't have to me outside
of your bed yeah and yet God is holy
which means he it doesn't have sinned
and we need to respect and honor him
yeah and yet he says we can come to us
as his children because He loves us so
there's an interesting relationship yeah
they're one of the cool things for me
about reading the Bible is I knew it was
important because I saw my dad reading
the Bible oh yeah like every day every
day I remember seeing him on his bed mmm
reading the Bible and in fact when my
dad passed away that was the only thing
i wanted i wanted his a Bible oh yeah
and and I knew that because my dad read
the Bible it must be important and so I
think I started reading the Bible when I
was eight I had just a children's Bible
i don't think i have it here i think i
have it in my office just started
reading a children's bible and that's
you know and even then it was a king
james version faizan vows these and
those and yet because we believe that it
is the Bible says it is living and
active right so you can read one passage
and go back to and get one thing and go
back the next day and you get something
totally different yeah and then go back
the next day and you're like whoa what
do you mean though by like you get
something like for instance we I meet
with a couple young ladies once a week
and we're just mentoring discipleship
and we're talking about what it means to
be filled with the spirit and so we're
listening to a john piper you
video he's a pastor and sometimes it's
just good to have different perspectives
and so I always read the passage now let
me see if I can find it and it says that
he this is john 1 to 33 says you will
see the spirit come down and rest on a
man he is the one who will baptize with
the Holy Spirit but the way John said it
John Piper pastor john said it he said
Jesus will baptize with the Holy Spirit
I went like I always just read it like
in the sentence you know he is the one
who will baptize with the Holy Spirit
but and I have seen this happen I tell
you that it would just keep reading
mm-hmm it didn't even I hadn't even
occurred to me that it was Jesus who is
the one who is the one who get out until
I swear yes yeah who baptizes but so
it's not people it's Jesus and I'm
thinking how many times have I read this
passage so when I say you know I got
something new from it I feel like like I
was encouraged okay so it's like a
you're learning something new I'm
learning something new like I was
encouraged and I felt like if it would
affect how I would pray okay or when I
pray for other people um or Jesus that
that you would in your mercy fill this
person with the Holy Spirit that it's
Jesus they're like doing it so that
wasn't it was just something that stood
out to you that was dim around ok and so
that makes sense yeah which was so cool
cuz i'm like i've read this passage so
many times and that's what when I think
about the Bible and it means to be
living in active that's why I can't not
read it every day I'm afraid of what I'm
gonna miss I'm not afraid but what did I
miss out on that would encourage me in
my faith that would strike me and
sometimes I know this happens a lot like
that happened this morning
you read me a verse and I went we were
encouraged by it I was encouraged by it
you know and and that's why it's if
you've read it once don't think done
done and maybe that's something Jen here
on new every day on category 5 TV if you
have something that's encouraged you or
maybe you've just started reading the
Bible and you want to share something or
you have a question send us an email new
every day at category 5 TV and we can
talk about that and really start to
build a community like us on Facebook
and maybe that's where people can start
sharing encouraging verses yes or maybe
you've just started reading and suddenly
what we've just been talking it about
has happened to you that you've thought
of that verse or God has brought it to
mind or maybe you turned on the TV and
someone mentioned that first just these
little coincidences that I find
encouraging to hear about from other
people yeah yeah that's something they
can do but we're almost out of time
again Jen oh I see that and but I really
enjoyed talking about this I think it's
something that I have more questions
about I mean there's certainly things
that I've read that I don't understand
mm-hmm so I maybe you have questions to
again send us an email but yeah okay
already well we want a number two I know
but we do want to thank eco alkaline for
eco alkaline batteries for powering this
up they are an eco-friendly battery and
we're so thankful that they are
sponsoring us they are carbon free
neutral neutral see I'll get it I know
we'll get it it's coming up eco alkaline
they are on our website check them out
also if you don't have a Bible like you
want a real Bible and it was interesting
as Kerry was saying the verse that she
read I actually will write notes in my
Bible okay so sometimes it's good to
have right now yeah sometimes it's good
to have a real Bible that you can flip
in and maybe make a note sure if you
don't have a Bible the Canadian Bible
Society
we'll gladly hook you up also the
gideons international are both websites
will put both of those links on our our
website category 5 no new every day at
category five dot dot d because we
believe that this is one of the means
one of the means that God speaks to his
people sure and so we want to encourage
you just to make sure that you have one
if if you don't have a i want a paper
bible download the app and or go to
bible gateway calm they have lots of
versions that you can find yeah because
maybe King James is all you've ever read
great it is hard to understand yeah so
feel like feel free to go and read a
different version sometimes that helps
to you'll read one version and then
you're another one go oh that's what it
means yeah so we encourage you to do
that to dig into the Bible which is
God's message of love yeah for us so
we're going to pray and if you struggled
with reading the Bible we're gonna we're
going to pray for you if you've never
read the Bible before we're gonna pray
for you but if you're thinking more
about who God is and wondering how do I
start you know this relationship with
God it's as easy as saying god I don't
even know where to start but I need to
learn more about you teach me about
yourself make me aware of who you are
and what you have for me um cuz we don't
like we don't have to have it all
together to come to god that's the cool
thing or maybe you you know started
reading and then you messed up last week
and you haven't read it in a million
years that's what part of new everyday
means that God's mercies are new every
day mm-hmm so why don't we pray gen all
right well get us started Heavenly
Father thank you God that your mercies
are new every day thank you for the
Bible that has stood the test of time
over hundreds of years and we still have
the copy to read today and somehow Laura
you still speak to us
through it and so I pray for our viewers
and for the new everyday community
that's just getting started hmm God that
you would speak to them would you
highlight verses in their mind let let
them be thinking about you and as only
you can we just pray that you would
encourage them to keep reading that they
would open their Bibles god help Jenn
and I to keep learning about you every
day thank you for your goodness we pray
in Jesus name and lord I also want to
pray for people who maybe have read
something in the Bible and have been
disappointed or have doubts I pray that
they be encouraged is to keep going and
to keep on seeking you so I pray this in
Jesus name or do we thank you that your
Bible tells us that you love us so
father for those four for Kerry nine for
those watching we ask that you would
that we would hear you speaking through
your word about how much you love us and
Lord that we would come to a new
understanding of how much you love us
every day and for our viewers that are
watching Laura for those that that don't
know you yet but want to know you would
you meet with them today and Lord for
those that do know you would you
encourage them in their faith may they
just see your hand your presence with
them and made the words in your Bible
bless them encouraging them to believe
that your mercies are new every day and
blessed category 5 TV Lord encourage
them today and your name we pray amen
amen thank you so much for joining us
this was episode 2 of new everyday and
we sure hope that you will join us next
week as we ask more questions hey man
alright Cheers
you
