all right here are the stories were
covering this week in the category 5 TV
newsroom carrier lost phones are being
outlawed in Canada and providers must
unlock phones for free Amazon is buying
whole foods market
Tim closest confirmed Apple is working
on a self-driving car system and to end
encryption for online services may
become law and we finally have a release
date for Star Trek discovery these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere
Jeff Weston Jemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what are you
alright you're a terrible actor what
this where acting comes into play oh I
don't know where Arctic you're supposed
to act ok fair bill des really cool
website are you building a really cool
website you need hosting one of the
things about a hosting account is you
don't want to have limitations put on
your website it's sure how much hard
drive space you have how many email
accounts how many domains can point to
it well we've got an amazing deal for
you for a very limited time cap 5 dot TV
slash dream host for just 5 dollars and
a bit of change per month you are going
to get unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the root your own calm
guys to put that amazing website that
you've been working on on there if you
run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine
sign up cap 5 dot TV slash dream host
don't forget about papers on just don't
do it but hey it's a great deal folks
best deal you're going to find 5 dollars
and change per month put a cap 5 dot TV
/ dream host I'm Sacha dramatis and here
at the top stories for the week of June
21st 2017 Canada's broadcast regulator
has ruled that cell phone networks may
no longer charge fees for carrier
unlocking handsets nor cell new phones
locked to their network the Canadian
radio-television and Telecommunications
Commission CRTC said that as of December
1st of this year
phone sellers will be banned from
selling handsets locked to a specific
carrier and all carriers will be
required to unlock customer handsets for
free the change is part of a larger
overhaul the CRTC has made to Canada's
Wireless code a set of consumer rights
guidelines that the CRTC manages in
addition to the unlocking rule the CRTC
also mandated that any new charges from
overage fees or roaming charges be
approved by the primary account holder
this applies mainly to shared family
plans where the parent who owns the
account will now need to give permission
before racking up additional charges
remember we had and we had a new story
where somebody's charges got like that
right now oh this is this is good I
think it's about time yeah like
especially with the fees oh yeah we go
to Jamaica and I needed like they've
needed a phone unlocked and a cost I
think 50 dollars to do it oh wow yeah
see the unlocking thing that bugs me
that they lock phones and you've got to
pay to unlock it yeah my phone was
locked to a network and I paid for the
unlock code and I did it myself hmm um
we're great yeah I now use it you can go
to Jamaica I do whatever I want with
unless I swap Sims all the time just
because I've got certain Sims for
certain things and so some have internet
some are just pay-as-you-go you spy yeah
yeah
secret my secret is out here's what bugs
me is our Canadian regulators don't
understand they don't understand how
things actually work in reality the
other don't plain and simple let's say
you're paying an astronomical fee for
LTE internet and you're downloading a
six gig file mm-hmm let's say you're
downloading the 4.4 gig Debian ISO or
image okay and then all of a sudden you
approach your cap right the the presumed
cap like just the point where they need
to ask you are you sure you want to
continue downloading yeah yeah so now I
get four gigs of my 4.4 gig download
into my download on Lt
and then they cut off the download and
you reinstall right if everything stops
oh I lose the download and then I bring
up my browser and it's a presentation
from the regulator saying you've reached
your cap would you like to authorize
more use so I'm sure their settings you
can adjust your or not this is a
regulation that the government puts in
and says the the phone companies are not
allowed to disable that so then when you
say yes to the download just continue no
you have to start again unless you're
using a download accelerator or
something like that which would be
brilliant but who does on their phone so
then your six gig download which you
have four gigs into start over you have
to start over so it's a 10 gig know
anything is in Canada we don't really
have any like you know cellular
providers that have unlimited data yet
no right um so like I know in the States
and in Europe they have like other
companies that you can say hey I want to
pay for unlimited data sure we don't
have that in Canada and for Jannik we
only have like two or three major
companies you can understand their
reasoning from a from a paper standpoint
like hey this looks good on paper let's
make sure that if someone's going to go
over five gigs that we let them know and
require them to authorize continued use
it makes sense
in reality though if your cost me money
it cost me pointless money and drives me
not I don't share mine with anybody
daven I even have separate data plans
altogether we have no sharing stop
messing with my internet crtc sorry
online retail giant Amazon is buying
whole foods in a 13.7 billion dollar
deal that marks its biggest push into
traditional retailing yet Amazon which
has long eyed the grocery business will
buy the upmarket supermarket supermarket
for forty two dollars a share investors
greeted the deal as game-changing for
the industry sending shares of rival
groceries
Oh Cher's plunging but Whole Foods which
has been under pressure has climbed
founded in 1978 in Texas Whole Foods was
a pioneer of the move forward towards
natural and organic foods it has grown
to more than 460 stores in the US Canada
and the UK and employs about 87 thousand
people to take over deal the biggest in
Amazon's history is expected to be
completed in the second half of the year
pending approval by shareholders and
antitrust regulators the takeover also
makes Amazon an instant player in the
grocery industry where it is operated at
the fringes since launching its food
business service Amazon fresh in Seattle
in 2007 Apple's chief executive has
confirmed it is developing a
self-driving car system but Tim Cook
indicated that it is too soon to say
whether it would license the tech to
other car makers or try to build its own
vehicles his interview with the
Bloomberg News Agency yielded his most
detailed comments about the project to
date until now Apple has avoided
publicly discussing its plans although
it has confirmed the scheme in US
filings mr. Cook told Bloomberg we're
focusing on autonomous systems and
clearly one purpose of autonomous
systems is self-driving cars there are
others and we sort of see it as the
mother of all AI artificial intelligence
projects it's probably one of the most
difficult area a is to work on he goes
on to say we'll see where it takes us
we're not saying from product point of
view where it will take us but we were
being straightforward that it's a core
technology that we view as very
important he added that the rise of AI
electric vehicles and ride-sharing
presented an opportunity the publication
of the interview coincides with an
announcement by General Motors that it
has completed production of 130
self-driving Chevrolet Volt cars at a
factory in Michigan meanwhile Audie has
began testing a big has begun testing a
July reveal of a new car the AAA
we'll introduce semi-automatic features
of its own so I feel like there are some
problems in self-driving cars of late so
this should be an interesting situation
for Apple to get into pretty
non-committed a they're super super
non-competitive how this goes see how
mp3 players and smartphones go okay god
total know everybody else yeah yeah okay
now go well is it like a kind of Apple
fanboy I guess I was raised on Macs I
know um but like I'm happy to kind of
see a move that they're thinking in the
general direction because I think
there's been a lack of like new things
from Apple recently unfortunately a lack
of innovation from Apple Wow
I know that's coming from a standpoint
though but I'm happy to see them
branching out um and just to relate to
like that Amazon story as well you know
what's coming now right Whole Foods
prime nice wait for it with right ahead
brilliant because European Parliament
committee is proposing that end-to-end
encryption be enforced on all forms of
digital communications protect citizens
the draft legislation seeks to protect
sensitive personal data from hacking and
government surveillance EU citizens are
entitled to personal privacy and this
extends to online communications the
proposal argues a ban on backdoors in to
encrypted messaging apps like whatsapp
and telegram is also being considered
encryption involves digitally scrambling
a communication to protect its contents
and then using a digital key to
reassemble the data end-to-end
encryption means that the company
providing the service does not have
access to the key meaning it cannot
listen in to what is being shared giving
the sender and recipient added
confidence in the privacy of their
conversation the proposal seeks to event
article 7 of the e use chapter
fundamental rights to add online privacy
it will require approval by committee by
committees members the wider European
Parliament and the Council of Ministers
before it can be passed into law
that is actually good news that there
I think privacy in whatsapp and such
well if they're enforcing encryption and
test encryption in Europe then we start
to see that impact here in Canada okay
not global right well it becomes yeah
the Internet is global and we're all you
know a lot of english-speaking folks and
you know so what happens is is that we
in order to appease those regulations so
that European site visitors can visit
our web sites yes we have to comply to
these wallets issues as well it's like
the regulations in the EU right now like
you know that like we use cookies on our
site
it's one of their regulatory things no
it's when you go to category five yeah V
which is based out of Canada hosted in
the United States and heart and we have
CDNs all over the world yeah we on our
website have that you know cookie
statement because that's a regulation in
the UK exactly so there you go maybe
people didn't know that I didn't know
that honor know something I always say
okay because I don't know what cookies
are but they're called you know if SS
I'm like okay I guess everybody's doing
this cookie thing I'll I'm okay with the
hit good the latest chapter in the Star
Trek saga has finally had its premiere
date with the 15 episode season set to
be released in two chapters Star Trek
discovery will launch on Sunday
September 24th with a broadcast premiere
on the CBS in the US and space channel
in Canada the series premiere will also
be available on demand on CBS all access
and the second episode of the series
will be available on the service that
same night immediately following the
broadcast premiere Star Trek discovery
will also stream exclusively in Canada
on crave TV with full scheduling details
to be released in the coming weeks not
in the can't not in Canada or the u.s.
don't worry
Netflix will launch Star Trek Discovery
on Monday September 25th the first eight
episodes will air from September through
November with the second chapter being
released in January to
I said in 18 and the crowd goes wild
five minutes got a date the first Star
Trek in a long time all I can say yeah
booked we have to have like a viewing
party into that live stream watch of the
ADI there we go
nice thanks for watching the category 5
TV newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news so it's
a slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category-five TV newsroom I'm
Sasha Derrida
[Music]
you
[Applause]
