it's time to check in with our biggest
fans on YouTube
[Music]
oh you know who you are you big fans you
our biggest fans on YouTube we know who
they are because they comment they
comment on our videos and one particular
video that has been surmounting a
massive amount of our biggest fans on
YouTube commenting is our comparison of
the the Odroid xu4 to the Raspberry Pi 3
as far as calling it a Raspberry Pi
killer yeah we talked about this
it's tongue-in-cheek but it has really
brought out of the woodwork some of our
biggest fans
Jeremiah C says I just got done watching
this not up high killer it's huge
and expense not a mini PC because it's
huge and weak and expense but to be fair
it's not huge ok I want to show you this
this is the Odroid xu4 that we built on
that which is awesome
the Odroid xu4 is the circuit board here
this is the case that I put it in yes
with the backplane and with everything
else now I want to show you my Raspberry
Pi case this is my Raspberry Pi oh it's
a small it's actually a lot bigger than
your droid xu4 and my point is that the
case has nothing to do with it right oh
my goodness that thing weighs about 200
pounds and you think the Odroid xu4 is
big let's see how this actually how this
actually boils down this is a Raspberry
Pi 3 ok here is my Odroid xu for that
you are saying is honking huge and ok
outside of the case sure it is let's
take a look at the xu 4 from Odroid
disconnect it from my case here cuz we
don't need the case right now there we
go and about the case
there's the board I've got the mounting
stuff on there but let's take a look at
the board's comparison oh yeah
that's the same yeah the Raspberry Pi 3
is in fact bigger than the Odroid xu 4
can you see there just slightly but if
we were to compare technically the
boards are very very similar as far as
their form factor don't be thrown off by
this don't be thrown off by that now
what's different about this one is it is
the Q this is the Xu 4 Q which comes
with a giant heatsink and that is to
keep it cool without the need of a fan
on the board this is the heatsink that I
have on my Raspberry Pi 3 comparatively
much much smaller but we're looking at
you know this is an 8 core 2 processor
computer right this is a Raspberry Pi 3
so it has a lot less power it doesn't
get quite as hot so you don't need quite
as much cooling as far as the heatsink
goes nice ready for another one Mike
Hill says did not make it past the first
segment look at that big heatsink know
what that means no fan then pulls a fan
out of the kit refer to subject a my
Raspberry Pi case and to be fair my
actual Raspberry Pi case has a fan this
is for my Raspberry Pi 3 a little fan
Sashi your mine has a fan your your
Raspberry Pi is a retro PI yeah as a fan
it has a fan the xu4 board just like the
Raspberry Pi 3 this is the xu 4 q so it
does not have a fan if i'd like to put
it in case that has a fan i can do that
in the in the case of this unit here the
cloud shell 2 the reason for adding a
fan is to keep the drives cool because
can get a little bit warm but to be
honest because the xu4 triggers the fan
when it senses the heat I've never had
it turn on because I'm using SSDs so it
doesn't actually turn on their fan yeah
which is disappointing in a way because
I bought the one with the LEDs to look
cool just to look cool all right next
one eye on sue okay first you was
bragging about how quiet it was with the
heatsink then you pull a huge fan out of
the box okay sorry I didn't watch the
whole video so I don't really know how
quiet it actually is but when the
ever-famous will be back after this
commercial break was murdered
I was out ha we talked about the fan
that's part of the chassis the case has
nothing to do with the circuit itself
the ex u4q that's cool nobody else made
that mistake I'm sure no nobody else
watch right through to completion oh
absolutely
Sean Harding says it amazes me how all
these new tinkerer boards all say the
same thing the Raspberry Pi killer if
the Raspberry Pi 3 is so wimpy why be
threatened by it
why even compare idiots thank you for
your constructive criticism appreciate
that Sean Sean very much you spell your
name weird
what scene scene I could have called him
seen Sean Sean is spelt s ein pretty
pretty normally I just put a few
different spellings for she just was
looking for a way I'm critiquing Sean
[Laughter]
Morales the guy in the middle talks all
the time and the other two people are
therefore dot dot dot dot dot decoration
to which I say thank you I'm here to
compliment the other two I'm here to
decorate and I'm just the guy who talks
that's right I just sleep all the time
that was from another comment back that
oh yes yes any of our other biggest fans
on YouTube
says what the actual lol this is crazy
overly weirdly done production again
thank you thank you we were going for
crazy overly weirdly done it's exactly
what we're looking for
hey we love our community we love having
you part of it and you know keep it
going keep commenting sending your
constructive criticism because we take
it to heart
[Applause]
