it's Tuesday februari third 2015 and
here are the story is recovering this
week BMW ConnectedDrive software which
allows remote operation of vehicle
systems didn't use encryption raspberry
PI's new model has been unveiled and
it's about six times as powerful as the
d+ much to the relief of the citizens in
the UK the snoopers charger has been
rejected again the mugshots of hundreds
of thousands of innocent people are
suspected to have been uploaded to a
facial recognition system used by the
police forces in England and Wales and a
new high-tech office block in Sweden are
implanting RFID chips under the skin of
staff these stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere depending on where
you're located in this big old world of
ours you may remember it as either the
sega mega drive or the sega genesis and
now more than a quarter of a century
after its original release in japan it's
more convenient than ever to take these
classic sega games with you my review is
coming right up stick around try it buy
it
i adjure made us and here are the top
stories from the category 5 TV news room
BMW is patched a security flaw that left
2.2 million cars including rolls-royce
and mini models open to hackers the flaw
affected models fitted with BMWs
connecteddrive software which uses an
onboard SIM card the software operated
door locks air conditioning and traffic
updates but no driving firmware such as
brakes or steering which is great BMW
said according to BMW no cars have
actually been hacked but the flaw was
identified by German motorist
Association a DAC a DEA seized
researchers found the cars would try to
communicate via spoofed phone network
leaving potential hackers able to
control anything activated by the sim
the patch which was applied
automatically includes making data from
the car encrypted so really Robbie if
you were to if you were to hack a BMW as
somebody was driving it you could like
amp up the thermometer or you could mess
with my door like pointlessly you could
spray the bday great why not yeah that's
that's incredible that a company so
large would forget to encrypt their
software I don't know incredible indeed
mmm here's it's it's an eye opener in it
though yeah I mean between that and like
the sony thing where they forgot to use
proper passwords I feel like everybody
needs to talk to you first Robbie great
news there is a new budget priced
raspberry pi computer it's offering
faster processor and more memory than
before but at about the same price the
raspberry pi 2 model b is roughly six
times more powerful than the prior
version the model b plus according to
the british charity behind it previous
versions of the kid have been widely
adopted by schools and enthusiasts
across the world but the PI faces
increased competition another UK based
firm imagination amad
nation recently released a bare-bones
computer of its own and the Arduino
Intel Galileo gizmo to and beaglebone
black and having board also formed part
of growing list of rivals imagination
creator c120 imaginations c1 our
imagination crater c120 features
built-in flash storage which the
Raspberry Pi lacks but is it about
double the price raspberry pi 2 makes
two major changes to the previous
version while leaving the other
components unchanged the CPU is now
quad-core rather than single core and
the board now features one gigabyte of
RAM the raspberry pi 2 can run a variety
of linux-based systems out of the box
but its makers have also promised it
will be able to support Microsoft's next
operating system at a later date the new
kit most of which is manufactured at
Sony's factory in South Wales costs
about $35 Wow Oh six times faster than
the original that's incredible the specs
on that again it goes back to for me too
wow that would make a decent little
server rig yeah him something really
really tiny right I love it am a
cross-party group of peers has dropped a
second attempt to add the so-called
snoopers charter to the government's
counterterrorism bill the snoopers
Charter would require details of every
email web site visit and social media
log to be recorded lords King Blair
Carlisle and West wanted measures on
communications data rejected in 2012 to
be included in the bill saying they were
vital tools for combating terrorism but
they withdrew their amendment and it did
not go to a vote the counterterrorism
bill will now give new powers to UK
security services it will also allow the
home secure the Home Secretary to impose
temporary exclusion orders on British
terror suspects the legislation had
already cleared its first hurdle in the
House of Lords and undergone detailed
scrutiny and a committee lord King a
conservative former defense secretary
said we will lose an opportunity to put
in place a temper
Jerry stopgap measure that could have
reduced the threat to our nation from a
tear from terrorism at the present time
we just have to pray that we don't pay
too high a price for that Robbie that
sounds like a whole lot of
fear-mongering to be honest a little bit
yeah yeah what are your thoughts on that
item it really I mean person of interest
is a great show I'm just not so sure
that there is a real place for it in
because I just don't know that there is
responsible government yeah when it
comes to that amount of information and
having it's it's an intrusion of course
in our privacy to have somebody
collecting that kind of data i can
understand we've mentioned i think we
talked it a little bit about briefly on
last week's show about how you know if
there was some kind of terrorist
activity being plotted you the
government should know about that and
that's where that person of interest
scenario works but for all the innocent
people that it's being that it's
tracking where do you draw the line and
who's to say that information couldn't
be compromised yeah you know are they
how well is it protected mm-hmm or used
against thee and like anybody who's
innocent i I don't it's not like I
searched crazy things but for some
reason I would be uncomfortable with
everybody knowing everything that's er
yeah I just don't love the feeling that
I mean I you have to assume you're
always being watched anyway I just don't
like the feeling that it's actually
happening that it's actually true so
here are some scary news police forces
in England and Wales have uploaded up to
18 million mug shots to a facial
recognition database despite a court
ruling it could be unlawful they include
photos of people who have never been
charged or others who have been cleared
of offense and were uploaded with outs
Home Office approval an independent
commissioner said photos of hundreds and
thousands of people of innocent people
may be on the database but people insist
that the database complies with the data
protection act a number of police forces
have begun to begun to use facial rec
mission technology including the
Metropolitan Police and Lester Shire
police it's already used by Britain spy
agency and by border force and UK
airports and ports thus the shower
police said the facial recognition
system it had begun using last year had
proved invaluable well that's fine I
guess except that now innocent people's
faces are logged in a database wit fine
and if you see them at all like anyone
else airport security they can't fly
anywhere because they'll be taken by
security be like hey we have to look at
your stuff and at you and if you're
trying to get home or something what
happens if there's an investigation
going on and facial recognition software
thinks you are the person exactly there
are people there are people that look
alike and they're not related at all
I've seen that for and there are people
separated at birth also have you seen
mr. clean or velma from scooby-doo I
look just like her what if she says
suspects one of my friends like even in
our sunday school like what i wanted my
old friends like i got school and there
was like two of the people who looked
strangely similar to her oh really yeah
in our school also well this is a pretty
small area yeah yeah it isn't there
something like some someone was saying
there was like seven people in the world
who looked like you who look exactly
like you hmm so it's like so it would be
interesting as a as a test for them to
take this database now and feed it one
of those people that it knows look like
looks like somebody else yeah and see if
the software reports them as being the
wrong person I just don't like this one
bit those last two stories just give me
the heebie-jeebies this one is no
different want to gain your entry to
your office get on a bus or perhaps buy
a sandwich we're all getting used to
swype do i do want to do those doing hey
well we're all getting used to swiping
the card to do these things but at at
the center a new high-tech office block
in sweden they're trying a different
approach here it is a chip under
skin yes focus Felicio del Costa whose
company is one of the tenants arrives at
the front door and holds his hand
against it to gain entry which I'll tell
you I hold my hand against the door and
push to gain entry don't work inside he
does the same thing to get into the
office space here adds and he can also
wave his hand in front of a photocopier
to operate it well I wave my hand in
front of a photocopier and just press a
little button to operate it so good job
that's all because he has a tiny RFID or
radio frequency identification chip
about the size of a grain of rice
implanted in his hand soon others among
the 700 people expected to occupy the
complex will also be offered a chance to
be chipped along with access to doors
and photocopiers their promised further
services in the long run including the
ability to pay at the cafe with the
touch of a hand this is ludicrous that's
right is that your final answer I I
can't even pretend to like this idea
know this I mean technology good awesome
chipping yourself to gain at entry what
why do you keep what can I just say that
they haven't even gotten the debit card
or the credit card right yet like for me
to have to go into the bank when I do my
deposits and stuff and I have to pull
out this slew of cards and I don't do so
there there's a convenience factor that
that would appeal to people the thing is
is like with the with it in the hand
being able to pay for stuff like anyone
can walk around Rock'em debit mushy cuz
I know they do it like it's a no there
are people who do it with like just the
regular the new top as you go oh sure
yeah if you don't have it in the proper
thing with the card right yeah I cannot
let the properly RFID like chemical
thingy I don't know it's called like
people can go around and just take money
from your debit card or credit card
without you knowing if they scan your
RFID chip yeah what if this what if this
chip like kept you from
like what if Robbie you could get into
the bank vault nice ship in your hand
and I wanted to get into the bank vault
and now instead of just stealing a swipe
card from you I have to steal your body
or just your hand or scan my hand while
I sorry hard coded but you know why I
really want this chip know so that i can
go Open Sesame I said that that why
don't you sit in there like a kid I am
dislike and call me old school but I
like using my key to get into my house I
don't I don't want a chip in my hand
what if it goes wrong or what if I can
to somebody and you swap identities whoa
trippy there's a movie right there is it
nice to meet you no it isn't there like
a movie our friend when it's cold it's
like Tom Cruise and basically the scan
your eye they have no all of your
information what is it man our dinner
yeah it's kind of like that yeah in a
way hey heebie-jeebies I I am also not
for it yeah and there's the whole
religious aspect too i think people will
be one really oh is this the mark of the
beast is this the premise to that kind
of thing and you know so there's that
aspect of a to the technology of it is
smart but where do we stop well you know
what's next a chip in our hand be Borg
within 10 years and even Bill Gates
himself saying you know and reiterating
that AI is a dangerous thing to be
playing with hmm this week so the only
way i would like this is if the implants
at the chip on your shoulder that is
that is all what's your problem is your
problem Sasha got the chip I've got a
got a chip on my shoulder Thank You
Kelsey for all your tech news with a
slight linux bias
category five TV news room at use room
category five TV for the category five
TV news room I'm Sasha drew made us
thank you forever ticket she just got
that I love that I was able to do to
Star Trek references that went like this
