welcome to category five technology TV
this week we've got our friend marsh man
with us Sasha's here as well and we're
going to be playing game boy no we're
gonna actually build an Odroid to go it
is Game Boy it is Game Gear it's Game
Boy Color all in a DIY kind of similar
to Game Boy layout we're gonna be
building one ourselves tonight
stick around our live recordings are
trusted only two solid-state drives by
Kingston Technology revive your computer
with improved performance and
reliability over traditional hard drives
with Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams
live with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 TV slash TPN and the International
Association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash ia IB welcome to the show
everybody so nice to have you I'm Robby
I'm Sasha
and I'm not Jeff Marsh man do we call
you Marsh man bill let me bill bill bill
marsh man from our chat room made the
trek up from New York tonight and is
here with us tonight so nice to have you
here thank you good to see you my man
and you all know Marsh man from from
discord and from our chat and the
community and he's a been a yeah names
Linux late name you you've been a fan of
the show for how long now almost a year
almost almost exactly a year so can you
tell us a little bit about how you
discovered category-five TV what what's
the backstory it was it was admin
magazine you oh yeah yeah I was due I
was playing around with Nagios okay and
you did the article on Dems I didn't do
the article on them to live all that's
right it was about you
and they had the bald nerd site yeah I
know on the site and then I just
download this bald nerd who is not and
now a year later and that doubt is
downloaded 300,000 gigs worth of shows
it was great fantastic speaking of
downloading gigs and gigs and gigs of
shows season 11 of category 5 technology
TV is now available as a free download
by BitTorrent you can head on over to
torrent dot category-five dot TV get a
couple of seeds and growing that's a
really cool way that you can some more
category 5 - as far as promoting it to
the community and allowing people to
receive it for free I think one of the
cool things about becoming a bit torn
seed is simply that you're sharing
category 5 with with so many people so
anyone who wants to download category 5
TV we give it to you for free and those
seeds make it possible for us to do that
from an economical standpoint so very
cool so that's available at torrent dot
category 5 dot TV I will start that
download when I get home to edit to my
mercy you want you've got a really cool
set up because the HC 1 being the Odroid
home cloud 1 alright that stands for
right right so this is a little xu4
circuit board it's it just it's a
stripped-down xu4 it doesn't even have
video around fixes yeah nothing it's
just straight like eight core CPU yeah
it's got 2 gigs of ram if I recall
correctly and what's the best thing
about this thing it's there's no power
usage I commissioned the full-blown
server so it has a one terabyte SSD in
there and I just got the whole little
nice package this big with yeah small
power pack instead of a 150 or 300 watt
power supply depending on what what I
got rid of I can't remember what I got
rid of yeah whatever was a lot more
power
absolutely I love this thing because you
plug an SSD directly into the SBC so it
actually has the SATA controller
built-in so you don't have to you don't
have to mash anything up it's basically
an ass unit that you can install Linux
on you can do whatever you want with it
so
so that you're using that as a
BitTorrent yes see very cool that's a
good idea I think I should do the same
they distribute these things all over
that's right there you go those things
are cool though any other uses that you
can think of for for that I think is an
ass unit it might be a good a good
device as well well I have the I have
the big one the home cloud - that's
where I that's my file server I don't
have a big father got a spinning hard
drive it's got two spinning hard drives
- yeah it does that work you just set it
up as a striping unit oh you have to two
copies and then I put and then I have
another than I'd only have one SATA
backplane no whose - in there and then I
have it put pushed to an external right
underneath it not on an HC - what's the
one is it a my cluster is that the one
no on an HC - you've got two back plates
no that's watch discord in the next 48
hours we'll see if I'm right or Robbie's
right one of the things that I've done
with an HC one is take the data off of
the SD card and move it on to the SSD
right and then modify the boot I and I
file I know we're I'm geeking out right
now but made it so that all of the files
all the operating system all of the
programs everything is on the SSD and
the only thing that it uses the SD card
for is the boot so that everything is on
this SSD so if your SD card fails which
is the most likely thing that fail on
one of these things actually you just
pull it out reflash onto a new card and
re-edit the boot deny file it's
brilliant so that works really really
well if you are a patron of category 5
TV I just want to say thanks for
supporting category 5 technology TV we
love doing what we do we're in season 12
and we love being able to provide this
broadcast for you for free and as our
patrons that largely are able to help
to do that and so you can find out more
at cat5 dot TV slash patreon and that's
just a really cool way that you can
support category 5 technology TV thank
you everybody
I guess that's all the housecleaning
that we need to do today and I think so
right off the list bill yeah bill do you
want to take Bill's comment oh we have a
viewer question fantastic from
Huntsville Alabama this comes to us we
yes bill bill the erling game from the
Huntsville Alabama I recently did a new
build it includes a rise in 720 700 X
CPU 32 gigabytes of RAM a samsung 960
Evo series 500 gigabyte nvme drive and
Windows 10 there's a fast system yeah
yeah we were talking about this
yesterday and we're like I wonder what
he's got there you go it's fast yeah
as a retiree I'm not a heavy office user
I tried to install my old copy of MS
Office and it said I had exceeded the
number of installs allowed since it was
AOL product
I couldn't delete old installs from the
MS database I decided to install
LibreOffice version 6.1 2.1 x64 the
problem I have is that it takes nearly
20 seconds to load I've looked at the
forums and haven't found a way to speed
up the time it takes the load I see
others also have the problem is this
something you could address on your
podcast or weird on a system with 32
gigs of ram and nvme to boot
exactly Wow because I have it on my I
have it on my Debian laptop right here
yeah I have 8 gigs of ram it does have
an SSD it has kingston SSD and it boots
up in about two-and-a-half seconds it
loads loads of libreoffice in june a
second and you're running a flavor of
Linux I'm running Debian stretch now
we're gonna make the assumption that
Bill our burlingame yes yeah he is
probably using Microsoft Windows right
yeah because we're trying MS Office
right right so I'm gonna make that
assumption and my laptop in fact has
window
ten on it so any ideas bill okay so
let's let's see if I can switch over to
my laptop here so that you guys can see
it any thoughts on this one bill now
I've got six point one installed so
LibreOffice so again somebody who's
trying the free alternative to Microsoft
Office because of a bad situation where
it's AOL or end-of-life so you can't
call Microsoft and activate it you can't
have them right yeah I mean this is
where you know keygens which are
technically you know shady yeah that's
where it's it's like oh man I paid for
this product maybe that's an option but
why is it not running fast on your
system let's try it on so I'm on Windows
10 on my little laptop which we know is
not very great and it loads practically
instantly the one thing that I would
check is whether or not I have
LibreOffice Quick Start running and I
don't I don't see a libreoffice Quick
Start icon there so I can bring up I can
bring up any LibreOffice program and hit
tools options general and it has load
LibreOffice during system startup if I
hit OK on that and just so you're aware
what version I'm using here this is six
point one point two point one so it's a
match yeah so now if I close that and we
bring up to our tray
oh I haven't rebooted so I'm not going
to see it so I can force it to load
right now by going into my C Drive and
into Program Files LibreOffice program
and then just do a quick I just typed qu
and there it is quick start so I'm going
to double click on that and it won't
appear to have done anything but down
here you see that it has in fact started
and that should make things a little
faster now if I right click on that
you'll see that load LibreOffice during
system startup is checked and that's
because I set that in the options under
general if you don't want to go that
route you can open it just like I did
with Program Files LibreOffice and then
right-click on it once you've opened it
and choose load during system startup
whether or not that will make a
difference so let's try text document
it's that's even quicker you could tell
that that was quicker that was instant
and it's strange because I did load it
on my my Windows 10 tablet last night
mm-hmm
and have lit a tablet and it came right
on yeah two to three seconds so what
could it be
yeah because not only is Bill having the
phone but he says that others have had
the problems as well so you found other
people of like issue yeah in the forum's
on my computer though like now that the
quick loader quick starter is open if I
click on text document like do you guys
get the sense of how instantaneous that
is I'm going to count down from 3 so 3 2
1 click so it's very very quick now no
delay whatsoever if I do it from I will
you be fast enough to start the
stopwatch yeah so that's that does make
a difference online a market difference
although mine didn't seem slow in the
first place but it is very much faster
now I'd suggest that you try that bill
any other suggestions or anything else
that you can think of
I think QuickStart is the first place I
would look and absolutely yeah
absolutely and unfortunately some of the
forums and some of the if you did a
Google search they they give you advice
on older versions of LibreOffice oh and
it yes it tells you to go to tools
options memory which doesn't exist
anymore okay it was deprecated in 5.4 I
believe or something like that right
well if and so maybe they move things
around so maybe it's important just to
make that mental note that you can go
into C colon slash Program Files slash
libreoffice / software slash quickstart
and run that program it'll load it into
the tray right-click on it and go low at
startup and they make that mental note
yeah
you got that locked in I hope that helps
bill please let us know if that makes
any difference but your computer sounds
amazing
sounds like you should not be
experiencing that issue not at all so
let us know all right we do have to take
a really quick break and when we come
back Bill's gonna be helping me test a
little electronic device for my
workbench stick around for a limited
time get your hands on limited-edition
shirts from the category 5 TV network
these high quality shirts are
manufactured by teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today
cap five dot TV slash shirts
[Music]
welcome back this is category five
technology TV now one of the things that
I dream of having and Bill we've had
this discussion because you've got a
great set up at home I'd love to have a
workbench where all of my tools for
soldering and setup and SPC's and
everything is all in one place
and something that I've run into with
the growing number of single board
computers that I have is the inability
to power all of them right it's always
an issue so I started looking at DC
power supplies that you can get for your
workbench because these things have so
much amperage so much wattage that you
could plug 20 raspberry pies into the
thing and it'll power everything if
you've got the right voltage but getting
on to say something like Amazon Here I
am on Amazon Canada and I can see the
price is about 120 dollars for an
entry-level one now there are some cheap
ones well there's some really cheap ones
but generally speaking a good one I'm
finding are going to be $200 to $400 for
a really good one and you want to
certainly yeah and you do want a good
one now I also noticed like this one
here that's three hundred and six
dollars it's got multiple different
voltages output so you can have
different like I have some 12-volt
computers some five volt systems and
sometimes I'm doing some other things
and so something like that would be
great whereas some of the cheaper ones
only have a single output so you'd set
the voltage and it's going to be that
voltage for everything right right
so 200 bucks whatever what if I could do
it for ten dollars just just putting
that out there yeah what if I could do
it for ten dollars do you believe it's
possible is it not gonna be like one of
those fake SD cards is it now I hope not
that's why you've got your volt meter
because we're gonna find out if it's
fake or if it's legit going writing this
for so how are we gonna do this what's
one thing that I that I have too many of
laying around my garage
computer power supplies yeah yeah how
many of us have a couple of extra power
supplies pulled from old computers and
if you don't have you can easily I mean
pop by a local computer shop that does
refurbishing or whatever and they
probably have a couple sitting in a box
that you can have for five bucks or
something
I don't know but I I have tons of them
laying around so bill here here's my
latest poll so I pulled this one out of
an old computer here at the studio and I
think it's still good it's got some dust
and that's all that's all good that's
fine that's fine
yep that means you use that yep so let's
say let's plug it in and I just want to
make sure that it is going to work so I
do have a tester for my power supply
itself this is a dr. power to from
thermaltake so I can power this on just
to see power comes good we've got five
volts twelve point two volts 3.3 volts
eleven point five volts which is the
negative 12 volt right and five volt
again and it says the power is good so
we're good to go
so I went out bill and I thought okay
listen here's a great idea what if I
took the fact that this has 12 volts 3.3
volts 5 volts snip the cable made some
kind of circuit PCB that had a bunch of
you know connectors and things like that
so that I could use this for a new power
supply for my workbench so I ordered the
parts which you have to buy in bulk
because I didn't have any of the parts
yet so then so I got like a bag of
connectors okay you gotta buy them by
the hundred like the black bags of all
the different things that I would need
to make this happen right and then this
instead of going and buying a power
supply yeah because I wanted I want to
tinker I want to I want to say hey I
made that myself I did that myself and
then I can be proud of that and and also
I wanted to make it so that I could if
the power supply died I could just
unplug the power supply and plug in a
new power supply to it there you go that
kind of idea so after all that said and
done
somehow I mean the the Facebook machine
figured out what it was I was doing and
put an ad up on my screen yeah nice and
it took me now I've created a hotlink
for u cap v dot TV slash ATX and Bill
are you ready for this
he's practically hiding I'm gonna show
you don't worry sweet sweet so thinking
along the lines of what what it is that
I had intended on doing this has an ATX
input directly off of a power supply it
has a power switch to turn it on and off
then it's got fuses for each voltage and
individual power outputs for each
voltage that is available on the power
supply the fuses are a nice bonus it is
an absolutely nice bonus I hadn't even
thought of that everything you need
that's that's it so I've got negative 12
volt positive 12 volt 5 volt 3.3 volts
and you figure out the amperage of
something like this a power supply and
figure 25 raspberry PI's easy mmm 10
raspberry PI's a couple of pine 64's we
can do this right
or just if you're tinkering and you want
to you want to mess around and I want to
plug this in and and we're gonna see
what what happens here bill this is I
haven't done this yet yeah I'm afraid to
touch it you know okay so is it going to
power on when I flip that switch fans
started spinning light came on so you've
got your voltmeter on here and now
there's no load so could that be it just
shut off oh can we put a load on it will
your voltmeter put a load on say the 12
volt well it's gonna put a small level
boozes as 12 over it isn't
it's got positive 12 so let me let me
kill the switch and power on it's not
enough of a load bill you know so I
would have to have a load on this in
order to get power coming off of it I
think it's a great idea we work on it
we'll work on this thank you not today
but if I have so if I have a load on
this I think that's probably what's
growing right yeah there's nothing
nothing to pull it is a cool device
we're gonna be looking at this over the
next little while it's gonna save us
having to buy one of those kits it's
only ten dollars and it will work on any
power supply I'm gonna let you know Bill
what what happens when I put maybe a
couple of raspberry pies on the 5-volt
keeping in mind that this is not a
transformer either so they stopped
holding directly from a good s'alright
power supply so if I'm getting power
good off of this which I am then this is
going to have clean power as well that's
one of the advantages to doing it this
way plus then if this dies I can unplug
it plug it into you hunger supply so
like that cool I like it
cat five dot TV slash ATX put a load on
it and I think you're gonna find that
it's pretty cool I want to with you here
I'd like to do a little bit of assembly
tonight look at a product that is
something for for us to get excited
about
we Sasha and I have looked at retro
gaming in the past yes and we love retro
gaming we've looked at single board
computers you and I have numerous chats
about our various SBC s so if we could
combine the two into a form factor that
is close to that of a gameboy I'm gonna
do it yourself package that's what we're
gonna be looking at in just a couple
more times
don't go anywhere we're gonna be
assembling the Odroid it go we'll be
right back
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
PNH photo/video ebay or amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching all right
we've got our Nintendo Gameboy and which
is really just here just to say the the
form factor is cool we all remember this
it's retro in its styling let alone its
videogames but what if we could actually
take our passion for retro gaming and
our passion for single board computers
and DIY and build something like a
Nintendo Gameboy that would be awesome
wouldn't that be awesome it would be
spectacular Odroid celebrated their 10
year anniversary by creating such a
gizmo and they're available now you can
go to cap 5 dot TV slash Odroid go and
we're gonna hop over there and Bill and
I are well a bill is gonna get his hands
into the box and do an unboxing do you
wanna head on over there sure do
are we gonna assemble the oh yeah no
we're not gonna assemble the LEGO
version we've got an actual Retro Game
Boy style thing this is the Odroid go
folks and Bill's gonna get into the box
for you so here we have the Odroid go
that's a neat little bubble wrap and
instructions
who needs and struck out for you on it
yeah Peter power cable board various
parts and pieces your lithium ion
battery so the Odroid go because it
arrives like this it's kind of a fun
project we can I mean this is gonna be
great for kids
DIY folks like ourselves that are just
really into you like hey let's get our
hands dirty and get in there and do it
how are do you think this is going to be
to assemble well do you think that it's
possible that we could actually make
this happen
17 parts I looked I checked you counted
it's significantly smaller than a Game
Boy and I thought it looked a lot like
one in its styling but let's pull a an
old retro Game Boy here from the early
80s and just compare size-wise there you
go so there's the old Roy go case which
we're going to assemble and an actual
Game Boy well this is cool because these
instructions okay it's not at that stage
yet no okay I think you have to go
online to the wiki alright so we're
gonna pretend that we went to the wiki
because hey we're live bill and what
guys we're guys I don't know what that
means to be honest with you I think Eric
it doesn't mean I American did you look
at the instructions I didn't oh oh no
we're gonna this gonna go terrible okay
so first thing that we need to do go
okay
this is the screen protector that's
going to go on here so you can feel that
there's a bit of a bezel here so this is
going to go on there first thing I want
to do is just make sure that I've got a
little bit of a grip on this so that I
can remove it a little easier once it's
assembled and pull the inside of this
out there we go and see if I can get
that off of the screen so you cheated
you actually read the instructions I
didn't read the instructions yes sir
there we go
okay so I've got the inside out pull
this off here now we want to be careful
that you know this is tempered glass or
whatever and just be careful with how
you handle that we don't want to get any
fingerprints on it that's probably the
key thing here is you're gonna have a
lot of trouble getting them off if you
do once it's assembled so we just kind
of push that in there make sure it's in
nice and snug so that is actually a
piece of protective plastic or whatever
it is for our screen so that's the next
step here bill when I pass me the box
cutters ah ah
okay bill likes that because he always
makes fun of me for my scissors okay
so again I want to be very very mindful
to handle this on the outside so that
I'm not getting fingerprints on the
screen itself so this is gonna go this
way I see the smudges are gonna come off
as soon as I remove that that's good and
we'll put that in here so I'm just gonna
pop that in here see the little clips
there and then carefully snap that in
cuz I don't want to crack that screen
absolutely not so there we go we're
getting there okay
buttons gonna help with these guys I can
do that alright
so you you work at that Bill's gonna
work at that I'm gonna fix the audio
there cuz you guys have got an echo
which shot was that Sasha at the white
shot when you switch over to - bill and
I yes the product camp that's the one I
was telling you that right
thanks everybody chatroom
there we are that should fix it for you
and the chat on the screen needs to be
restarted thank you
we're fraught with peril toon also yeah
a good thing about the a and the B
buttons they're they're keyed so you
can't put them in the wrong spot that's
nice
well yeah that's good so this is it's a
very very simple project I mean I was I
really wanted to be able to put this
together on the show so you see you have
the a and the B buttons yep but through
these plastic tabs here okay these are
closer together on all because a smart
cannot put him in the very start that's
good okay so we're gonna get these guys
here the rubberized backings those
switches are just gonna go in there as
well what do you have there oh that's
the side power switch that's it's gonna
there summer depending on those guys the
board goes there's another one there
it takes two folks I'm actually just
there you go pops
upside down another way turn it around
the other way yeah and that's that's
also keyed look at that so this is
something that I think I could do with
my young boys which would be absolutely
a lot of fun for them
my daughter is she's not as keen on the
electronics and stuff
I'd love to include her in it as well
but she'll play the games for sure okay
that we don't need yet okay so next up
we've got the circuit board which we're
gonna carefully place on top here like
that that's just gonna line up with the
screw holes do we put the switch in the
tent
I think we'll screw it in yeah well
let's stay in our right away oh yeah I
guess so I think the switch needs to
capture the the slide needs to capture
the switch yeah okay cool
all right I got some screwdrivers here
for us we're well prepared tonight this
is where it gets fun with my band-aids
on my fingers and bleeding like crazy oh
yeah my cuticles the spy Canadian Air
it's cold get to line up there we go
this is magnetic of course not of course
not
bill do you want me to get them started
for you hey I don't know if you guys can
see us or not yeah I'll tell you what
you start with that one okay all right
here we go
you're so tiny yeah all right screw
holes are labeled belt you've got a
better screwdriver right I can hear you
messing around in there what do you got
yeah my own screwdriver oh man with a oh
you've put a magnet on the side of it
yeah so I think he makes it I can't hold
it what what what grown man can hold
those screws right there I just I got it
started for you
oh yeah it's special
see that's a smart idea when you get up
here I got this one
if I didn't shake so much ID right what
we want to make sure because that one
that you just put in is going to
actually be a chassis screw so watch
that I think there's labels on there I
saw that show which ones are the
internal screws versus the chassis
screws okay so yeah that'll be that one
you guys see what I'm talking about
I'll show you yeah so we don't want any
of these screws along the outer edge to
go on - right
three should anyone over here for
and the five the first one never
Hey alright so it's starting to feel
like a gameboy that looks isn't that
sweet okay
this one does the speaker need to go in
before the circuit board is screwed down
not before the circuit board is screwed
down but before we cut put the backing
on it definitely so we can do that looks
like that's the next thing I'm surprised
that this is as quick and easy as it is
like we're doing this live on the air
and it's nice and simple
are you are you opping over there sash I
am I can switch to the faces
oh I just did alright so this is the
speaker there we go
goes into the jack marked sweet here
yeah it actually says speaker folks you
know you saw that right yeah I don't
know if they did what what kind of retro
gaming era would you call your own bill
said like the NES or 2600 yeah Terry yes
I owned a 2600 this this actually will
emulate the Atari 2600 7800 so it's not
just a gameboy so when I say gameboy I
mean it really has that form factor but
it's not just Gameboy emulation it also
has gameboy color
it's got Game Gear okay can I be so
can I actually plug in the power right
now and trust that we've got everything
correct so the only thing I guess is the
screen we just got a plug in that screen
all right so right in there I also had
pong pong the original how was that
played like on there was a colecovision
no it was a line down the middle of your
screen there were two Oh rectangles on
each side and a dot and went back and
forth did yours have entire you do you
have to stick something to the TV
no I even had that where you had to
stick a suction cup to the side of the
TV and it would flash to communicate
with it using some kind of lighting so
it would you're younger than I am how
did you manage I had it's what I had all
right I think that's it should we power
it up before ever well this these pins
here allow us to do like GPIO
programming and things like that so we
don't need those in there for day-to-day
usage it looks good there we go
I've put the battery so that I don't see
the sticker from the front I think it
looks better that way it's cleaner yeah
all right should we do the case make
sure the battery cable is not blocking
the screw port which I've done
I'm not screen let's go
fine do some here too yeah that's good
this make it happen with night out let's
do the coroner's bill and then we can
fire it up and see if it works so this
is the SD card slot here
I wasn't sure when I looked at the
pictures whether I was gonna be able to
actually access the SD card slot while
it was together I wasn't sure if it was
like covered by the plastic I had to
install the SD card but it does look
like it's something that you can enjoy
does a good job of doing that yeah it's
a nice-looking nice-looking system I
think that's enough to get it wrong
that's it folks so in that amount of
time we've put this together as the
Odroid go from cat 5 TV / Odroid go and
are we ready to fire it up never done
this so just like that okay so you set
2600 got Sega Master System Game Gear
ColecoVision I don't seem to have 2600
on here Belle welcome evident an NES as
well okay so let's try NES and so boy
you can you can add firmwares and
everything now on this SD card I've
simply imported a couple of roms so what
any particular game Bubble Bobble dr.
Mario that dr. Mario oh my goodness my
sister played dr. Ari I wanna start Rio
it puts on the screen what these buttons
do tell ya oh joy does a good job and
roms a nice okay
no way same music you guys see this oh
my god you're checking out another
screen where are it that is too cool oh
there we go now I got it bill unreal try
this
alright wait a minute oh dear
come on are those the plays just like it
I just like it
that is fantastic folks check out cap
five dot TV slash Odroid go wow yeah I'm
gonna I'm awesome
amazing so of course it's an emulator of
these retro kind of classics that are
handheld so but NES as well and I did
see Atari 2600 game gear all those kind
of Game Gear like that's awesome so
check it out cat 5 TV slash Odroid go
and we're gonna head over to the news
room Sasha's waiting for us
thanks Ravi here are the stories were
covering this week in the category 5 TV
newsroom raspberry PI's new TV ad on is
out but there's a catch for users in
Canada in the United States running a
VMware server virtualization product
it's time to check for patches as a bug
in the video system allows malicious
code in VMs to leap out of their guest
OS and execute code on the hosting
server eight d-link router variants are
vulnerable to a complete ownage via
combination of security blunders and
only two are going to get patched
Colonel has unveiled the Odroid h2 the
first hacker board with an Intel Gemini
Lake system-on-a-chip these stories are
coming right up
don't go anywhere this is the category
five dot TV newsroom covering the week's
top tech stories clip of the slave Linux
bias Jeff Weston Jemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what
are you alright you're terrible actor
what this whereat thing comes into play
I don't know you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host I'm
Sasha Rickman and here are the top
stories were following this week
raspberry PI's new TV ad on is out but
there's a catch for users in Canada in
the US if you've got a Raspberry Pi you
can now attach a new Raspberry Pi TV
add-on to the single board computer and
then plug it into your home antenna to
receive and decode digital TV streams
users can then watch TV using a
Raspberry Pi or set it up so the PI
streams TV content to any computer or
mobile device on the same network as the
TV equipped Raspberry Pi the Raspberry
Pi TV hat has the same design as the
raspberry zero with the addition of an
aerial adapter to plug into a TV antenna
the TV hat cost just twenty dollars and
can be attached to any Raspberry Pi
board with a forty pin GPIO even the pi
zero there's a catch for Raspberry Pi
owners in Canada and the US though
because of the hats built-in DVP dvb-t
to tuner while the format has been
widely deployed in europe russia and the
asia-pacific it doesn't work here due to
this issue and for compliance reasons at
the moment the TV hat is only being
offered in europe however the Raspberry
Pi foundation says that compliance work
is underway to open other dvb-t to
regions
I'm so disappointed that it's not
available I know mazing thing that
exists yeah but not for you yeah sorry
you
to use it very North American market
you're out of luck the first thing I did
is as soon as I heard the announcement
that this was on the market I started
looking for a United States or Canada
vendor that had it nobody has it
so actually messaged USS you find it in
the state you know and and it was you
that and I searched this and then I went
online and it said by the way Robbie
yeah doesn't work here it's weird it's a
big market like you think that they
would have a way but I guess it's
compliant when we have a different
standard over here for television signal
listing and it's totally just wouldn't
work here t ATSC I believe is what we
have we know nothing if you look at the
map on one of the sites
it shows blue all over the all over
Europe and Asia and everything and
weirdin totally different color over
here I didn't even like cuz TV is TV to
me right you just turn it on it works I
know that their plugs are different but
that has nothing to do with it does it
no no Sarah Lee but this is digital
aerial broadcast
so you think about like the local news
broadcasts and things like that they
actually they still have a tower and
they still broadcast it and they
broadcast digitally now so the quality
is actually quite a lot better than we
remember with Bush cable back in the day
right but you've got to be able to have
it you've got to have a tuner to receive
it which our TVs don't include tuners
anymore no I don't I don't think I've
seen one that has a tuner anymore so so
you can't just plug in antenna into it
and start watching TV right Raspberry Pi
so close and yet so far all of my TV
broadcasts are like all of my TV
watching happens on Netflix Internet
it's all internet-based right whether it
be Netflix or prime or right the plex
media server things like that yeah it's
all on the network yes I'm thinking of
plex media server it would have been a
great thing for me to be able to get my
hands on one of these and you set it up
so that it works with Plex PI for
example right right the Debbie
industrial for Raspberry Pi that lets
people use plex media server we've
looked at it on the show yeah but I
can't do that because I can't get one
here and even if I did it wouldn't work
would it work so will it will it kind of
Stimme the the growth of the software
development
well I would think I'm an American and
Canadian oh right you can't get them
yeah in my mind that's like half the
market like half is Europe and then half
is us right 50% of us can't use it right
we're on the wrong side of the ocean
today turns out and bp9 just mentioned
in the chat room is the u.s. TV was ntsc
and and right here who's pal so that's
why dvds are incompatible I didn't know
that either the differences Wow
very disappointing if you have one
though if you're in Europe and you have
the PI hat for the TV broadcasting we'd
love to hear how it works and looked at
it to hear more I'm just disappointed
that I can't develop for it because we
can't get it or use it here in Canada
when you let us know how it works
please do not gloat too much yeah try
not to try not to running a VMware
server virtualization product it's time
to check for patches as a bug in the
video system allows malicious code in
VMs to leap out of their guest OS and
execute code on the hosting server get
busy VMware admin's and users the
virtualization virtuoso has patched a
programming blunder in ESXi workstation
pro and player and fusion and fusion pro
products that can be exploited by
malicious code to jump from guest OS to
host machine the bug has been designed
designated CVE 2018 69 74 the out of
bounds read is present in the products s
VGA video device emulation and if
exploited allow software within a guest
operating system to execute code on the
host machine
in other words collation to get the big
the bug rated critical across most of
the affected products the vulnerable
versions include ESXi 6.0 six point five
and six point seven workstations 14 and
fusion 10 if you run one of these
products and be sure to patch to secure
the exploit always hearing about all the
various exploits but this is a bad thing
to have happen if you've got a
virtualization hypervisor which a lot of
us a lot people do do now so that is
when people can okay tell me what that
is before I guess what it is
hypervisor so with virtualization
technology you can have one computer
running all kinds of computers inside of
it basically that's that's like so it's
okay so it's like ok so back in the day
so if we wanted to have a file server
mm-hmm it was a physical box on the rack
right and then we wanted to have a web
server another physical box on the rack
ok and then we want to have a back at
whatever and you're just always adding
more hardware and it's using a lot of
act Rissa T it's noisy it generates Heat
so you've got to cool the room it costs
a lot of money to operate and you've got
the more hardware you have the more
chances of crash crash that if you have
10 systems you've got one in ten could
crash versus one system maybe there's
less chance of having it fail so
virtualization lets you have many
different servers in one physical unit
ok so then this exploit is actually a
doozy a big doozy yeah yeah I know a lot
of places use VMware I think the ESX
eyes are already patched just got to do
it you've got to run the patch though
right now if you don't run the patch
then you had to but it was this and I
think who this really could impact bill
mm-hmm if probably doesn't impact me
probably doesn't impact you in such a
way that I choose a ssin hypervisor I'm
using it for my own things I have my own
servers and things like that and they're
all internal now if it was a web server
and somebody were able to exploit that
web server and then break out of the
virtual appliance and break into the
host operating system now you've got a
severe issue or if you're renting out
say you're a web host and you're sharing
server capacity by giving virtual
servers to your customers right one of
those customers had malicious purposes
and broke out of the virtual appliance
and now they've got access to the host
which presumably means they have access
to other virtual appliances and all
kinds of private stuff that they're not
meant to have access to all right and it
just snowballs from there good uh-huh so
just probably patch your servers what
I'm saying it's such as Mike died during
hurt my mic right there came back but it
uh it dropped out for about 15-20
seconds oh did it really oh okay well
there we have it check your levels just
to be sure I have two bars how many do
you have three you got three so I didn't
step let us know in discord if we have
any more any more issues yeah you've got
the right thing cool you're number one
yes live TV there we go all right let us
know in in discord we apologize for any
technical issues that we experienced
tonight all right
eight d-link router variants are
vulnerable to complete ownage via a
despite insisting patches would be
released four months ago four months
from now d-link hasn't addressed the
issue reported in May of this year so
the security researcher who found them
is releasing them to the public that
spells danger for d-link device users
for some of the affected devices there
will not be patches the vulnerable units
are all indie links DWR range the DWR
116 140 512 647 12 912 921 and DWR 111
most of these will be left untouched
because d-link set has said that their
end of life only DWR 116 and 111 would
be fixed the full compromise of these
devices arises from a
cascade of several vulnerabilities they
require access to the devices web-based
Settings panel either on the local
network or from the internet depending
on the configuration data that can be
accessed by the attacker include
password files and guess what yes there
are passwords stored in plain text the
administrative password can be found in
clear text form in a temporary file the
exploit also allows an attacker the
ability to log into the router to inject
shell commands into the routers HTTP
webserver keep an eye out for patches if
they ever turn up you may want to turn
to a new firmware or even replace your
router if one doesn't exist again once
again once again we've got another yet
another exploit we're seeing this with
routers but passwords in plain text
right so if a compromising attack is
able to break into this router they can
get access to those passwords right have
administrator access mm-hmm then and I
always say it with a router what's the
first thing that someone can do they can
open up port 3389 mm-hmm and have remote
desktop access to any other computers on
your network they can see they can see
every computer on your network because
it's presumably got the DHCP table in
the router right which is where all your
IP addresses are so compromise
everything are most people or are many
people running end-of-life d-link
routers or would you yeah yes so a lot
of people if it works they they ignore
it they put it in and forget about it
right and the firmware doesn't get
updated if the manufacturer doesn't
update the firmware right and they're
only considering two of these routers to
even be worth paying attention to right
so well that some of them are older so
they're not going to patch them anymore
yeah you can't you can't buy them new so
so I wonder if looking at something like
dd-wrt or tomato firmware might be an
option so it's an option yeah you can
look at
third party open-source firmwares so
okay my router here runs dd-wrt mm-hmm
so I can continually keep up-to-date
with the latest firmware because the
router itself the firmware that came
with it is no longer supported so I
don't run that firmware right but but
the problem is how many home users like
just generic home users I mean like non
techie maybe not our viewers but just a
regular home user how many of us know
how to flash a firmware or even update
our router yeah so that's where it comes
down to
hey if yours is old and not supportive
maybe you might want to just replace it
I would think so like it wouldn't even
be on your radar like you I don't think
it like I wouldn't think about something
like this no and you think of the
hierarchy of your network so when I'm on
mine my home Wi-Fi and I'm on my home
network accessing things I feel safe
because I'm in my network yeah now take
the device that connects that network to
the Internet and remove all security
from it and make it so that this person
who you don't know who they are has
access to my personal space as far as
networking goes all my files my printers
my packets mm-hmm everything so if you
have one calling your niece or nephew or
whoever set up your network at home
[Laughter]
hard kernel has unveiled the Oh droid h2
the first hacker board with an Intel
Gemini Lake system on a chip the aboon
to 18 point 10 driven single board
computer will ship with a 2 SATA 3.0
ports 2 gigabyte Ethernet ports HDMI and
DisplayPort DisplayPort pardon me 4 USB
ports and if that's not impressive
enough for you it has an m2 slot for an
nvme storage when the Odroid h2 goes on
sale in November at a price that will be
higher than $100 hard colonel will join
a small group of vendors
have launched a community back x86-based
SBC the Odroid project has hoped I'd
hope to be launching its second or third
gen x86 board by now
in 2015 the project started working on a
no droid HSBC however there were
problems with ram sourcing and the
overall cost of manufacturing was too
high in 2016 the company built in Odroid
h1 based on an Intel brass well Celeron
and 3160 the board was successfully used
in a dedicated project but hard colonel
decided not to release it publicly due
to ram shortages and concerns that the
processor was no longer competitive they
considered an AMD risin 5 2500 you but
it was too expensive then Intel
announced Gemini Lake at the end of last
year which seemed to be just right her
Colonel says it was slower than risin
but much faster than Intel Apollo Lake
and the price was reasonable one
argument for x86 hacker boards is that
Linux drivers tend to work more reliable
than on a typical arm board the
downsides are high price and high power
consumption however the Odroid project
is claiming a reasonable 14 watt
conception of the consumption under CPU
stress and a 4 watt idle earlier this
year hard colonel had another false
start with a no droid and one board once
again due to ram sourcing issues with
the droid h2 launched set for only a few
weeks away we're confident that the
third time around the x86 merry-go-round
will be the charm
Hart kernel may need to work on its
supply chain management but it tends to
make high quality well supported boards
backed up by a thriving community the
Odroid h2 will ship with a boon to 18
point 10 which was just released last
week another great board from Odroid
yeah looking forward to this one if I'm
only waiting right are you how did you
get on the waiting list have your people
call my people
wow we were talking before the show
about heart kernels kind of distribution
the Odroid products it can be a little
bit you get on a waiting list right and
because the well you know more how I
mean things take time did hear from
South Korea yeah yeah yeah
depends on who's rowing the boat now
they they ship they do schedule shipping
they don't they don't ship daily I don't
think they'll do math shipping so they
wait until so much a soul does that kind
of the idea and some of them do that I
doubt that they'll have to wait long
before some of those I think this one's
gonna be big yeah and and when a new
product like this comes out it's like
all of the supply is gone right first
couple of days and I'm done and that's
what we even saw that with the older I
go it was gone in the first little while
like then you couldn't get one they
actually for did that as well yeah and
then they restock and the remanufacture
more and and so it'll be interesting to
see how this one goes but what has you
excited about this one I like the fact
that it's Intel I mean trying to get
some of these single board computers
with the OS is forum you don't have the
sometimes there's just one guy writing
the rejigging the software know yeah
yeah it's not a huge like your shirt by
the way I like them sometimes it's just
one guy it's true and and and that's not
just the operating system right but as
you got to get all the drivers to work
drivers and other supplementary software
sometimes it doesn't compile well on arm
right I have trouble with some programs
that I just you know booth because of
dependencies and things like that it was
really hard to get them to compile on a
Raspberry Pi or Zacks you for so this
opens that way up way you know just
about anything on this thing it's an x86
paddle computer so and live tiny square
looking forward to it
big thanks to Roy W Nash and our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman I'm Robbie and I'm bill just
quickly according to coin gecko here's
what the crypto market is looking like
at 1700 hours as of Wednesday October
24th when we recorded the show Bitcoin
lost one hundred thirty eight dollars
and sixty two cents u.s. at 6500 twenty
six dollars and six cents
litecoin fifty two dollars and seventy
eight cents so it's down as well a
couple bucks almost
etherium went down to 204 twenty min
arrow 106 o seven US dollars stellite is
well it we don't seem to have numbers on
stellite unfortunately this week turtle
coin is the one coin that actually got a
little bit of a gain but it's such a min
ute infraction I mean we're talking zero
point zero six ten thousandth of a
second growth is growth there you go
it's on its way up is is now worth zero
point three eight ten thousandth of a
cent nice way to go little guy need a
couple of billion of those that yeah a
couple billion yeah well thank you so
much for joining us this week bill it's
been the pleasure having you here than
it last yeah absolute blast thank you
and you're gonna come back is this a
regular thing what do you just have to
send me an invite there you go
I don't presume anything you're
officially invited back thank you thanks
everybody for being here Sasha nice to
see you as well and we'll see you again
next week take care everybody
[Applause]
