welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode number five 48 tonight
we're gonna learn all about smart girls
a stem learning toy yeah for girls stick
around we'll be right back
this is category five technology TV
[Music]
our live recording is a trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream wire cast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech gets here
cat 5 dot TV slash TPN and the
international association of internet
broadcasters a cat 5 dot TV slash ia IB
welcome to the show Jeff hey you I'm
great new not great also great a very
Tam Sasha yeah me look super pale I
don't know if you've noticed we've had
to turn up the brightness on the camera
this week it's making me look ghostly
but if you look almost normal but very
tanned what you do 70 days of pure
sunshine it was less credible it was
blissful porta Plata Dominican Republic
Puerto Plata beautiful Casa Marina was
the resort I'm just giving a shout-out
cuz they were amazing kind of jealous
only thing I will say they mayhem was
only as we were leaving it started to
rain and the whole 7 days worth of
sunshine yeah paid back by one big old
flooded runway but good problem to have
I mean after the Sun went down on our
last day that's when it rained yes
perfect perfect well it's nice to have
you back yeah we've got a great show
planned for you tonight first of all I
want to remind everybody that we have
cat5 TV shirts available for you and
it's as simple as that cat5 dot TV slash
shirts you're making me nervous dino
with his dolls at the beginning of the
show try to give her some scream on the
edge of the table there I know nice if
this is how it's gonna go folks just
gonna jet right off of the table cat 5
dot TV slash shirts thanks to everybody
who has ordered one so far
now the fundraiser has been going very
well so I think T Springs going to allow
us to renew it
which is good because usually they cap
it off at so many days and if you meet
your goal great if you don't they just
yeah can't thanks for your time yeah so
thank you to everybody who has supported
that campaign
the proceeds from that are going to help
the show our expenses have been
astronomically high yes and we are
volunteers here we appreciate your
support on patreon we appreciate your
support by shopping through our partner
links on our website category five dot
TV click on support us support the shows
and you'll find different ways that you
can support us but yeah I mentioned our
bills have been really high we've been
doing a lot of really cool stuff and
part of that has to do with the fact
that we're on LTE internet here at the
studio so our bill last month was about
four times the price we have
month-to-month so that's a bit shocking
yeah yeah Wow so we're looking for
various options and things but there's
fiber internet comes here to the studio
now they Co idly got it I mean that's
it's at the road we can get fibre to the
node but it's extremely expensive so but
still ironically cheaper than last month
so maybe maybe the best choice all that
to say thank you so much for your
support as a viewer-supported show as a
viewer supported network we can't can we
can't do this without your support so
purchasing those shirts going through
our website to get to Amazon or Ebay any
of our other partners that's great ways
to support us supporting us on patreon
is another great way and you are making
the show possible so thank you very much
we also still have dead Effect 2 via
giveaway so the contest is ongoing you
can email your name or alias
we're watching from how you're watching
I don't think that you can enter to it
okay alright but we do have a winner
this week nice who is it Chris Pritchard
from Whitney Oxfordshire UK Chris Weiss
from Oxfordshire alright congratulations
oh did I say it wrong so crazy but I
would say
hi butcher anyway thank you for being
named Chris Pritchard yes because that
is really hard to mess up that is but if
anyone were to it would be me but I did
not this time okay so Chris says I
watched category 5 TV on YouTube on my
iMac sometimes I use google casts to
stream the program to my TV there you go
well done there's all kinds of ways you
can watch the show congratulations on
winning Chris we're gonna send you the
code for steam to be able to download
and install that effect to VR get actual
reality headset ready mm-hmm yeah are
you ready to jump right into it now I am
I see this young lady here that's yes
having a good old time on the on the
desk her name is Jen hi Jen she doesn't
speak but she is a robot of sorts yes
but there's a neat twist to this
particular robot which is called Smart
Girls and that twist is that it is meant
to introduce young ladies to STEM
education
okay now stem in case you've not heard
of it isn't it's a it's a hot word right
it is but it's an acronym so I first
came across down 2 years ago and I'm
like what is stem so it is science
technology engineering mathematics okay
so these are the four categories and the
purpose is to get people involved in
those and so you wanted while they're
young in production right yes absolutely
and so if you can get into those four
main areas the sky is the limit for
where you can go in this world and
especially in a technology-based world
you know the tea of stem is quite
important I love STEM education in that
I watched as a young person like when I
was just a little guy I was coding on a
vic-20 I was writing my own basic
programs I was getting into peripherals
of my first xt computer I had it torn
apart and I was installing ad-lib sound
cards
and I was upgrading it and changing
peripherals and all this kind of stuff
but then we went through in in the
education sector we went through this
whole now computers exist you don't need
to learn how to build computers we'll
just show you how to operate the
software
well now 20 years later that education
is obsolete if you learned based on that
education model you probably feel like
you know nothing at this point you know
you missed out because that software's
obsolete so is the education that you
had so stem stem education on the other
hand brings back that passion for
understanding the underlying code that
makes things work understanding the
inner workings of robots as things like
the Raspberry Pi and yourself getting
your hands in there and and being a part
of the education process I remember it
hands-on grade five
we had Doss class oh yeah yeah so they
actually spent an entire class teaching
us ms-dos and I was like what is this I
have no clue but it was amazing I
absolutely loved it and to this day I
realize how those like a lot of the
commands are fundamental to everything
else that you code in yes and that's it
that like Dass you would have learned
batch file syntax so you've learned
syntax you've learned how programs work
you've learned to code yes so even
though the Doss syntax is no longer
applicable well it's still you can still
write yeah boss pro like batch files for
Windows 10 and things like that but
really you've learned you've learned the
syntax of PHP that's right and you've
learned the syntax of of Perl and even
go so far as learning the syntax of like
scratch yes that's right just the
workflow yeah if you will yeah I'm
excited because now there's a lot of I
guess attention on stem for girls yes
huge and there's a big reason for that
now it's not that there's not a focus on
this for boys right but there is some
research that has shown that there that
we're really lacking that education for
girls
to encourage I guess the best way to say
it would be confidence to encourage
confidence in science technology
engineering and mathematics so that you
know young girls can have that same
level of confidence as young boys and
enter the field and you know hopefully
we're gonna see a shift in in in kind of
the employment sector yep over the next
couple of years a ten years or so now
smart girls canada.com is where you can
pick one of these up we're gonna show
you how it works Jeff your daughter
Savannah had a blast with with her Smart
Girls
yeah we've spent hours playing with her
playing journey playing well but it
started off it started with the behavior
change absolutely but it started off
with the playful interaction of it yeah
and just figuring it out how it worked
and then I mean I mean I'll walk you
through it it kind of what we did but
you start getting into then the advanced
element of it it's not just you know
she's playing with the doll it's now
getting involved with how this
technology works and the advanced
features of it which she picked up
without hesitation which blew me away it
can I ask how old is she she is seven
seven years old yeah so this the Smart
Girls robotic doll if you will is really
targeting like the five six seven eight
kind of age group yeah I be up to ten
but it's the perfect age to start like
when I saw the Box I'm going ooh
five I don't know about that because
there's a lot of reading involved
absolutely change my perspective after
about an hour you know working with the
app and with this I'm going oh this is a
non-issue like him no concerns
whatsoever okay so what we're gonna look
at with Smart Girls is a toy that is
kind of secretly teaching young people
STEM education yes so we can have fun
and play at the same time mm-hmm we're
gonna intermix learning and play
now Savannah has has given it a try can
you walk us through everything that
we're seeing here on the screen yeah
absolutely so we unfold the the all the
peripherals and all the components out
and what we this can take a 9-volt
battery but we had a rechargeable
battery pack that we put into it
okay so it's purchased em yeah so I had
Savannah put that battery pack in it was
a little bit difficult to get it in
because it's such a short wire but once
you get it in everything is good to go
and then this self-balancing siggy just
sits there waiting and so you get the
app it's called sugar coated from sugar
girl
and so we've downloaded it to the tablet
it works on android iphone all that kind
of stuff and then we go into the app and
so this is the opening screen that
you're seeing here and it works off
bluetooth connecting from your device to
the the ciggy and the ciggy being the
stand that she's standing that's correct
it's very much like a Segway yes yeah
yeah one other percent like a Segway so
that's the robotic aspect of this toy
yes so she's a doll standing on the
robotic aspect can that's right yeah
okay and so you connect to your
character and it has an individual story
that comes with each character and so
you've got a couple options with the app
and this one Savannah jumped right to it
was free place so she can control it
herself without doing anything and so
this is where it was just playing with
it getting the feel for how it works
using that on-screen joystick to control
the device and I mean it's got great
balance it's a self balancing device
there are little like sensors in the
front so that you can turn on a setting
where it doesn't bounce into walls okay
if you so choose meet which was very
very cool and so Savannah just kind of
got the hang of it and how it works and
just playing with a little bit and then
there's different options with the app
and so you can go to the next level
which is instead of free play you can
draw the path you want this the ciggy to
go we're almost stepping into steam here
which includes art yes exactly and so
now you've
that drawing the squiggly path then you
upload it to the ciggy and it just
starts driving around the path that
you've already cool and right on the
screen there is a legend that shows you
this far on your screen equals 10
centimeters okay so you know if you're
operating within a meter space on the
floor that's what you've got then you go
to the next advanced level and so
there's missions yeah you can also do a
free code yourself but the missions kind
of show you this story that you have to
recreate with the ciggy in the app and
so what you're seeing here is it's given
a breakdown and then this is where the
coding comes involved in so you see
there's the the map that the city needs
to follow and each of those pieces of
the road has a measurement to it and you
program this in and so what you're
seeing with Savannah doing is she is
putting the parameters in place for how
the ciggy is to drive so the yellow
there is the repeat so so she's
basically practicing on screen without
actually coding it to the ciggy correct
all right and so she has to put in how
many centimeters and so she has the
choice if it says you need to go ten
centimeters what I had are doing at
first was the repeat of okay we have to
go ten centimeters the default of this
is one centimeter so let's put it in for
a repeat ten times
nice so we did it that way you can also
do it as just straight-up ten
centimeters mhm
there's also the arcs to the turns so
that you can have a radius based turn
that's ten seen me it's ten centimeters
all that kind of stuff and it's the way
the program is worked with the interface
is that they're interlocking so you'll
see here she's connecting it and then it
connects and once it's connected you can
move your whole code around on the
screen and you don't get very very
similar to scratch Timmy yeah a lot and
so then once you've developed your
course you upload it to the ciggy and it
starts to drive it and you see there on
the screen she gets a yeah you did it
nice because she was just doing a
straightforward and I mean of course
there's the always famous free play
where you can just have fun and mess
around with it but the neat thing about
this app is that savanah within half an
hour was already going through the
various functions of the app and then
going into the coding and she's like
Daddy what I do with this here and so I
showed her on the the mission section of
the screen although this is where
you you start telling it what to do okay
she started doing the coding recognizing
the numbers without any issue I mean
there's some manipulation to the numbers
where she's got some things wrong I mean
she's seven so math is started learning
the education part right exactly
when we're learning yeah achieving
something and I loved doing it with her
because it was great bonding time for
the two of us that's what I noticed too
but at the same time it was amazing for
me to be able to say to her well let's
try this and what about this and so
that's creating you know this bond but
I'm also teaching her and guiding her
through it and on the app and I'll show
it in a little bit is once you've done
those kind of graphical based coding I
showed her what the actual code looks
like because there's another thing where
you could see the source code oh nice
and I'm like honey I'm gonna say
something you just did some programming
she's like what and then I showed of the
screen she's like I did that I'm like
yeah so if you ever had a computer and
you want to type that on the computer
you could do the same thing very cool oh
and and that because that's so similar
to scratch as far as the visual
appearance and how things flow the
workflow I think you could easily
transcend that to scratch coding
absolutely so yeah 100% perfect right
yeah let's talk a little bit about the
line so smart girls there are four
different dolls that are available in
each one has its own kind of backstory
where yes that yeah in the app in just a
moment it is award-winning as far as the
like the e-learning platform where we're
looking at combining technology and play
and learning all into one kind of device
yeah it was actually it's neat because
this device smart girls was featured on
shark tank and a hat and it got the the
backing of one of the one of the sharks
is so cool I love it
can we take a real quick look at one of
the missions that you you mentioned
missions yes look at that with with
Savannah so I'm just gonna play a rope
video here the Jeff provided this is
Savannah taking one of her missions yes
now I want to give a quick backstory to
it yeah so she did this while I was out
I left I think I went to go pick up one
of the kids from a social event and
I came back she said daddy look what I
did so this is after an hour he's been
playing with it she was doing it herself
okay
like nobody helped her and so I mean
there were some issues with the math
that I walk you through fixing it yeah
but she did it herself well I wasn't
there nice and Jenna my wife hadn't
played with it yet so she didn't know
how the app work
she had no involvement in it and savanah
was over the moon excited seven years
old yes seven years old
yeah within an hour on the app and she
what she chose a mission of her own and
programmed it herself okay so dad gets
home pulls out his cell phone and this
is gut okay so Savannah's doing a
mission she has to find three different
bird locations as the eggs they're the
feathers and another set of eggs so she
spent some time over the last little bit
being aware of all of these factors so
if you find eggs or feathers you have to
pause for four seconds and so she has
now built her code so just say that we
moved forward ten centimeters whoops
turn left 90 degrees go forward 20
centimeters right 90 degrees forward 50
centimeters and goes down and down and
down you see the pause so there's the
first bird here's the big turn at 270
degrees with 10 centimeter radius then
here's the bird feathers at pause four
and then the end is the last bird to
pause for now you can also see the code
which is kind of neat so from the coding
standpoint you see siggy move 110
centimeters turn machine 90 degrees zero
centimeters and it continues to go on
and here's our 270 degree at 10
centimeter radius all right so now that
we have done that we know what the code
looks like we've already we can show it
on the screen if we want to see how it
looks but we've already tested that so
now we're going to drive it on the floor
and see how it plays out
not sending it alright let's go
here's the turn to the right she's now
looking at bird feathers pause for four
seconds then she'll turn around 180 go
forward into the big 270 degrees Henry
centimeter radius loop the right turn
and to find the feathers at the right
well savanah I think we've done it pause
before she'll turn around 180 forward
turn to the right
final bird eggs and then a celebratory
spin after a four second pause Savannah
good job that's so cool
oh let's let's talk a little bit about
you know we mentioned at the beginning
of this segment that there is a gap
between men and women or boys and girls
and there was recently a study a survey
that was published by actua could we
look at just a couple of the key points
of what came of that study absolutely we
can
so it says fifty percent of boys
surveyed are very or extremely
interested in careers involving coding
or programming and only twenty twenty
seven percent of girls I have the same
level of so half of the number of girls
versus the number worn one in four girls
yeah so keeping in mind that this is
this is science technology engineering
and mathematics so these are fields and
and knowledge bases if you will if we
have that knowledge then there's Jeff
mentioned it's the sky's the limit there
are so many places that you can go with
that knowledge so we need to we need to
see that shift right I mean I know that
I when I was growing up wasn't confident
in any way and I've been growing I mean
very much a huge shout out and thank you
to you really in particular in the fact
that it it becomes something that feels
like you can tackle it
it's explained to you you know
thoroughly right but for the most of my
life it was so daunting the idea of
anything stem it was crazy now girls are
14% our girls were 14 percentage points
more likely than boys to characterize
coding is difficult and that makes sense
to me exactly because even like even now
I know a little bit but I would I would
say it's difficult when I speak even to
Dave he thought he would think oh yeah
no that's completely doable and
palatable but I think part of that I
think is just the way that you've grown
up being immersed in some sort of
element of coding is not the norm in our
society when it comes to to women and
girls and so you grow up with a
different skew to it then then guys do
like I think of our boys at home the
idea of Minecraft coding they love that
idea of it right savanna doesn't care at
all right but you know the Smart Girls
app suddenly the boys are going whoa
why can't we do that and they wanted
nothing to do with minecraft and
savannas like hey guys I'm coding yeah
you know and so it's just it's putting a
different spin on it and creating a
contextual environment where you go oh I
can get behind that and it makes all the
difference
you Savannah has no interest in coding
up until this and now she's going oh oh
coding can be this yeah coding can be
fun
yeah and she's right so I mean it
changed that perspective so I mean I
totally get it when you say 14% more
likely to say that it's it's difficult
so it's like a paradigm shift so it's
not that girls are incapable by any
stretch know that the exposure to it has
been very gender biased right it hasn't
seemed relevant right yeah to girls yep
so now we're stats from actual 41% of
boys say that they're somewhat or
totally confident in their coding and
programming abilities and only 28
percent of girls exhibit this level of
confidence exactly you may be huge skew
now this study really shows why
damn robot specifically designed for
girls is really a great idea so if you'd
like to see the study itself so this is
a third party study from actua your
doing this that's playing around on the
tablet
we've actually got a link to it go to
cat5 dot TV slash actua and you'll be
able to look at that study for yourself
now Johanna Garcia is the founder of
Canadian classroom and they partnered
with Smart Girls to bring this product
into Canada brand so she actually tells
us and this is a quote STEM jobs in
Canada pay higher than other industries
yet women only represent 23% of the stem
workforce mm-hm
which is astonishing so this is great
because now girls can you believe it
starts here exactly it starts as kids
right and then all of a sudden the seed
is planted right when I was a child I
wanted to be a nurse why was that well I
think probably because the things I
played with right the things marketed to
me made me want to take care right say I
had that doll yeah who's who's to say I
wouldn't want to build robots right sure
yeah yep rocket ships that's right
anything okay let's get a look at the
app as we kind of move along in our in
our feature here smart girls sure so I'm
gonna bring this up on the screen Jeff
so Jeff has the app installed on his
tablet yeah and there we go okay so this
is the interface when so when you first
load up the app this is the screen you
see and so you see that this doll in
particular the model the name is Jen and
that's our ciggies so you you know when
you turn on the ciggy you bring up the
app you're you hit the refresh and it
pops up on the screen and then just over
here on your right yeah on the right and
top corner you've got cheetahs described
because because you guys you can't see
what he's so you've got the the choose
activity and then you have six options
and so the neat thing is and this isn't
just about having the ciggy there is a
story yeah and so you can go to ebooks
and then you will see in iBooks
that Jen has a story and so you go into
Jen's story
and this is what comes up so you learn
kind of a the backstory of yeah the
character herself so there's artwork
switchback that goes in there you've got
your various chapters and so you can
read about Jen who she is what she does
it's very very neat and so then it it
opens the door from the stem standpoint
of saying hey there's lots of options
out there for for girls and so you know
we saw in the app that Savannah went
into the free Frank play yeah okay so I
let's let's look at the interface here
sir
so you would kind of drag around and
yeah so with the free play it's just a
basic so he's actually moving Jen right
now yeah so I'm sorry I'm gonna switch
to your camera so now that you've seen
the screen you can see what's actually
happened sees turning because a little
bit too fast you know this the sucker
will move there's different options so I
mean you've got four backwards buttons
you can put you know you've got this
figure eight here alright let's go back
here you know if switch back to your
camera yeah tablet so you've got the
figure eight down here in the bottom
left corner yeah if you've got a wide
enough area okay push that that's
correct
I'm not gonna do that here while she's
on the desk the same deal you've got the
back and forth on the right you've got
the S shape and so the cig you'll just
continue to drive into a shape you can
also create like hit the record button
and draw your own pattern or forward it
and save it and reload it so you could
make an obstacle course and make it go
through the obstacle course and then
record it and then play it back into it
again
that's correct yeah so that's the free
play then you've got you have path okay
and so in the path site so this is the
one that Zac this is where you saw
Savannah where she just kind of drew it
you know again I'm not gonna do it here
because good idea you know it could fly
all over the the table but you see that
there's a legend for the hundred
centimeters so you know that that is
that on your floor that is a meter oh
really yeah
so whatever you're drawing on a desk
something yeah exactly so you know
they're just gonna do a few little
circles you know so you see there's not
much
there yeah okay so you're gonna actually
trigger that and then I'm gonna try and
drive on the floor might hit oh nice no
so like that's how it works
okay cool so so very very cool you can
erase it and and and clear it you can
continue working with it you know make
it bigger smaller you could save it as
well
so then also this is where we get into
I'm going to bring it over to missions
actually no yeah missions okay so in
missions this is where there's a story
to it where so I mean level one is
hotdog the video that we just watched
was the bird specimen and so you can see
that there's three star levels there's a
video to it oh and it gives you like a
tutorial that's right leading into the
mission yeah that's fun and so this is
where you see on the screen that you've
got the picture of what do you have to
travel and so here you see you know each
of those Road segments where you've got
the blue lines you see here they're ten
centimeters you've got a on the turqu
curve the curves it's a 90 degree turn
radius zero there's roadblocks you know
if you get to that roundabout it shows
you that the turn is 270 radius of ten
so do you have to code that now so yeah
so now you see the instructions yes and
then this is where you go into the code
into the way the video we watched this
is what savanna coded so you see move
forward ten centimeters turn left 90
degrees radius zero centimeters move
four twenty centimeters and at any point
good for you savanna yeah and so you've
got on the left side you have these
options for move so you've got you can
set the speed level moving forward the
turning there's an audio/visual where
you put the Hobbit honk the horn to know
if I it's music nice then in the
execution you've got the repeat and I
was talking about that a little bit
earlier how you know if say she had to
go fifty centimeters instead of saying
just put in fifty centimeters you could
put in ten centimeters repeat five might
encourage her to do math that's right
yeah that's and then you've got the
pause that's in there as well and if at
any point you're uncertain you hit this
little question mark on the bottom and
you can go back to what it is that
you're looking at yeah and so you want
to follow that path to the first bird
egg go to the roundabout to the second
the bird feathers and then three is the
bird egg and then you complete the love
and if you complete it and do it
properly then you're going to be
rewarded with a star and then you go to
the next level of that mission and
there's three levels for each one now
and this is what I was talking about a
little bit earlier WestEd to savetti let
me show you something up in the top
right corner here you've got show code
this is the code cool so you can see
ciggy move
siggi dot move bracket one like that so
I mean you can actually see the code now
of this entire thing and so if we
encourage them to get in there then all
of a sudden we can transition to Arduino
we can transition to other platforms
yeah with the knowledge that we've
learned here yeah it was very very cool
and and it does allow you to try a trial
and error with the show on-screen button
no I'm not gonna do it cause it's gonna
walk you and we saw that we saw it
during the video yeah exactly
that's um there's the video again so
you've got your you have your four
different levels you know she could pick
up her tools search for plants get a hot
dog find burnt specimens and that's you
know you continue to then you've got
your free code so this is sugar-coated
you're actually coding your own program
that's correct
all right yes and so you know you get
the startup screen that says hey program
a story a maze whatever okay and this is
where it's free play and you could do
whatever you want I mean there's even
dance buttons where you can have the
ciggy do the cha-cha-cha
you know Zumba left is number right like
you can have a whole lot of fun with
this thing coding however you want
then there is also the learn button that
walks you through a training segment so
you've you get into the app and you're
going I don't know what I'm doing how do
I do the coding and you have all these
levels of training from one to ten
starting with just moving forward oh
okay going up to something more advanced
inside there yeah oh okay
so and so it builds the involvement and
the confidence level so that you've gone
through the ten training levels and
you're like oh this is perfect that is
too and so that's all the app is that I
mean so that's all the app is like
there's just the six functions right but
there's so much to it and savanah
couldn't I mean it was almost like there
was a you know textual AED she was just
going around like I want to do this I
wanted this I wanted because she
so excited to try the next new thing and
yeah I mean it was I'm gonna get out
like the the building bricks and build
trails and things yeah we cleared out
our basement family room made this like
20 by 6 foot area and she's like I gotta
create an obstacle course she had so
much fun with it dad
let's look at this from the perspective
of a dad that you've got this for your
daughter she's seven years old
impressions of the device itself as well
made solid it's it's very safe
construction I mean the dolls great you
know trendy clothes all the kind of
stuff I think the only concern I had was
getting the battery pack in it because
the cable was so short but Savannah did
it I had to help her did you help her I
did help me didn't see that yeah I did
help her get the battery in to get it
okay yeah okay to be fair when I built a
computer I had help
exactly yeah it wasn't an issue for me
to help her but she just dad your hands
in you've got the battery packet so
you've you've got the the extra battery
pack so that you don't have to choose
change battery correct having done that
I noticed that it is now us be
chargeable yes so you've basically
converted that so it was maybe a little
challenging for a seven-year-old to get
it in yeah however dad could have put
that in screwed it in and it's there's a
USB port to charge it yep and that again
it can take 9-volt batteries but that
makes it so that you don't have to
exactly recharge it every time yeah you
could do that absolutely
and and it is so she turned off I
believe she did turn off so I like hey
you pick me up so yeah I mean it is self
balancing which I absolutely loved
because I'm like I'm gonna get this
thing to stand cool so you kind of hold
it there for a second then you'll hear
beep sweet and then that's it and then
it will just continue to rock back and
forth it was it I love this thing so
smart girls I think it's a great product
for stem and for encouraging young girls
to to build confidence in STEM education
as we've talked about again smart girls
canada.com now now until the end of
april 2018 it's free shipping on that
okay so smart girls canada.com as you
see on your screen very cool and maybe
you don't like the Jen there's four
different doll log sites and they all
come with a different story so like I
don't want out I want this one you know
and so I mean the whole point at this
point is collect all four I will say as
a girl the story is important like to me
the idea of having something like that
is relatable it's relatable exactly I I
probably wouldn't care at all if that
was just like if it looked not like a
doll like if it looked like an ugly
little
like what you're used to with robots
right but that's it though they've taken
it and made it more approachable for
young girls and if this and if this girl
didn't have a story right if she wasn't
going to find plants you know I would
get tired of just okay well now she's
just driving in a square the missions
make it oh there's a quest there's a
goal and that is amazing cool what just
from the story level one of the things I
liked about the Jen storyline is that
she's also a mechanic who gots nature so
this opens the door was Savannah she's
like what's a mechanic right well
mechanic works on cars you know and
she's like well what did they do I'm
like well okay well say well you can
come with me next time I change my oil
and I and I'll show you how to change
the oh I'll show you how to change time
and start with those basic things and
then it's hey let's clean out the
camshaft I'm just gonna sit back and
watch while you do it
is not my forte I focused on stem final
thoughts about smart girls first of all
you saw Jeff doing this on his tablet it
does work on smartphones as well yes so
you can install it on your Android or
iOS device it can be a tablet or a phone
smart phone
I presume even like an iPod Touch would
be just fine because iOS and Wi-Fi and
Bluetooth so there you have it
and finally just the ruggedness of it we
saw it driving on carpet granite carpet
I've been on great on floors and I mean
savanna did in the free play kind of
bumped it into a coffee table bumped it
into a you know our TV unit held up it's
great nice solid rubber wheels so it's
got it has great traction I go I I don't
think I have a single concern complaint
of the six perfect so grandparents
parents something definitely to check
out educators go to Smart Girls
canada.com we've got to take a real
quick break
thank you to Jeff and Savannah for their
participation tonight for a limited time
get your hands on limited edition shirts
from the category 5 TV network these
high-quality shirts are manufactured by
teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official network shirt today
cap five dot TV slash shirts welcome
back everybody this is category five
technology TV it's episode number five
forty eight so nice to have you here and
such a pleasure to be able to look at
such a cool device tonight boy so I
wanted to say hey to the chat room I see
a lot of folks there hanging out
chatting away gwg it's good to see you
again Marsh man always a pleasure
I see skywriter 64 as well hey yeah who
else we got bp9 the fool each and x-one
basically the crews here crew yeah
anyone if I missed you you gotta say
shouts out hey Garvey hey buddy hope
everybody's doing well and if you'd like
to join us in the chat room and get
there on our website category five dot
TV but of course it is category five on
freenode which is an IRC server so if
you're familiar with IRC looking at you
know going back to my early days of
computing that was one of the ways that
we communicated and we still use it
today hey soul boo nice to see you all
right so uh should we find out what's
going on in the world of tech news I
guess it is time folks I know we've like
filled the hour already which is amazing
and yeah just kind of laid-back and
easygoing nice now it's your turn now a
to take over the set so hey Sasha here
are the stories were covering this week
in the category
TV newsroom thanks to robots and
automation in the US Africa is at risk
US cities are starting to crack down on
commercial crypto mining due to the
heavy load it puts on their power grid
an autonomous flying taxi is coming to
New Zealand and 3d printed homes afford
the less fortunate these toys are coming
right up
don't go anywhere whether you shop on
ThinkGeek gearbest B&amp;H photo video eBay
or Amazon or even if you want a free
trial of audible you'll find the best
deals and support the shows we produce
by simply visiting the shopping sites
you already frequent by using the links
on our website visit category-five TV
slash partners for the full and
ever-growing list and help us create
more free content like this show thank
you for shopping with our partners and
thank you for watching this is the
category-five TV newsroom covering the
week's top tech stories with a slight
linux bytes
I'm Sasha Rickman in here the top
stories were following this week within
less than two decades it will be cheaper
to operate robots in the US based
factories event to hire workers in
Africa a new report warns following
automation costs are predicted to cause
job losses as manufacturers return to
richer economies though some analysts
say poorer countries could be less
impacted by this trend the Overseas
Development Institute suggests otherwise
its report however it does add that
African nations do have time to prepare
for the change
Karishma Banga a senior research officer
at ODI says African countries must not
shy away from manufacturing but instead
prepare by increasing access to Internet
investing in technical skills and
promoting technological innovation dirk
willem de Velde director of the
supporting economics transformation
program at ODI said in a statement
currently the cost of operating robots
in furniture manufacturing is still
higher than labor but this will not be
the case within 15 years their report
found that in fact the furniture
manufacturing the cost
operating robots and 3d printers in the
US will be cheaper than Kenyan wages by
2034 and in Ethiopia ODI per day
predicts that robotic automation will be
cheaper than Ethiopian workers between
twenty thirty eight and twenty forty two
this gives the continent between one and
two decades to build up its capabilities
in sectors that are less at risk of
automation such as food and beverages
garments metal and metals the report
writes it advises African nations to
expand access to broadband and develop
locals technical skills through
vocational training technology hubs and
a bigger focus on STEM subjects in
African educational bodies okay Wow so
we kind of saw this coming I would say
truthfully from it yeah I didn't but
that I didn't ever think of it I didn't
well yeah
give it a second thought and now it's
like oh yeah that makes sense well I
mean we think about it from our own
backyard I mean you look at how
technology is changing things here but I
didn't think about the other countries
and I know that sounds very self centric
but I I don't know if I've ever paid
attention what what do we get from
Africa from a man I know talked about
furniture furniture is a very good
example okay like 75 percent of the
furniture that's manufactured is
exported okay no yeah not necessarily to
Canada here I'm not sure what the
percentages are but definitely you think
about like the UK right a lot of Europe
yeah absolutely so a lot of it ends up
there mm-hmm so if the u.s. is able to
manufacture it more cheaply all of a
sudden this becomes a problem so in in
right Africa definitely furnitures one
Ethiopia you're looking at apparel shoes
for example so where it reminds me of
the the story we just covered a couple
of weeks ago with the jeans with this is
where I see I saw it I seem to see the
trend where technology is taking the
load off of labor jobs but our labor
jobs are generally oats or
their countries because labor is
expensive here and cheap there as soon
as we don't need to have people
labouring instead of instead it's robots
of course why not have them here as
opposed to there right like it right
right so now the onus is really on these
countries to to find another way this is
a tough situation too because you know
as I'm thinking about this more and more
and you can comment below if you're
watching this online if you're watching
this on on cable TV send us an email
through our website but it would have
fear not be that okay now if it becomes
so cheap to manufacture it through
robotics through automation and we think
about slave labor and we do care about
the conditions in these factories in
Ethiopia and in China and what happens
if now all of a sudden wages have to go
down because costs have to go down or
what if conditions which are already
poorly have to become worse in order for
these companies to compete so there's a
whole other aspect to this where you
know maybe regulations there's that word
again why do I bring up regulations but
does America have to say we need to care
more about the world as a whole be
careful while we're approaching this
regulate the manufacturers and say look
we need to make sure that if you're
going to automate that you need to
follow these best practices in order to
protect the families and the individuals
who are currently manufacturing these in
in third-world and and and poorly
conditions mm-hmm
wouldn't it be great if they could
implement more stem training for oh
absolutely that's what I liked about
that story is it did say you know more
stem training in the education program
and I mean I think it's great
ma I do I mean well that helps the next
generation absolutely what does it do
for the folks that right now have if
they lose their jobs have nothing
that's a great question and that's a
question just to put out there there's
no answer to that yeah and it is just a
question and it I don't know the answer
u.s. cities are starting to crack down
on commercial crypto mining due to the
heavy load it puts on their power grid a
city in upstate New York has become the
first in America to effectively ban any
new commercial grade cryptocurrency
miners from powering up Mayor Colin red
in the City Council of Plattsburgh this
month signed off on a measure to place
an 18-month moratorium on any new
industrial scale crypto coin crafting
operations within city limits
all cash mining companies typically
require a permit to operate within
Plattsburgh now no more applications
will be approved for a full year and a
half located on the banks of Lake
Champlain near the Canadian border
Plattsburgh has a population of 19,000
people and is a hotspot for boating and
bass fishing its proximity to the lake
also means that Plattsburgh is able to
enjoy a low-cost hydroelectric power
making it extremely attractive to
large-scale crypto mining operations as
reg readers know altcoin crafting rigs
can be tremendous power hogs so when
those mining operations came to town the
normally cheap power became more
expensive due to the soaring demand and
residents saw their electric bills climb
up by an average of $10 apiece in
January alone just two of the registered
miners miners accounted for around ten
to fifteen percent of the city's entire
power consumption now to slow down the
power slurp Plattsburgh has decided to
block any new operations until at least
the fall of 2019 existing crypto coin
mining outfits will be allowed to stay
for the time being those who violate the
new law will be subject to fines of up
to $1,000 per day the city notes that
during the moratorium it will look into
whether a long term zoning and power law
and crypto coin mining is needed
meanwhile New York State has ruled that
high density load customers or crypto
miners if you read between the lines
face rising electricity
due to the pressure they place on
electric supply grits this is
interesting
another thing I didn't see that coming
well yeah I mean and because I'm just
getting into mining cryptocurrency
myself from right you know at home with
consumer grade you know products I
haven't seen the impact of a large-scale
right power drain at my house so to
speak so the idea that there's companies
out there that are using such a high
power demand that it's causing the
citizens of the town to see and increase
the power bills kind of baffles me
because I know if my energy goes up at
my house I'm paying the bill yeah so why
aren't they just getting the bill
themselves and instead it's being
distributed to everybody well here's one
consideration is that it is high to
hydroelectric so it's water powered
olicity so there it's a finite resource
so would they not have to bring in more
power to the grid if they've exceeded
the service and the the flow of what is
what the generators are capable of right
so the costs go up but but then put that
on the company like it you read there to
some degree sure yeah you rather the two
companies were 10 to 15 percent of the
power usage alone so take the city's
power bill a given 10 to 15 percent you
know yeah I don't know that it's that
easy
it would be nice if it was that easy yes
you're a company that's doing this so
you're the one who gets but I think it
has to do with the whole grid in the oil
or any network of the electrical grid
and the cost to produce the energy
required by that region has gone up and
so it affects all of the users right now
the user who is crypto mining with this
massive like we're talking server farm
oh yeah they're gonna be paying them
most of that bill yes still going to
impact other folks as the overall cost
to operate has gone up maybe more
man-hours are required because more
people are required to to operate the
the
hydroelectric station and and the
electricity coming into the town right
and am I correct in assuming home
cryptocurrency mining is not banned it's
just the larger one no it's just
industrial these are companies that open
up specifically to mine yeah and this is
people are making money off of this
because they're and this is why I can't
mine Bitcoin this is why you can't mine
because right on Sumer gear because
these companies build a network in a
rental unit or something or at least a
unit and they draw on the electrical
system and they mine so much so much
powerful there's so much power that us
little guys just can't buy Raspberry Pi
won't cut it right no my even my mining
rig which is sitting over there and you
can see all the video cards and like
it's not gonna cut this is a
conversation I would have never imagined
that we would ever be having like I did
because cryptocurrency is new right
I just this blows my mind that this is a
real problem so it is what I love them
and I mean I get this deviates a little
bit from the news but a month ago
cryptocurrency was a foreign concept I
mean I knew what it was but how it
worked I didn't understand and just in
the last month of exploring it and
starting to do it myself at home
I now get it and I'm going oh oh this is
you all know exactly what I do I
go coin first came out yeah so easy to
mine a Bitcoin yes so I can see the
appeal to setting up a company getting
the hardware in place oh yeah just
blowing through the mining to really
hook onto some of this cash and this new
trend that's going yeah and so I mean
it's cities do have to turn their mind
to this sort of thing sure you know what
happens the new business model that
draws a lot on the electricity yeah of
that like we're not talking consumer
gear sure you're running your computer
and it's using your electricity but it's
still just your computer right okay
we're talking server farms that are
running at a hundred percent CPU and GPU
all the
24/7 with 300,000 computers and you know
mega can be like just ridiculous well
you should be using their money to
invest in some green energy ideas well
that's a good idea
and that's why people building them in
places that are super cold so they don't
have to cool it but it's possible like
the amount of output that the green
sources may be solar wind whatever may
not be enough to actually run at all
well that's like that's how much
Hardware there is oh I totally agree so
but maybe they're just like Cyril sneer
and they just are mining oh my goodness
raccoon is a throwback TV show that's a
I could only see him mining
cryptocurrency Oh totally absolute
absolutely
yeah or Scrooge McDuck a new air taxi
service was financially backed by Google
Google co-founder Larry Page is set to
take off in New Zealand thanks to an
agreement announced last week pages
Kittyhawk company the developer of a new
autonomous flying machine called Korra
will begin testing the service in rural
Canterbury a region in the South Island
the electric air taxi can carry two
passengers it is designed to take off
like a helicopter and uses proprietary
software to fly like a regular
fixed-wing aircraft with the help of
some human supervision Zephyr air works
Kittyhawks New Zealand to feel affiliate
has been working with government
officials on plans to test the new
service as part of a programme meant to
encourage science and innovation in the
country despite the high interest in
developments the business case for fully
autonomous air taxis is not as strong as
one might think suggested Stephen Polzin
Polzin is the director of mobility
policy research at the University of
South Florida's Centre for urban
transportation research he says for a
passenger air travel particularly
commercial air travel the labor costs
associated with pilots is relatively
modest in the context of total cost
provided providing the trip which
dampens the motivation to go
to full automation I got you right make
sense yeah that makes sense to me right
the wages of the pilot is pale in
comparison to the fuel and the jet
itself and right sure yeah
but if it's one element you can take out
of the equation it's one less payload
thriving the driver therefore less fuel
consumption all that kind of stuff but
so what I'm listening to this the first
question that's popping up in my head is
is this necessary are we gonna need air
taxi and I seen this some videos for
what the traffic's like in New York City
I feel like maybe that's the thing I'm
thinking about I'm going okay I commute
every day to work I'm on the road
depending on traffic either between an
hour to two and a half hours so cut 45
minutes off of that right but then I'm
also going okay in traffic there's Road
reach and sure if you're sitting there
and you're watching some guy go and go
across traffic in this air taxi I mean
I'm thinking about what's the impact
going to be on somebody was on a
motorcycle and the air downstream from
the well I would theorize that it would
be up a little higher than so then we
have the issue of air traffic control
because in at least the regulation on
this Jeff it'll move but but no but
here's the thing so for flights in think
just Ontario I don't know about other
areas but we have a cap of a hundred
feet you cannot fly a commercial
aircraft less than a hundred feet from
any structure talk oh right I'm
picturing in my mind that this is just a
taxi sort of thing where it's like in
one city like short distances it's not a
communication oh right it's like to get
across oh like a table top but like
rooftop to rooftop maybe like yeah I'm
going from my
kondou here's Wayne yes that's right
yeah yeah like I'm picturing short
distances it's okay I'm not gonna be too
much of an issue as far as air traffic
control and things sure and can I just
say along that vein Jeff believes they
can build an autonomous robotic airborne
taxi but they can't figure out air
traffic control no that's not what I
said I said there's a need for it
there's an usher they've worked that
into the equation of the autonomous
programming maybe they must but I I'm
with Sasha on this I think it's probably
like building to building across New
York City yeah but still you're gonna
need something cuz I mean sure if you've
got like I think of Toronto we have
orange air ambulance so you've got an
ambulance that's right it lands on the
rooftop of the hospital and hey you've
got 15 minutes to get to that accident
scene you know 60 kilometers up the road
and so it's like helicopters gone and if
you got some taxi in the way that's not
the copter helicopter needs a landing
pad it does yes two-person taxi yeah
maybe not so much but I bet you close to
the size of a car footprint sure
absolutely that's same as a car pulls
off to the side of the road when an
ambulance comes this air that supposed
to would would probably divert its path
and get out of the way I am throw air
taxi and final you know my final thought
is as things grow into the autonomous
era the autonomous vehicles on the road
will know oh here comes the air taxi
it's about to come down back up yes and
it's all integrated it's all working
together in the same mesh network and
saying okay he's about to come down and
land in the middle of the highway okay
so I know you said that was your last
thoughts my last thoughts so if they're
all integrated one hack attack and it's
done I always put a dark spin on it Jeff
no but we covered security measures a
couple shows ago horse I think was last
week think security yeah yeah they need
to work it in that's the point
to get the security solid then roll it
out okay maybe that's the part with the
human supervision it said with some
human supervision maybe yeah
no no that taxi don't hack that I'm
really proud in Texas tucked behind a
house for the wealthy there may lie some
hope for the significantly less
fortunate more than a billion people in
the world go to sleep each night without
reliable shelter but a pair of companies
working on solving that believes that
their model of quickly 3d printing a
one-story house could not only provide a
roof over the head but a genuinely great
place to live it's a proof of concept
built by Icahn a construction firm and
new story a nonprofit that sets up
housing in the developing world the 380
square foot dwelling required about ten
thousand dollars or seven thousand
pounds of concrete and took the and took
48 hours eventually the goal is to build
a 650 square foot version and to bring
down the cost significantly by using a
mixture of economic on amis of scale I
can all yes like buying concrete in bulk
and improvements to the 3d printing
machine the goal build time is between
12 and 24 hours later this year the
project will head to El Salvador to
build some test homes with the view to
begin work on a community of 100 houses
in 2019 if if it does work it would
literally change how shelter is created
said Bret Hagler chief executive and
co-founder of new story it's
irresponsible for us not to try it like
small-scale 3d printing the system works
by slowly adding material layer by layer
in this case that material is mortar
similar to concrete the height and width
of the house is constrained by the size
of an enormous metal frame which
operates autonomously once given its
instructions with the machine they can
print up to 11 feet tall the robot
follows blueprints created using tip
CAD software this means homeowners would
have the ability to create their own
designs on site or pick from a library
of possible configurations Hagler
believed the machines will be operated
by a local construction workers and it
is hoped that the lower cost of each
unit would turn intern mean more demand
for more houses to be built that's so
great
yeah I love when technology is used to
help people yes and the the price point
of it was really quite cheap as well the
fact that it was AI was a $10,000 and
that's at current rates sure I corrected
that doesn't include you know whatever
the rig is that you're right you're
gonna have to have cover your cost of
buying and all that kind of stuff so I
mean it might be that maybe it's a
fifteen thousand dollars for the home
but who's going to be paying for it is
oh that's what's so genius about this
foundation that they've set up right
right but then you also have the land so
it's not just the building but it's the
land so where does the land come from
who's gonna buy the land right right all
this kind of stuff and I think I know
what you're you're asking because like
okay we're helping impoverished folks
right how will they pay for this right
that's what's smart about it because
what they've done is they've set it up
so that first of all a lot of donations
are going into this okay so Silicon
Valley in particular is investing by
donating in this organization okay
so then they're going in and building
these house houses using these 3d
printers and and they're not giving them
away they're selling them to the
individuals but here's the catch they're
doing it at what what would equate to
about $30 a month in our dollars right
so they're giving them a mortgage that
works out to be about $30 a month
they're doing it interest-free okay
we're doing it with no profit and then
to take it one step further now to keep
the momentum going that $30 if you will
just to use we put a number out there
that that equates into you know Canadian
terms that money is now put into a trust
okay so now they're building up this
trust so that they can now build homes
for other people and then do it again
hang it forward and paying it forward
from these initial donations that have
made it possible very cool so love it
yeah and so now these folks who could
never afford to mortgage a house are
mortgaging a house right and it's
manageable
that's neat I like that I actually
really love that they're small homes too
sure yeah I do I like right because next
gen and you know hey let's take this to
Mars and like all so much potential well
I mean when you mean let's be clear you
look at the homes that we've got in
developed countries and I mean around
here I mean I Drive past you know six
million dollar homes that are 10,000
square feet I'm going why yeah like
you've got a family of four living there
you know I mean I've spent time in
Guatemala and Mexico Dominican doing
humanitarian work a lot of cases their
homes are 100 200 square feet now
there's like six of them yeah so to give
them something that's I think it was for
600 square feet they're gonna have so
much room for activities sure you know
that's gonna be fun I mean truth be told
the bigger your house is the more you
feel like you need to fill it with stuff
for sure yes so the when you have a
smaller house I think that all of a
sudden your attentions are on more
important things like getting out mmm
right it's your it's your living space
it's your sleeping space it's yes
shelter yeah but you can home ownership
for somebody who isn't able to afford a
mortgage right and a concrete structure
for you know in an in a spot where
perhaps there isn't that sort of
material used for the the normal house
so I mean I was talking about the
humanitarian work the when I was in the
Dominican that's what we did we built
home so we went it there was a community
that we designated where we're talking
like metal sides just find a piece of
metal putting it up sometimes palm
leaves like that's literally what it was
hurricane comes through it's gone
so what we did is we started with one
home you build this one home
cinderblock Foundation concrete floor
and it was bigger than what they had and
so then their idea because of the
community-minded was hey this is our
home your homes next you come live with
us while we tear down your Shack and we
build you another home yeah and then
you've got two homes and both those
homes going hey yours is the next house
come live with us and so the community
starts taking in the other homes that
are Wow you know and so everybody's got
a place to stay so something like this
on this is amazing give them a little
bit bigger footprint to live in and
start inviting some of the rest of the
community and as we build those homes
I'd love it love this idea mm-hmm big
thanks to Roy W Nash in our community of
viewers for submitting stories to us
this week thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news for the slate Linux biased and for
more free content be sure to check out
our website from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Sasha Rickman and I'm
Robbie Ferguson and I'm Jeff Weston it's
been a blast having you here this week I
hope you've enjoyed yourself and we look
forward to seeing you again same time
same channel see you next week
