here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom a
newfound exploit in Windows and TFS
implementation will crash the machines
by simply including a short string
within an image on a website a French
school is using facial recognition to
find out whether students to find out
when students aren't paying attention a
new found malware on Android devices
could be on your phone and Intel has
already surpassed AMD's thread Ripper
these stories are coming right up don't
go anywhere Jeff Weston GEMA you're
building a brand-new beautiful website
aren't you you're a terrible actor what
the swear acting comes into play you're
supposed to act ok I'm building a really
cool website are you building a really
cool website you need hosting one of the
things about a hosting account is you
don't want to have limitations put on
your website that's true how much
harddrive space do you have how many
email accounts how many domains can
point to it well we've got an amazing
deal for you for a very limited time
cat5 dot TV slash dream host for just $5
and a bit of change per month you are
gonna get unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name so your own com dice to
put that amazing website that you've
been working on on there if you run if
you want to build a WordPress site fine
sign up cat5 dot TV slash dream host
just don't put that of a papers on just
don't do it but hey it's a great deal
folks best deal you're gonna find five
dollars and change per month go to cap
five dot TV / dream host I'm Sachi
dramatis and here are the top stories
for the week of May 31st 2017
it's been a bad month for Windows 7
users the widespread wanna cry
ransomware hit a ton of Windows 7
machines and now a new bug has been
discovered that will slow down and crash
Windows 7 and Windows 8 the bug allows a
malicious website to try and load an
image file with the dollar side an MFT
name in the directory path windows uses
a dollar sign MFT for special metadata
files that are used by NTFS file system
and windows 7 and Windows 8 fail to
handle this directory name correctly the
bug has been tested on Windows 7 PC with
the default Internet Explorer browser
using the file name C colon slash dollar
sign MFT slash 1 2 3 in a website image
the test caused the machine to slow down
to the point where you have to reboot in
order to get it working again some
machines may even blue screen eventually
as the file system locks to that file
and all other apps are unable to access
files the strange bug doesn't affect
Windows 10 users and it's similar to an
old problem in Windows 95 and windows 98
where references to C colon slash con
slash con would crash a machine the NTFS
bug appears to have been discovered
early last week and has been reported to
Microsoft it's not clear when Microsoft
will deliver a fix for the problem but
it affects Windows Vista which is
unsupported Windows 7 and Windows 8
machines Wow
that's do we want to like see how easy
it is for someone to compromise this in
like 2 seconds flat I'll just show you
what we're talking about here so I'm
gonna go to our website category 5 dot
TV alright so on our website you see
let's say our logo up at the top here
right so if I inspect that you can see
that that is image class default logo
and then there's this file HTTP colon
CDN Zechariah comm slash image slash p7
blah blah that's our actual logo so what
they're saying is is by simply replacing
that string that is our logo URL with
this simple sequel and slash dollar sign
MFT slash whatever it will actually
bring this system to a halt unbelievable
that is just being discovered now yeah
but then again who would think to do
that who would think to do it but now
that it's known and not patched right
just to see anyone can put that onto a
website it's just an image tag so sasha
was asking okay well do I need to click
on it do I need to do anything in order
to have that exploit happen remember
that question yeah and no the answer's
no it's just like when you go to our
website there's our logo it shows up you
didn't have to click on it to have it
all of a sudden load on the screen now
I guess the initial question that most
people would think of is why would you
make your website something that crashes
people's computers because you're
malicious right specifically because
you're malicious why do websites
distribute malware well exactly but what
I'm wondering is could somebody
theoretically take this and say you know
what I'm gonna put this code in my image
so that nobody can steal my image and if
they do it crashes there it's not an
it's not part of the image it's in the
image tag that tells it where the
location of the image file is I get that
but you couldn't throw that like because
I know a lot of times you get websites
will link to other images could you put
that in there you know is that I guess
you'd crash from your site - no oh yeah
you it would crash your site you could
someone could hide it through JavaScript
where someone could make it so that a
legitimate image becomes this string if
the user has a certain criteria they
could have it detect if the user is
using Windows 7 and they are located in
Barrie Ontario through geolocation
changed the logo to this string and
therefore crash their computer right so
they could do that yeah through
JavaScript that would be easy enough Wow
it is crazy do you have better news for
us
I do well it depends on if you're a
student a Business School in Paris will
soon begin using artificial intelligence
and facial and Alice
to determine whether students are paying
attention in class the software called
Nestor will be used in two online
classes at the ESG Business School
beginning in September LLC a learning
the company that created Nestor
presented the technology at an event at
the United Nations in New York two weeks
ago the idea according to LCA founder
Marcel sausage is to use the data that
Nestor collects to improve the
performance of both students and
professors this the software uses the
students webcams to analyze eye
movements and facial expressions and
determine whether students are paying
attention to a video lecture it then
formulates quizzes based on the content
covered during moments of
inattentiveness professors would also be
able to identify moments when students
attention waned which could help to
improve their teaching I was wondering
where this was going and I was thinking
you know what's to stop them from having
it running in the background and just be
watching a YouTube video right but then
and what is still to stop them because
they may be attentive to that but
because it quizzes them right something
you said there is interesting though it
it quizzes them on the questions that
were covered during the moments of
unattentive Ness yes so very smart super
sneaky so if the system the AI thinks oh
they're not paying attention right now
generates a list of questions how smart
how smart is yeah if you get those
dollars to our glasses that look like
those really big open eyes could you
just need with your considering you can
like break into two-factor
authentication with a picture right
watching your eyes so you've got a but
people would learn it's like the lie
detector test and people who have been
trained to overcome it you couldn't you
just like learn to be like thinking
about stuff and just it's like what
you're doing right now but the first
question that comes to my head is are
these tests gradable and if so does that
then in turn create a legal liability
where somebody I don't even know if
that's the intention though Jeff no
maybe not but like imagine rolling this
out it's a a law school
a little so right we're right but
they're gonna test you all his stuff the
test is yours
it's not an examination it is did did
this lesson sink in right like if I
could go back over tonight's episode and
quiz you on the things that you you know
what went like this while it was
happening or the kids ran into the room
and distracted you
and then I quizzed you on that it would
be a oh I need to learn that because I
it calls you on it but does it factor in
things like ninety percent of what you
hear doesn't get retained
I'm sure yeah yeah I just I'm okay with
this in the classroom I would be really
upset if they brought this into the
workplace or into my home life don't
bring a really interesting idea though I
think as an educational tool yes yes
surely for the purposes of improving
lesson plans or making things more
dynamic I could see that but sure but
does a factor in or like if somebody's
bearing their head no I don't know like
I'm a questions guy I like to question
you need to ask those questions I think
back to an episode that we did a couple
weeks ago where we looked at the
sessions of our web viewer reviewers
right the users were on our website we
actually watched it like a video and so
by doing that it gave us an opportunity
to see oh that could be improved on our
website so could we then look back at
our what our show if this was in the
educational programming that was being
you could watch c and c o Henry's
fidgeting right now so how heartbreaking
would that be actually like any other
part when you think about it if you're
the teacher say we could see it and
you're like oh every time I talk they
look away every time I say something
they take a drink okay a new malware
called Judy is now infecting millions of
Android smartphones globally close on
the heels of the wanna cry holding pcs
at ransom a
according to security solutions firm
checkpoint the malware Judy uses
infected devices to generate large
amounts of fraudulent clicks on
advertisements generating revenues for
the perpetrators behind it the total
spread of the malware campaign on Google
Play Google's official app store may
have reached between eight point five
and thirty six point five million users
checkpoints said in its blog the auto
clicking adware judy was found on forty
one apps developed by a korean company
however it wasn't clear which countries
have been impacted by the judy malware
some of that some of the apps that were
infected we discovered resided on google
play for several years but all were
recently updated it's unclear how long
the malicious code existed inside the
apps hence the actual spread of the
malware remains unknown it added after
checkpoint notified google about this
threat the apps were swiftly removed
from the Play Store said the blog well
that's good Intel has unveiled a new
x-series platform up to 18 cores and 36
threads AMD announced its new high end
desktop platform h EDT their 16 core 32
32 thread thread ripper a couple of
weeks ago now at Computex in taipei its
intel's turn to update its h EDT
platform and it is one upping AMD in the
process the Intel platform consisting of
the new x2 9 9 chipset and new x-series
processors will go all the way up to 18
cores and 36 threads the h EDT segment
is aimed at gamers video streamers and
content creators with deep pockets or an
insatiable desire more concurrent with
more concurrent threads the mainstream
processor segment has to offer the value
proposition for the segments is always a
little skewed with the chips being as
much prestige as much prestige parts as
anything else
straightforward gaming workloads may May
struggled to make full use of the chips
resources but serious twitch streamers
for example can make good use of the
extra cores software developers are
another group that can make good use of
all those cores the sky like X to the
sky like X chips will also expand
Intel's numbering system intel is adding
a new I 9 branding that slots in above
the i7 branding for the high-end
processors don't worry there will be
some entry-level X chips as well
starting with Intel's i-5 line of
processors the 7 640 X boasts 4 cores
and is under 250 dollars the 8 core 16
thread Intel chip costs 599 dollars
whereas AMD's corresponding part part is
499 dollars the Intel chip does have
twice as many memory channels so it's
not exactly like for like
but we'd expect that you'd be paying at
least a little more for an Intel
processor and an Intel motherboard than
a roughly similar AMD system thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
tomatoes
[Music]
[Applause]
you
