welcome to new every day we're covering
the seven rolls of the Holy Spirit has
written by Jamie gray Dena's devotional
in the YouVersion Bible app you look it
up
follow us today we're going to be going
to be talking about the Holy Spirit as
our comforter don't go anywhere
this is you everyday with Jeff Western
alliance Curtis
[Music]
well we're having a great time doing
this series on the seven rolls of the
Holy Spirit
mm-hmm we're having some fun and we find
okay like truth is truth and it blends
together so man I think we're gonna
easily be able to go from last week show
to talk about this week's show yes as we
talk about the Holy Spirit is our
comforter and you know as comedians in
cold weather we really need those is
that what I don't think he's that fluffy
duvet on that I'm fairly certain that's
not the topic we are covering the
devotional seven rules of the Holy
Spirit from Jamie Grady rules of the
Holy Spirit rolls oh I just thought I'd
make probably no you did seven rolls of
the Holy City rolls and this is six of
seven now so we've gone through several
rolls in the past and as you mentioned
last week you know was a great episode
he was our our the Holy Spirit is our
intercessor yeah you know talking about
filling in the gap and stepping in that
for that moment when we just don't know
what to say and he intercedes and prays
on our behalf to God as he always knows
exactly yeah yet goes beyond words and
that's right and so we're continuing
with kind of the next step on that he's
our comforter and if you think about
last week where it's like oh we're going
through the situation don't know what to
say Holy Spirit can you help us and be
there for us and the Holy Spirit
intercedes on our behalf and now he goes
back and goes hey how you doing mm-hmm
you know maybe it's not quite like that
but the fact is he is our comforter and
comforter not in the duvet comforter and
when you look at the last six or last
five episodes into today you look at all
those various roles and they all play so
perfectly yeah into that comforting role
yeah you know the empower the guide and
all that kind of stuff and so it's so so
good yeah if you're lost
we don't have a clue where you're going
fear good you know could grip you easily
when you you've got a situation coming
in front of you you don't know what its
gonna play it fear could grip you well
of course as a guide right God is
leading you then that comfort to you Oh
a what comforts you like it's almost how
can you the fact that he's there to lead
us and guide us brings comfort well
that's who he is always at the same time
so there's definitely a blending and yet
a distinct role at that dude
yes for sure you know because the
Scriptures themselves the Bible says
that Jesus our pardon me that the Holy
Spirit is our comforter mm-hmm so we
find it actually written down in the
book of John write the Gospel according
to John Matthew Mark Luke and John okay
write that John right and in John
chapter 14 verses 16 17 and 18 this is
what is written Jesus word says I will
ask the Father and He will give you
another helper there's something
interesting that he may be with you
forever oh my goodness that is the
Spirit of Truth helper Spirit of Truth
whom the world cannot receive because
the world doesn't know him right or see
him but you know him because he abides
with you and will be in you okay
incredible it continues Jeff Jesus this
is this is still the Bible Jesus can
continue saying I will not leave you as
orphans I will come to you Wow it's the
patter awesome there's a whole lot of
Hope in that yeah Wow I'm very
definitive like fact-based statements oh
there's no wish he washed I mean not
that Jesus was ever wish but there's
nothing about that where it's like Oh
where's he going with that like it's
clear it's concise somebody's gonna be
there you're not going to be alone
whatever you're facing there's somebody
there to help you to guide you to
empower you to comfort you yeah you ever
been there
you ever had a time in your life Jeff
where maybe it just needed a little bit
of God can you help me here because I
don't know what no world's going on you
know I I think I mentioned it a few
weeks ago how my wife had a friend who
passed away it was hit by a truck yes
you did mention that he died the same
day of my grandmother's funeral so like
my grandma had like pinnacle of faith
like a very inspiring woman started a
you know a church back when she just got
married and so many years later that
church was thriving and and you know so
to lose her was just deeply deeply
sorrowful for me and my wife had already
lost all of our grandparents before we
got married and so to get grandparents
back and then lose another one was just
hard for her and then at the visitation
to get a phone call that you know good
friend has passed away like in that
moment boy did we need the Holy Spirit's
help in a comforter and I remember
sitting on our couch at home and my
wife's just weeping and there's no words
it's just God you know what's going on
we don't understand today quite frankly
is horrible day mm-hmm but this is all
going to work out for good and we just
leave it in your hands and I think of
that Daniel man boy do we need a
comforter and like that's the most
tangible way I can think of the Holy
Spirit as our comforted because in that
moment there was a sense of hope and a
sense of belonging to a God that had it
all under control even in the midst of
chaos oh my goodness yeah I'm listening
to ya and I remember that time Jeff I
mean we were near you know when you were
going through that and was privileged to
attend your grandmother's
funeral yeah but boy what a perfect
thank you for sharing your story with us
you know that's how the disciples felt
yes
that's what Jesus was saying to them on
purpose knowing that here it is they too
were going to witness a funeral if you
will
yeah at a brutal one quite frankly man
there there this one where where else
can we go Jesus they said to him you
know you alone have the words of life
like they forsook everything that they
knew to follow Christ as he called them
and they yeah we're going we're
following you and you're the man and now
he's gone after they've watched him
being beaten to a pulp mm-hmm
okay back to the maybe you're facing a
situation you don't know how it's going
to turn out like okay these people felt
it right absolutely and talk about being
disillusioned talk about well if it was
me like what the heck is going on here
yeah right yeah that would be they'll at
that moment where you'd almost just walk
around in a daze like I don't know
what's going on but you throw on top of
that that there was this active search
and that's why they went into hiding
right after Christ died and there was me
search for who the disciples yeah to
knock them off yeah exactly
because they were all part of Christ
following yeah so hey I know how I'll
help you here I know you're grieving the
loss of your friend here but we're gonna
hunt you down and kill you
right so they don't even have that
ability to grieve properly coming on
yeah for sure but I mean I think in that
moment like man Jesus knew exactly what
they were gonna be going through and
that tough moment and so yeah he's like
I'm not gonna leave you alone oh my
goodness
yeah so and he says I'm going to I'm
gonna ask dad Abba Father and he's gonna
give you I like this another helper yeah
I've been here to help you mm-hmm but
I'm gonna ask our Father and he's going
to give you another helper and he's
going
to be not just with you but in you right
go back to the our body is a temple of
the Holy Spirit you mentioned last week
is Jesus saying that it's even gonna be
like better now that God Himself is in
like he's definitely like when Jesus
does makes a problem as it's a good
promise right he's high and dry and he's
putting it out there that that there's
gonna be God himself as even as he
proclaimed he was God and he was with us
and I'm with the disciples and among
them he says hey I'm gonna be leaving
this place but there's gonna be another
one to help you and to comfort you so
and I mean it's just so peaceful like
it's all gonna be good I mean and this
is exactly what he said and even at that
time yeah no they're right they couldn't
get it right and they had to go through
that dark night of the soul mm-hmm until
they would learn what it is to know God
is comforter in a brand-new way and that
happened a little later oh absolutely it
did all right we're gonna take a quick
break and then we're gonna come back
continue continue to unpack this topic
the Holy Spirit is our comforter and
when we do come back I don't want to go
through a list kind of that Jamie Grady
rode out in his devotional that's kind
of some things you're going through and
I I think it perfect transition coming
back back off there yeah don't miss the
second half friends it's going to be
encouraging
stick around for more from new every day
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official network shirt today cap five
dot TV slash shirts thanks for being
with us today we are continuing our
conversation on the 7 rules of the holy
spirit today we're talking about the
Holy Spirit is our comforter and just
before the break we're talking about how
the disciples have just gone through
this horrible moment where they've lost
Jesus they're being hunted down and
they're in this moment of despair in
Christ and just before that said to them
I'm asking the Father to give you
another helper somebody so that you're
not alone you're not
orphans mm-hmm that's a massive massive
statement I mean I don't know what it
means to be orphaned
you know I that's not how my life has
worked out but so many and maybe you
have experienced what it is to be an
orphan and you might know that sense of
lonely yeah lonely is a great word and
Christ is saying hey I'm sending
somebody so you're not alone you're not
orphaned you've got a helper you've
gotten you said who I belong here and
you saying wait a thing yes and before
the show you know you made a comment to
me about so that you're still in the
family there's still family there and
when I think of no matter what I go
through there's nobody I want around me
more than family yeah and the Holy
Spirit is is that family for us in those
deep moments and you're the whole Jesus
sorry jack
Jesus says I'm gonna like the friend who
sticks closer than a brother
so he's talking okay so he knows yeah
okay there's family yeah and he's gonna
be that friend who's even closer and
guess what bye I'm leaving right what
what but peace the comforter mm-hmm is
gonna be with you another helper will be
with you yeah it's so good and I this
we're reading and I will not leave you
reading the Bible that is John 14 18 I
will not leave you as orphans I won't
leave you as someone without family
mm-hmm I will come back to you what a
faithful God oh for sure and he did yes
he did exactly what he said he would do
and Friends faithful God that we serve
always does everything that he promises
he will do can we encourage you again
tonight that every promise written in
the Word of God applying to his children
applies to you who like Jeff and I have
called on Christ to be our Lord right to
be our Savior to be the one who leads us
to guides us who empowers us who unites
us dare I say who comforts us thank you
God yeah for sure
now J Lee Grady kind of lists some
things some situations that people could
go through and and I think just the way
he writes it is so perfectly written
within this devotional and so I just
want to jump into that what as it
relates to the Holy Spirit in his role
as comforter so go to the book of John
chapter 20 verse 22 or don't and just
listen to me read it okay after Jesus
was raised from the dead when his
dejected disciples were huddled inside a
house with the door shut Jesus appeared
to them and that's the story he said
he's coming back mhm and he did and
after he showed them his pierced hands
and the wound in his side here it is
Jeff he breathed on them and said
receive
the Holy Spirit hmm can you imagine so
there it is we already talked about how
scared they were yes they're feeling
alienated may I say perhaps they were
feeling orphaned right Jesus himself
uses that word maybe he knew that's how
they'd feel like who else have I got
we're being hunted down we have to hide
huddle and the people in this room but
really like us for her no more like is
it this sort of thing and Jesus says hey
I'm coming back and he shows up with his
glorified body and they're being so
comforted again by Jesus who said he
would come back and he did and many
people as I read the devotional Jeff
that you referred me to right and we and
again thank you mr. Grady for what you
write we often think the devotional says
we often think the spirit was first
given on the day of Pentecost but that
experience was the disciples second
encounter with the Spirit at Pentecost
their first intro occurred Sunday
evening of the resurrection the helper
had come just as jesus promised yes the
comforter had come and so just according
to his to Jesus promise of course we do
know that Jesus did say wait for the
promise like there's the t-h-e in front
of promise that joel spoke of which did
happen you know as recorded in the book
of Acts chapter 2 so we're not
minimalizing any of that but nor are we
meant a lot minimalizing anything we're
just saying what the Bible says is that
Jesus breathed on them and they receive
the Holy Spirit
we're talking about his rules what a
comfort that must have been Lord I mean
he'd just to wrap your mind around that
why don't what that felt like to all
these people who are terrified and now
they're like astonished because Jesus is
back now he breathes on them and they've
received the
third person of the Trinity oh my
goodness I wonder what I heard I don't
know I wasn't there but I can imagine
that was quite an event oh I would think
so yeah I would think that changed their
countenance at all just a little bit
probably breathed a little bit of Hope
into them I would say wouldn't you
definitely the author goes on to write
great he goes that we have been given an
amazing gift sure when the Spirit came
to dwell in you Oh dare I say can I
preach it can I give you the words at
what these aren't my words and it's not
the Bible it's our brother Grady look at
when the Spirit came to dwell in you
that's you and me too Jeff
he brought the eternal life of God he
gives you the very breath of heaven he
infuses you with God's presence someone
received that even now and more than
that he sets up eternal that is like
forever
residents in you so that you you and
that means you will never ever have to
feel alone that's me that's a massive
statement never yeah like we live in a
world of non absolutes okay I'm like now
so to make a statement like never people
know okay
never until never doesn't happen but no
like we never have to feel long because
the Holy Spirit is within us he's
guiding us as empowering us as you're
guiding us is comforting us he's there
he's that person who was sent to help us
thank God like I don't know what to say
because they're just it's perfect it's
it's so good you can't find anything
wrong with that because every aspect of
your life everything you go through
everything you're facing everything
you're going to face is already known
it's already plotted out he knows how to
navigate it
he's gonna walk you through it he's
gonna bring people around to help you
through it
he's gonna be there when you're going I
don't know what to say I don't know how
to help I don't know what to do and he's
going I got this just trust me
follow me fall under my leading in your
life because I'm the one who was sent to
be that help for you it's like there's
the eternal mic drop like yeah I don't
have to worry it's taken care of that
doesn't mean you just walk away bill
it's all good
but you really don't have to worry like
doesn't matter what you face he's got
what you need the Holy Spirit is what
you need in that moment in the highs and
the lows you just have to come to him
you have to call to him and say I need
your help I need you to comfort me in
this situation and you call me down I
need you to lift me up I need you to
guide me it's there it's done end of
story
yeah how amazing is that how amazing is
he hey make no mistake about it I've had
these days you've had these days I'm
sure where you couldn't feel his
presence and you wondered mm-hmm well
that's when we go to the truth of what
God promised we say you could even I've
prayed like Lord I don't feel it what
I'm trusting in you mm-hmm and I need
you to comfort me I remember someone
said to me you know you'll never know
God as your provider until you first I
have a need it's like what well I don't
want my need yeah if I just want the
provision well provision for what oh
yeah I've got something I need right and
so God where are you oh come I need this
while I'm setting up the situation so
that I can be your provider right and
you know friends I don't think the Lord
goes out of his way to make our days
miserable but he knows that the fallen
world in which we live that will give us
trials of many kinds James talks about
that and it's in those times of trial
maybe even desperation that the Lord is
setting himself up to be known as the
most wonderful comforter he's clothes
and life-giving
he's God he's the Holy Spirit it's one
of his roles and he longs to comfort
each and every one of you friend what is
your need tonight today this afternoon
we're at whatever time it is that you're
watching this show wherever you are what
is your need I've got some great news
for you on the authority of God's Word
Jeff and I tell you that the comforter
the Holy Spirit is here to meet your
every need and to do exact to comfort
you in Jesus name hmm Lord we reach out
to you even right now and ask that you
would comfort every person that needs
that special touch of your hand it's in
Jesus name we pray amen so good amen
what a great topic you know I can keep
going on about the Holy Spirit yeah
that's a good thing we've got one more
wall to go through I think we have one
more roll to finish this series friends
thanks for joining us we hope to see you
again well we hope you see us next week
and God bless you we'll see you soon
catch a new episode of new every day
every Friday morning at new every day TV
we're also on roku kodi plex youtube
google play music podcasts and news
or if you're in Southern California tune
in every Sunday morning at 6:30 on kbdb
TV channel 33 television for the high
desert
you
