[Music]
you
hi welcome to new every day my name is
Carrie my name is Jen and on today's
show we're going to talk about hey you
know what God really does answer prayer
so stay tuned we write back
turn
hey and welcome back to new every day
the wedding is tuned in we're still on
the road we've now gone through
Tennessee and we're in Kentucky headed
back home to Canada and we have had a
great American experience hey guys like
so I may say so it wasn't as creating oh
yeah okay so what was one of the
highlights of your overall like American
experience my overall American
experience one of them was going to the
country music hall of fame and museum
which for me was just so amazing because
I was raised on country music and
bluegrass when my dad looks into a whole
bunch of different flavors of music and
so going there was just a really cool
opportunity to I want to relive my
childhood go oh yeah I've heard these
guys I saw them on TV and my first
concert was my dad taking me to the
memorial center in Kingston Ontario for
the Oakridge boys and so to go to the
museum and see I want to say they're
their star or their plaque on the wall
is inducted into the Hall of Fame which
is like like right now those times are
you and so
being there and then doing the Grand Old
Opry the Grand Ole Opry was really seen
it was at the Ryman for the next couple
of weeks it'll be air over Christmas
time and yeah what an amazing old church
and the sound was incredible and see
live music is always so much better than
like I can't name the concert oh yeah
that was really good so now that was my
sort of highlight of Nashville now what
was your highlight of Nashville oh love
Nashville oh it would break a party it
was a party scene it was overwhelming
the number of people who were downtown
because there was a consequent on
football game all this job and screaming
but for my American experience
chick-fil-a it right up there okay so
for our viewers what is chick-fil-a well
it's my fast food is like fried chicken
projek advantages and it was really do
they have this really cool like honey
mustard no potato the author's
mayonnaise dip sauce and it was like
hello and waffle fry oh I don't eat that
food very often but let me tell you it
was good it was great and I went up to
the financially by some sauce and take
it back
the guy kind of looked at me from
anything well we've got eight ounce tubs
I said I'll take it it was great those
in the cooler in the back I'm sure we'll
be enjoying it in the dates announced
yet but anyways but when we really
actually like so we talked to overall
highlight of the American experience but
what's really interesting if you were to
ask us what our highlights were was
really God answering prayer and and
that's what this should be titled the
show is you know fine really doesn't
answer prayer and you might be wow what
are you glad to see you guys and the
answer is we speak we prayed simple
prayers every morning God would you
bring up the people that you want us to
interact with today and would you direct
our steps we to direct our conversations
and I got I post a lot on facebook when
we're on vacation one I guess so people
know that we're alive and we're safe and
also just to share with people back home
about what we're doing and a lot of
people enjoy watching our trips so that
being said a friend of mine messaged me
and said are you guys going to be in
Nashville or when you're going to be in
Nashville and I said well Friday and he
said yeah we're coming through and now
you guys have met Jared Clark before
who's been on the show talking about
camp and they're from Winnipeg and we're
from ontario toronto and so when you
actually do the math it was twenty
four-hour drive between toronto canada
winnipeg manitoba and so I only get to
see them once a year and carrie has a
semen in about two years and so they
were driving through at the same time
and judge in Nashville and national
values and so they have for young kids
and Hannah one of their daughters said
to them Hoshi you know she coming to see
I and the mom said well no God just
worked this out and it's so true like I
would say that was one of the highlights
just to see how God works at all
together and spending that time with
family and we can twist the back when
god you're so good like so good and we
had to meet in the state even though
we're both from Canada yeah it was
really a wonderful time so yeah we went
to hang out with the Clark family yeah
then before the last night which was
Saturday to me yep we are in the hotel
room and just praying and we're looking
for a church to go to and yeah done with
googling churches and you ended up
finding one yes and I had typed in Free
Methodist churches we're a part of the
president's nomination and for some of
you might be thinking what is that well
maybe we'll do a show on that at a later
time but you can just google for
methodist church in canada and go to
what we believe and you can check it out
in and some evangelical church and we
believe in the Apostles Creed and
anyways moving on I always liked
different methodist churches and so i
googled it for methodist churches near
us and there was one three and a half
hours away and I said oh kehri three and
a half hours late but I recognize it
it's in Wilmore Kentucky associated with
the Asbury University University and
Seminary it's a free methodist
university in seminary would be really
cool and she's like oh yeah I'm totally
up for it so I'm like yeah okay so we
got up at five o'clock this morning
asian we traveled for three and a half
hours to go to church when you might be
me that's crazy that drives three and a
half hours to church and yet I knew as
soon as Kerry said oh yeah i'm in for
i'm like okay then let's go I knew it
would have been all I wanted to say one
of because of the college's associated
or because the church is associated with
college I I knew that there would just
be
it would be a great place to attend and
so I'm like okay no problem let's let's
set the timer for five o'clock and so
and what's interesting is this is what
Kerry prayed before he went to bed yeah
I agree that it would be a good
experience of being with other people in
the church and that we'd be able to have
lunch with someone from the church
because I wanted to be able to start
with them and connect with them and I
said Jen wouldn't that be cool if maybe
we're going to go for lunch of them
because she loves doing things like that
and then i'll have the reasons why she's
my friend she teaches me about having a
greater heart for people and and so
we're going to tell you about the
answers of that prayer right after that
so stay tuned Jeff Weston Gemma you're
building a brand new beautiful website
what are you all right you're terrible
actor what this we're acting comes into
play oh I don't know where Isaac you're
supposed to act okay fair enough I
really building a really cool website
are you building a really cool website
you need hosting one of the things about
a hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
it's sure how much hard drive space you
have how many email accounts how many
domains can point to it well we've got
an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV / dreamhost
for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are going to get
unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name the roof of your own com
dice to put that amazing website that
you've been working on on there if you
run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat five gb flash
dream hope still fulfill the papers are
just don't do it but hey I
it's a great deal folk best deal you're
going to find five dollars and change
per month go to cap five TV / dreamhost
we're still on the road in Kentucky and
we're talking about how God has answered
our prayers in meeting with different
people on our trip and you know it is a
wonderful experience firstly I want to
thank the people already in our life
Robbie Ferguson and the teams from
category 5 thank you for making this
show possible and if you would like to
help continue to make this show possible
and we ask the you are Carter stage new
everyday TV and scroll down through look
at the different organizations and
businesses supporting us and if you can
support us by supporting them that was
so thank you thank you yes so we are
going to the free methodist church in
Wilmore in Kentucky and I prayed God it
would be really great to have lunch with
someone and mention it to Jen so after
service Jen talk to the pastor and we
end up meeting with someone that you
know so a friend of mine in Jones old
house who are pastors in the true
Methodist Church and I've known them
forever and ever as long as I've been
alive anyway to sister is a prof at the
school and I totally remember that when
I got to church and I was like hey I
should probably stop to at least
introduce myself and so the pastor
introduces us and as we get chatting
seems like do you have any plans for
lunch and inside of me I'm going Terry
is going to love this
if she's like I like to have time for a
historical experience and once again
Kari he is going too long and on the
outside like yes I think that would be
lovely and on the inside i like doing
flip-flops going here he's going to love
this period from period two steps away
for a few minutes in stuff when she came
back I said you know dr. stone houses
asked me if we would join her for lunch
crisis yes and so then she let a pile on
her car and he drove us Shaker Village a
historical site we had a beautiful life
and she said please come as my guest and
she never met us never know I guess I'm
just as great and she's welcome welcome
right intimate for lunch talked about
the history of the area answer some of
our other questions about the face of a
politics of not how she teaches about
child development and have it here
children can include them in ministry
with a great conversation but what I
really appreciated it was the
hospitality messy awkward yes and that's
something that like I've been charged
universal I think has set us apart yeah
when we have people coming in like you
kind of welcome them in and love them
and and I just felt so loved by her
because there was no such as that of
adult well Foxman no it was just yep for
coming for lunch and the time that I
have had people do that in my life it
has really been meaningful to me because
I thoughts in front of us
yes they want to if they're inviting me
in and I want to offer that was someone
else's make them feel that way and it
was interesting that what the sermon was
about maybe i'll let you talk about that
later 10 but the pastor said will what
are Christians here for it does not help
other people and that's one way that I
feel like the church really has offered
to help other people and when they get
to our door w offer them hospitality and
no question that and what's interesting
when we spent the day with Jared and
Becky you originally asked for what do
you mean on Thursday and it worked out
to friday because we said we'll be in
nashville on friday but then they have
worked for small kids but they were
willing to spend the whole day with us
like we met them about a lot of time and
we you know went to the museum with them
and and talked about it and then we had
to suffer together and even though we
had separate like 730 I was like the
Infante 830 like they were willing to
put their plans on order like no no
don't worry about and we kept saying
like if you need to go there once oh the
place on the thing oh he's about 380
yeah and he fell asleep on the table and
who were just like oh my I know but they
were still so willing and I'm so
grateful for that and it goes back to
what Kerry said that more idea of of
church family right because we we are
not blood related to the clarks we're
not blood related to dr. stone house not
even blood related between us and yet
that whole idea of
oh I want to say being willing to hang
out to put aside your own plan we're
building relationship for showing
hospitality for showing love yeah and I
thought about that I actually ran into
someone in the summer an old teacher
high school teacher of mine who said
that she wants to always be ready to
have people over which doesn't mean have
you clean house and doesn't always mean
having good food in the fridge that if
if people are willing to come and be
with our family and we're going to have
peanut butter gym and which is that's
what I'm going to put out and we're just
going to be together and I just love
that picture
they ready and willing ready and willing
and even as we came into the church
today I get older it's really hard for
me amber little late but a little lady
right Matt eyes and she was so gracious
because we said we're going on where we
back on time said well eventually
they're going to be right here but right
now you have to go down the hall and did
it and she was just so yeah this is
coloring waited kind yes you know and
the pastor went out of his way to
actually will come back in and I'll
introduce you and and and he was just so
very kind to stand there and talk with
us and that boy idea of hospitality yes
I believe because we get so busy we
forget about I want to not much always
forget about we don't think we can put
our own plans on laws because we think
that our our plans need to get done or
some hunters are so exhausted and so
tired that we just can't seem to fathom
I want they're putting at the time or
energy to actually show hospitality to
people and yet that's one of the things
that I've appreciated about being in the
south is that wow they're not
necessarily in a hurry to get things
done soon everyone stops like they want
to talk to us yes i did i get nice and
my next in line you can even lay out
where are you from pretty no blind
people see i never want to have an
agenda that i think is so important and
i'm not going to sell for that one
person we talked about the past the hell
meaningful it is to stop and recognize
the person in front of you yes
and like several times as we've been
checking in and you're going to notice
very much about my personality I like to
get things done which is a good thing
otherwise we'd never get things done and
the Lord has very graciously left me
with a friend / coho who genuinely is
interested in people and every single
person who went to check us in engages
in conversation and I'm standing there
and I'm watching Kerri pause and
conversate back and forth and I'm like
lord I need to grasp this I need to
grasp the importance of loving someone
the importance of pausing that may be
important to us
looking someone in the face and engaging
with them like that is a real person on
the other side of that counter who
actually probably appreciates a good
conversation right with a kindness and
love and so I'm watching these
conversations and it didn't just happen
once it happened time and time again and
I remember and yesterday I'm finial side
by the cotton I'm thinking hearing went
on catching to do I don't remember we
went back important point printed any
Rangers Debbie really wasn't a ranger
because color is it I have people named
we get and so anyways been waiting and I
just I'm I'm pepto some flowers I've
gone around the other flower bed checked
out the flowers I'm almost close to
counting the bricks on the wall that's
not really but I'll catch up yet anyways
finally I go back in and there's Carrie
talking to this gentleman
that makes sense a problem wallet any
luck go ahead tell your side stories we
deliver who was he I don't know the
owner of the oh yeah he was the owner of
the hotel which was great and he comes
Toronto every year to buy mangoes was
great combination but you know what
exactly I think in the church family the
burger to build community oh and the
other thing the pastor said today we
were meeting some part of Titus chapter
one and we are to actually encourage
each other step in our gifts that are
used to serve because yes like jam from
the gift of being organized and setting
an agenda helping people get there and
recognizing kids and other people and
helping those people to reach their
potential and if tend to organize
opportunities we would connect people
right so I think it goes it goes both
ways and we need that ass right back so
you know so this is part 1 of how God
ancestors we're going to bring part to
see you
but this whole idea of God provided
people like literally poured into our
lives for like two very special time and
also it's a lot aspects of hospitality
and the importance of of pausing and
putting things on hold and engaging in
people and just like those things you
know they like terranan Becky had for
their kids to look after and yet they
pause for us professor stone house you
know he had so many other people she
could have interacted with that day but
she said there's some fellow Canadian my
God look at you you know i'm home to us
like for lunch and then so then you know
i'm looking at okay that person on the
other side of you know whose check mrs.
i need to stop and pause and show them
love and and no realize that they're
real person too which is really cool how
God answered prayers to meet our needs
but in respect has now caught us even
more about doing that for others yeah so
I guess the challenge you this week is
with regards to you know praying network
or bring to you the people you want me
to interact with today and then trust
but he's actually going to do it and it
will be really cool like your your God
tank will be filled up but then how is
he then going to use you to pour into
other people so let's pray Heavenly
Father I thank you so much that you do
answer prayers and lord thank you for
dr. stone housing for the the Clark
family totally poured into us and then
lord thank you so much for those people
that we've met in the hotels and who you
are just reminding us show love to and
their father we we can get the rest of
our thank you that you're a biscuit duck
if you can see your brain a specific
watch play that for our viewers may
raise to the name of Jesus comment
comment thanks for tuning in to new
every day we look forward to seeing in
next week same time same place to every
day GV have enough
p
