welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode number 536 so great to
have you here we've got a fun and
jam-packed show planned for you tonight
first of all we are going to be talking
about our 4k cameras we're on the second
one of the set we have got some
information for you about data storage
CDRs DVD RS what you need to know if
you've got some of your old family
photos archived on those we've got
another episode of our biggest fans on
YouTube and we're looking forward to
hearing from them and ultimately we're
going to be looking at the GNU image
manipulation program think free version
of Adobe Photoshop so stick around we're
gonna show you how you can get that and
how you can use it some of the basics
the surveillance camera network in the
US Capitol was hijacked by Romanian
ransomware and charges have been filed
against the pair that were arrested
abroad nissan canada's vehicle financing
wing has been hacked putting personal
information on more than a million
customers into the hands of miscreants
Tesla's Elon Musk has pledged to make a
pickup truck as part of its future plans
for the electric vehicle maker talk of
long-range wireless charging has been
around for some time but we've yet to
see a product that can charge devices
from a relatively long distances thanks
to startup energist however room-scale
charging will soon be a reality and
available to everyone and Apple has
changed the rules around how games on a
top star will be using loot boxes stick
around the full details are coming up
later in the show
this is category 5 technology TV
[Music]
[Applause]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku
cody and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV TV
is a member of the tech podcast network
if it's tech it's here cat 5 TV slash
TPN and the International Association of
internet broadcasters cat 5 TV slash ia
IB well each week over the course of
four weeks we are featuring a new 4k
camera now last week's show episode
number 535 we featured the FDR ax 53
that is from Sony now this week we've
got a different camera altogether
this is also what you're seeing here on
our a cam is the Panasonic this is a
similar price point a 4k camera that is
kind of high-end consumer it's the HC WX
f 9 9 1 so this is streaming out over 4k
HDMI into a mage well capture card our
card is the HC pardon me it's the in
order to do I made notes just so that I
can help you just in case you are
looking at it's a big long thing X I 100
de - HDMI - 4k that's from age well
great little PCI Express card and then
that goes into Telestream Wirecast 8.2
so that's kind of our specifications if
you are planning to do some broadcasting
yourself if you if you want to broadcast
church services or your own podcast and
include 4k HD video this is your
opportunity to kind of see how some of
these economically minded cameras kind
of fare as far as live broadcasting
environments I find that a lot of the
reviews that are online or you know
panoramas outdoors and close-ups of
ducks and things like that those things
are great but it's not what we're
shooting here in studio so we wanted to
do a feature with four different 4k
cameras so that you can see what it
looks like under proper lighting
and that kind of we're really controlled
right like every every week we do the
show in the same area and everything
exactly it's a good compare and contrast
and if you're wondering why we're not
using green screen and some people have
commented oh you're your logo is too low
and too small well the fact is is that
this is usually a sit-down set when the
green screen isn't there so we've
removed the green screen simply for the
fact that now you can see basically
one-to-one comparisons of all four
cameras exactly so the Panasonic is
tonight that's cool now I do have
tonight so just to be straight up with
you I've got my laptop screen so that I
can bring that up and I do have an
overhead camera now this camera is not
the Panasonic so when you see this shot
just so you know that is in fact D 5100
that's usually our a cam so that's a
Nikon DSLR going out over HDMI it's a
1080p camera so why we have the 4k
camera even though we are a 1080p
broadcast is because while we can use
this nice wide shot like this we can
also punch in nice and close like that
and as you can see unlike a 1080p source
when we zoom in even though that's
digital zoom it's crystal clear now
pretty impressed with the the 4k output
from the the Panasonic so far it looks
pretty clean so you'll have to say you
know gauge between the four cameras and
see how they look so that's the purpose
of that we can zoom around we can move
around within that canvas and we don't
need multiple cameras in order to do
that right it's even last year at this
time when we were comparing that's right
on one rig we went out like in downtown
Barrie by the lake and it was like super
frozen and it was a cold blustery camera
Harrison it would be the same if we were
to do that a fire warmer now you'll
notice that our shot has a big wide-open
area here and that's because Jeff he is
still doing the Christmas shenanigans
with his family and couldn't make it
back to the studio tonight so I decided
rather than pulling in tight to Sasha
and I with the with the shot itself I
wanted to leave this nice wide shot so
that you can really get a feel
when i zoom in this is still this is a
200% zoom when we have both of a site by
side like that that is 150 percent of
the canvas so all right cool we've got a
fun show for you tonight we've got a
couple of things that I wanted to talk
about before we really get into our
feature which is learning how to use the
GNU image manipulation program we're
getting into kind of the basics for
those of you who have never heard of or
possibly used the GIMP is what it's
called in short form GNU image
manipulation program we're gonna get
into that in just a couple of minutes
time we had somebody come into my office
with a CD with their family photos and
it really raised something for me that I
wanted to share on the show because the
reason that they came to us is the
photos were not readable on the disc
right and she basically said I thought
by putting them on a CD and keeping that
CD in a safe place that this would be a
permanent archive of my family photos by
a safe place like it was in a CD case
stored somewhere dust free absolutely I
can see where she's going with that I
would think that right so a CD
understand how a CD are versus a printed
like professional CD work so we think
about a CD and we hear you know if you
buy off of you know from a record store
say yeah if they still exist in some
places obscurely in the world I know
they are out there and you can buy them
on Amazon still but these discs are
professionally printed and it's a
completely different process so you hear
that hey these will last for a hundred
years that DVD is meant to last for a
hundred years well because those are
printed in a different way they're not
they're not printed using lasers so a CD
has multiple layers a DVD same thing
blu-ray same thing right it's got a
layer of plastic and then a very thin
layer of metal okay
then another layer of plastic and you
know just to very greatly simplify that
so which is good the ones the last a
hundred years these are ones that are
professionally printed they have a layer
of plastic and they have a layer of
metal that has been stamped okay give
the old records then
right it's been done that way now CDRs
are a great kind of thing they're kind
of obsolete these days and most of us
don't even have optical media on our
computers anymore a lot of us don't but
we tend to have used them for for data
storage and things like that so the
difference is is that a CDR cd-rw discs
or dvd-r or dvd-rw has the plastic layer
a metal layer very thin film and plastic
layer and then it uses a laser to move
around the disk and create those edgings
that wouldn't normally be printed right
so what it actually physically changes
the metal it changes it to bumps and
valleys just like an old record the
laser is reading it it measures those
bumps and valleys and turns them into
zeros and ones digital data and then
you've got your data reassembled okay so
because of the nature of the CDR media
that do-it-yourself media those are not
archivable media I can imagine and I
don't know like I might be reaching here
but in my mind I'm thinking the reason
why you're saying that it's not really
great for storage is it because of the
fact that it's just the metal might just
shrink like it might just it just
relaxes over time and and in this case
it was in a safe place which was a
storage locker
so with yeah temperature fluctuations
cause the metal to change shape and yeah
do all that so then the data itself is
essentially wiped from that disk because
it goes back into its blank state and in
a manner of speaking so the data with
optical media it's it's practically
impossible to get the data off and and
so I just wanted to kind of let you know
this so that if you've ever archived
things to optical media and you know
I've been guilty of it too I burn family
videos to a desk thankfully I have
backups on my server and you know I have
that
that infrastructure at my home but you
may not and so you know placing things
on a disk is it really safe I'm going to
tell you right now that it probably is
not so if you have some of those old
archived discs grab it put it in your
computer make sure it can still read and
start copying if it will not copy if
you're having trouble reading those old
disks then let us know send us an email
go to our website category five dot TV
and click on contact us and send us a
question for the show because there are
ways to do some analysis on the disk
itself and hopefully hopefully hopefully
be able to recover your data but it is
just the nature of the media so just
wanted to bring that up for you because
I know a lot of people trust that it is
a permanent storage solution so like I
probably I have I haven't and I didn't
but I probably would that's just who I
am sure we luckily have we have some
external hard drives that we use for
backups which is great I have two copies
or more right at every any given time
and it's kind of hard to remember to do
it because some people will even say
I've got a backup on my external hard
drive and then you realize it's well if
you drop that hard drive you call it a
backup but is there a copy on your
computer no I needed I needed the space
so I moved all the files onto the
external hard drive well that's not a
backup we've covered this on the show
before I know but but it's important to
you know ingrain this in our heads we
know this I had this conversation with a
girl who I work with and she just bought
a new phone and she's like well I need
to move my photos for my old phone to my
new phone so I can have them and I was
like are you is your phone the only
focus you have yeah you need to watch
the show yeah and that's a whole other
can of worms we're gonna move on but
that's you know you know what I'm gonna
say with that one but for now it's time
to check in with our biggest fans on
YouTube
oh you know who you are you big fans you
our biggest fans on YouTube we know who
they are because they comment they
comment on our videos and one particular
video that has been surmounting a
massive amount of our biggest fans on
YouTube commenting is our comparison of
the the Odroid xu4 to the Raspberry Pi 3
as far as calling it a Raspberry Pi
killer yeah we talked about this
it's tongue-in-cheek but it has really
brought out of the woodwork some of our
biggest fans
Jeremiah C says I just got done watching
this not up high killer it's huge
and expense not a mini PC because it's
huge and weak and expense but to be fair
it's not huge ok I want to show you this
this is the Odroid xu4 that we built on
that which is awesome
the Odroid xu4 is the circuit board here
this is the case that I put it in yes
with the backplane and with everything
else now I want to show you my Raspberry
Pi case this is my Raspberry Pi oh it's
a small it's actually a lot bigger than
a droid xu4 and my point is that the
case has nothing to do with it right oh
my goodness that thing weighs about 200
pounds and you think the Odroid xu4 is
big let's see how this actually how this
actually boils down this is a Raspberry
Pi 3 ok here is my Odroid xu 4 that you
are saying is honking huge and ok
outside of the case sure it is let's
take a look at the xu 4 from Odroid
I'm gonna disconnect it from my case
here cuz we don't need the case right
now there we go not about the case
there's the board I've got the mounting
stuff on there but let's take a look at
the board's comparison oh yeah that's
the same yeah the Raspberry Pi 3 is in
fact bigger than the Odroid xu 4 can you
see they're just slightly but if we were
to compare technically the boards are
very very similar as far as their form
factor don't be thrown off by this don't
be thrown off by that now what's
different about this one is it is the Q
this is the Xu for Q which comes with a
giant heatsink and that is to keep it
cool without the need of a fan on the
board this is the heatsink that I have
on my Raspberry Pi 3 comparatively much
much smaller but we're looking at you
know this is an 8 core 2 processor
computer right this is a Raspberry Pi 3
so it has a lot less power it doesn't
get quite as hot so you don't need quite
as much cooling as far as the heatsink
goes nice ready for another one Mike
Hill says did not make it past the first
segment look at that big heatsink know
what that means no fan then pulls a fan
out of the kit refer to subject a my
Raspberry Pi case and to be fair my
actual Raspberry Pi case has a fan this
is for my Raspberry Pi 3 a little sachet
your mine has a fan your your Raspberry
Pi is a retro PI yeah as a fan it has a
fan the xu4 board just like the
Raspberry Pi 3 this is the Xu 4 Q so it
does not have a fan if I'd like to put
it in case that has a fan I can do that
in the in the case of this unit here the
cloud shell - the reason for adding a
fan is to keep the drives cool but
they can get a little bit warm but to be
honest because the xu4 triggers the fan
when it senses the heat I've never had
it turn on because I'm using SSDs so it
doesn't actually turn on they're down
yeah which is disappointing in a way
because I bought the one with the LEDs
to look cool just to look cool all right
next one eye on soothe ok first you was
bragging about how quiet it was with the
heatsink then you pull a huge fan out of
the box
um ok sorry I didn't watch the whole
video so I don't really know how quiet
it actually is but when the ever-famous
will be back after this commercial break
was murdered I was out huh we talked
about the fan that's part of the chassis
the case has nothing to do with the
circuit itself the Xu for Q that's cool
nobody else made that mistake I'm sure
no completion oh absolutely
Sean Harding says it amazes me how all
these new tinkerer boards all say the
same thing the Raspberry Pi killer if
the Raspberry Pi 3 is so wimpy why be
threatened by it
why even compare idiots thank you for
your constructive criticism appreciate
that Sean Sean very much you spell your
name weird
what scene scene I could have called him
scene Shauna that Sean is spelled Sen
pretty pretty normally I just a few
different spellings for she just was
looking for a way I'm critiquing Sean
[Laughter]
Morales the guy in the middle talks all
the time and the other two people are
there for dot dot dot dot dot decoration
to which I say thank you I will take
that completely I'm here to compliment
the other two I'm here to decorate and
I'm just the guy who talks that's right
I just sleep all the time that was from
another comment back then oh yes yes any
of our other biggest fans on YouTube
says what the actual lol this is crazy
overly weirdly done production again
thank you thank you we were going for
crazy overly weirdly done it's exactly
for hey we love our community we love
having you a part of it and you know
keep it keep it going keep commenting
sending your constructive criticism
because we take it to heart rarely write
back we've got a great show for you
we've got the GIMP GNU image
manipulation program we're gonna be
taking a look at in just a couple of
moments time stick around we'll be back
Jeff Weston Gemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website
aren't you right you're a terrible actor
what does where acting comes into play
oh I don't know you're supposed to act
okay are you building a really cool
website are you building a really cool
website just because Jeff is confused
doesn't mean you have to be visit cap
five dot TV slash DreamHost
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
dream host welcome back this is category
five technology TV and our website is
category five dot TV we hope you'll join
us there it's actually you had a
question that was coming in during the
break there yes Albuquerque wants to
know many Albuquerque R the PI killer
has one killer the pike killer has one
satyr point it could be sad I couldn't
say yes ATM okay it has one of those but
there are two hard drives in it so how
do they do that can it run more than two
drives okay that's it I sense the
question yes it was a statement with a
question inside of exactly yes okay the
xu4 Q which is the board that I'm
holding in my hand right here this has
no SATA okay this has emmc for an emmc
harddrive it has micro SD for a micro SD
card if you want to go that route and a
switch that allows you to select between
them now what's different in our
environment it is is it does have USB 3
and this particular USB 3 now remember
that the Raspberry Pi only has USB 2 so
this is not something that you can do on
a Raspberry Pi 2 USB 3 has what's called
UAS USB Attached scuzzy and it is
significantly faster than
a USB 3 external hard drive for example
basically all pretty much native speed
of like an SATA bus so the way that it
works and you can refer back to the
original video but this case has a
backplane which has a USB 3 cable and
that cable goes into the Odroid xu4 now
that goes into the backplane it plugs in
at the front here and it gives you two
SATA headers and these are actually SATA
headers and that's how it's able to do
it so it's uas USB Attached scuzzy 2
SATA and the headers or SATA so we can
plug in just a standard hard drive and
that is because the Odroid xu4 has USB 3
that that's possible so theoretically
any board that has USB 3 and has UAS
compatibility can have a UAS backplane
or UAS drives plugged into it so SATA
Bridge to convert to SATA cool so that's
how we do it thank you very much for the
question quickly hey our patreon page as
you know has been revamped thank you to
everyone who has updated their pledge we
are now a monthly supported show monthly
supported network so what you were
giving before if you're already a patron
it has now been converted to monthly but
the dollar amount has not changed so if
you were giving 25 cents per week which
would equate to a dollar dollar 25 a
month now it's only 25 cents a month so
as you can imagine it's really important
that everybody quickly go and update
their pledge and we appreciate those who
have done it if you haven't done it yet
please do it's very very simple you can
just go on to patreon.com
for category 5 TV and it also gives us
more breathing room too because if you
were if if you were pledging per episode
then we would probably be cognizant of
the fact that you're pledging for
episode and maybe not post as much
perhaps in a month as we could
potentially like weekly yeah but we
could I'm not saying that we're going to
every week but we could do more now
knowing that and we do yes we're posting
a lot of stuff and I've got my
vlog yeah you're cool pretty fun so you
get a chance to see kind of behind the
scenes posted one just before we went
live I interrupted Sasha if you're a
patron you already know about that so
really cool way to support the show
please check it out go to
patreon.com/scishow game is first-person
virtual reality game that's available on
Steam and you can actually pick up a
copy absolutely free session you want to
tell them how they can qualify yes email
us how your watching where you're
watching from how you're actually
watching you email contest at
category-five TV and that is how you add
through the draw we are accumulating the
ballots over the holiday season and
we're gonna be doing more draws in the
new year all right so good luck and
congratulations to our previous winners
okay tonight we're looking at a program
called
the GNU image manipulation program it's
short form is called the GIMP and you
can find out more about it at gimp.org
GI MP and what is cool about this okay
you've all heard of Adobe Photoshop
correct and it's pricey it can cost a
lot of money if you want to do some
image editing we've all used Microsoft
Paint we've all used you know whatever
is that our disposal to do basic image
manipulation
well the GIMP is very very good it's
like a professional image editing suite
but it is available for how much money
how's that for an infomercial we're
selling it tonight we're giving it away
for free for all time they've been doing
this for 20 plus years and and it is
evolved obviously in that amount of time
to a full suite it's fantastic right but
it's hard to get our feet wet it's hard
to jump into a new program it always is
so tonight we're gonna show you some of
the very most basics just to get you
started using the GNU image manipulation
program well you know that we are Linux
lovers and so you're thinking to
yourself I don't have Linux and you know
do I have to install Linux in order to
get the GIMP
yes yes you do no you don't I'd like to
say yes and please do and and we would
encourage you to try Linux but the GIMP
is available for Windows Mac and Linux
absolutely free okay so and truth be
told if you're nervous about Linux which
you shouldn't because it's amazing but
if you're nervous about it perhaps and
starting with something like you could
get you thinking oh wait there is there
are programs available start to save the
alternatives out there and realize hey
LibreOffice is actually a really good
word processor an excel cell compatible
spreadsheet program and and the GIMP is
a really great image editor so all right
so let's check it out I'm gonna bring it
up on my screen that is the GNU image
manipulation program I've got a just a
picture that I've loaded up there
and there's a couple things that I can
see that is wrong with that picture
first of all we can see that it is it's
been taken with the camera kind of Wow
it's crooked it's sideways it's whatever
I want to fix the orientation of that
image so that's one of the first things
we're gonna do so let's get into it all
I need to do to familiarize myself with
the GNU image manipulation programs get
used to the right click and the left
click working together for us so you'll
see you know there are menus up here and
all that kind of stuff and there are
tools over here that are very very
helpful but a lot of the stuff that we
need to do is done just by
right-clicking on the image and then we
can find what we're looking for now I am
using what's called single window mode
just to give you a nice kind of
experience out of the gate and that is
turned on by clicking on Windows and
then single window mode and I'm using
gimp 2.8 there is a newer version that's
available in bettah and you know I'd
encourage you to use what's stable as
you get into it as you get started okay
so simply right clicking on the image
and then going to image and then
transform I'm going to see a couple of
things that are I'm gonna commonly use
I'm gonna use these quite often so it's
important to familiarize yourself with
where are you gonna find these things so
right clicking and image is where you're
gonna find a fair bit of the things that
we're gonna look at tonight first of all
I want to change the orientation because
it is its vertical for some reason so
transform and all I need to do is I need
to
rotate it 90 degrees clockwise and
there's my image so as simple as that
it's done and done three times the other
way yeah exactly
now if I press one on my keyboard it
zooms way and what that does is it shows
me the image in its full resolution so
that's the actual picture you can see
that it's pretty high resolution well
Robby how high of a resolution is this
image traditionally it can sometimes be
tough to figure that out well if you
look at the GIMP interface right up at
the top here it actually always shows
you right on the on the title bar
so this one is 34 36 by 1933 so it's
good high resolution my 1080p monitor is
1920 by 1080 so if I want to use this as
my desktop wallpaper I need to get
familiar with what's called cropping now
we're gonna look at resizing tonight too
but if I were to take this image and I
was to resize it watch that castle in
the background there if I took that and
I go 1920 by 1080 now it is proportional
that's a fluke that's fantastic but if I
did that and then hit scale now the
image has been scaled down to 1920 by
1080 this is just a fluke that it
happened to be 16 over 9 just like my
monitor but you'll see woah the castle
is really really tiny in the background
there I don't really need to focus on
these cars over here so what I'm gonna
do instead is I'm gonna do what's called
cropping I do want that 1920 by 1080
resolution but I want to focus on in on
the castle we're not going to zoom in on
it because then it's going to get all
grainy do you see that I'm not sure how
well that translates but it starts to
get really grainy if we were to zoom in
see ya so if I go back to 1 to see it at
full size and then I right-click and I
go image canvas size instead of image
scaling I'm going to now set my width to
1920 and my height see how it's it's
done that right I can drag around but
now it's it's this weird it's this weird
shape if i zoom out a bit see that yeah
so instead I'm going to go canvas size
1920 by 1080
my resolution of my screen and that is
1080p so it's created this little box
here to show me what I'm actually going
to be cropping into so I can move the
image around and I can put the focus on
the the castle on the hill here you go I
love that feature that's something that
I find Photoshop is really lacking in as
that canvas kind of cropping tool I
really love the ability to to move
around on that canvas figure out where I
want it and then hit resize remember I'm
not actually rescaling see the canvas is
actually see that dotted line that's the
original image size Oh
but now I've cropped it to exactly 1920
by 1080 the cars that are along this
dirt area here are gone but the focus is
now on this the castle yeah yeah so
there you go so this is now 1920 look up
at the top 1920 by 1080 well let's say
we have a 720p need or maybe we're gonna
post this image on our blog now if I was
gonna post it on my blog and it was
about the castle itself I may want to
get in a little tighter let's turn on
proportional cropping for the canvas
size and let's set this to something
like 600 and look at how tiny that is
now I can get right in there and I'm not
changing the resolution like I'm not
changing the dots per inch of the image
so now if i zoom in that's the that's
the full resolution of that original
image it's just that I've cropped out
the sides so see that it's the same it's
just I've cropped out the sides if
however I want to keep the the entire
scale like I can see all the stuff
around I can see the hill I can use
image scaling instead so image now that
I've already cropped it scale image and
this is where we do need to make
absolutely sure that we have this
proportional linking enabled yeah so if
I do let's say I do 700 there it
automatically changes the height to 394
which is 16 over 9 to 700 so if I didn't
have that set watch what's going to
happen and you may have this happen if
you forget
to enable this link here let's change
this to 600 and then hit scale notice it
left the height as 1080 so now my
castles gonna go it's gone squishy so
that's why proportional linking is
really important between the height and
width if you are scaling you don't need
to do that if you're cropping so now if
I change this to 700 it's gonna create a
smaller image I've linked that together
394 is my width or my height pardon me
700 is my width now same picture only
smaller
yeah it's 16 over 9 which is the you
know the widescreen of my display but
it's smaller now so perfect for
uploading to my blog or whatever else if
I go that is the full size of the image
as you see it on the screen right now so
as I mentioned if I wanted to I could
crop without using proportional scaling
let's say I need a perfect square so now
we've got 700 by 394 I could go 394 by
394 and now I can move around that image
just like this this is again an image
canvas size okay so we found that with
right-click image canvas size so now I'm
going to create notice I've turned off
the link so that doesn't change the
height automatically I've changed this
to be exactly the same as the height and
I've dragged this to move it around and
now I'm gonna get this nice little
thumbnail that is a perfect square okay
so I think there are good use cases for
that so that's really quickly you know a
couple of little tips for you tricks to
quick image editing but the one final
thing that you need to be able to do is
now save your image we need to use it
online we need to be able to actually
put it online and it can be a little bit
daunting and confusing if we're not
familiar with the tools at hand
typically we're used to saying save as
and if I do that it's going to default
to this xcf format and xcf' is the gimp
format and it is like a P PSD okay
Photoshop document so it contains the
layers and everything else it's not
something that you would upload to a
website like a JPEG right and is that
because it would just wouldn't be
readable as it it's so that you can then
you
that file and edit again so let's say I
put some text over top of it by saving
it as an ex EF so save as now I can go
back and change the text without having
to redo all the cropping so it can be
very very handy and it's a good way to
keep master files and things like that
but it's not ideal for what we need here
which is to upload a square image to our
blog so instead I'm gonna go file and
we're gonna go export as be careful not
to click overwrite because if this isn't
like a family image that you've just
cropped and changed you want to leave
the original image as it is and save a
second copy that's all kind of part of
our backup abilities so now I'm going to
call this you know square if I could
spell that would help square castle
image dot jpg it's important that I
specify the extension JPEG is something
that's going to be compatible with web
so it defaulted to a particular
compression or quality 100 means this is
gonna be the best quality that this
image could possibly be it's also gonna
be big right how big it's that 394 by
394 it's a pretty small image but we can
actually shrink this down quite a bit so
let's show an image preview and that
preview is actually going to tell us the
size of that image so see this one
hundred and ninety nine point five
kilobytes now if I go down to 99% it
just dropped to 168 98 is 135 for a
picture well it depends on what you're
doing with it and how big the images
this way like scale wise okay if it's
for print you want to have really good
quality like go with 98 percent and just
let it be
but when it comes to the web you want to
find that happy medium if you're
emailing photos to family and things
like that you want to find that happy
medium for hey it's a pretty small file
it's gonna email real quick and they're
not gonna be annoyed that you know they
just got this on their LT internet
they're having to pay a hundred dollars
that's the question what's the happy
medium and I'm asking has a recently
married person who has all these really
big features you want to send them if I
want to send to somebody what size
should they be well again depends on the
scale
printing butt so in this particular case
I don't think it's a number it's not
like how many kilobytes how many
megabytes obviously email is limited to
like you know if you go over five
megabytes some email servers will still
bounce that back 25 is pretty normal but
if you go over that it's probably going
to bounce and it's gonna take a little
bit of time it's going to annoy people
but what we want to do is not find the
file size per se we want to find that
happy medium of hey I can't tell the
difference in this preview window
between let's see where I start to tell
the difference I'm starting to see the
difference it's starting to go a little
bit grainy I'm going to go up to 70 so
70 is forty two point three kilobytes
and I can't tell the difference between
70 quality and 100 quality 100 quality
is one hundred and ninety nine point
five kilobytes so if you can tell the
difference between them
good Anya I can't tell so now I'm happy
with 70% quality so keep in mind the
lower the quality the more the
compression okay the worse the quality
see that I can see that but up at about
70 now even thirty nine is looking
pretty good but I can see a difference
between that and a hundred so if I go
back up to 70
it looks real good it's perfect it's
forty two point three I'm gonna hit
export and now I've got a copy on my
desk top of that image and there it is
beautiful
so now I've got the perfect scale the
perfect shape and the perfect file size
for that image and that's all done using
a free program called the GNU image
manipulation program now these are
really really basic kind of get let's
get into image editing steps right to
show you that hey you know this can be
used to scale your photos and and resize
them and put get them ready for your
website or whatever else you want to do
posting them on Facebook if you're you
might want to make them a square for fin
this and want to download this
super-awesome program we have lots of
past episodes
we sure do we can find a lot of good
resources on our website category 5 TV I
guess just click on search and type in
GIMP camp there's like a plethora of
give tutorials it's incredible Robbie
knows waste time so check it out
gimp.org is the website where you can
download it for free
if you are on linux you can get it in
your repositories just do an app to
install GIMP or however you love to
install your packages alright you ready
to hit the news room oh just like that
just like that
just like I told you this is gonna be
flying along alright let me just take
what's it oh okay sorry sorry walk
amongst yourself
I didn't realize and I feel I know no
I'm the decoration serious face
yeah notice that I noticed speaking of
that no no look at my face you see that
with this camera this is the Panasonic
the model is HC w xf 9 9 1 I am noticing
a difference on my baldness with this
camera versus the 83 that we looked at
last week okay the glare is yeah and I
had to I had to manually adjust this
camera because it was phasing in and out
its exposure that's probably this guy's
fault like the shine but so I actually
was able to figure out how to manually
set the exposure on this camera which
works pretty good it looks like worth
noting it looks fine to me
yeah cool what do you guys think like
about the camera in my forehead shiny
here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom the
surveillance camera network in the US
Capitol was hijacked by Romanian
tesla's yuan mosque has pledged to make
a pickup truck as part of his future
plans for the electric vehicle maker
talk of long-range wireless charging has
been around for some time but we've yet
to see a product that can charge devices
from relatively long distances
thanks to stirred up energies however
room-scale charging will soon be a
reality and available to everyone and
Apple has changed the rules around how
games on its App Store will be using
loot boxes these series are coming right
up don't go anywhere whether you shop on
thinkgeek gearbest B&amp;H photo video eBay
or Amazon or even if you want a free
trial of audible you'll find the best
deals and support the shows we produce
by simply visiting the shopping sites
you already frequent by using the links
on our website visit category-five TV
slash partners for the full and
ever-growing list and help us create
more free content like this show thank
you for shopping with our partners and
thank you for watching this is the
category-five TV newsroom covering the
week's top tech stories with a slight
linux planks
I'm Sasha Rickman and here the top
stories were following this week the
against a pair that were arrested abroad
two of the five unnamed individuals
cuffed this month in Romania on
suspicion of spreading ransomware
earlier this year are now facing u.s.
computer crime charges for their alleged
role in taking over 123 of 187 neck
networked computers Kim
that control Washington DC's CCTV
cameras
according to Europol which led the
arrests this week two of those arrested
are suspected of attacking American
computer systems using the server
ransomware in an affidavit obtained by
CNN unsealed by mistake and then
resealed Secret Service agent James
Graham laid out the but the basis for
the US Department of Justice's computer
fraud case against two Romanian
nationals
a Justice Department spokesperson
confirmed the linkage of the arrests and
the US Court filing the spokesperson
said these are separate but related
investigations and the people you name
are among those arrested by Europol
Graham described how around January 9th
2017 in January 12th 2017 the pair as
part of an alleged ransomware scheme
took control of the networked Windows
computers used by the Washington DC
metropolitan police to run their traffic
cameras On January 12th having
recognized that some of the cameras were
offline DC police IT staff in a Secret
Service agent used remote desktop
software to connect to one of the
servers controlling the cameras they
watched as the device with a number of
open desktop windows was running
unexpected software the IT administrator
subsequently blocked Network access for
the compromised device which was then
removed along with two other computers
for forensic analysis investigators
determined that two ransomware variants
server and Dharma had been installed on
the computers they also found a text
file USA dot txt that contained 179
thousand six hundred and sixteen email
addresses being used to spam intended
run ransomware victims a text file with
the same checksum was subsequently found
in an email account associated with one
of the defendants one of those email
addresses stood out to the investigators
and they were able to obtain access to
its records from Google within that they
found evidence to show that the two
arrested were renting access to server
in order to infect victims
scramble their files extort money from
them to respect to restore the data the
Europol release calls this crime as a
service the various email accounts and
IP addresses and cross-references with
fraud databases provided enough details
to ask romanian officials for further
digital data linked to the defendants so
that's crazy I just I feel like the
CCTVs for Washington DC the traffic the
it controls the traffic lights
I wonder how purposeful it was though
that they hit that Network like
ransomware is typically very random and
and its targets I think that's where we
fall into thinking oh well nobody would
ever attack me well we ran ransomware
which is one of the worst threats that
we're up against right now is not a
targeted attack typically it goes out by
well 179 thousand email addresses that
they're just spamming so are they all
targeted well technically they're on the
list but how did they get on that list
they're not necessarily specifically
targeted right but somehow they were
able to compromise these servers so that
leads to thinking okay something's not
being said right about infrastructural
security windows right it is Windows and
it had a remote desktop installed so
were they monitoring it here's the thing
we've got remote desktop on our
computers if you're running Windows it
allows you to connect to your computer
from home right at the office and so on
right so if someone was whacking away at
your password trying to guess the
password how would you know right yeah
you wouldn't you wouldn't so what kind
of security mechanisms are in place by
the government and the police to protect
against that kind of attack typically
you know if you've guessed the password
five times and it's wrong locked locked
the IP address so here's a case where
probably what they're not telling us
okay yeah blame it on ransomware blame
it on this and sure they did something
bad but there's an open port called
remote desktop they've been whacking
away that they found the password they
remote it into the desktop and launched
a bunch of programs installed the ransom
we're manually right this was not an
accidental whoops somebody ran the
program on our traffic cameras no this
is somebody remoted into the traffic
cameras that you had wide open to the
world right whoops see what is server
and what is Dharma are those two
different variants of ransomware so
Dharma
I think Dharma is the older of the two
but they're all very current like this
Dharma was August I believe I was when
it hit Dharma being oh it's hard they
all kind of run together at this point
it was so much easier when there was
cryptolocker and a couple of variants
what's neat about server or what's
different about server is that it's
being sold as a service as they said in
this accidentally open document which
was promptly sealed after we obviously
read it and got all the information but
it's sold so there's some hackers of
crack yeah and and are now selling it
saying hey Sasha would you like to run
your own ransomware scheme here's the
program you pay for this and then you
make the money off of the ransomware
right and that's what server does now
Dharma is a different variant of
ransomware I'm not too sure on that one
how it differs are they're all just
different variants right but Dharma in
particular if I recall correctly is one
that it does not like wanna cry was
devastating because it took advantage of
exploits in Microsoft Windows in order
to propagate right so it infected its
spread Dharma requires the user to run
it okay so if you get a Dharma infection
you have run something malicious you've
gone to a web site that's tried to throw
you something and you said yes to the
wrong question but in this case the
malicious users themselves remoted into
the computer and installed Dharma right
that's the impression that I get I feel
like if I was in charge of the CCTVs and
the traffic lights in any city at all I
would not use it for any malicious
things I would just always make it green
lights for me
perfect it's like it senses your
geolocation data from in fact it would
be the opposite of ransomware I'd just
be like pay me and I'll make this I'll
make the light screen for you it'd be
good it makes absolute sense Asha yeah
that's right this is why we don't give
you any power
nissan canada's vehicle financing wing
has been hacked putting personal
in an email to nissan car buyers nissan
canada it's computer systems were
compromised with unauthorized persons
gaining access to the personal
information of some customers that have
financed their vehicles through nissan
canada finance or infiniti Financial
Services Canada the note added we
apologize for any frustration and
anxiety this may have caused our
customers and we thank you for your
patience and support as we work through
this issue wow that nice a similar
message is now on the automaker's
website according to Nissan Canada the
exposed data includes at least customers
names addresses vehicle makes and models
of vehicle identification numbers credit
scores loan amounts and monthly payment
figures Nissan Canada admitted it
discovered on Monday December 11th that
it had been hacked and alerted the world
ten days later no personal banking
information such as card numbers were
taken we're told
however the automaker is offering 12
months of free credit monitoring to its
customers just in case the scumbags do
you exploit the exposed records so a
twelve months is not enough because they
miscreants could definitely strike in
the thirteenth month also I don't need a
credit card number if I were to be this
person really like would you really need
the credit card number to steal
somebody's identity no yeah right really
I think we fall into thinking hey if
someone gets my credit card number they
can go shopping and get into my accounts
but if I have if I have the payment
amount
right of the right and I can just assume
which my personal information personal
information then when I call the bank
and say hey I forgot my password and
they'll say well can you tell me a
little bit about your bank account yeah
I know that I'm the 15th of the month
one hundred ninety two dollars and
seventeen cents comes out they'd be like
Oh obviously you are Sasha right yeah
exactly
but they're the half back there the
person who stole the information and if
I'm not sure which bank you deal with
well guess what I've got your phone
number
boo boo boo boo hi Sasha this is Robbie
calling from TD Canada Trust ah we were
looking at your account oh oh you don't
deal with TD Canada Trust oh okay I'm
sorry I must have the wrong number
hi Sasha this is Robbie calling from
CIBC you know oh yeah so we're listening
for flags oh that's your bank okay
excellent
ten days ten days well this before they
alerted anybody now here's the thing why
wouldn't they just say as soon as they
found out hey there's a problem what
were they trying to figure out in the
background how much information was
taken wealthy we can only speculate
right but like anything that is shrouded
in bureaucracy and lawyers right what do
they need to do they need to confirm
data before they can release it we're
not going to just announce randomly hey
we've been compromised
yeah probably best in to take ten days I
don't think that's unreasonable I don't
love it
no but if we now know exactly what's
been taken probably have a little bit of
information for the FBI to know or
whoever I guess here in Canada it would
be a different agency but you know what
I mean like they need to collect enough
information to one make sure that the
person doesn't still have access to that
data
in that they're actively copying data at
that time we need to lock it down do you
think 12 months is enough to offer
insurance protection gives you enough
time to change all your cards change
your name move to a different country
and kinda it's this information could be
used for identity theft and other things
so it is it is more serious than they
let on and couldn't they have just
stored the information in a far more
secure way this reminds me of the story
just where like a hard drive was stolen
out of a room I feel like why is any of
that information not you know encrypted
with government grade encryption yeah
hindsight right you were always looking
back and saying oh I really should have
had a backup of those files or I really
should have well and companies are just
as guilty because companies are run by
people right at least for now
so speaking of machines taking over the
world
pickup truck as part of the future plans
for the electric vehicle maker Elon Musk
made a promise on Twitter after asking
his followers for suggestions about how
the firm could improve he said the open
backtrack would follow the model why yet
to VG's hailed car which is expected to
be based on its model 3 sedan but
experts note Tesla has suffered repeated
delivery delays that has led to some to
question whether the loss-making company
can meet its existing commitments which
also include a transport truck and a
sports car musk has also made several
promises about new features that Tesla
intends to add to its existing vehicles
including intelligent windshield wipers
demand for pickup tracks has ridden
risen over the past year despite a drop
in demand for other types of light
vehicles musk had previously hinted at
his plans for a pickup when an image
showing an obscured pickup was briefly
shown being carried on the back of its
semi-truck at the press conference
announcing it in Nova
in his tweets musk said the vehicle
would be would likely be slightly bigger
than Ford's best-selling f-150 pickup to
allow it to contain an unspecified
game-changing feature wonder what that
means a game-changing feature Wow that
kind of leaves it wide open now
Twitter was abuzz and one particular
tweet actually caught Elon Musk's
attention and got him to reply MC flash
tube said here's a list of the things I
think that could be first of all a rain
sensor all eight cameras as a dashcam
and beyond light settings for brightness
footwell front and rear seats sign
recognition for the automation system
music quieter when you open all the
doors that's interesting and finally his
greatest suggestion which has caused
Twitter to erupt is Tesla disco mode
ambient lighting that mew moves to the
music beat with an on-and-off brightness
elan said something like oh I love all
the first ideas we're gonna say that
yeah those are probably possibilities
but that last one not too sure the idea
of intelligent wipers and I remember
talking about that before but of late
driving in pretty much any city but
especially Perry evidently I would like
intelligence indicators
I think intelligent other drivers would
also help right okay so define the
indicators cuz your answer was serious
mine was a joke although I will say that
robots driving cars would be better than
humans well they have autonomous
features so what would be the problem I
have is people do not indicate their
intentions when they're driving right
right or they slow down almost to stop
before turning on the blinker that says
I'm actually turning exactly or they
turn without ya or they turn without
indicating where they change lanes
without indicate
or they'll just indicate while they're
changing lanes that's a big pet peeve of
mine I know all of our viewers are just
going yeah that sucks me too because
none of our viewers would do something
like that
no never could not be some sort of
intelligence in the car because clearly
it's not that somehow robot voice over
the intercom is like you didn't signal
yeah is there something tiny sashes for
when you turn without signaling you got
a jolt or something it shocks you to
electro we all know I sold Mike I don't
even have a car I have no longer a
driver I ride my bike and still it
bothers me if people don't anymore
dangerous it's more dangerous yes please
indicate Elon Musk please make your
extra feature an indicator safety
features are key I think that's what
boils down to exactly talk of long-range
wireless charging has been around for
some time but we've yet to see a product
that can charge devices from relatively
long distances
thanks to start-up and urges however
reality and available to everyone the
San Jose based company announced that
the federal Commission's communication
or the FCC has just certified it's a wot
op midfield transmitter which converts
electricity into radio waves and beams
of power to any device fitted with a
receiver up to three feet away wireless
chargers have been around for several
years but most of them require a device
to be in direct contact with the station
a startup called pi recently released
what it called the first ever
contactless wireless charging products
which uses the same resident induction
tech as Qi although it's range is
limited to one foot energizes power at a
distance system boasts a greater
distance than pi and is still able to
charge multiple devices at once
additionally the watt op ecosystem
allows receivers and transmitters made
by different manufacturers to work
together
in addition to the midfield transmitters
the company is also working on far field
transmitters that have a greater range
and allow multiple transmitters to be
linked together to cover large spaces
there's also the near field transmitter
a low-power solution that can be
embedded into laptops tablets consoles
and more there are no wot op devices
available to consumers yet but energist
will be showing off the technology at
CES in a couple of weeks that's cool I
love this
so CES is the Consumer Electronics Show
yeah that's right which I had to look up
because I was interested in it turns out
that it has like this big long history
if it turns out oh yeah turns out every
day it's a big deal all the
manufacturers go to show off the newest
stuff right yeah converting electricity
into way to race is that is that
something that is easy like what would
that mean this is a whole different
thing like that like being able to beam
that energy as like how do you do that
safely without creating microwaves and
things like that
wrapping people's pacemakers or
something causing health issues and so
that's something that they obviously
would have addressed considering they
got FCC approval but the technique
itself is typically just being able to
direct the energy through a diode that
would you know transmit the energy to a
receiver but I guess that receiver would
be your phone or your SmartWatch or
something but presumably I could be
sitting in a waiting room using my smart
phone and that waiting room would be
charging my phone yeah well I mean when
you think about it radio waves like I'm
not I'm not a scared of radio waves I
feel like they're everywhere they're
everywhere
beside us turn on your radio you can
hear it because you're just capturing
the radio wave they're already here
have a metal filling in the back here
and it's all the time yeah shortwave see
okay so here's a funny a little story
about this story is I was reading it
earlier
and I charge my phone with Qi charging
okay right and I love it but I was
talking about this and I was like oh
this is so much better than my thing I
mean I can actually use it and not have
to have it sitting on the desk yeah
what's funny is that my lamp got mad at
me and my Qi wouldn't work for days look
at this it's like not registering my
phone anymore that's really clear Li
it's random I turned it off turned it on
again and it was fun that's always the
answer oh there you go you got one more
I do all right
loot boxes these boxes are random
rewards for gameplay and often give
players benefits and power-ups that can
be used in games in a change to its
developer guidelines Apple said games
must now let players know the odds of
getting particular items in the boxes
loot boxes have been controversial for
some time with experts saying they
amount to a covert lottery in the
updated guidelines Apple said any
in-game mechanism that rewards players
with randomized virtual items must list
the odds of receiving each type of item
in addition it said customers must be
informed of these odds before they buy
the boxes or rewards many games offer
extras to players that can change the
appearance of the game introduce new
characters or b-style power-ups that
help people as they play some titles let
people buy loot boxes with in-game funds
they generate by playing or by spending
real money to purchase the games virtual
cash the controversy over the crates was
thrown into sharp focus last month with
the release of the Star Wars Battlefront
2 game which used them extensively u.s.
politicians called for greater
regulation of games that use loot boxes
and crates one politician saying that a
Battlefront
but that battlefront too was Star Wars
themed online casino the backlash led to
Electronic Arts the publisher of the
battlefront
to to rework it to remove its reliance
on the random reward system in the UK
there have been calls for games that use
the loot system to be regulated just
like other lotteries the UK's gambling
Commission said the boxes did not come
under its control because the rewards
they handed out were only usable in the
game yeah that I would say is my main
point it's a game and the rewards are in
the game it's not a casino it's not real
money I mean it is money I guess if
you're spending your real money or doing
it those who do but I think about my
kids using a game that is in all
essences an online casino right and
they're you know being trained to gamble
so there's kind of two sides to it as
adults we can we can differentiate we
can say hey you know I could rent a
movie for five bucks or I can deposit
five bucks into this game and and play
it for a while well it is gambling right
but are putting the odds on it going to
help that decision at all that's a weird
thing I yeah a solution
I feel like nope hey you're gambling
we're gonna prove it by giving showing
you what you're getting which treats it
like a lottery pick stuff yeah I don't I
don't love that politicians are
discussing this I feel like this is
there are more important things to be
talking about although I will tell you I
did last Christmas give Dave a treasure
box for the house that I just put
randomize I love the idea of these
chests so much that we actually have a
real one in our house and sometimes if
there's nothing in it
the chances are actually pretty good it
has nothing in it and sometimes I was
like baked potato chips sometimes it has
a Nintendo switch it has like like it's
very randomized but the odds are pretty
low there's ever anything more than a
love note in there
well that's fun so there we go
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman Thank You Sasha this is Kay and
this is category five technology TV see
what happens if I stop talking for five
minutes yeah start to stumble on my own
tongue I hope that you've had fun
tonight it's been nice having you back
here of course you know a lot of people
still on holidays even here at the
studio it's just Sasha and I tonight
Jeff is away but we hope that you've had
a nice holiday so far and wishing a very
happy new year we're looking forward to
seeing you again next week
yes have a great week the end of a great
year has been a great year hasn't it
yeah yeah I hope that yours has been
wonderful and here's the 2018 being the
best it could possibly be to be amazing
of course it is I can't wait to have you
interacting with us and getting to know
you throughout the year it's it for this
week we'll talk to you next week
so yes bye
