welcome back to new every day my name is
Carrie my name is Chen and on today's
show part three of our whole camp series
with the focus of going on a missions
trip what does I have two is camp stay
tuned
you
welcome back to you every day we're so
whether you've tuned in again we're on
our third week of talking about camp why
camp is important why camp is a valuable
tool to use to spread the gospel to
children one of the things I was
thinking about we've got Jarrad Clark
here um a gen wagger and Karrie Webb
well I'm glad we've covered who's here
now can we talk about careful we have a
kept Jared here now for a third episode
to talk about camp we've talked about
the value of cam as a tool to use to
draw kids closer to God and maybe
introduce them to Christ for the very
first time so we're going to just jump
right back in i'm going to pass over to
you jen to get it started one of the
things that we've been talking about is
the value of camp because we do with
lots of kids who are really struggling
with who they are and even uh we often
think well kids in the church to have it
together but we are learning more and
more that that is not the case that kids
inside the church are struggling with
life just as much as kids outside of the
church and one of the things that has
happened in Canada over probably I think
within the last five years of or so was
a study called hemorrhaging faith so
Jared one explain to us a little bit
about what that study was about because
I think it will play in a lot into how
and why we do camp and the importance of
getting kids and adults young adults
especially involved with the camp
movement so explain to us a little bit
about that study well I think first of
all we have to recognize where society
is at most people do not have a
foundational concept of who Jesus is and
what church is all about and so
parachurch organizations like camp
become important to introduce people to
the faith because when our parents grew
up the vast majority people understood
what it meant go to church
they might have been regular attenders
but they understood our fee yeah we're
for most people now they don't have a
concept of what it means to truly serve
Jesus and so it comes to camp to be able
to do that so hemorrhaging faith was
about looking at why people are leaving
the church and not coming back and the
reality is people we don't have a lot of
kids we used to have in our churches cuz
they're just not coming and so they
started looking at indicators of people
young adults who have stayed in church
and what experiences that they had that
kept them in church because if we
understand what's keeping the ones that
have stayed in church hopefully we can
replicate that so got fifty six percent
of people of young adults who were still
serving God faithfully had had a camp
experience and set 56% had identified
that they had had a camp experience and
so then 71 percent identified with a
short terms mission missions trip and so
for me I really see the camp experience
really geared at her campers and
experiencing God and then the short-term
missions thing really plays into what
our staff are doing they come and they
work there for seven eight nine weeks
depending on the camp and live in
community doing missions at home and so
they have the opportunity to share their
faith grow in their faith which is
really what a short terms missions trip
is all about is going to a different
culture to a different place outside of
our comfort zone where we have an
opportunity to tell others people about
Jesus and that's camp we go out and for
some of them it's a totally different
unique situation you come from the city
and you're out in the wilderness and you
know you had lots of bugs especially if
your camp is in Manitoba yeah and so
they're they're in this new environment
where they have the opportunity in a
safe way to learn how to share their
faith and and become active and live out
their faith in a different way than they
would at home and so I think that's
really what hemorrhaging faith has keyed
in on with the results that they
presented
in my experience I've found that when
you place a teenager in a cabin with a
group of children that do not belong to
them often not all the time maybe i
should say sometimes you see them coming
out of their cab and going what have I
gotten myself into and we immediately as
good staff leaders say you need to pray
about it you need to invite God into
that cabin you need to start praying for
all of those kids and you and you need
to trust that God's going to give you
everything that you need to to minister
to each of these kids no matter how
different than they are the new no
matter what kind of issues at their
brain no matter how many times beds get
peed in God's going to give you
everything that you need and it's so
interesting when you see them week after
week surrendering each cabin to the Lord
praying for their kids that by the end
of like you said the six to nine weeks
these young men and women are changed
because I trusted God to do amazing
things with them in a camp situation so
when we talk about you know as a you
know to think about camp as a short
terms missions trip it really is because
you are going into a foreign culture
most teenagers do not have to look after
a group of kids 24 7 it like they don't
have to worry about beds they don't have
to worry about kids getting up from the
table and going places and you know and
so they really I've learned I've watched
kids grow in their faith as they have
trusted God with these kids trusted God
with the opportunity well for most of
them it's the first time where their
faith has actually been their own mm-hmm
many of the kids that come and our
counselors so they're 17 18 19 20 years
old and they've grown up in the church
and its really been their parents faith
they went to church because their
parents went to church and they go to
youth group because their parents told
them they go to youth group and they
drop them off and so they get to this
point in their life and it's like okay
this is what I do because
this is what I've always done and so
there's this time in life when you're a
young adult where you're really going
okay why am I doing this and you ask
these questions and so camp gives them
the opportunity to actually make their
faith real and live out their own faith
and for many of us the first time
they've ever actually lived out their
own faith is that camp and so they
should all of a sudden they start
sharing their faith and they start
living it out and so we're seeing now
after a year or two of working do these
that these young people are going back
to their maybe in their last year of
high school or university and they want
all of a sudden share their faith there
because it's given them the confidence
and equip them with the skills that they
need to actually live out their faith in
a real way back at home and so that's
what camps about it's about it's about
sharing it with the kids but also
equipping our staff to be people of
character and people who are going to
serve God in a real way and really reach
out into the community and the people
around them because that's what we're
all called to do you know we're not
supposed to just stay inside of the
church hmm and so often we've seen where
these young men and women they come to
camp and they don't think they have
anything to offer and then you get them
involved with you know some one on one
you know with the campers campers that
need special treat or special attention
and so they need a one-on-one so all of
a sudden you see that you know at first
you put a cabin leader with them and
they're like I don't know if I can do
this and by the end of the week you've
seen the confidence that has come inside
of them as a result of working
one-on-one with a camper or we've also
seen where they wouldn't necessarily
participate in drama or leading actions
or even giving their story and yet you
know by the end of a few weeks I'll do
it I can do that I can share my
testimony I'll participate in the trauma
like the confidence you know we often
think well send the camper to camp so
that they can experience hope and get
some self worth and self value but I've
seen so many staff members grow in their
faith grow in their own self confidence
so that when they go back home all of a
sudden like they have all of these
skills that they can now you know
give back to their own home church so
now have you seen that happen at all
where you've seen maybe someone come in
at the leadership level like leadership
class lever level we call it edge
equipping disciples of God for eternity
where you've seen them you know the
quiet kid come in during one of those
programs because you've been doing
you've been aware of the edge program
now for a long time probably when did
you first take the leadership program
1997 19 years so for 19 years you've
seen kids come and go and I'm just
wondering if you have any like wherever
any stories where you go yeah I solely
totally saw this kid take off I never
would have thought they would have come
out of their shell like that I never
would have thought the confidence that
they had nothing like being put on the
spot that's the you framed it in so
tightly but we're going to talk about
this right after the break because we
haven't had the break yet you don't you
are gues Jeff Weston yaman you're
building a brand new beautiful website
what
are you all right you're terrible actor
what this we're acting comes into play I
don't know where I think you're supposed
to act okay fair enough I'm building a
really cool website are you building a
really cool website you need hosting one
of the things about a hosting account is
you don't want to have limitations put
on your website let's sure how much hard
drive space do you have how many email
accounts how many domains can point to
it well we've got an amazing deal for
you for a very limited time cap five dot
TV / dreamhost for just five dollars and
a bit of change per month you are going
to get unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the roots are your own
com dice to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat5 TV / dreamhost
just don't pop out of the papers are
just don't do it but hey it's a great
deal folks best deal you're gonna find
five dollars and change per month go to
cap five dot TV / dreamhost welcome back
we are talking to jared clark insurance
the director of a camp in Manitoba and
Jen you just asked the question and you
want to just rephrase that so sir get
started again right so my question was
in your experience of being a part of
camp both has a you know a counselor and
then as a director have you watched or
seen an individual how camp has you know
helps them grow in their faith or given
them worth and value how you've seen
them change as a result of being a part
of the camp ministry yeah I think one of
the greatest examples actually married
and my wife accepted Christ at camp and
she grew up a camp in her faith and she
did the leadership program under you
yeah
really in 2002 I think it was two
thousand first year right yeah and so
her first summer was a nightmare like
the first two days of her leadership
program we were inundated with lice and
so it was like everything went on hold
and I think we had 14 kids with lice and
so like we literally had to change our
entire camp program to help these kids
get picked and so I you know like and
they were upset like no one wants to
pick lice for two or three days straight
no and so they did and so uh you know as
time is going on and we do camp together
my wife is just as much a part of the
leadership as I am and so it's pretty
neat to see her challenge me now and as
she's learned things at camp and grown
her faith i would say at one point I
sort of led and now she challenges me as
much as I challenged her and pretty neat
to see and so we'll get to these points
where it's like we get a child come to
camp with lice and it's like our policy
is that we send them home and then it's
like but are we gonna send them home and
so time after time becky is the one who
says i'll pick their head i will take
care of this child and so it's pretty
neat to see her who at the start you
know begrudgingly was taught how to pick
lice and spend hours doing it too now
her being the one saying you know what
this kids worth it and we will invest
the time in the hours and it can be ours
mm-hmm and just the growth that's
happened in her so pretty neat to see
how campus you know transformed her life
that's amazing yeah and that's so like
the love of Jesus I know Heidi Baker who
is doing ministry in mosey
beak with iris ministries and she often
says that she stops for the one the one
child is important every single child
support so that one kid who had their
lights picked maybe they are the one to
receive Christ and bring that good news
back to their family and I know you'd
mentioned to Jared that the the service
that happens at camp then gets
translated to serving back at home and I
know you and Becky and your church
family are serving in lower income
community can you just speak to that how
you're still serving in that area as
well yeah I mean it's pretty neat to see
our church has been in Winnipeg for over
a hundred years and we have stayed in
the heart of the city right downtown and
so that puts us in neighborhoods where
there is some great eats and so we have
some fantastic volunteers that that
really just have a burden for these
people and so there are some
neighborhoods that you and I would
probably not feel comfortable walking in
alone and that's just the reality for
these people live and not we have this
one amazing volunteer and his name is
Barry and he goes in every while he goes
in all throughout the year with our bus
program and he's a bus captain and we
bring the kids to the church but in the
spring after our bus program ends he
goes door-to-door to all those kids and
he takes our camp forms and he helps
sometimes he has to help the parents
fill them out because maybe they don't
speak English or maybe they're writing
abilities aren't quite there and so
he'll help them fill out the forms and
and his deal with him and I have a deal
and he gets the kids and I'll find the
money so I'll find the money to get them
sponsored if he finds the kids and so he
takes that very seriously and he goes
out and just a servant's heart to just
see these kids he just passionately
cares about these kids and they're his
kids hmm you know these are his kids
these are berries kids and and he goes
and make sure that they get to camp
because he believes in the power of camp
to change their life and so it's amazing
what happens when one individual cares
for you know these kids that would get
lost and in our system because we talked
about you know going on a mission
trip and we often think missions trip
means overseas you know thousands of
dollars and time and preparation and yet
this man is going on a missions trip
every Sunday you know like every time he
gets out that bus and goes he's actually
he's on a mission he's on a mission to
share the love of Jesus and you know so
often we think well camp is just for
kids camp is just for teenagers to help
them you know stay firm in their faith
as we've talked about regarding the
hemorrhaging faith and but camp also has
a huge role to play in our ongoing
development even as adults in our faith
as you as you said with with your
volunteer and we have had um you know I
think of one family that comes back
every summer and they give a week to
camp every summer you know and they pour
in and they they work in the kitchen
they take the garbage away they build
things they paint they tear down things
but every summer they come and that's
you know we don't think of it as a
missions trip they don't probably even
see it as a mission and yet it is they
are sharing the love of God with you
know with a group of campers because
they see this they're like why is this
adult here you know and yet the number
of times I've seen them sit down and
talk with kids is you know so camp isn't
just about for the for the you know the
teenagers and young adults there is a
place for I want to say more mature
adults at camp and we've talked a little
bit about that in our first show that if
you have a skill to come to comment and
to volunteer your time and it can't go
to your local camp and say you know I'm
electrician I'm a plumber I'm a you know
I'm a licensed nurse do you need me and
ask the Lord what is it Lord that you
would have me do because you can go on a
missions trip without spending a ton of
money and have a huge impact in the life
of a child and it's so important that
you asked to learn about this and I
think of the number of times that
someone
Camp spoke into my life and changed my
life you know is you know that's that's
why I'm sitting here today is because
people took that time and so we leave
that with you today to once again ask
the Lord you know is camp a mission
field for me are you calling me in some
way whether it's you know going out and
helping kids actually get to camp or
that going to camp yourself or maybe
it's even you know in the pain for camp
is sponsoring a child to go yeah yeah
and i gotta say if you are a nurse go
it's a wonderful experience hugs tylenol
after bite that's all i can eat so it's
a great opportunity to go in sir and
Jared thanks so much for coming on new
every day really anything that's what
blows it thank you alright we will see
you same time same place next week new
everyday TV check out our website and
our partners page and we will see you
next week yeah
