welcome to episode number 3 19 of
category 5 technology TV it is Tuesday
the 29th of october2013 how you doing
hello everybody hey lieutenant commander
Ferguson commander Sasha tomatoes Don
great good good coming up in the
newsroom we have how would you like a
cell phone battery that takes just
minutes to charge and lasts for several
weeks imagine that we say farewell to a
long time favorite Linux repository
could BlackBerry's future rely on the
use of competitors devices and google
smartwatch appears to be on the horizon
stick around these stories and more are
coming up later in the show huh well
tonight we are going to be checking out
some of the cool tech that is going to
be making its way to studio D with your
help at cat five dot TV / studio also
we've got a full mailbag we were going
through it before the show just checking
out some of your questions we're going
to be hitting a lot of those and we've
got a cool web GUI based backup tool
from I'd era that we're going to be
taking a look at tonight as well we've
got a contest announcement for you we've
got some stuff to give away so get ready
this is going to be an awesome show
this is category 5 technology TV
starring Sasha dramatis
Hillary rumble
krista wells
in our kid
and your host Ravi Ferguson
at eco alkalines we believe you should
be able to trust your batteries not just
here but here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here Eco alkalines
of the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco outlines provide performance
the rivals leading national alkaline
battery brands at a comparable price
find out more about the Eco alkalines
difference eco alkaline scom
broadcasting since 2007 category 5
technology TV has grown year after year
faithfully bringing viewers hundreds of
one-hour episodes focused on helping
with their tech questions assisting with
the migration to Linux and other open
source alternatives presenting new and
interesting tech products and providing
insightful interviews and demonstrations
all this is provided free of charge we
are now in our 7th season and it's time
to improve the viewing experience make
the show look and sound great we
continue our focus on fun educational
broadcasting stand with us as we build a
brand new studio for category 5
technology TV bringing category 5 TV to
the world with better visuals full 1080p
video and a permanent sound isolated
studio we have big dreams and we want
you to be a part of them please support
category 5 technology TV visit cat5 TV /
studio to be a part of our crowdfunding
campaign for a limited time with
contributor perks brought to you in part
by category 5 technology TV back to
nature compostable garbage bags eco
alkalines environmentally responsible
batteries free play human powered
devices nettalk duo too with free calls
to the USA and canada and no monthly
phone bill and the android-powered
rikomagic mini pc we thank you for your
support please visit
five dot TV / studio today this is
category 5 technology TV welcome to the
show oh I'm lieutenant commander
Ferguson and I am Commander dareyes I
want to start off by thanking all of the
viewers who have sent in donations this
week we're about halfway through is that
right half oh well we're we're just
starting up really as far as timing goes
we are two weeks into the fundraiser
just to kind of kick start things get
things going cat five dot TV / studio
but we do have 32 days left so just a
little bit more than a month for the
entire duration of the fundraiser really
really exciting stuff you know sash and
I know what's going on behind the scenes
and what word what we're up to but we
want to share some of that with you all
the exciting things that are happen now
now of course you know I should start
off by saying you know we do have to
raise a lot of money in order to do this
it's eighty eight thousand five hundred
dollars for category five technology TV
and we do not ask for money often from
our viewers because this is a free show
but what we want to do is we want to
take it to the next level and really
propel category five into the next you
know season seven seas an eighth season
9 season 10 it's hard to believe like
this is season seven here we are we've
got all this amazing stuff to come one
of those things is that we're working
with technology that will allow us to
work in a virtual reality 3d studio set
is is cool stuff mind-blowing stuff
because we have a fairly limited amount
of space here category five right so as
you can imagine that means we're
basically sitting at a desk and that's
the only space that we have and up until
now we have literally been confined to a
desk and that's where we are with a
virtual reality 3d set we can actually
be in this enormous set but it's all
virtual and it's it looks real then it
acts real and it's interactive with us
in it to you the viewers it's going to
look just as real as anything else but
amazingly it's still the same small
space that we're working within so
that's something that we're working
toward check out cat five dot TV /
studio as Sasha's said thank you so much
to everybody who has supported us thus
far if everybody who's watching this
we're just to give
25 ten dollars we would be there and
that's amazing Sasha are you ready to
show off what this gray wall can do I
sure AM this is the most amazing
technology this is this is not ours this
is something that has been sent to us in
order to demonstrate to you some of the
technology that is coming to studio d
here at category 5 technology TV before
we fire up this beautiful screen I want
to say thanks to John Malone oski also
guy Cochran you can check out their
websites John Nolen osky calm and dve
store calm respectively and if you miss
those i will post the links in the show
notes for episode number 3 19 this is
chrome at from reflect media it looks
like just a grey screen right and that's
what the cameras pick up that's what
everything picks up but we have this
neat little thing with a little power
switch mm-hmm and even though this is
just a grace screen behind us watch what
happens ready now we're back in studio
see here we are that's reflect media's
chrome at and that's something that we
will be introducing in studio D at
category 5 technology TV something that
I'm very very excited about the quality
of you see that the background is
stunning quality and we are kind of a
little bit fuzzy and that is because we
still are using the consumer camera and
as you know from our campaign that is
going to be changed as well we're going
to be upgrading to a full 1080p feed
with new professional grade cameras as
well so everything's going to look just
absolutely amazing do you need to see
that again Dennis Kelly which ones real
it's basically the latest technology
when it comes to chroma key what's nice
about this and so just so that you
understand what's amazing about reflect
media is because it is in fact a grey
screen okay it we are able to put
ourselves into a virtual environment
with no spill so you don't see any green
reflecting on to our outfits or our
blonde co-hosts sometimes we have
problems with the green reflecting on
their blonde hair so then their hair
disappears that's a big problem that's
not going to happen with chrome app from
reflect media also as you can see we
didn't bring any more lighting into the
studio with green screen traditional
chroma key green screen technology one
of the real tough things when you're
working in a small space is that yes you
have to have a green wall and a green
backdrop but you also have to have a lot
of extra lighting generates a lot of
heat and it generates it takes up a lot
of space here we haven't added any extra
lighting and yet you see there's no
ghosting around my fingers or anything
it looks really really great even with
the consumer camera so it's very very
exciting technology and that's that's
one of the things that we're bringing to
category 5 so it blows my mind isn't
that cool so leave this on tonight
excellent yeah we might even spice
things up just a little bit lightly
should we we shed what we talked a
little bit about how we can place
ourselves even though we're sitting in
this really confined space now we can in
fact place ourselves in a much larger
space for example to be appropriate to
tonight's episode this is the cosplay
special by the way happy Halloween happy
yes yeah here we go folks
all right on with the show enjoy
excellent all right I'd like to start by
saying category 5 TV is a member of the
tech podcast network if it's tech it's
here and international association of
internet broadcasters Thank You Sasha
you are well we have a Google+ Hangout
happening after the show tonight stick
around Sasha and I will be here to
answer your questions will be talking a
little bit with you our viewers about
the fundraiser that's going on a cat5 TV
/ studio but also we just want to hang
out with you and chat about basically
anything at all that is non-technical
we're not going to be talking tech at
that point we're just going to be
hanging out with our community so join
us after the show also do check out our
mobile website just over the captain's
chair there and we've got cat five dot
TV scan that code or visit the website
and you'll be able to visit our new and
improved mobile website very nice I'm
welcome to our new registered viewers to
shine shadow and jus glue v g CL you bi
welcome to the show thanks for joining
us here category 5 technology TV we have
been working hard I've been working hard
to improve our distribution here at
category 5 this is all a part of our
growth through season 7 through season
you know the seasons to come one of the
things that we've been working on is
improving the speed of our RSS feeds of
the delivery and also the reliability so
if you're watching this through miro
internet TV you should notice that
things are screaming fast now you can
download the episodes a lot quicker than
you ever have been able to before and in
fact our RSS feed systems are now so
fast that they're capable of streaming
HD video directly to thousands and tens
of thousands of views viewers
simultaneously so that's going to take
us to the next step which is
distribution through roku and all of
these different amazing technologies so
make sure you stay on top of that but
very excited to to announce the
improvements please let us know what you
think live at category five dot TV when
you notice the difference and check out
my blog bald nerd calm and learn
more about what we've been up to all
right what I guess it's time to take a
look at some cool software that we've
been looking at one of the things that
we've really been keeping a focus on his
backups back up your back up back up
your backup of your backup very very
important stuff when we have things like
cryptolocker looking their way if you do
not back up you will be taught by the
universe why you ought to backup kind it
seems that way right I have lost my
pictures two times in my life no now I
back up Oh actually well now I will back
up all right we're going to look at a
piece of software tonight that you can
install on windows or linux and
technically it's made for servers but
it's going to work for you on your
desktop as well because linux
technically is a server operating system
even on the desktop level you're able to
do some really really cool stuff so i'm
going to bring up my computer display
here and let's take a look at what we
have up here oh this is linux and what i
want to do i'm gonna bring up my web
browsers are going to direct you to a
website here okay cat five dot TV / and
I've set up a quick link for you and
that is simply server backup cat five
dot TV / server backup and this is in
fact going to take you to I Dara's
website and we're going to learn how to
set up this software what's really
really cool about this sasha is that
it's available for you for free nice
yeah it will back up one linux system
one window system absolutely free now if
you want to get into backing up entire
network say you administer a network
kind of environment this is a great
piece of software for you to check out
we're kind of evaluating it to be honest
with you at this point we're taking a
look at it giving it you know feeling
the water see what it's like but i'd
encourage you to give it a try as well
and report back to us so that we can
then relay to our community what the
kind of findings we we have our and then
we can give a nice unbiased review of
this software so on my screen I want to
actually
set this up on debian i'm using point
linux as you can see up on the big
display there in front of me so with
point linux this is technically debian
seven so debian seven being you know
what a lot of operating systems are
based on ubuntu is based on debian there
are you know a lot of different linux
distros that are based on debian so when
I say we're going to do this on debian
it really will work for any debian based
linux operating system that said I dare
a server backup free is also a bit
available as I mentioned for microsoft
windows as well as other Linux
distributions so I'm going to show you
how to get to that it is right on the I
dara website ide are a calm and I know
that it's hard to see because it's so
far in front of me there you go it's I'd
erycom and on that website we're going
to go products and then over at backup
and maintenance you'll see server backup
free just below just beyond my head
there ok so you can go there on any
other platform server backup free and
that will give you all the information
about that allow you to download it for
free and install it so tonight because
we're on a debian based computer i can
actually do this using apt-get the
reason we want to do that is apt-get
will Allah I'm pardon me allow us to
update the software as they release
updates automatically beautiful
mechanism for doing that ok so nice and
easy following the directions we can
just simply copy the first line of
configuring our apt repository there are
other ways to do that and if you
understand what you're doing what it is
that it's doing you can you can do it
however you want is just adding an apt
repository so what I'm going to do is
I'm going to actually follow the
directions but I know that I need to do
sudo in point Linux in debian you're
going to in fact type su which is just
like that and hit enter and enter your
password with debbie with ubuntu or
point linux we're going to use sudo and
then paste that command so pseudo echo
and then the line for there
posite Orie into my sources list file
and all that's done I thought sudo would
do it for me permission denied so we can
launch a you know what I'll try cess you
is as you gonna do it for me know pluma
let's try pluma wonder why it wasn't
prompting me for my sudo password so
sudo is working now let's try again
permission denied EDC apt sources list
there it is sources list so sudo pluma
sources don't list let's try doing this
manually okay so we've just seen a
little issue there with echoing directly
into our sources list file from the
terminal so there's a plan B then yeah
yeah and this is what i mean by if you
know what you're doing you don't
necessarily have to do with the way
they're showing you so I'm gonna
actually show you an alternative way all
the way they're showing you on the site
don't done actually work hey on this
particular distro someone like me would
have a meltdown that's fine maybe I
missed something yeah I don't know but
let's let's take a look at what's
actually okay going on here and i'll
zoom right in on the screen here so that
you can give it a good luck so instead
what I'm going to do I'm going to copy
the Debian repository which looks like
that I'm going to just copy that line
because what it's telling it to do is
save that line to EDC apt sources list
okay so I'm going to put that at the end
of the file save it we're good to go now
we can do the rest of it okay close that
and now the rest of the commands that is
giving you here this is to get the key
for their repository so let's do that
we're going to first go into CD / TMP
because their command is actually going
to download a file here paste that
command hit enter now the file has been
downloaded for their repository key
which makes it so that you don't have to
you don't get error messages paste the
next line says it can only be done as
root so I'm going to try sudo again
there we go now it says okay now we're
going to go sudo apt-get update and we
should now have the new repository for
this program okay so next up we're going
to install the package again copy and
paste but you'll notice that they are
doing this with the assumption that you
are su on debian we're going to do this
actually using sudo so which key has
expired says that the signatures are
invalid but we should still be okay to
do this there we go yeah it's detecting
the repository and the software that we
need I'm going to see ya that error
message there that it can't be
authenticated is because apparently the
key that we just downloaded and
installed is obsolete or maybe expired
they'll likely fix that as soon as they
realize it okay so that's all there is
to installing the software it's coming
down the wire we don't have to install a
disk we don't have to order it online
and wait for them to send us a floppy
right or a CD it's on it's laggy it's
yeah it's coming through right now it's
installing onto our system really really
simple step-by-step guide but sometimes
you do run into little issues there
where maybe just maybe something that
they have said didn't quite work but
it's easy enough to get around that if
you understand what the commands are
that you're typing at that point I would
definitely be emailing you yeah that's
fine you can to live at category 5 TV
and we'll help you will get it set up
for you so the first thing that we did
is we added their repository which is
basically a place where they store their
software for distribution to our sources
list file which is where apt a software
installation program gets its
information for what files are available
to install so by adding it to that and
then doing apt-get update now we can do
apt-get install and then the name of
their program and it will install it
from their server we don't have to wait
for a disk or anything like
back so there we go it's all done
installing and we can just go through
the next steps let's see what the next
one is okay so apt-get install server
backup free the next step is they want
you to type help I guess if you really
want to see what the different options
are it will tell you let's go sudo seems
everything kind of needs superuser do
sudo in point linux so keep that in mind
all right so that is cool that's good to
go help just shows us the output now I
Dara if you remember from episode number
i believe it was 272 i'll want to
confirm that maybe somebody can do that
in the chat room episode 2 72 of
category 5 technology TV yes the
ultimate backup enhancer for linux and
what we talked about there was a program
called hot copy and it really is amazing
because it allows you to backup your
hard drive and the content of your hard
drive without having to close anything
so you can have a running virtual
machine back everything up while it's
still running and then have a bootable
backup now I Dara is the company that
makes that and I there is the company
that makes this backup software and lo
and behold they actually use hot copy at
the back end of this backup software so
it's amazing because it will do all the
same kind of stuff but with a front end
GUI okay step two is how to back how to
install it manually now we don't need to
do that you'll see we can actually
proceed to step number three because we
used app get so we're not going to
actually do any of the step to stuff it
continue on till we get to step 3 here
we go okay we need to set up our desired
username and all that kind of stuff so
let's copy that line and we're going to
manipulate it at the terminal I'm going
to go sudo and then paste the line and
let's change user where it says desired
username where I'm going to set this to
you know you can set that to whatever
you like make it something strong i'm
just going to use Robbie for the
username and for the password i'm going
to use password one just to nobody will
ever
ass just to kind of make fun of some of
the things that we learned on the show
maybe if you make the s's fives it'll be
safe yes okay so that's that's good it's
ready it's done ET c well we're going to
need pseudo again ET SI annette d CDP
server restart and that's going to
actually restart with the server
settings that i just created so I now
have a username and password so oh I can
actually log in now okay so we're going
to paste in again super user do and my
username was robbie and my password was
password one now it tells me I need to
restart again well I can just push up
twice because I've already done that
there we go let's taking a bit longer
this time and it started and it doesn't
look like there were any errors that's
good okay so next up okay now i'm logged
in we need to actually configure the
ports so i'm going to just use the
default by copying the next command and
see how easy this is to just copy and
paste they've made it so easy there we
go oh and they need me to restart the
server again but notice that unlike and
nothing against windows users but unlike
a windows machine when I need to restart
it's a simple command yeah I don't have
to reboot the whole computer right how
annoying would that be I know nothing
except windows at this point in my life
well you know when you install something
you've got to reboot exactly so you've
got to close all your stuff save your
documents that you got to open reboot
the whole computer wait for it to come
up once it's up you're good to go here
i've restarted three times in all of
five seconds how easy is that i haven't
had to restart the whole computer i've
just started the particular service in
question so now i believe because I've
just set port 8080 moment of truth let's
see what happens if i go to localhost
colon 8080 there we go I dara server
backup free is running on my computer
nothing to it I'm done
I'm not actually done but I'm just
saying it's an okay what am I not done
now I mentioned that it uses hot copy so
we actually need to configure hot copy
as our final absolute final step we just
need to install the kernel modules it's
so super easy okay there it is step 4
install server backup linux device
driver again they've made it so easy you
can test the connectivity we already
know that it's good okay we need our
Linux headers which we probably already
have this is used during the
installation so let's do it anyways just
to be sure notice I've you added super
user do now I didn't have it so that's a
good thing for the sake of the
demonstration that I got the Linux
headers there we go while that's
installing I can copy the next line
which is going to actually activate hot
copy remember that similar kind of
command from HCP once the colonel
headers are done I can run hawk hawk
copies activation for the kernel driver
and then I'm done okay sudo paste now
it's gone so that process itself takes a
little bit more time it creates the
colonel package builds the modules makes
everything work with hot copy so that
your system now will support hot copy
copy again refer to episode number 272
it's a program that allows Linux
computers to basically back up anything
on the fly without having to close it
down which is brilliant when you're
working with virtual machines because
virtual machines are tough to back up
from a host level right sometimes we run
into this problem where how do we back
up a real backup of our virtual machine
well hot copy and I dara server backup
software is going to allow us to do that
on the fly with the virtual machine
running pasta so that's done and it's
warning me now it really didn't take
long did it it's warning me now again
that I need to restart and again I'm not
going to restart the computer i'm just
going to restart CDP dash server server
oh it's telling me CDP dash agent now so
i need to actually change that
agent and it says it's going to take up
to 60 seconds you think it's really to
take 60 seconds right now there we go it
only took a few seconds okay so now
we're back here at my web browser
connected to localhost colon 8080 okay
there it is now login username was
robbie and my password was the ultra
secure password one ravi password one
authentication failed what have I done
there we go there you are must have
typed strange I am a little bit
jet-lagged it was really tough you know
traveling all the way to earth so warp
speed yeah yeah and so you know I'm a
little off just a little long okay so
now that I'm in there's my dashboard
we're not going to actually get into
setting up a full backup set tonight I
want you to play around with this and
and get one going and we're going to
actually be reviewing this in a couple
weeks time you're going to see it on the
calendar at cat5 TV / calendar but play
around i'm going to give you a quick
real quick overview here just so you
know where to look first thing that you
need is you need to have disk safes set
up there you go there are your disk
saves a disk safe is like a database
file which can be encrypted and it
allows you to store your backups within
that disk safe it can be stored on any
kind of medium so I'm going to create a
new disk save it okay give it a name
Robbie's backup safe okay because we
have multiple backups in here and tell
it where you want to save it so this
would be / mount / whatever device you
know could be whatever / backups you
know something like that you can put it
anywhere you like home Robbie desktop
don't do that because you know it's the
same local system but backups directory
does not exist okay create it
and that's going to actually create the
disc safe the disc safe now is a place
for me to store my backups so once I've
done that now I can create a policy
which is going to take a different
approach than your regular backup your
regular backup you're going to tell it
what you want to backup and it backs it
up okay I dare a server backup free
instead takes the approach that we're
backing up the entire medium we're going
to back up every the whole drive
including the boot sectors and
everything and you would actually select
what you want to exclude so it's kind of
an inverse of the typical backup that
you're used to so you'll see here up on
the viewer in front of me that the disk
safe has been successfully created so
I'm gonna hit okay you'll see Robbie's
backup safe is now up there there it is
and we can start using it so we can
create our policy which is going to be
found over here on the left-hand side at
the bottom and policies are ready to go
create a new policy give it a name we'll
just call this main drive select your
disk safe that you want to save it to
it's going to be Robbie's backup safe
and then check out your retention
settings you're going to play with that
a little bit later we're going to walk
through that in a future episode and
then the file excludes are going to
actually give you all of the files that
are being backed up and you can in fact
exclude things that you don't want to
include for example my TMP folder I may
want to simply omit that from my backup
this is not really necessary so that is
in a nutshell how to get installed with
I dara server backup free give it a try
it's cat5 TV / server backup pretty
exciting software as you can see it was
quite easy to get it installed up and
running we're doing it here live on the
Starship Enterprise now of course we're
from the 24th century and the computers
here are screaming fast that's right but
fortunately we're able to piggyback off
of your internet down below we're good
like that works yeah yes okay so do
check out our website category 5 TV cat5
TV / calendar to stay on top of we
haven't actually booked the review yet
because I'm actually meeting with the
people from my Dara about the software
I'll go over some of the some of the
features of that so if you have any
specific questions get them to me today
live at category 5 TV and I will extend
those two I Dara and and we'll take it
from there perfect cool excellent right
well it is time before we get into your
viewer questions are you ready I am
ready take her away here are the top
stories from the category 5 TV news room
phone batteries that recharging minutes
and last for weeks could result from
work on silicon supercapacitors great
yeah really awesome created by American
scientists the components exploit
properties of carefully engineered
silicon slices to hold and quickly
deliver a charge renewable energy
sources could also benefit from work on
the cheaper super capacitors and silicon
components should be easy to add to
existing chip production systems set the
researchers which means you'd be able to
charge your batteries very quickly and
they would last for a long time they
make it sound so great but here on the
enterprise we've had that for years it's
nothing new just like a bunch of kids
just like a couple of kids that's cool
because i think it's annoying that you
have to charge your cell phone a
thousand times a day just to be able to
take a call I and I I have three kids
folks every day can i play on your ipod
and that's i love to let you play with
my ipod but i've got an email coming in
and i don't have the charger with me and
it's the same story for iphone right
yeah or even the android devices any
modern device so wouldn't be nice if you
could charge something that quickly and
i'd have it last that's the thing i
don't mind charging for overnight but i
want it to last absolutely yeah absolute
so when you pick up a phone call yeah
you can actually take the phone call it
is after all a phone and if it's
supposed to be a smart phone they built
it with the email and with internet
surfing and with Angry Birds and what's
magic at all those things yeah so if it
can't handle those things as well as
take phone calls then they're doing
something wrong mm-hmm plain and simple
they're turning that around perhaps one
of the most popular third-party
repositories for Ubuntu and other
derivatives has been shut down now we
learned about what a repository is
tonight this is a little bit of sad news
because these guys have been around
forever like since 2006 that was the
early days of ubuntu so midi bhuntu has
actually been providing non-free
software such as DVD codecs so that you
can watch DVDs on linux adobe reader
Google Earth they've been providing
these through repositories to Linux
users they close down the repository
this month stating that the packages
were either obsolete unnecessary or
moved to the official ubuntu archive
here's the thing since lib DVD CSS
that's the codec that allows you to play
dvds on linux they've been available
pardon me made available by video land
now it seemed that the project maintain
errs just thought it's time to call it
quits users who now receive an error
when updating their apt repository
information may want to disable the
meaty boon to repositories in their
package manager keep in mind that any
programs that you had previously
installed with me t boone two will still
exist on your system they just won't be
able to get the updates that's all hmm a
sad dad that is a sad moment hmm Chaz
Linux you might be interested in this
blackberry has announced that its
blackberry messenger BBM apps for
Android and iOS have already been
downloaded more than 20 million times
yeah it means it now has more than 80
million active users globally across
Blackberry Android and iPhone devices
it's a big deal 80 million active users
blackberry relaunched the Android and
iOS apps last week after problems with a
rogue version of the Android app forced
blackberry to suspend the rollout for
almost a month like problems with
blackberry sad mm-hmm but typical BBM
quickly rose to the ranking through the
rankings on the App Store to become the
number one free app in 107 countries and
the top free app in 35 countries in
google play during its first week wow i
can tell you i keep seeing people
message me their new BBM pins and i
don't have it yeah i don't have this BBM
cuz i just thought it was some you know
i think it's the first time in a long
time that we've seen a smart hand dealt
by blackberry yeah i hate to say it but
there's been some really poor decisions
over the past three or four years I have
never had a blackberry and correct me if
I'm wrong but is BBM just text I think
it's like their messaging yes so if I
can text you yes why why but i want to
thank you that yeah i think really what
it boils down to is that blackberry has
always been respected for the fact that
their texts are secure encrypted Oh
private so the sender is sending a
message directly to the recipient it
goes through their servers it's
encrypted and nobody else can read it
nobody can spy upon them only the NSA so
you know that's that's just like
everything else mm-hmm but who knows I
mean I could be a good card because
blackberry is now saying okay we're
going to put our software on to other
competing devices and if that's the case
then all of a sudden I don't have to buy
a blackberry because guess what it's not
in hardware anymore right the hardware
isn't where the money is it's yeah I
like rim I like them because they're
Canadian their local they're very local
really but they made some really bad
decisions I think in my opinion
the last few years when it came to you
know the release of iphones and and then
android devices and they were really
holding on to past success rather than
pushing the envelope and pushing into
future success and now they're seeing
you know the failure of their platform
and their devices mm-hmm and so you know
we saw it coming now they're saying okay
let's figure something else out let's
put our software which is what makes
everybody want to use blackberry anyways
on everyone else's platform me we can
make some money there perfect yeah
except it's free app is it free is
anything free it is well they're putting
up free internet and Barry and it's like
is it really free who's listening to the
data right putting the app settings on
so what you're saying is if it's a free
app then perhaps it's not a secures I
don't know that it's not secure i think
that there's going to be something about
it that they have to make money if this
is their bailout plan mm-hmm and it's
got to make money somehow whether it be
advertising or or what and usually when
something is free guess what you see
that add down there please click it cuz
you know really that's paying the bills
right so that's how it works speaking of
kind of mobile devices and all this kind
of stuff google has remained very
tight-lipped as you know about you know
any entrance into the SmartWatch kind of
line of products but now a new report
about another wearable gadget directly
from Google is actually kind of being
leaked through the wall street journal
they sighted people familiar with the
matter Google's apparently they say that
google smartwatch powered by android of
course is in late-stage development we
could actually see this thing in
production in mass production within the
next couple of months so here we are you
know maybe Christmas time you think
maybe it's going to be early 2014 we're
not really sure it is android-powered
and the device is reportedly going to
integrate the google now personal
assistant system and it's being built to
reduce power consumption and eliminate
the need for frequent charging so
there's that again like competing
products Google
smartwatch will communicate with a cell
phone and be able to sync useful
information such as appointment
reminders travel schedules things like
that and is this the way that things are
going that now it's not all having to be
built into your cell phone now we can
have a watch that does some of those
things my calendaring my schedule my
alarms and and even a little bit of
email and stuff like that hmm so that
i'm not drawing all the resources from
my phone i'm not draining my battery to
check my facebook messages because i can
do that on my watch now through a
bluetooth connection how exactly love
that especially at work i would love
that i'm just looking at the time really
yeah over time is it nobody hilarious
nobody's ever been so interested in the
time ever before it will be when the
google smartwatch but it could it be
that we're all becoming Dick Tracy and
we've got all of our devices and we've
got all of our you know stuff that is
wirelessly connected to our telephone
which the smartphone now becomes a
little bit less of having to constantly
pull it out of your pocket every time
you get a ding no you can just look at
your watch and say oh it was unimportant
or whatever it is maybe it is important
but you don't have to keep pulling us
out of your pocket that's how things get
broken i like it i also want one of
those for Christmas excellent well you
can get the full stories at category 5
TV / newsroom this week the category 5
TV news room is researched by roy w nash
with contributions by our community of
viewers if you have a news story that
you think is worthy of on-air mention
email newsroom at category five dot TV
for the category 5 TV news room i am
commander drew Matus can and i'm
lieutenant commander ferguson nice to
have you here joining us at category 5
technology TV tonight and I'd like to
say hello to all of our viewers who are
joining us from miro internet TV also
roku you're watching us on the blip TV
channel also on the tech podcast network
channel it's nice to have you here and
know that we are going to be launching
our very own
HD channel on the Roku device we're very
much looking forward to that also people
watching through first run TV and you
and YouTube it's so good to have you
here sorry losing it there for just the
thing it's all this phase I out in space
I have to say it's good to have some
water yeah yeah all right we have
incoming written communication here
bring it on from ABQ tky hey yeah okay
he says or she Robbie please accept my
apology for several weeks before
registering an apology accepted yes
before registering I was able to watch
the show via Roku and all seemed fine
that I just broke down and registered
and since then I've noticed both audio
and video anomalies repeatedly I wonder
if it was just a fluke you think was at
the top of season 7 because when seasons
haven't started we brought in all new
staff we're working to get things ready
for the fundraiser and we had a one of
our microphone cables got busted and so
there was static sounds I don't think it
was cuz he registered I think it was
just that was the nature of live
television unfortunately oh well that's
good yeah and song right how do we sound
tonight how do we how do I know that my
microphone was a little dodgy right off
the top but i think i got it figured it
oh good okay i think let me know also um
topic change he says point linux could
it be a point linux anomaly or
catastrophe that everything seems to
default and revert to revert paper size
to a for repeatedly they don't have a
for wherever they may be carefully as
you can he sets the paper size to letter
and repeatedly it doesn't stick so is
that something that he will constantly
need to be reconfigured I wonder if you
need to launch the printer modification
dialogue and I don't have a printer
installed on my computer if you need to
run it as superuser which let's see if
there's an easy way to do that I'm not
sure if it does or not
but in the printing dialogue unfortunate
i don't really print a lot of stuff and
I don't have a printer connected to my
computer but if you are running a super
user and then save the settings then it
should save it globally for all the
users what I think might be happening is
you're setting it for the user that's
running and then when you reboot you
lose those settings because it's not
saved within kind of the the system
configuration of that printer but it's
really tough to say that might be
something where we could remote in using
teamviewer and take a look perhaps
during off hours and I can record the
session and see if we can get it fixed
for you and then we'll play it back the
following week that might be a good idea
consider that let me know pop me an
email live at category five dot TV
people in the chat room especially
mastermind zah kind of confused about
the fact that the commanding officer
here at on the enterprise is in fact
sitting at a con and reading over things
like communications and truthfully the
crew is on shore leave right now and so
you know we thought we would give them a
break and so commander tomatoes has been
nice enough to step in my poker together
and I'm a great commander for the people
yeah no yeah I don't like the Shia ranks
me I mean I've been down you know trying
to get into her job for quite some time
but it's what happens do you love that i
outrank you in fact i'm pretty sure i
will wear this you just always yeah this
is how i turn them into Trekkies folks
yeah i don't actually want to say what
I'm thinking but I maybe have watched
maybe five episodes total in my entire
life that's five more than you did what
a year ago yeah that's true that's true
i'm trying to get in i'm trying to get
into it I am I think this is going to
help this might help I'll just put on my
commander onesie haha sit there with the
popcorn would be great I super awesome
pjs thinking about converting you to
wonderful things like Star Trek
there's something else that we've been
you know talking about I have asked for
and I realized it is a little ways away
but it's never too early to start asking
for Christmas presents I have asked for
a laptop for Christmas and I am going to
put linux on it and learn Linux because
as of now all I know is windows yes
however I am completely overwhelmed
which means that i will be bringing my
laptop in here and having both Robbie
and everyone help me everybody one min
chat room help me with my linux question
and what do you use the computer for I
mean realistically everything that you
need is gonna be on linux like you surf
the internet i do use facebook yes i do
the internet and email and all of that
right now i don't have a computer all i
have is a little tiny smartphone it's
not really that small but let me tell
you i have been sending the most kurt
short non polite emails possible because
i have big ol fingers compared to the
letters nothing else yeah it's my screen
so Robbie sends me this really nice
fabulous email I'm like yeah it's so
detailed and verbose exactly loquacious
even yes and then I'm just like yep
ten-four why don't you answer my
questions yeah oh that's cool I can't
wait to put linux on it for you so hmm
we're all laptop let's just hope i get
it now that is publicly asked for it
across the land there you go across the
universe really the galaxy galaxy class
we are being hailed by paulo Serero
first of all thank you for a very good
program about linux i really enjoy and
try not to miss any episodes speaking of
linen that's our pleasure poem now the
problem wipe I recently have a new
laptop with windows 8 pre-installed with
a recovery partition and a EU fi the
problem is i want to install linux is a
dual boot with windows 8 and keep the
recovery partition I've tried to install
Linux with no success with or without
boot secure
and now another problem after the
upgrade to Windows 8.1 I have annoyed an
annoying message in the desktop that the
boot secure is off I think this problem
this is a problem that many of your
viewers might also be struggling with so
can we discuss and solve hopefully
during the program that's tough i mean
because we're talking UEFI microsoft has
said oh here's a great way to protect
you from hackers gaining access to your
bios and being able to rewrite your boot
partition but guess what it also means
you can't install competing os's very
easily that can be a real pain hmm
debian has an article i'm going to bring
it up here it is let's see if I can type
this in for ulong hand you can follow
along i'm going to put it in the show
notes for episode number 3 19 as well
WWD bein org slash releases / stable /
Debian installer there it is up on the
big screen it's all about installing
debian 7 and if you look we're going to
do a quick search for UEFI and you'll
see that there are potential issues with
UEFI booting on an AMD 64 system and
there are some good suggestions here on
what you can do of course one of those
is that you can actually switch off UEFI
in your BIOS and run as a legacy BIOS or
in fall back fall back mode that's a
good solution to make it work but it's
not the ideal way to solve the problem I
think that you could follow along with
some of the information that's here and
and hope for the best get into some
communities for the distro of choice
whatever distro that you're using I
think if you're using debbie and get
into the debian forms it and use some of
the documentation that got excellent
documentation Ubuntu has a spectacular
ubuntuforums and you know you go there
it's community driven people ask and
answer questions all the time that would
be a good good way to do it
can't really walk you through how to fix
a UF UEFI issue on the air like this but
that's the problem is as you buy new
hardware these days you almost want to
first find out has this been tested with
Linux because it's not the Linux is
anything less than any other operating
system it's that Microsoft and the
developers of the hardware have put this
stuff in the place to try to prevent the
ability to install other operating
systems okay so when I'm asking for a
laptop should I be asking for a specific
one I guess it like I don't know what do
you guys think in the community I think
preferably something that is not windows
8 locked down right because any you know
a lot of the laptop so you get retail
these days are going to be windows 8 and
so they're built almost to be appliances
where you can't really get Windows 8 out
of there because it's actually not just
part of the hard drive it's now a part
of the bios but if you can disable that
if you can disable the UEFI features of
your bios and going to a legacy mode
then quite possibly to be able to
install without problem in this
particular instance i think though paulo
is trying to do a dual boot which is
kind of tough when you have that kind of
a situation because windows 8 wants it
to be this way linux wants it to be this
way and they can't kind of coexist so
you almost have to switch the bios
around every time you reboot the
computer depending on which OS you want
to use not an ideal situation so mmm
good luck keep us posted okay and I'm i
hope that debian is able to give you a
hand and I guess it depends on which
which distribution you're looking for
too all right I'll Peck has asked during
last week's show episode 3 17 weeks a
couple of weeks now near the end of the
cryptolocker discussion you mentioned
something about having a CFS but never
elaborated can you please CFS I wonder
if you mean cifs which is connecting to
like a windows network share
previously a samba share for example if
that's the case that's what I would have
been talking about I don't know what the
reference is to cifs Samba being able to
connect to a network mass device windows
file share on your network cryptolocker
in this particular instance the fear
when you have let's say I have probably
what I was saying and I'm trying to
think back to the episode if I have a
folder on my linux computer say my
documents okay so that folder is
actually shared using cifs which allows
windows computers to access that folder
think samba okay then if cryptolocker
gets infected on one of your windows
computers and those computers have
access to your cifs shared folder on
your linux computer then even though
linux is not susceptible to cryptolocker
and windows viruses the files that are
in that share will be destroyed because
the windows computer has access to the
CIFS shared folder on your linux
computer so you lose the protection the
linux provides because windows has
access to write to that folder I think
that might be what I was talking about
okay well that's a little clearer for
you thanks for the question I'll pack
excellent we have time for one more I
think so alright this is from old salt
my pastor has a television ministry and
broadcasts to Canada you may have heard
of it souls Harbor very cool I've been
talking to him about linux and he seems
interested my question to you is does
linux have a distro set up for
broadcasting and which distro do you use
if so and finally is there anything
specific i should be telling him ok
first of all yeah anything specific in
four minutes early fight the machine man
we we like freedom and i think that
anybody in the world prefers freedom and
linux gives you freedom when it comes to
your computer right so this there is i
do
there's a feeling of freedom when you
run linux because it's yours and you're
able to manipulate it and set it up the
way that you want it to be so that's
kind of a part of what makes Linux so
great it's not just free as in hey you
don't have to pay for it it's also free
like freedom so you gotta like that as
far as a distro for broadcasting not too
sure let's see what I can come up with
of course there is ubuntu studio org
studio org lubuntu studio is a long time
distribution based on ubuntu as you can
imagine and a boon to studio is designed
specifically for multimedia users so if
we go into the feature tour for example
you'll see that there are specifically
you know sections for audio graphics
video photography and publishing so if
you're doing video for example we go in
there and you'll notice that ubuntu
studio in fact comes kind of
pre-configured to be able to do some of
the multimedia stuff that otherwise with
most linux distributions you'd have to
install separately it is based you know
all on free software so you can get
these things in other distributions as
well but a boon to studio i think is the
one that is pre-configured for that kind
of thing multimedia use xubuntu pardon
me ubuntu studio org that's you bu NTU
studio dot org and i'll put links for
you in the show notes for episode number
3 19 319 mmm thanks for the question hey
we have a Google+ Hangout immediately
following the show we've got to wrap up
some files and things like that it
probably take me about 10 15 minutes and
then we'll be live on google+ hangouts
live on air so you can watch that on our
youtube channel if you're unable to get
on to google plus otherwise join us on
our Google+ hangout at cap 5 TV / g + SG
p lus x
next week Erica lalonde is on yeah and
we got to talk to you about how you can
win a boatload of eco alkalines
batteries on next week's show
incidentally I don't know if you realize
this but we talked about how the
technology of the future is here on the
Enterprise bridge but did you realize
that on the spaceship we are actually
everything is powered by eko alkaline
uh-huh because in the future we care
about the earth a lot more than the 21st
century folk so they last and last I've
got a boatload of these things to give
away literally I'm talking I hope dozens
doesn't say I'm going to watch next
week's show and make sure that it is a
boatload you best be display we're gonna
have to bring it out in a boat in a boat
but seriously sushi boats like we're
talking well over a year supply here
like it you want everybody's got to buy
batteries throughout the year right so
you might as well get a box from us and
eco alkaline scom is going to be here
we're giving it away so what I need you
to do if you're joining us live right
now in the chat room I needed to tell me
your state simply state it right now and
the time stamp is 759 so we're going to
watch for that that is going to be your
ballot now if you're watching this after
the fact all you have to do is email us
live at category five dot TV email us
your state and that of course state or
province I should say so if you're from
Ontario just write us an email says
Ontario and if you're from wherever New
Jersey New Jersey just email us it's
just new jersey there you go how do you
like that reference ok folks well what
else we got for you studio clocks change
this weekend so if your clocks do not
change between now and episode number
320 you need to note that the time is
going to be different for you on the
show so it's on our website you'll be
able to see the countdown make sure
you're here it's been fun it's
great have you enjoyed yourself I've had
a blast have you don't forget all this
can be ours and more I mean we're just
playing tonight but really just the
technology that allows us to do this is
a big part of our studio build cat five
dot TV / studio and we'd love to have
you participate in that this week only
one thing left to do Sasha would you
like to take over the con and fly this
thing I would love to
we hope you enjoy the show category 5 TV
broadcasts live from very ontario canada
every tuesday at seven pm eastern if
you're watching this on demand or from
cable TV check out the local show times
in your area at category 5 TV and find
out when you can watch live and interact
in the community chat room category 5 is
a production of privacy digital
solutions and is licensed under creative
commons attribution 2.5 canada we'll see
you next time thanks for tuning in
