all right welcome back as promised we
have the Nano PI M for today and get one
of these a cat5 TV slash nano pi this
one was contributed to category 5 TV by
marsh man we thank you marsh man very
much for sending this in or bringing it
in to us actually making the drive he
drove eight hours to bring this to us
folks and here it is let's get into the
box this is a rockchip rk3288 Earth's
and it has a quad core as well cortex
a53 up to 1.5 so a total of 6 cores and
look at that first thing I notice is it
has a ton of little micro resistors and
everything else but look at the flipside
you don't often see that where wow
they've in order to cram so much into
such a small form-factor
they've double-sided this SPC so there's
the rockchip rk3288 6/4 GPU and it will
run up to 60 frames per second in 4k on
the bottom here we've got a microSD slot
for the operating system now there isn't
a standard emmc port on here but there
is a port here and I'm not sure if
that's proprietary or just a different
interface but it's not the standard emmc
port but it does support emmc you just
need the either an adapter I suppose or
a specific module for the nano PI it has
dual channel I mentioned a little
earlier tonight that it has up to 4
gigabytes of RAM you can choose whether
you want to gig or 4 gigs so even their
base model has twice as much RAM as a
Raspberry Pi 3 B plus it's 1866 LP ddr3
memory it has native Gigabit Ethernet so
that's going to give you
gig connection to your router and it is
a dedicated chip as far as I understand
and we've got four USB 3.0 ports so
we're looking at a little SBC here that
is like screaming fast it's USB three
and there's four of them it also has a
USB C over here that can be used to
either power it or you can use you can
use your OTG connecting cables and
adapters and things like that if you did
that I suppose you'd have to power it
over the GPIO and speaking of the GPIO
it's a 40 pin so Raspberry Pi style it's
also got you our SPI and a whole bunch
of other connectors here as well if you
want to add some kind of sensors or
things if you're a maker and you want to
build this thing up you can do that it
has a stereo headphone jack which also
doubles as a microphone input and of
course audio also goes out over the HDMI
if you're using an HDMI monitor plugged
into that and then I guess the only
other thing I notice here on the board
is this two pin connector here which
looks like real time clock so it's got
an RTC chip built in and by adding a
battery there even when your SBC is
powered off or disconnected from
electricity it will still be able to
remember that the time as you as I
mentioned the USBC connector is used for
power and so that means the board is
five volts and it would like a three amp
power supply and as far as accessories
go now I mentioned that your you know if
you want to go emmc
well we've got to get a specific type of
emmc we're not gonna be able to use our
standard card but one of the things is
really impressive about this one is the
heatsink this is available for an
additional seven bucks but look at that
solid aluminum that's the heatsink folks
now I mentioned that the CPU is on the
bottom so this is gonna go right on
there and that's what your SPC is gonna
look like march√© man has fired one of
these up and said you know what it
actually the heatsink gets pretty warm
so it just goes to show that hey with
this much power this thing is gonna
generate a fair bit of heat so you may
want to consider
getting yourself the heatsink now
there's some thermal pad a thermal pad
here so that's going to go on your
processor and that is going to create a
thermal connection between the heatsink
and the CPU make sure that if you've got
fingerprints on it like I have we're
gonna clean that off with a little bit
of alcohol and a clean wipe or something
before I put that thermal pad on there
and then that's going to go right on
there I can't wait to fire this thing up
and check it out we're gonna be doing
that on a future show see how it how it
performs we'll do some benchmarks and
some gaming and and see how that works
but that is the Nano PI m4 it's about 65
bucks and another seven bucks for the
heatsink and you can get that a cap 5 TB
slash nano Pi that is a very cool
computer I love it I love that heatsink
I love the single board computers are
getting like look at the power of that
thing and it's super small 4 gigs of ram
for 3.0 USB right I feel like what is my
computer I don't think my computer has
I'm sure yours doesn't really bit of a
beast but it's it is like this yeah
that's right something I can put in my
shirt pocket
[Music]
[Applause]
