welcome to episode number 304 of
category 5 technology TV i'm your host
Ravi Ferguson and I'm Abigail page we're
gonna talk more about that hey it is
Tuesday July the earth yeah the 16th I'm
so bad one day too well you know I was
like a snow it's tuesday i'm supposed to
be here obviously it's tuesday yes so
first off we're gonna do the what's
coming up in the news and you know I'm
great with news I always stumble but
it's not like rachel with the cloud so
yeah it's fair yeah Sony is dropping
their appeal of a fine for exposing
gamer data to hackers in an effort to
not expose gamer data to the courts a
hue mm-hmm a human-powered helicopter
has finally claimed a
thirty-three-year-old prize don't really
understand that but okay an app that
allows synchronized playback of audio on
all your devices is coming in august and
it's all thanks to some university
students an apparent iphone electro
cution i was looking at the word of like
I don't think I've seen that word
serious his account this is a serious
story not to make light of it navigate I
didn't read the other part okay an
apparent iphone electrocution death is
being investigated in China and finally
it's about time a Kickstarter is coming
to Canada fantastic so stick around
these stories are coming up later in the
show example yell tonight's show we are
going to learn to add some kind of
pizzazz to our text by adding synthetic
perspective using the free GNU image
manipulation program I love playing
around with the with Kim that's the name
of it and lots of fun we're gonna learn
all about tonight great so have a
question dial 25 45
five TV we have the phone we're waiting
for your call so if you have questions
call us or join us in the chat room and
its category 5 on freenode or go to cat
5 TV / asked to send in your question by
email don't go anywhere it's going to be
a thumb pulsed extolled fantastic not
great to grant a stick test this is
category 5 technology TV
at eco alkalines we believe you should
be able to trust your batteries not just
here but here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here Eco alkalines
of the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco outlines provide performance
the rivals leading national alkaline
battery brands at a comparable price
find out more about the Eco alkalines
difference Eco alkalines calm this is
category 5 technology TV and our website
is triple w category five dot TV good to
see ya Abigail the age page do you know
how much work it is to have to go back
over every page of every page our
website and change your name in every
instance I'm sorry to cause
inconvenience yes yeah yeah so it's been
a while I don't think I've been on since
March I'm not sure when was it would
have been epic well when we did the
second part of the photo bit I've been
part of the photo booth so that's quite
a while look at my notes 286 episode 286
were at 304 now so it's been a while
yeah I'm talking about yeah yeah well
hey I birthday month here category 5
July is always birthday month want to
wish Hillary a very happy birthday this
coming Friday my wife Becka who's going
to be co-hosting the show in August as
well she comes on once a year so we're
looking forward to having her on the
show but she is celebrating her birthday
on Monday as well so a lot of birthdays
until I I always lose track there's too
many people to live birth dates my
birthday's tomorrow incidentally wish
him a happy birthday come on waiting for
you I don't see anything in the chat
room yet no happy birthday Robbie
nice to see everybody great to see you
joining us in the chat room I see a
couple of new faces and people who have
been checking out the show and maybe not
signed into the chat room before love to
hear from you just pop us a note in the
chat room where you're from and if this
is your first time here great to see you
I see Bob k 54 as well as Alan and who
else have we got swl Brazil super
awesome nice to see ya like good person
super awesome person abigail was
mentioning make sure you give us call if
you have a question for us tonight 2545
cat5 TV and don't forget our mobile
website is up and running for you m dot
cat5 TV so you've got your mobile device
scan that code and you'll be able to get
on there and view the show live you'll
be able to listen to the live show it's
all there at em cat5 TV and category
five dot TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
and the international association of
internet broadcasters I think we should
welcome some of our new viewers to the
show people who have registered on our
website category five dot TV this week
we've got mark M as well as CJ Julius
trinath sweet one and Moe man 61 nice to
have you registered at category five dot
TV and it's a free service so anybody
who wants to go and register category 5
TV you get some additional bonus
features as well as admission into
drawers and things like that I think you
forgot jot though Johnson ooh is he new
ah right yeah it's that short term
memory John is one of our longest day
yours having been here since I believe
season one isn't it every single week
since season one cool okay well your
wedding is now in the past hard to
believe it will be two months soon he's
not crazy yeah time flies feel good to
be a married woman
page yeah wedding was beautiful I mean
you were stunning obviously leather too
it was perfect weather what am I I had
the privilege of following Abigail
around with a video camera you can
actually watch the wedding at category 5
TV go to Abigail's bio under about us
and you'll be able to actually watch the
wedding ceremony but yeah it was a
beautiful day the photo booth
incidentally I way mine pretty good yeah
I think it was great everybody just had
a blast and people talk to me afterwards
and said how can I get one of these
things tune in to the show and we'll
show you how to do it reason I got notes
here if you if you didn't see the photo
booth episode 2 79 is when Abigail and I
sat down and started discussing how the
photo booth was going to come together
and then on episode 286 we actually
built the thing so we designed it built
it the specs are there if you want to
build one and it did go really really
well we've got a couple of shots of the
bride and groom at in the photo booth
you can see that I mean the photos
turned out great so sweet oh she's not
sweet at all so angry Abigail but so the
photo shoot the photo booth was just
going to set up at the back of the
reception and everybody like literally
everybody all at once home host crammed
in there oh yeah as in victories like 20
people and then how did that even happen
I don't know I planned you know three
people Italy great maybe four i was
literally five for you I and there were
20 people in there and we've got the
photos to prove it but it went really
really well so if you looked at those
features episode 2 79 and episode 2 86
and you're interested in building
something similar it went really well
yeah have you printed any of the photos
they haven't printed them yet i was
looking through them the other day
though yeah turned out great yeah very
good very good well tonight Abigail I
want to take a look at how to create
perspective kind of backlighting some
text and adding some shadows and making
simply text look kind of funky we're
going to do that using GNU image
manipulation program it's a free piece
of software you can pick it up at
gimp.org if you're a linux user
gardless of what platform you're using
and go to that website gimp.org to find
out more about them I'm just bringing up
on my linux system here if you're on
Windows though you do need to go to a
special website in order to get it its
nightly dot dark refraction calm / GIMP
I'm going to type it in here for you
just so that you can see it on your
screen for those of you who are
listening i will post a link in the show
notes for episode number 4 03 / me 403
dyslexia is striking me tonight 304 okay
it is just where was I Knightly Knightly
dot dark refraction calm / kim you go to
there you're going to get the dark
refraction that is for windows okay so
these are the stable builds for windows
if you're using Mac on the other hand
now Mac is no longer officially
supported on gimp.org see you'll find
that it's not in the download section
but they do actually support it on
macports so if you go to macports or you
can install their software which allows
you to install all different
applications that have been ported to
Mac OS and that will actually give you
access to the GIMP so this is a free
alternative to say adobe photoshop for
example so i've got it up on my screen
here there we go interface is a little
bit different because you see that the
windows kind of float around you've got
a freedom there that you don't normally
have with a graphic editing tool so i'm
just going to create a new canvas i'm
going to just create this at let's say i
don't know 1280 by 720 just to keep it
simple there we go okay so it's a wide
screen image and what i'm going to do
first and foremost isn't going to create
my first gradient one of the things
about creating perspective is involves
gradients gradients really add that
you're going to see here how I'm able to
add basically a horizon line so the
first thing I want to think about is
where the horizon is going to fall in my
image so I want that to fall about
halfway so I've got black selected as my
foreground I've got white selected as my
background that's fine that's the way
it's going to be out of the box
like when you first open it up and I'm
going to select my gradient tool here
and just make sure that it is set to a
linear shape down at the bottom here you
see that it is selected as linear so now
with black as my foreground i'm going to
hold in my mouse at the top and create a
straight line going down and that's
going to actually create this kind of a
bit of a horizon type look to it now i'm
going to grab my rectangular marquee
here the rectangular select tool and
zoom out of my image just a little bit
and select where I want my horizon to be
so you see that line I can actually
select where the horizon is going to be
in my image and then i'm going to right
click and go colors levels and we're
going to Brighton which is to take the
middle thing and drag it to the left and
we're just frightening that and it's
only going to brighten the section
that's within the marquee so now if I
deselect you see that we actually have a
bit of a horizon effect going on there
oh you're so impressed so this is just a
really quick way to do this I mean I'm
just I think what I'm doing tonight is
not so much showing you how to create
this perspective for text this can be
used for logos this can be used to
create buttons and graphics that you're
going to use around the web if you're
taking product shots you can cut them
out and you can do the same kind of
effects it's really about learning how
to use the software so that you can then
take what I'm teaching you tonight and
take what you've learned from those
steps and be able to you know it
transcends what we're actually doing so
if you say well why would I need to have
perspective to text well maybe it's a
company logo maybe it's your latest
product maybe you take your you know you
want to take your thing and you want to
do the same kind of effect whatever it
might be so next up is I want to add
some kind of a well i'm going to add
text let's just keep it so often okay so
I've selected the text and I'm gonna put
in what should we put in here we use
Abigail do I need to have the copyright
mark
and I'm going to make that text a little
bit bigger over here on the right let's
make it huge like that and we want to
change the font so we select this the
font on the left hand side of this over
here on the right your tools for the
font tool and I conclude click on the ad
button on the bottom right which brings
it out into a separate window so now I
can single click on one of them and use
my arrow key to select a font that I
really like tell me when to stop Abigail
all these citric bombs yeah I haven't
installed any fonts can you tell em
let's go with something kind of logo
asking like that something that is a
little bit bold I kind of like that for
now you know just for the sake of the
demonstration you might install some
extra fonts to make it look kind of
cooler so now I'm going to take that and
I'm going to drag it so that it's not
behind the horizon we want it to
actually be within the horizon so that
it's it's actually an object that is you
see how this is adding a little bit of a
dimension if you look at that as if
that's a horizon it actually kind of
seems like it's popped forward a little
bit so now what I'm going to do is I'm
going to actually create a duplicate of
that layer i right clicked and go layer
duplicate layer and if you look at my
layers over here you'll see that I have
now two copies of the word Abigail okay
so the one that's underneath I'm going
to take that and i'm going to right
click and go layer and we're going to
transform and flip vertically so now it
is upside down if I turn on the other
one you can see that it's overlapping
each other so I'm going to turn the top
one off for a moment and I'm going to
just move this one out of the way and
now I'm going to turn the top one on and
position this kind of like that okay so
next step I'm going to highlight my kind
of the shadow here and we're going to
add a blur so I'm going to right-click
and go filters blur Gaussian blur and
will probably want that to be somewhere
around 25 or 30 gives you a nice little
preview so that you can see how that
looks and you see that it's starting to
get that kind of look
to it that it is Jojo yeah some kind of
a shadow or perhaps a reflection at this
point anyways so now what I want to do
is decrease the opacity of that shadow
by simply highlighting that layer and
then drag the opacity percentage and
you'll see that that actually changes
the look altogether so you're able to
get a really nice subtle kind of look to
it so now we kind of need to okay well
we've got this shadow behind us but
where is it coming from doesn't really
make any sense that it's there unless it
is a reflection but we're again going
for a bit of a lighting perspective here
so I'm going to actually highlight the
area that is my horizon again and let's
just create a new layer just to keep
things separate and this time what I'm
going to do with my gradient is I'm
going to change it from linear to radial
and just grab the center there and drag
way far out and you'll see ok that's the
inverse of what i want to do i I now
have created a dark void I want to
create a kind of a light so I'm going to
invert my selection here on the
foreground and background colors do the
same thing again and you see that's now
creating a bit of a light behind the
word Abigail so I'm going to change the
perspective a little bit a couple times
just find where I actually want that to
fall in relation to the shadow that's
being cast and it's just a simple way to
create the effect there's some kind of
light behind the word Abigail that's
casting a shadow in front of it so I'm
going to take the foreground of Abigail
and we're going to change it so that
we're basically locking the alpha
channel so I click on this button here
and now whatever happens you know when I
fill it in or if I color over top of it
it's going to only do it within the word
it's not going to go outside of that so
now i can choose a color let's say i
want to go with a nice maroon kind of
red so i'm going to choose two different
shades of red one is going to be a
little bit darker so that i can create
this nice gradient we're going to again
do a linear gradient and we can
experiment with how we want to actually
have that fall so i'm going to put the
darker at the bottom so that it again is
casting a little
shadow there and then we're going to
just kind of create a bit of a hue kind
of aura around this text so now that
I've created out of the color I'm going
to disable the lock alpha layer the
alpha channel there and I'm going to
actually add a filter light and shadow
and a drop shadow which sounds like this
should be a dark shadow but what we're
going to actually do in this case is
we're going to create something that's
white and we're going to tell it that we
want to blur it a fair bit let's say
well I don't know 20 or so and i am
going to allow it to offset let's set
actually our offsets to 0 because we
want this to but i'm going to move it
around manually i'm going to disable
allow resizing because i don't want to
actually resize my image so now what
i've done is i've got an offset of zero
offset of zero so it's going to be right
behind the text the blur is going to be
20 pixels and the color is going to be
white the opacity of that layer is going
to be 80 which I can change later if I
want hit OK and you'll see that it's
actually created a subtle kind of Wella
whiteness around that now I've zoomed in
just so that you can see that we can see
it a little bit better than you can at
home on our screen here but now what I
want to do is I'm going to now I notice
I've selected my move tool ok now I'm
going to highlight the drop shadow which
is in fact just a white layer see that
it's like a white version of the word
Abigail but i'm going to leave the red
one active but i'm going to leave have
this one is highlighted as far as the
layers go so that any manipulation that
i do is going to happen to the under the
white layer I'm going to single click
without moving anything and then I'm
going to use my cursors on my keyboard
to actually move that around
you see what's actually happening there
it's hard to do when I'm zoomed in but
you can see that the that glow is
actually being moved around there so now
what I've got is I've got this kind of a
what's that look Karen because it is
making I looked over at her and he's
like so that one's gonna go on the
website pops I was like okay we're not I
was looking over at you to get your
opinion it's your name looks good thanks
I have a game my professional opinion
alrighty okay now the other thing that I
might do here so that what that white is
doing is it's creating that kind of you
know again it's enhancing that back
light so that it looks as though
whatever this is the text is is actually
it's getting a light cast behind it and
then we've got the shadow being cast
down in front so what I'll actually do
now is I'm going to take my marquee and
I'm going to highlight half of the
casted shadow I'm going to highlight
that layer over here on the layers tool
and I'm going to right-click and go
select feather and we're going to choose
something you know I'm just I'm making
up numbers but you can play around and
see what works so I've now selected at
75 I've created a feather so it's it is
what it sounds like a feather means
basically it's it's given it a nice soft
radiant edge now i'm going to go select
invert and then i'm going to add a layer
mask with that selection and now you see
what is actually happening there is that
that mask is creating this kind of more
of a faded out effect now i think it
needs to be a lot higher than 75 now
that I've seen that so I'm going to undo
and those we can do a multi-step undo
with that with GIMP which is beautiful
I'm go select feather and let's try two
hundred again select invert and we're
going to add a layer mask there with a
selection and now it's much more subtle
it gives us that more you know more of a
it's faded into that and there we have
so now we'll do a little bit of cropping
now that we've got our image kind of the
way that we like I guess I would call
that framing you know if you're a
photographer you know that framing is
very important so now you see that we've
got a bit of a perspective that this is
floating above the horizon there's one
thing that's missing here and that is to
take our round marquee and you'll see
what's missing is that there's no shadow
being cast by this so I'm going to
create a shadow below a B and notice i'm
now holding in my left shift key i'm
going to put one below the g and below
ale okay so now those are basically
three Marquis which I'm now going to
feather will feather by let's say 75
this time then do a new layer so now if
i fill that with black i know you you
can't really see because I've feathered
you can't see all three of the Marquis
but they should still be active yet
there they are okay so now you see that
that has cast a harder shadow underneath
of the word itself so I'm going to take
that I can change the opacity again
because we're looking for you know
slightly realistic and we certainly
don't want it to be hard black shadows
opacity allows it to kind of fade there
we go so much much softer but gives us
that real feel that it is indeed kind of
floating above the horizon and there we
have it it's so beautiful like that
that's pretty good you're so genuine
yeah so incredibly genuine okay so I'm
going to save that I'm just going to
throw that on to our system here so that
we can share it with you later the the
full xef file so we're going to call
that Abigail xef of course that will be
downloadable in the show notes for
episode number 304 if you care to take a
look but before we close that down I
wanted to show you what it what it would
look like what we could do with that
kind of idea so I just quickly grabbed
the Ubuntu logo which is 758 pixels wide
so that
fit just fine layer new okay so I've now
just pasted that in there and I'm going
to remove all the Abigail stuff here as
lovely as it is ok but I've left my
horizon as it is so now that becomes
kind of a bit of a template for me and I
can move things around there we go I've
got a boon to floating over the horizon
and I can do exactly the same kind of
effect so and you see how as I'm doing
this it can be done really really
quickly so now I've duplicated the layer
I'm going to invert that one I'm going
to flip it upside down transform flip
vertically there we go I grab that one I
think this one's going to work really
well Abigail had that that G that kind
of dropped down below you can see that
this is giving us a much closer
perspective to the to the image above
the logo itself do a Gaussian blur on
that will leave that same settings there
we go now what's going to be different
here is that this is a non italic font
so my logo now that i'm using the Ubuntu
logo is non italic so in order to create
that perspective the way that it should
be there's something that we need to do
we need to use this sheer tulle so we
click on that right there okay the
images should help you find the right
tool but now I single click and I can
shear that reflection I can actually
change the perspective of the reflection
as it is right now it's going to be a
shadow in a moment and then I move it so
that it's in the right position compared
to the letters ok so now I've got that
looks pretty good but we want it to be a
shadow so again we're going to use that
alpha lock here lock alpha channel and
then we're going to right click I've got
black as my foreground so then edit fill
foreground color and it takes everything
there and fills it with black so now
we're going to change the opacity with a
simple drag operation up here on that on
that bar that helps us to do that and
then we're going to create the backlight
on the word
ubu bhuntu so that is simply light and
shadow drop shadow we went with 00 20
and white I thought that was a little
heavy I'm going to go with 10 this time
and I think that looks a little bit
better move it up there there we go
that's pretty soft okay so now take our
shadow there grab the marquee and select
feather and we had said 200 was
approximately appropriate select invert
and we're going to create a layer mask
with the selection there we go so now
that's faded out nice and cleanly and
again final step is to use some form of
a marquee here just at the bottom of the
word layer new layer feather that Marky
I'm doing 75 pixels and I'm going to go
edit fill with background color apart me
I meant to go fill with foreground color
actually there we go and you see that
just kind of darkens below now I can
move that one around using my keyboard
because if I use my mouse that's going
to actually move the layer that I touch
which would probably be the background
because it's so well feathered and then
just change the opacity of that to give
it a nice realism there we go so that's
the basic kind of underlying technique
anyways to get you started and as I say
that can be used for so many different
things you can imagine that that works
really really well with box shots if you
want to take screenshots of your website
they go very very well in that horizon
and then you do a bit of a reflection
and maybe you don't turn it into a
shadow maybe you instead create it as a
reflection and blur it and add that that
feathered layer mask just to give it a
nice kind of fade out kind of look to it
but a lot of stuff can be done just
using those quick techniques and that's
GNU image manipulation program that's
free so if you can imagine photoshop is
pretty pricey and it's easy
I've used it before and I find it easier
than the phone job because Photoshop has
so much going on yeah well the tools are
all there I love I met I made a quick
mention about how you know I noticed
that I can undo everything like I can go
back here and I can actually hit ctrl Z
over and over and over and over again
and you'll see that it will go back in
time all the way even back to Abigail
Photoshop you have to do like the
control ctrl shift Z like if control Z
is undo and then ctrl shift Z is to redo
the previous tat it's it's a little bit
frustrating for ya so this is a great
tool I mean it as it's free it's
excellent for the cost savings so but
there you go again phone lines are open
tonight if anyone has any questions for
us nice to see everybody all right it's
the time for the news is it really
targeting so I think so i blabbed on so
much about this GNU image manipulation
program and all the fun stuff we can do
with that it is fun program to play
around with yeah you ready for it I am
ready take her away here is talking you
weren't ready oh ok ok yeah here are the
top stories from the category 5 TV
sony has dropped its appeal against it
22 a 250 thousand pound penalty imposed
after its playstation network was hacked
in 2011 the UK Information
Commissioner's Office imposed the fine
in January finding Sony then saluted
negligent turnigy negligent and better
pronouncing words hurt I'm sure I
haven't read it as well as what you've
heard the word and a very good food it's
like click we óleo e colloquially coolio
lee yes quality wheel cover uuu there's
too many l's like a tongue twister try
and say that five times k yeah really so
the UK Information Commissioner's Office
imposed the fine in January finding Sony
veg would negligent I'll fill in
whatever you failing to protect your end
users whose login and credit card
details had been leaked I remember I
think I did the news about this like a
while back I'll post that to Twitter for
you folks didn't know I think we talked
about this while ago but the whole
credit cards being leaked yeah i think
was my first time the cookies yeah and
that funny has kind of I Ryan and back
in the day yeah back before you were
married your name was different it's an
ironic twist Sony said it still
disagreed with the verdict but
continuing to fight it would risk
exposing sensitive security data that's
so crazy yeah well they were being sued
because we leaked your information but
oh you know will act all you know hi
improper by saying uh we won't we'll
just let them charge us because we don't
want to have to give them your
information they're trying to impress
people I don't know that it works they
can do it yeah yeah really a sony
spokesperson said this decision reflects
our commitment to protect the
confidentiality of our network security
from disclosures in the course of
proceeding hmm a team of engineering
students from the University of Toronto
have accomplished a lofty historic
first that has eluded the aerospace
industry for the past 33 years one
minute of self powered helicopter flight
that's crazy self powered I don't know
if you can see this at home we can see
this a little better than you possibly
so I'm going to just zoom in here it's
like a severed off bicycle with a whole
bunch of strings connected to it yeah
I'm just waiting for the whole thing to
fold up that's crazy just say I'll the
ear I Sikorsky Igor I Sikorsky human
powered helicopter competition first
established 33 years ago has remained a
virtual holy grail for aerospace
engineers until no and without a winner
the $250,000 prize has SAT unclaimed God
Rikard sure just make it up recurrent of
the lead engineers on the project said
this is a monumental challenge this
prize this was a challenge that was set
up 33 years ago and until last year
really nobody had come close according
to the rules of the contest a human
powered helicopter must remain in the
air for at least one minute a hut a
height of at least three meters and must
stay within a 10 meter square box in
what is essentially a hover position
their successful flight on june
thirteenth met all the requirements and
after rigorous analysis of the flight
data the team was officially awarded the
prize thursday it's amazing that they
didn't you know at some point to say you
know what I guess it's impossible we'll
just scratch this whole competition 33
years the things been going on nobody's
even come close and they finally did it
in Toronto way to go canada yes where's
my little clean flag I don't really
understand the picture though okay like
well I think you know what is confusing
about it is there in a building that has
these kind of raft or like roofs so you
can't really differ differentiate the
helicopter versus the
the roof yeah but all of the trellis
kind of looking stuff that you see is
actually part of this helicopter that
they've created and the EU says they
actually spin as he peddles and the
thing helicopter with multiple multiple
propellers looks like three or four for
to me so it's almost like a quadcopter
but it's powered by him pedaling the
half a bike needs flying cars so when
you have this they'd only Italy shade up
for 63 seconds I mean it just just made
it but what else you got for us a team
of students from Exeter acceder what is
with the new oh my goodness Abigail you
read any of it etc University Z tarannum
has 150 thousand or thirty three
thousand one hundred pounds for
developing an app that allows an
infinite number of devices to play music
simultaneously that's awesome the team
behind the app sound skin sink good skin
won first prize in innovation at the
Imagine Cup a student technology
competition sponsored by Microsoft so
far they've tested it on 75 simultaneous
devices the app will be available across
all platforms in August it's awesome
before guys this well I don't know how
many guys were involved but i think it's
a it's a great idea because i listen to
online radio like practically
religiously it's always on yeah and so
when you have it playing when you've got
shoutcast in every room of the house
they're so far out of sync that it
sounds like just a mess yeah so if you
turn it up so to have every device
talking to each other and you know
bi-directionally say like sinking the
timing so that every device plays
perfectly that's cool that'll be great
at you know for so many applications I
can think of even like live broadcasting
applications or whatever they decide to
do with it but cool stuff
please in China are investigating
electrocution death of ma a loon I'm not
sure how you pronounce his name the 23
year olds brother has given an interview
saying that her family believes she
received the shock when trying to answer
the call on her iPhone 5 while it was
charging Apple has extended its
condolences to the family is in and is
cooperating with authorities as they
investigate apparently the China
consumers associations had previously
reported that a man had been killed in
2010 while making a phone call using an
iphone that was charging but it was
blamed on a third-party charger in this
most recent case the charger was the
original apple charger included with the
phone professor will Stewart from the
institution of engineering and
technology told the BBC the charger
output is low voltage it's about 5 volts
which much to unpowered there should be
no risk at all having said that
something in the charger could have had
a fault in it or the main wiring it was
connected to might have been faulty he
warns owners should be avoiding using
mains connected equipment whilst in the
bath or if they are extremely wet
because water could run down the wire
and into the plug yeah I mean that makes
sense in the story never mentions if I
lune was was bathing at the time or what
what was going on but fact is that
that's scary so i don't i'd be out just
unplug it and scary stuff but that's
actually real I'm thinking about my cord
for my phone I'm like it's true fleece
it it's looking a little better don't
take it in the back yeah Kickstarter
announced roots Twitter account recently
that it will allow users in Canada to
post their projects to the crowdfunding
service later this summer the
announcement didn't provide much detail
but users are able to sign up with their
email addresses at kickstarter com /
canada to learn more information as it
becomes available previously canadians
were able to fund projects through
Kickstarter's america
website only if they had a us-based bank
account get the full stories a category
5 TV / newsroom the category 5 TV news
room is researched by roy w nash and
heather bailey brown with contributions
by our community of viewers if you have
a news story you think is worthy of
on-air mention email newsroom at
category 5 TV for the category 5 TV news
room I'm Abigail page exam again yes we
made it this is category 5 technology TV
we've got somebody live on the cat phone
thank you so much for giving us a call
how are you are you done yeah hey Jim
happy birthday rob thanks buddy oh hey I
had a question yeah what's up i uploaded
I upload a YouTube video yes and it
plays fine for me but now it is choppy
sound and when I go fullscreen is real
squiggly how do I fix which I take it
down or what is it happening for other
people as well or is it just when you
yeah is on both computers is doing it
I'm thinking is it in you too when did
you upload a gym last week of your show
them break I showed you Katie you sp
yeah yeah I remember i said i sent you
the link those the video the link well
good on the YouTube resend it but I
operate its messed up but I'm not
corrected Jim have you are you in the
chat room right now oh yeah could you
post who then one can you post me the
link to that will take a quick look for
you okay Jim where are you calling from
very good yeah I got a meta computer
here Jim I gotta say thanks for your
patience as Abigail worked through the
news buddy oh yeah I know I'd be hard
I sit away from the cloud though there
might be I didn't say anything about
Japanese names I could I couldn't just
reach for them names and on stuff he got
in trouble with that one Airport crash
they were read off the names and it said
Wang too low or long too high or
something oh yeah no other games dude
it's the challenge sometimes have you
got that link coming for me john heiss
out things by my way i sent the video
you know you sent through youtube at the
bottom there yeah I see if i get my i
know it i don't know if you take videos
down on yeah you sure can but all I what
I want to do is I want to pull up the
video for you Jim and just see if it's
doing it here and if it is then maybe we
can maybe we can see about what what
needs to be done to fix it for you is
the is the audio out of sync or what's
actually happening or is the the screen
going green on your what's what's going
on like a divider if this word it'll you
know like you know break you don't say
oh yeah and then you know and then
that's how I'll do it and I don't
understand I understand why it's doing
that because if I say it please buying
for me right okay on your local computer
I I would think it might be the you know
it could be as simple as the codec that
you are that you're using to output your
video maybe youtube for some reason is
having trouble decoding that and
re-encoding because when you upload a
video to YouTube Jim what they do is
they actually create all different
versions for different connections so
that when people connected we'll give
them the best quality that they can
possibly support so when you first
upload it and you push play it's going
to work perfectly because it's actually
playing the video that you created but
then after an hour to once YouTube is
finished and coding you're not actually
now seeing the video as you
uploaded it you're seeing a rien coated
version so if YouTube for some reason
had trouble reading your file
automatically because they use an
automated system to re-encode the file
that might have now introduced some kind
of artifacts into their re-encoded
versions so what I would try if that's
the case now I'm going to get you to
still like send me a link to the to the
video and and maybe after the show
tonight I'm going to take a look and
just confirm that this is true but what
I would try is is save it as a couple of
different video formats and I had to go
through the same thing to be honest with
you Jim when I first started using
YouTube I had to try all different video
formats and then I found the one that
worked the best for their re encoders
they do pretty good but sometimes it's
still a little bit finicky depending on
the file type that you're sending to it
so I'm with avi be bored well avi is
just a container for whatever other you
know whatever codecs you're using so
just play with the settings and and look
at what what options are available in
the software that you're saving the
video ads and and try try a couple
different ones and see what one works
the best okay Jim thanks so much for the
call nice to hear from me again alright
thank you have a good night well by this
is category 5 technology TV i'm your
host Robbie Ferguson and Abigail page
Abigail you got some questions coming in
for me I do some of them are comments
but do got some questions so from kevin
marathi the company if i didn't
pronounce your name right you know i
look for an ounce anything she's really
good at it thanks Robbie for the screen
dimming debacle resolution you said it I
am so impressed d bacca bacca I've
installed mplayer when watching video it
didn't dim but I like VLC better about
the audio problem i found out if I lower
the laptop audio the TV still worked via
HDMI ah makes sense yes I'm happy now
thanks for the response and fabulous job
you do cheers thanks for the update this
is a question that came in last week
we appreciate that glad it worked glad
it's working out for you we have a
comment from Bob k 54 hey Bob k
greetings from the Bourbon capital of
the world bourbon unfortunately I missed
tuesday's show and a chance to win the
hub sadi face saturday and heard the bit
about clutch Kluge i think quickly
determined it was Kluge pledge yeah
Kluge I like clutching at her okay
please how I yes I always thought it was
a Yiddish origin but maybe not when I
was a kid Kluge was a work common word
about certain parts of Long Island New
York years ago see website below and he
gave a link for many ok images I'll
bring that up safe for work oh cool so
this is that more information about
Kluge I was also an inspired user for a
while and it to hell to me my great my
personal life to linux I've been a pc
linux OS fan for the past six years
great show as usual hope to be back next
tuesday oftentimes i'm lazy and just
login as guest but Bob k 54 is my
registered Nick cool well thanks buddy
oh this is great now I understand stuff
that's just stuck together I guess
that's what i'll do is i'll post the
link to that in the show notes for
episode number 304 a lot of fun don't
waste too much time folks we got work to
do so there's a question from Nico's
school coasts NICUs go cost because cops
that is tough guys hey Miko sk 0 kos how
I supposed to say that hey hey Nico
there we go hey Miko nice to see ya hi i
have learned about your site from
youtube I go trying to save any files
for my crushed from a crash hard disk
windows 7 64 I've tried you been to live
CD as you show but my heart just doesn't
appear at all it makes the sound tick
tick like a watch does so I think it has
been a lot
25 can you please help me i have files
that if our if they've been lost i will
have serious problem with my work okay
mmm this doesn't sound good Niko if it's
ticking I wish that I had an example
that I could show you but I think the
easiest way to envision the inside of a
hard drive a spinning hard drive is to
think of an old record player and you
remember the the needle that would step
across and if if there was something
wrong with the record the needle would
go contingent and it would never play
the music right in the case of a hard
drive if it's doing that it's very much
the same but it's a magnetic platter and
there are several of them in some hard
drives so you've got these platters and
they're spinning at 5400 or 7200 rpm
very very fast spinning little three and
a half inch platter and you've got these
heads that are on it like a record
needle and they read Magda and magnetic
information and write magnetic
information on the drive if those heads
have lost cohesion if there's something
wrong with the circuit board they're
going to go cone cone cone cone and they
can't read your data and your drive is
never going to become ready and I think
that's probably what's happening to you
is that your drive is not coming ready
which means it doesn't show up in your
system because it can't be detected
because it doesn't work so the good news
is the data is most likely still there
on the platters but the bad news is that
your heads can't read them it can't read
the data so usually and now if that's
the case then it needs to go to a data
recovery facility because you're going
to need those heads to be replaced and
then they would do a data recovery job
unfortunate because it sounds like this
is work related and you've got lots of
stuff on there that's important to you
you you should know that it's a very
expensive process to go through data
recovery and that's why I quite often
emphasize data backups backups are you
know your preventative measure data
recovery is your last resort you know oh
my hard drive has crashed I don't have a
backup so what do I do you have to go
through data recovery in your case
because it's clicking I wouldn't even
try anything with it
you could try mounting the drive but
because it's clicking because you got
that tick tick tick the more you do with
that drive the more likely you are to
create a situation where it's going to
end up actually costing more because the
the failure could be absolute it could
have already failed or it could be it
could be on the verge of failure when
it's ticking you know that there's
something wrong there with the heads and
so you don't want to mess around with
the drive you want to get somebody who's
professional to do that you didn't
mention where you're from post us an
e-mail live at category five dot TV just
let us know where you are from and and
will certainly make some recommendations
company that we work with is called pest
data recovery com I'll post a link in
the show notes for episode number 304
they do a really good job but they're
here in Canada so it depends on where
you're located they'll do drives from
Canada United States if you're overseas
then we might need to find somebody for
you over there i'm not sure if they if
they service overseas or not so sorry
it's it's kind of bad news but the data
could still be there but when i say it's
expensive i mean we're talking it could
be a thousand it could be two thousand
dollars to get your data off the drive
yeah yeah when it comes to that level of
data recovery yeah good well because you
can't just use software like don't go by
and software off the internet that says
I'll recover all your files because you
that works in a case where maybe you've
accidentally deleted a file well that's
different because your drive is still
functional but here you've got to drive
that is malfunctioning and if you
continue to use it so if you buy one of
those pieces of software and try to
recover it yourself you're actually
quite likely going to negate your
ability to eventually get the data off
through data recovery because running
that drive is a really dangerous thing
because it's failing or failed yeah so
we do have more questions excellent
thank you everybody for sending in your
questions tonight we have one from
nickel then
yo from the pass another Niko a
different Niko that is also equally hard
to pronounce but thank you for
reassuring hey every name is difficult
tonight I don't even know how to say the
pause lapaz from he's there from Bolivia
okay fantastic rocky wondering if you
have some advice to companies moving to
open source well here in Bolivia at
least companies that are small companies
so 5 10 people use unlicensed software
no nation mark no special add Bolivia
specially windows OS / office based
systems to be honest I never met any
person or individual that officially
bought a license ever what nothing to be
proud of yeah I've always used linux and
effort or Foss but with these said in
this kind of scenario there are many
companies that are moving to linux and
open source products and wanted to know
what you would recommend these people or
companies or if you know any strategic
plan for this kind of migration that's a
really tough case I mean here okay so it
sounds like you've basically got a
society of pirates really so if that's
truly the case maybe you just hang out
with bad people no but seriously if in
Bolivia it's just like that and I know
in China there are many areas which you
know it's just all about there's tons
and tons of software piracy just goes on
and to the point where you could buy
software and you think it's legit and
it's not but here it sounds like people
are just you know whether they're using
torrents or what but using illegal
software that hurts a lot of people I
mean you got to imagine that you know
the software is created and developed
and costs money to create it costs money
to distribute and if you're stealing it
then you're really hurting yourself
because it's just going to you know
cause the software to not be as good
because they're not going to be able to
pay the people to to keep things
developed I think in a scenario like
that the only thing you can say I mean
because it's not about cost for you
right linux open-source what is it as
free as in freedom and free as in beer
so you've already got free as in beer
because you're stealing everything so
that's not the sales pitch right i can't
i can't say to you will switch to linux
because it's free as in beer if you
don't have to pay for it because you'll
just say well i don't have to pay for
windows either nobody here in Bolivia
does so that's not what it's about it's
free as in freedom that's the difference
for you and for those companies what
does that mean to you it means that
you're going to be running a software
you're going to be running software be
it linux be it the the applications that
run on linux and those programs are
going to allow you to modify them if you
want to get you know if somebody knows
how to code and they want to change the
software you've got freedom to do that
if you want to distribute that software
you can do that without the fear because
I I gather you've got this underlying
fear that what if somebody came in then
and decided to press charges against
people who are using pirated software
there'd have to be that fear still but I
think also with free isn't freedom
becomes this wonderful community of
people remember the days when you can go
to your neighbor and ask for a cup of
sugar a couple of eggs or whatever you
know that's that's the freedom of a
community the people who genuinely you
you can ask them for something and
they'll give you what it is that you
need because it's a community and it's
not a it's not paying to receive
something its people true trying to make
the world a better place and that's
what's a little bit different about free
open-source software so you get into
linux because of the freedom but also
that community aspect so what does that
do for you as a business because you
know you don't want people sitting in
chat rooms and you don't want
necessarily you know you don't need to
program your new operating system you
just want to install it and run it i
think what it gives you though is that
ok you're running pirated windows you're
running pirated photoshop you're running
pirated this and that who's supporting
this stuff who's going to who are you
going to call when something goes wrong
or when you need an update or how are
you going to get your update patches
you're going to go wait until they come
back out on
pirate sites or what with free software
fos s4 not only available to you for
free but the updates are there it is
supported software the community
supports it there are commercial
software companies that support it
lubuntu is one canonical and so you can
actually obtain support for the software
so all of a sudden where you were
running windows and you couldn't get
support because it was illegal software
now you can get into a forum and say I'm
having this trouble with my linux
distribution or getting this driver to
work or this or that and 10 people will
reply and say try this oh do this do
that and it's legitimate response you're
not you're not under mining anybody
that's the support system of a free
open-source platform so it's a different
mindset I think so it's not it's not so
much free as in beer it's free as in
freedom that is that would be of most
appeal to me in a case like that and
just the sense of okay now I am I've got
the freedom but I am legally entitled to
use all of this software there's a good
feeling about that i think i would think
all especially as a company like they
were first shooting a lot of companies
yes so absolutely then we do have a
couple more if we can squeeze the dead
can happy quick we got two minutes we
have line on the reel I've seen them in
the dayroom okay yeah swl underscore
brazil hey hello Robbie and friends my
dear friend just kidding is it possible
to watch all cat5 TV episodes in the
XBMC interface most of most of yeah
actually when you were first on the show
we talked about XBMC and how to to do
that so what I'll do is I'll actually
bring up our website I'm going to show
you a really really cool feature of our
website category five dot TV all right
and on that website you can go through
each of the episodes and everything now
I happen to know that the episode that
Abigail started on was so we can go
episodes / and the episode was 266 dot
PHP so if I want to get to that episode
there we go okay so on this episode we
actually talked about XBMC and how to
get your feeds added to it and I happen
to know that that starts at 29 minutes
and 50 seconds because it's in the notes
but what i can do is i can actually add
that to my address bar up here 2950 and
it will actually start at that point in
the video automatically so that will
actually show you that our answer right
there look at us we were such kids then
my hair is girl that was your first
episode of Tober 23rd 2012 there yeah
okay so that happened at 29 minutes and
50 seconds into episode number 266 I'm
going to post the link in the in the
chat logs there in the chat room there
you go you've got it and that that will
answer your question yes it can be done
through our RSS feeds the only
difference is we no longer have to have
an alternate RSS feed because now all of
our feeds thankfully are available
anywhere in the world we've upgraded our
CDN and you can actually watch the show
from anywhere including mainland China
which was the the reason that we started
the alternate feeds in the first place
as mainland China was blocking YouTube
and blip TV and all that kind of stuff
other cool new features on our website I
know if you've noticed yet go to our
website category 5 TV I just brought it
up there and it was our default
background but we also have animated
backgrounds now which is I think one of
the coolest things in the world ah I
candy love it category five dot TV the
slide show at your wedding during the
ceremony was a really nice addition I
think to to the whole ceremony and while
you were signing the the wedding license
and everything it was was playing up on
the big screen it was beautiful and
bright brought people to tears really oh
I saw that in the front row a lot of
people next week crystal wells and I are
going to be sitting down we're going to
show you how to create slide
from your pictures so we're gonna be
able to take your pictures and create
these beautiful moving slideshows you
can use for weddings you can just use
them for for fun maybe for business
presentations things like that so don't
want to miss that that's happening next
week here on category 5 technology TV
can't believe we're at a time Abigail ed
Brooke oh we married it alright thanks
for watching everybody one last thing
that I absolutely have to show you I
could not believe this I said it last
week they don't make it like they used
to you remember this laptop that I was
showing you last week the compaq armada
1750 if massive huge and it still works
it still works right but what I could
not believe I left this plugged in all
week it still works the battery still
works what this thing is like ancient my
battery lasts like an addy don't make
these like they used to and looking at
Lynn's fire here it says in the
indicator I don't know if you're going
to be able to see this let's get right
in there can you see an hour and 54
minutes left on the battery I just had
to share that with you cuz I was like
what have a great week everybody see you
next Tuesday night thanks to have a go
by good to see you good night
we hope you enjoy the show category 5 TV
broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven pm eastern
if you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV check out the local
show times in your area at category 5 TV
and find out when you can watch live and
interact in the community chat room
category 5 is a production of prodigy
digital solutions and is licensed under
creative commons attribution 2.5 canada
we'll see you next time thanks for
tuning in
