are all of the time
it's going to be so easy to spell all
right I know and people like people will
be like what's your last name I would be
like Richmond and then that'll be the
end of the computational alan did you
allow him I did not know do you remember
husband does see what the thing is right
now people are like what's your name
Sasha Jermaine Jermaine is how do you
spell that and then I do let's call that
again okay Shh did you do it write it
down for ya
where are you from last from Canada is
where your parents from also Canada
Canadian you're going back bliss away
nyan though bliss away nyan that's cool
yes and actually in Lithuania just
random fun family fact in Lithuania and
in many countries I'm certain there are
different last names for like females to
males
really so dramatis is actually the male
version of the name I took my dad's last
name because we're in Canada and that's
the whales but if I was in Lithuania my
last name would be
germ 18 because she's like a male and
female conjugation kind of yeah exactly
interesting exactly cool using you can
have a whole family people with
different last names
whoa I get you know Robby son of mogh
sort of the mole I'm son of fur goo as a
matter of fact
