the box we're just going to jump right
in a simple example merge and so now
with internal over here we've actually
just overfitting
prostreet so there it is I got it the
DVD pc version groceries and it's pretty
sweet i hooked up my computer 15 and
there's a couple of applications they
want to try actually the person you want
to going to want to do in order to fix
it so i did go on really improve so
openoffice.org writer is just a free
application is available for Windows
Linux Mac comes with my connection
breaks or fails at starting the only
other thing that we have to consider is
just the fact that sometime a modem or a
win moto3 that it shows up as now that
they're starting to bring up he has
three games like specifically
some issues with this hash bar up here
far down and transparency his dollar
store USB cable
that
back her
ah
I antenna
just like we're good so I've got some
email coming in
again my name is Robbie Ferguson and
great to have everybody along so far we
got work out we're all on our website
good to be social everybody here in the
chat room over there good to see
everybody in the chat room we've got a
lot of people joining us category five
dot B and yeah wanted to just kind of
talk about what happened last week with
me
so we wanted to give a nod to and i'll
actually bring out my my
get over go and carry the panel earlier
sound it'll littell microphone
friend
pretty much everyone
No
in theory I
broken
you
a little bit different yeah
winded way of saying thanks for letting
me three new panels and return their
rear receive lots of email and moving
along sounds good in last last 50 meters
and squeeze lemon dress know how great
this stuff really is following but also
there's a lot of people who think that
it's not quite ready this is a live
broadcast larger ones watching back
me too audio so you will have trouble
tracking shows okay okay it's great to
have you on the show
ok
here
so what when is the final when you click
on an open live cat there's one called
the hybrid and that is both the chat and
the players have to catch up on about 12
weeks of episodes and I episode number
109 I asked the question via email or
through the heart our technology
Oh
for those who don't know if we have
another new person
work
so if you wouldn't mind
but it was quite
technology on Wisconsin friend
it's an amazing just adjusting that
River fine
you know that they're going okay now I
try not to
don't
Roger
there
oh gosh this one from Armando unity
netbook show you can visit our website
category you can see like 35 videos
gonna put it it feels like 25 years
money for the first time ever we
actually
Valerie
google instant the scene rolled out
what you're about to experience is a
free worldwide interactive broadcast
from Ontario Canada we broadcast live
every tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time
get your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live and category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Robbie
Ferguson
haha all that excitement and I forgot to
turn on our microphone oh my goodness
thank you so hello 157 this is episode
one zone to shampoo for me episode two
welcome welcome everybody this is a very
special episode if you're new here we
are completely outside a format tonight
as we celebrate three years on the air a
category five TV we've got a couple of
familiar faces joining us tonight hi
Christy hey Zach my baby boy Tally's
trying to get into the shot where are
you here there she is this is category 5
technology TV for our anniversary we
always try to just totally break format
eric said already well you said to me
tonight what are we gonna do tonight
where's yeah where am I quit you know
what because we're having a show of
irrelevant information and just hanging
out yeah actually it's only five degrees
Celsius in the Netherlands that's what
y'all was saying yeah my job hey John um
Eric was saying you know what do i do
tonight where the questions where is my
computer he says not you know i am
keyboard 'less computerless and i'm
wondering about this bright light here
is that not going on tonight I guess it
could yang good it's a little bit dark
tonight don't feel he'll take care of
that here we go thanks and now we got a
little bit more glare off the forehead
like it does get doubling fees for being
the length i as well as you know yes
i'll pay you double what you're making
my house right perfect hey everybody
joining us in the chat chat room pardon
me it's great to have you here I'm
figures it's the it's a three-year
anniversary I'm fighting the cold
tonight he started over the bear with me
know
Christie wants the weather Christie you
come and grab a microphone can you come
and do the weather you grab a microphone
yeah okay there's a telex right there if
you want to you can you can do it from
over there cuz we've got I can give
cameras everywhere tonight oh you can
use it she can know yeah yeah well there
we go here we got it all worked out look
at this there she is check you just you
let us know when you're on well there's
your hip cam there's your face cam if
you sit down the hip cam becomes a face
cam and as soon as you're on you let me
know all that I'll give you a little bit
of microphone action Sadie hmm is it
xenia do you say X enia Ohio set your
paws this is category 5 technology TV
nice to have you here this is our third
anniversary you're all set
hello can can we hear you check check
check two three it's been a while hey
you can keep him well uh yeah excellent
I'm it's 15 in Manchester England thanks
ASM 590 Rochester do so again 75 thanks
Chris and could you do it with the local
accent for each of these places hate Sam
on Chester England oh uh uh uh 81 in
cloudy gee pop seven thanks 93 in
keystone heights Florida thanks gatorman
a gator on uh what's it doing Kosovo
pristina 21 Celsius thanks I'll cat 83
in akron ohio and I'm d murphy thank you
70 in Clifton New Jersey yes it alright
thanks bumpy oh thank you papi ok I
can't scroll like it 78 up a little 78
in gadget wisdom gurus bedroom I didn't
need to know that too much information
cuz he's an Android in there yeah ja
it's really nice and warm about 24
Celsius right now is beauty 14 in Dudley
west midlands that's from mod come Dave
88 and Xenia Ohio jpa thank you we have
an ever-expanding community how many
people do we have in the chat room today
14 in Dudley west midlands thanks
welcome you Dave you gave me that
already are we are we scrolling back or
something no he's just he's trying to
infuse the way yeah I've done you two
but thank you you know I couldn't get
her to stop when she was our co-host
yeah I couldn't get them I
you to stop agamotto know in a battle oh
you know it home oh those yeah yeah well
viewers absolutely 22 in the shades
lovey I can't do that very well I kimono
you could probably do it better 48 geeks
in the chat room kool Kris if you're
joining us live tonight and you're not
currently joining us in the chat room
please do hop on over to free node net
irc.freenode.net if you're using an IRC
application join the category 5 chat
room or you can just click on chat on
our website at category five dot TV be
really really nice to have you there and
of course if you're on twitter you can
also tweet us just use our hashtag
category 5 11 celsius in the hague
thanks jug only five in his in his part
oh yeah that was Pig it was at in a fee
11 still sees well it's good to see you
Christie whether the whether she do you
no good are you so sad well it was oh
yeah I have some special people to say
hi to um okay I I had to write it down
high seas are see in the nekkid okay
okay okay okay john van north debate
team from the green business management
it's a locate all right i'm looking to
my oh okay sorry ok green business
management courses seneca hey
that works can you keep doing it um the
debate team Julia Fortier hello Roma
Malik fabiano poster I got it right oh
yeah like like we fee um debating the
pros and cons of economic globalization
these guys are like really on it okay hi
guys is that it i thinks everybody yeah
do we do we miss anybody there John no
the only guy we don't have in John van
noort did you get yeah he's behind the
camera and hi to john absolutely see
there's his hand he used all his fingers
Wow and and hide everybody else that I
missed all this time I've been missing
you my kids are just you can even see
Zack as you said oh he's eaten he's
licked the salt off of that one was old
bull no no that's how you eat pretzels
rite aid the salt and through the
pretzel in the groom it's so nice to
have everybody joining us tonight
certainly make sure you join us in the
chat room category five TV or also you
can tweet us our hashtag is category
five or email me live at category five
dot TV we're one computer short tonight
so i'll do my best i doesn't have a
computer that were you trying to say i
didn't say that mm-hmm did not say that
in what way that i'm a short run
computer and my chair i think is short
we do that on purpose Johnny cherish you
they wanna move it
is this thing on here we go I wanted to
say something but frigid legumes just as
cool beans to Hillary Missy teeny chat
room here oh yeah no hey Hillary I hope
you caught that good to see ya Hillary
is joining us from her educational
facilities hi Hillary hey Hillary all
right hope you're doing well let us know
in the chat room will lessen not doing
very well she says uh I died but now I'm
back Oh in a chat room see she realized
so she's back now so very very good it's
great to see ya my kids are gonna make
it exciting here with a curtain oh look
okay posters in there look posters in
the chat room there we go hugs back
atcha this my friends is like tonight
okay longview TV you know one way known
as dead air well not even if Ali make
sure okay I have questions okay okay so
i need and i know i asked you this one
already but i need a little more
information Robbie who knows all not
tonight yeah I have a little recorder
that I run around an interview everybody
on yeah and then I need to somehow get
that into my computer and edit it and
get that to peterborough ok so what is
what's the format of the like the files
on the on the system
is it it's it is it digital or is it
analog but doesn't use a tape or is it
using no it's it's digital and it's a
little handheld panasonic recorder okay
so what is it safe to how do you how do
you import those into your computer
there any like dunno just with a jock
like like USB you don't have it with yay
no no do you know the model so we to
look it up by any chance no run home and
get it yeah it was howdy ho jo yeah that
is that would be a bit of a drive how
far did you have to come tonight I we
really love that you're here and really
appreciate the you that you made the
trip for those of you who who aren't
aware Christie left us I guess it's been
a couple months now I yeah I'm supposed
to be in Peterborough today but I just
couldn't miss the show yeah thank you
it's so great to have you here but
christy is working at a radio station
there now and in Peterborough so a bit
of a drive for you and appreciate you
being it'll drop in and D on your show
the kids over there will take will take
time FN 90 dot 5 is it is it up now your
stations is it almost up rocktober
October yeah wow yeah lightning hit the
tower and already in it yes and working
on it it messed up the installation
never helps does it uh Chris Reich is
wondering how far it is to drive or how
long of the day it's over two hours yeah
one way in in the winter it'll be really
bad it will probably probably be five
hours and in the snowstorm
yeah no um okay we're getting a little
bit of disturbance there so I just check
your mic is is the red light on solid or
are you good well let's see my work how
do I sound is it really okay I'm gonna
have to give you a new battery Oh
Christine you're my love TV one what's
the changing of coming come back here
come around well the ceremony is
changing of the foundry ladies and
gentlemen around right here tonight with
everyone you know this is our
anniversary show so we're not gonna get
too technical tonight we're just gonna
learn how to change a 9-volt battery
first of all we need to make sure that
this is a good battery if you'd like to
get on your doom yeah maybe just kind of
like that and just see if that's still
good okay I'm game I charge the battery
thing we're talking the other guy in the
eye with that we have to pry with with
this side here there we go there we are
Yvette still so happy it's not such a
bad battery Christy I think it's all
right thing yeah that's the weird thing
okay bring an aerodrome ocha sponsors we
know they're not okay maybe they should
be don't forget to answer my question it
wasn't working that great is that
working better now you guys let us know
in the chat room the the chargeable
batteries for this microphone we haven't
used them in a while it's been a while
since you were there and they're not
holding a charge still noise still there
I have a camera that uses a lot of power
in eternity oh that's still red no
okay well well I can I'm gonna try to
talk about your your question here let's
see if I can find it so you just kind of
yelled out for the moment and then I'll
turn back on your mic after i'm just i'm
turning my payments yeah welcome to the
live broadcast tonight brilliant ok so
you said it was a panasonic she
downloaded audacity yeah so she's
wanting to use this to to do interviews
and things what's that's cool see what I
can come up with is it is it something
like like one of these kind of guys a
portable stick the one is it the one
that I gave you
like from Seneca I always got the stick
because I did too much whether I don't I
without knowing the the model Christy
I'm gonna have trouble finding I know no
it'll be hard to find trouble finding it
you know if like does it save to mp3s or
anything or WAV files AIF files it only
has a headphone symbol on it so I don't
think it's even met download oh I see so
it's a notation device yes so it's meant
for just like taking taking recordings
for like lawyers and stuff as opposed to
doing interviews ok so in that case what
you need to do is you need to convert
from like it has it has a mic jack to
right so you can hook up a nicer
microphone right but you you're you it
doesn't plug in like us me you have to
use like a like a regular job jack like
a stereo jack okay that's fine huh let's
see here I'm gonna oh it's zoomed in on
me oh look at that now it's just about
to stand up I'll just switch it over to
you guys I've got it okay I'm gonna grab
a sound card here from my and we need
some bull dilithium crystals oh we got
lots of those mm-hmm always flying at
work around here that Mike's dial it
Liam Molony enough when I can buy my god
anybody out there this is just this just
a straight sound card so this is what
you see coming on the back of your
computer Christy okay have headphone
jacks and this kind of thing one of
these guys are you using a laptop or
desktop computer desktop okay so that's
that's that makes things a little bit
easier John can you get in here just if
you could one of these is gonna be a
line input as opposed to a microphone
input so see there's a microphone one
here the third one's here right yeah
microphone and then the line input is
going to have a little arrow so this one
here there's an arrow pointing into the
sound card so that's the line input here
okay which is that's what you're going
to be able to plug in your your device
to okay
to what you could do is there's two
things you need one is is just like it
looks like a headphone jack on both ends
so that little quarter inch it's called
a quarter inch to quarter inch male
adapter probably just mono would be fine
because this you just like just a left
channel but you can get a stereo cable
to and that'll do like six bucks or
something like that hey everybody hero
for the children no they're wild tonight
aren't they mm-hmm so do are you
familiar with out this 8-inch workout
reminds me but pardon me thank you work
out well I almost so did I almost told
you one of the quarter inch Oh a vonage
like the standard headphone not quarter
inch which I'm used to use in here okay
so eighth inch is like just the
headphone jack so that would plug into
the headphone jack and then into the
line in not the microphone iam I don't
care okay then you can adjust your
levels on your ear mixer in your
computer the software like if you double
click on the little speaker icon on your
on your taskbar okay she's using Windows
going to tell everybody so once your
once you're in that adjust the levels so
that you're recording applications such
as audacity or gold wave from gold wave
com hey I want googly yeah you want to
watch the levels don't clip so you you
know keep them out of the red right
right on the green kind of thing and
just hit record and it'll just copy and
so push play so so watch the the output
on that device like if it's clipping and
it sounds distorted turn down the output
cuz you're probably pumping too much
volume out okay and vice versa if you're
getting a lot of hiss turn up the output
a little bit until it sounds good okay
so help that's excellent thank you yeah
we know we don't even know what the
devices but hey no I just happen to have
random audigy cards yeah I didn't have
an answer for me I try you know this is
category 5 technology TV nice to have
you here tonight is our third
anniversary special so we're just we're
just hanging out I started to say
earlier in the show I said to
that eric said well what are we doing
tonight as just chattin just hanging out
we got we got the kids running around
making noise we got chips and popcorn
that we're perfectly willing to share
with everybody if anyone that who can do
this thing yeah are you off yeah well I
turned it off I turned it off because I
got told there was noise was not any
source of noise no i think it's it's the
it's the other microphone and christy
just cuz we're having battery issues
with that one just double people an eye
on that and maybe just flip the power
off when when not in use kind of thing
just to conserve the power it's not on
right now either red the red light
perfect yeah the question yeah since
you're actually doing the takeoff oh my
friend Ravi a gave me a CD of this I
even labeled a copy of clonezilla
version point 2010 07 21 2010 07 21 okay
it's the date you're lovely you can make
it sound babe okay that look like a date
come on like it probably is a day you're
showing everybody our lights I don't
know if that kid so it's very nice very
nice TV so Robbie how do you use this
well what is the first thing I said what
was the first thing I make sure you have
a backup so I I am I abhorrent Borden so
what he dog lady dropped it on the floor
and it didn't work after the better you
tell the guy he needs a backup and he
just and he just pulls the disc out and
drops it on I'm just really glad that
wasn't hurt way through in the head fell
actually in the next week please
reinsert disc yeah wow dude and it's
good thing you took this out I've
actually seen I had a client ones who
had a disc that had a crack in it not
quite this severe to be honest but wow
this particular client thought okay well
it's just a bad it's just a little bit
of a chip right so it's okay it's it was
their favorite game or some odd thing so
they put they put the disc in anyways
the things spun up and these things spin
super super fast right this yet it's
more than the one times or the two times
of back when we get free they spin up
like like a helicopter going off but
little crack caught on the tray of the
optical drive the disc exploded
literally exploded like huge bang and
shrapnel the entire inside of the of the
optical drive so when they when they had
me take a look at it see if we can get
the part the disc out Zimmer making the
data that so they can use their disk
drive again and literally you take the
cover off the optical drive and pieces
of first CD we're actually embedded in
the plastic in the inside of the device
so that's maybe throw that one out
before you know one of the kids think no
buts kinds ill out put that in the
middle joy they brought it over I was
gonna put it up on the corners that's
one of our keepsakes yes you can we can
send this to you for only forty nine
ninety five hits the category five
keepsake Christie's got the only stick
and fortune could it on ebay no on eBay
well definitely are you guys off wait
before you go back oh oh they're making
a big mess aren't they deal okay well
i'd like i'd like you to at least come
and say hello to the viewers um don't
put your drink there please then their
little you're the dad one did has it
really yeah I'm amazed at his niceville
June is to it was kind of fun to
literally tally do you want to come and
say hello to to everybody how but we
kind of need to clean up the pretzels
that have been strewn across the floor
good luck with that dead Wow know how
that goes for you all right you're not
gonna come and say hello come come over
here you're good you can come over here
and say just show them how good those
pretzels are difference s Wow come come
back here that's our wall there we are
hey bud there you go are you at
my baby girl all right what is that
seafood is it is it good good popcorn
all right well yeah Tally's actually um
been pretty excited hey oh and I could
hug goodnight she's been really excited
to know really excited to be on the show
tonight all right so much Barry yeah
nice we know she she remembers last
year's anniversary party and said and is
there gonna be chips are there gonna be
people hey Zack hey but listen come on
with you you know sir you see a little
head bobbin my hello what do you have
what's that vodka it's for dad no thanks
yeah you have good nicely que le to the
where's all the salt okay love you guys
good night night it's about to get very
quiet in here it's gonna well Christy's
gonna get road you need accuracies
Chrissy the rowdy one now so yeah what
do you do what do you do oh my goodness
okay you know what stick your tongue out
no oh don't be evil hey but you're
driving like your sister a it's very
exciting no good night buddy I'll show
you that's my baby boy zech and you
probably know that we have our third one
on the way hi Becca
all right well I have a feeling there's
another little creeper there is but I
see yourself on the TVA oh my goodness
okay good night bud good him oh I do
intend to drink that he's put in CDs on
my cup and putting batteries in there
hey do worse could be a pretzel in there
and there may be before you're done okay
are you off high five what do you wanna
say to everybody good night what's so
funny what's so funny okay good night
wow this is a highly technical show it
is tonight that was concerned I might
not keep up but I still may not keep up
and I know how to say ubuntu no good
night Zack you know how to save a bunch
here let's save incorrectly again nobody
said it right all right that was good
word from her all right Wow if anybody
here has ever wondered why Becca is
exhausted at the end of the night on a
Tuesday night so someone said to me
somebody said to me well why doesn't
becca co-host your show with you I've
got one thing to say that that would be
the outcome I got why every times sake
yeah yeah yeah they grow up they get
there oh yeah every stage my daughter's
just as such a challenge Tally's
internet in the senior kindergarten
unbelievable man
they're just excited to be here
greetings everybody is joining us
tonight nice to see in the chat room we
category five severe you hear a story
coming huh is it a full moon tonight
when there's not whether to talk about
so we'll talk about the moon oh okay
well yeah I'm just waiting for that
quiet to kick in and just kind of Greece
everybody set you got coffee you're good
to go my coffees ready then cold well
pull let's love dear me well hey this is
category 5 technology TV this is our
third anniversary happy anniversary to
us I'll beautifully I'm go ahead yeah
everybody here here her is your mic on
you okay well it's something about being
local no cocoa yeah okay yeah you can
yell but they'll be pick me up in my
life it didn't flash no well it does
that's right that means it's on well if
it stays on that means the battery's
dead
okay so i should say hi to my buddy Don
Gertrude if he's out there hey Don no no
no he's a mad guy though thanks mommy
say hi to him anyway hey not too you
know okay cool stuff I just have a mac
so that when i get really fed up with my
pc that i can go back to the mac get fed
up on that I'm just observing I've got
your camera on here christiana I'm just
observing the mess you've made of the
couch yes yes I'll eat all the salt off
the pretzels knock the pretzels for you
you dropped a couple on the floor too
yeah that's unreal you guys at home
can't see this you think wow what are
these guys doing it's pretzel land here
and none of them have sold to another
have salt they are a little damp on the
outside though some of them yeah yeah
you're kind of glistening oh hey Hilary
hey well that's cool that is very cool
it's cool beans that it is like the
sound of that Hillary chunky do
something for me there is a computer
sitting at the front of the desk here
yeah which hint hint is called skype if
you could turn that on for me just to
switch it in front of the computer we're
gonna give this a go and some do this
without noting any of the cameras during
you and i getta phones over it's tricky
as well done John good good it's coming
up perfect Hillary we will we will give
give that a go wow so Hillary's gonna
come through this guy yeah Hillary's
gonna try to give us a call so we're
just gonna boot up that system at that
see if we can get it going cool beans
hey
you're stepping on my material no sorry
well you can you stole it from a
predecessor so good mmm remember you can
tweet us twitter.com / Robbie Ferguson
if you want to follow me or of course
just send a Twitter message attention to
our hashtag which is category 5 or news
girls r us yay is that you yeah who's
girls girls oh yes yeah r and glitter
car Zed GE RLS Wow make it complicated r
us okay so you can follow Christie as
well are you on twitter that's so nobody
can I know the answer hi yes I'm on a
chair I want a microphone no I'm try to
try to stay keep a little profile John's
the only one keeping quiet here what's
the camera guy dressed all in black man
Joanie will get him on the camera will
get him on camera before the night is
through those of you who would like to
meet our behind-the-scenes guru John who
runs the cameras for us and it takes
care all that kind of stuff the
technical stuff you get so little loving
from the community because like they
don't they don't see you so hey we're
going to be on here though category five
dot TV it's our website love to have you
there if you if on some off chance
you're watching tonight this is your
first time watching category 5
technology TV this is our third
anniversary tonight and so next week
we're going to be starting season four
of category 5 technology TV we are
completely out of format tonight just
having a good time we've got a handful
of special guests from Eric to Christy
John joining us tonight beck n mike my
kids were here earlier they sure were
they shall say
and we also have a very special guest
who's going to be surprising us at the
end of the night as well so stick around
nice to have you here hmm
somebody was just talking about the good
old days when you could start installing
a game and go and make yourself a coffee
was with a good old days it's still
installing actually you could turn on
your computer and don't make a coffee in
windows 31 is still people know yeah boy
oh boy those were the days but yeah a
boon to boot super fast windows 7 even
they finally got the boot loading
process going well let's see
I think that computers coming up Hilary
and just a reminder that tonight's
episode is a two-hour special so this
show is not over in 15 minutes isn't
normally would we're sticking around for
an extra hour so don't want bizarre yeah
what do you got going on well I saw
somebody they're used to have a game on
their 64 system of called puck man it
was a pacman yeah but I'm going up to
put on the skates and lace them up and
see if I can't get hurt playing a little
little hockey night mm-hmm you're in
Canada you know yeah definitely
wounded's wait I know it's still cold
it's not hot it's beautiful here today
you're see how she tries to trick us I
was very close to saying wait a minute
it was warm dude it was sunny and hot I
was gonna say you with she almost got
what the central air is back on again
tonight let's just let's just leave it
at that yeah that's why yeah we know
Steve Irwin I'd say a if he wants or
looting the boot he was wondering if
couldn't tell we were in Canada hey
you're always correcting me what are a
couple of ones the bug he has local you
know what words know like bren or Sophia
Sophia in this thing guitar down the
street is pronounced if I it you're in
Toronto it's spelled a Glin ton but
people say in a gluten is local
vernacular know the one that makes me
nuts his kilometres kilometer we've lost
that fight I realize you kilometer know
something that's pronounced that way
would be a device for measuring such
things pillow equal syllabic stress
meter a distance you want your own show
Tonya I next cause yeah don't you have a
job together something
yeah maybe just go to school or yeah
when is that hockey game that's a couple
of kilometres out of town yeah I
understand you know seriously yeah yeah
well well Peterborough see that's really
tricky in Peterborough because here I am
doing the news in Peterborough and what
looks like Cavin yeah you have to
pronounce it cabin mmm and monigan you
want to call that you take Monahan but
you'd be wrong again knew exactly how
Hanukkah so getting to know all the
street names and place names wow you
want to say them wrong on air yeah kind
of lose credibility diaspora for example
oh ouch or we feel on engadget wisdom
guru that's a hard way I used to work at
a TV station we had one reporter who was
talking about this robber who was
wearing a backflip on I was picturing
that just a she owes me honey yeah I'm
not gonna mention her name she was
wonderful but yeah it wasn't about the
club it was a backflip uh yeah probably
got away me a little sticky it was did
you see the honesty yeah I saw that
footage in a lot for hours that's pretty
good though that made the Bluebird room
I'm craving back welcome around much
after that ended up down in Toronto
actually later stage
actually I wouldn't believe the number
of folks who would call in and correct
the pronunciation of Wasaga Beach
because many of the locals say wasaga
beach where our inaudible saga bay and
people would take it upon themselves the
phone in the TV stations it's wasaga not
what's a good but anyway just like hang
out there to Wasaga Beach just like we
feed that's how you pronounce it right
Griffey xci here to use your cone with
that one time oh yeah what is this
little link I'm i can get it says whiffy
I'm gonna mmm we can totally be a little
bit I want to get skype going for for
Hillary to be able to call in but I I
have a feeling that my skype box doesn't
have an ethernet cord oh that's what I'm
I'm pinging I'm pinging run into the
store and grab her no no but just uh you
know talk amongst yourselves talk
amongst yourselves for a while I don't
know roofing trust you to leave oh my
goodness and put things in his water
it's gonna be great fun well how are you
doing Robbie don't knock the camera over
you stepped on a pretzel how can he
avoid it this is pretzel challenge oh I
see Christy knocked those ones off the
couch onto the floor are we having fun
yet I hope we are yeah so what position
d playin hockey sometimes on my butt um
actually I'm equally bad in all
positions whether sander left-wing
right-wing you know defense um yeah I'm
pretty bad any position but nobody's
more annoying i'm a couple of hundred
pounds of trouble in front of the net
i'll tell you that much
do you play hockey Christy well of
course of course slap shots good you
slap shot anybody Robbie doesn't ok
let's see you not a category 5 cable
with rj45 ends on okay Christy tried to
turn my show into weather and you're
trying to turn it into sports hand me a
guitar will have some country music if
you're not careful oh no ok speaking of
which we didn't I was gonna I was gonna
wear this to almost time for hockey
isn't it you know I was almost gonna
wear this maybe I'll wear this if you
invite me back what do you think another
night tell us how old is that shirt hey
hey a couple years old ok um mod come
dave says how about a real sport can I
kick cricket I stepped on one the other
night well that's that's not know that
was inappropriate oh I I've never
actually saw a cricket mallet or bat or
sticks into the card maneuver right
there oh don't do that we killed Hillary
we killed Hillary she off the chat room
again yeah way to go almost there people
who is there I am connecting this rj45
to skype one it's one of those ones are
you sure it's connected of course I'm
sure it's connected Oh Johnny you say
this down here the effort that we're
going to led zep just going to nuke
young team and everybody
leaving they technicians forgot to plug
in the cat5 yeah you're right it's an
exciting okay come back come back to the
chatter did Hillary leave or did she
just yep Miller is bad hi yellow angry I
missed you Hillary she says girl how do
you sign girl I want to know Hillary
hubby sanger yeah i was gonna go skating
and look at that play hockey oh there
I'm gone what well that's all it was I'm
sitting here pinging pinging pinging why
am I not getting a response oh you gotta
be kidding me welcome to Windows you
finally get the computer online my dish
on your research later updating your
computer is almost complete and it will
restart your computer autumn you know
what if I hit restart later it's gonna
keep hounding us through the entire
through the entire show and regional are
unused icons on your desktop oh
definitely why would I use them they're
on windows oh I say that oh yeah you're
gonna be up late if you stay with it so
late hey John everybody it's like two in
the morning or something could go it do
you do you have to wrap up like you've
got yeah you actually let her move
asking you to leave because I really am
planning on I was asking you to leave a
few minutes ago but you've stopped
talking about Rocky so I'm coming talk
whether you yes any moment now we'll be
talking about the weather that that
didn't happen it's a very Canadian thing
to do all right
well duh stays up around 3am anyway yeah
but what time do you get up
what part of the world is shocked the
Netherlands another oh no guru actually
I don't I don't even know if I have it
run through the board right now sorry Oh
well my goodness okay well I had a life
like that once look at that what's going
on in the job Hilary Rumble is on skype
well add to contacts
huh
maybe you should let the folks click
along see where you cooking yeah skype
is awesome you should maybe explain
skype you know what this is kind of
funny skype is awesome she said as she
says that I have breakfast me Bill Gates
and that happened to him so yeah uh if
anyone ever said Robbie why do you
prefer Linux you know what let's say we
had some update sir let's reboot what do
you say we could never you loop here
it's time to reboot sorry Hillary it's
me and weekly a little crash last time I
was here a couple of shows ago oh that
was who won't do it wasn't it no no that
was Dugan yeah Hugin kind of crashed out
the Jeep video card that was in there
yeah that was interesting you have
nouveau updated video curve in the
broadcast server yes so so that way we
can do fancy things like boom John's
waiting for the fancy well that's pretty
fancy being able to do I that has
nothing to do it really good so okay we
are rebooting that computer so we can
talk to how you motor can call in very
cool very cool
alright
well that that conversation died yeah
that did John you're really not will
drop utilizing the conversation from
back there mr. noisy he must be a real
hoot at this you're on a debate team you
said sorry I said that out loud tonight
I need you guys give me something for
you babe let's start an argument this is
Miss Turner we'll see how it goes quiet
behind the cameras burglar training it's
one of his ninja skills ya hear me well
I don't know what do you think windows
ubuntu oh mac deals Eddie yeah gadwal
Office is asking eric i use both do you
use windows or linux i use both and what
do you use each for that's the
inevitable question actually most of my
day i'm new booty gay but photoshop good
man that's why would keep you around
this photoshop seems to work well hung
windows yeah probably works well on a
mat so you have two computers I have to
well a amusement virtual windows okay so
which is your home Lendl that of the
linux linux Oh Linux for the wind limit
raloo in
just like there were playing did I win
it was oh it was a debate and and I was
on your side that time yeah dress we all
know what you said this is category 5
technology TV tonight we are
technologically speaking well we yeah
technically ah but tonight we're
celebrating our three-year anniversary
so we're just having a good time I'm I
swear you're gonna do that one of these
times if they're easier to break in
Windows or Linux the desk with me yeah
Wow I think that was a cement but did
that one but did you see this one
remember this story thing yeah he gave
me a copy of clonezilla it didn't work
well at all come because you treat that
with never let this guy's compete you
didn't want it back i brought it back
well so you're gonna get clonezilla and
do it well I'm gonna do that correct
image of your hard drive indeed cool
where's Christy was talking to a hard
drive he and all the way to Peterborough
no change okay I'll stop the coffee is
empty I'm going to hockey now oh what's
this oh no this is not one particular
person everyone in the chat room says
where did you find this guy oh that was
a little harsh this is harsh you got to
show that again after the reboot that's
after the reboot Hillary so this doesn't
run on Linux it doesn't but we we just
aren't prepared to start receiving skype
calls at random that's all unfortunately
that's well real
I will try one on one time okay there's
an updated oh that's too funny what's
that oh uh and a flex it was too far
from you if you have any troubles with
the system you can ask us Robbie waiting
for an answer what's wrong with sky
yeah that's the thing the problem exists
between the keyboard in the chair it's
quite possible send me for a loop I will
tur I will spend a couple of moments
here trying to get this going so that we
can get Hillary on here i'd really love
to freebsd Chris Reichstag about freebsd
how about this drama please oh well I
don't know how cold is it down at they
go oh don't make believe gardens in
gardens haha the Air Canada Centre yeah
oh yes I'm still waiting for dave keon
to make his comeback what is happening
to this show hey keep riding a chatroom
oh well people are saying oh you could
just so you can just use gmail phone
we're live I'm trying to get this up no
it's not gonna happen when was their
last family Cup somebody wanted to know
what's up that was 66 67 yep George
Armstrong was the captain how's that for
some trivia never heard of him dave keon
was just geez maybe then wow I'm
impressed I think Johnny Bower was a net
ok Paul Henderson long teeth that was
before you got that winning Goldman you
know 1972 on behalf of the geeky side of
the desk I'd like to apologize for all
of this Sports Talk what time's your
game Jameson new slogan category 5 TV no
longer just technology
um dad will i'm waving back category
five will talk about pretty much
anything oh but they can't read that
wait a minute where's your pocket
protected dude they know they've been
watching the show for three years they
know that's nothing they know and love
you I home run and why why you where did
you find me I felt sorry for the lad he
looks so homely boom was yeah well and
those of those who remember geek man
being on the show it was Eric that you
may remember it was Eric that sent that
in hickman pocket protectors yes yeah
didn't I lend you my action figure you
did yeah yeah yes I do like footy too I
was going to actually try to steal that
oh really no ma'am I really like that oh
thank you who tackled me at the front
door yeah you would have liked that
being a hockey dude hey you know what
good guys spelled burgas only correctly
I believe well really nicely done
Wikipedia is a powerful tool gadwal
office says that this is their first
year anniversary watching the show so
been watching since the second year
anniversary so and this is my two-week
anniversary welcome hmm and I'm sure
there's some new viewers joining us
tonight this is our third-year
anniversary so we are just hanging out
having a fun time and kind of go
together yeah talking about in the
weather whatever and pretzels we talked
about pretzels and hockey you did yeah
and until
baby's home zilla and if you're just
tuning in you missed the kids you missed
the kids yep you can catch them on the
recap who the those of you who are
listening in the audio version of this
show yes okay you can hear them licking
the salt off the pretzels well you know
what i think i'm gonna run away alright
my host is not so friendly anymore hey
you never got this sick of you
complaining about yeah yeah I'm bringing
the hockey stick next time you get a
bigger one we'll see you kids yeah hi
nice to have you here happy anniversary
re anniversary anniversary everybody hmm
huh see you Tuesday alright fantastic ok
I feel so alone Christy get over here
yeah yeah everybody's saying goodbye
every come here nice to see you again
buyer by fire walk softly and carry a
big stick there he is crossing the blue
line hey no cake eric has left the
building hey maybe you should wear my
shirt no you did you did you give the
story of the shirt did he did he give
the story of the shirt cuz I'm not we're
gonna have to talk about that next week
okay so you make sure you bring that
back he'll end up wearing it guarantee
you I'll take my coffee cup upstairs
alright everyone have a pretzel before I
go don't have a pretzel have two
pretzels secret assault on it you know
what take what would take some of the
ones that are on the floor if only the
camera was down seem to keep him well oh
yeah how's the new job going you're on
it yeah everybody can hear Christine and
the new the new station going well take
care act thanks for being here you gay
um it's it's an exciting and terrifying
job to start up a radio station must be
busy and news department and yeah just
getting the community we're getting the
local politicians and organizations
getting everybody to start sending in
media releases is a challenge because
they've really never listened to the
station because it's too yeah so now in
peterborough are their distribution
sources that will fax you over some
stuff for email you some stuff do you
have that kind of stuff out there not
really and it's all local ya know it's
all city of peterborough you could get
your technology news from category five
dot TV / newsroom have you seen it yes
you seen the newsroom yes I real thanks
for the fantastic and we have a weekly
audio podcast but you have to make a
connection to peterborough somehow
that's the stipulation so you have to
say something like you know Microsoft
has come out with a new version which is
Josefina bro oh there you go all right
so let's let's see if we can localize
some of our newsroom stories that's a
great idea and we and then you can take
them back with you and see what what's
gonna do my job for me well it's a it's
we've had our podcast has been like 12
minutes long at the newscast of 12
minutes well it's pretty great it's
pretty exciting news cast is
oh yeah so you could pull some
information okay so let's let's look at
last week's news okay and we say okay on
September 13 1985 nintendo released
super mario bros okay that's a little
the game that was played incessantly on
peterborough students Nintendo systems
peterborough residents will remember
that the character of Mario made his
debut in Donkey Kong see it can be done
I don't think they remember that you
don't think so attention peterborough
residents if you subscribe to your RSS
feeds through bloglines they'll be
shutting down on october first affecting
all of Peterborough and Beyond exact
into that fly hazing how it works it's
amazing I'm gonna call you up on skype
oh no forget it forget that at least for
tonight and you can give me audio clips
sure on Peterborough tech anew there you
go oh dear so what's the what's the
status of the station right now people
are wondering are you are they doing
test broadcasting through the internet
yet or are they waiting until the the
signal is up and going um no there will
be your website up and running in a few
weeks oh yeah
kool &amp; the news will be changing all the
time and so you're gonna get to put some
pictures up you know I'd like to take
pictures you're gonna let us know what
that what that website is um while the
website right now is FM 90 FM 905 is
that website died got corn no don't see
a sorry dot CA 05 don't see a that is a
pretty fantastic can you search engine
that you have there hmm okay FM 905 dot
that's CA is that you and if you clear
look at them you tomorrow see my mug
look at this there she is you're like
right at the top you must be important
to something yeah I must be my name
starts with B huh fantastic it works in
your favor yes to you good good thing my
name is not like Hulu or something if it
was that would be actually pretty cool I
buy you like a trek medallion oh it's
closed it's closed probably be fired for
wearing it really it's radio not TV okay
people people i'm working on a Hillary
this is this is complicated to get stuff
how can I do this Hillary has sent us a
video because we're unable to get her on
skype tonight
so if you click on the videos well I can
save it oh it's downloading yes but the
problem is it has to be converted over
in order to be loaded into yes yeah I
want those problems all the time I don't
know how you know when I start running
into problems I don't have a clue what
to do once it's yeah running into those
codex ken berger they killed it with the
video broadcast we have to play from
specific codecs in order to be able to
load the files if I don't part me I
could try loading the file directly but
if I do that I risk crashing windows or
causing otherwise a lock-up of sorts so
whether or not that could be worth it I
i think it is to make that experiment
okay let's wait five minutes do you
think it'll work no thank you
so very much so you've been working hard
you're doing you're the news director so
you know so that means you're basically
researching the news going out getting
interviews all that kind of stuff yeah
um this radio station is christian-based
cool Thank You Christian talk it's a yes
it's um for the community by the
community for the community so I went to
Peterborough Bible College that just
reopened it was closed in 93 and and all
the students there were really
interested in internships at the radio
station so it looks like we're going to
have lots of help lots of kids coming in
and learning how to work the equipment
and yeah running out and getting
interviews and and acting as stringers
basically cleaning from from kitchen
talking about events and things as they
unfold yeah that's cool so it'll be
great for them and great for us great
I'm really close to you see today's not
your you like just moving
we're working on it wire wire cast is a
fantastic application now tonight we're
doing some things on the fly that
normally i would i would have pre done
setting up a skype system testing it
making sure it's working you've seen
skype interviews on the show before we
usually have that working unfortunately
tonight with the amount of stuff that's
that's gone into the show this weekend
and just kind of preparing that wasn't
something that we had time to test
unfortunate like and i wish i had but we
do have a video here from Hilary thank
you so much Hilary for taking the time
to send this in yeah let's see if we can
get this going here we are hey everyone
I'm watching live having some technical
difficulties but don't worry I've got
you covered just wanted to say
especially something something category
five and that is happy birthday happy
3rd anniversary party category five
three years is awful long time but
that's mega awesome and the community
certainly appreciates everything you do
for them Robbie Ferguson so keep up the
good work um I look forward to coming
back soon and chatting with you all
again schools going really well so far
so good can't complain too much um so
interesting tidbits would include me
filming a wedding show and also meeting
Randy fenoli from say yes to the dress
hmm anyways everything's going great and
I just I say happy birthday category 5
keep on keepin on and keep on telling
the world about the amazing
opportunities and amazing things that
open source software and Linux and you
bhuntu and everything else has to offer
everyone keep sending your boo to jokes
your weather for Christy say um your
testimonials just keep on keepin on and
being a part of something really special
anyways I'll talk to you guys soon bye
bye Harry I very well near forgot to say
something and that is cool beans cool
beans cool cool beans cool beans okay
that's it hi everyone thanks help
nice to be able to get you on the show
Hillary of course is is away at school
right now glad to hear that it's going
well and sounds like you're having a
good time so nice to have you here oh
boy and Carrie we haven't heard from
Carrie we haven't yet no so we'll see if
if she joins us in the chat room at all
there what's so we'll say she's carries
in nursing college know she's nursing
right now isn't she so far as i know i
haven't seen her since the broken arm
thanks soccer during soccer season oh no
oh I gotta say thanks Hilary people who
are joining us tonight and aren't
currently in the chat room make sure you
get over to category five dot TV you can
say hi to everyone that's there as well
as Hillary who's who you just saw and is
joining us in the chat room no jot I
didn't break her no well I don't know
because you remembered Robbie's big
stick no the one that I be I went clear
when you do the weather mm-hmm that's
kind of an inside thing because she
talks about the weather incessantly
that's that's your filler material I
think that's your crutch if you how many
times as he said whether no Edward
whether pretty good so so sometimes
she's you like to talk about I don't
know what you're talking about yeah
giggling says that was only for me
anyway yeah yeah nobody else
so many more weather did I miss
anybody's whether I want to know what
it's doing around the world I think you
already did that and tonight we have the
freedom to huh what's the weather like
in Peterborough big thunderstorms today
in fact power really today yeah we're so
not strategies in Peterborough around
Peterborough windy very windy thanks jot
Joe it's always on top of the chat room
getting Christie going yeah he's a good
guy yeah did I get speakers for the demo
system the demo system is currently
being reworked into the laptop so when I
bring up the computer screen you're
actually looking at the laptop screen we
should say goodbye Hillary's going
bye-bye you go see a Hillary thanks for
being on the show tonight and thanks for
joining us for our two year anniversary
of course those of you who are new here
may not know but both Christie here and
and Hillary have been co-hosts in the
past who have Hillary is well Hillary is
off at school right now and will be
returning to us in the spring Christie
however you've been working at this new
radio station and and that seems to be
starting to progress and getting excited
to see that that's going to be live soon
but Hillary it's nice to see it from
school hope everything goes well and
make sure you keep in touch and can't
wait until well until you're back sure
know that kind of resounds through the
whole community hey Jameson was curious
how we heard the audio from the video I
loaded the video into Wirecast Wirecast
is the program that we use to broadcast
the show so I actually downloaded the
files onto the broadcast server and
added them as new clips to wire cast
directly so i changed it as if that was
a camera same way that i trigger things
like the intro video anytime i do
features on the show those aren't coming
from the down
computer those are coming from the
actual broadcast computer can rule once
an episode with Hilary and Eric of
course hockey and cool beans so um in
three years what would you say is the
biggest change that that you've had Wow
well you saw the video at the top mm-hmm
so quality definitely community I think
that's been the funnest thing for me is
watching the community grill here at the
show so because I when I started
category 5 it's interesting because I
owned my own IT business doing computer
sales and service and all your friends
and family were always coming to you and
saying hey Robbie my computer is broken
can you take a look at sure hey Robbie
what do I do with my who my computer
shut down not just friends and family
though um customers and I don't mean
well that would be a good thing but a
lot of times as a self-employed
individual people would call and expect
free advice in the middle of dinner well
yeah but and and I was always okay with
that because that's just the kind of guy
that I want to be but it started to get
to the point where it was hurting us
financially too much because people
would not be paying for the time that
they were that they were using for tech
support and stuff so I so I thought okay
how can I do something that gives back
to community and is able to help people
like that that need free advice they
don't maybe they don't have the money to
to get help but at least there are
boundaries there people can access you
24 hours that's yeah and that was the
neat thing is then customers started
watching the show and sending their
questions in and that's how it started
so the first couple shows it was
literally just a couple of my friends
and maybe one or two customers so the
first few viewer testimonials some of
them are actually clients
at the time people that I was building
websites for doing doing computer work
for so it was an opportunity for me to
still provide free tech support to them
but keep it within the confines of a
time that was that worked with my family
and my business so when did you start
with the chat room Oh quite a while ago
I I don't remember it's I've always
tried to yeah well what happened is is
that we start at what we started getting
viewers that had nothing to do with my
company had nothing to do with friends
and stuff so just people like yourselves
who probably have never even met me in
person and and it's it was interesting
to see that all of a sudden start to
take off so so where we'd have like five
or six viewers and then all of a sudden
somehow people found out about the show
how did you find out about the show I'd
really like to to hear how people from
all around the world found out about the
show yeah that'd be really really needed
you're in the chat room maybe you could
just send a little note also be
interested in knowing how long you've
been watching for if there are any if
there's anyone I'm sure that there are
there are people watching that have seen
every episode but wondering how how
early on you actually started watching
not so much going back and watching the
old episodes but is there anyone here
that perhaps started in the first year
of luck i wrote a a testimonial today
unfortunately i don't have a computer to
do i have a testimonial can't wait to
get to those hmm alcaide has been
watching for 57 episodes so I hear just
over a year super carrot discovered the
show on merrill a couple of years ago
probably in your first year yeah good
guy has been watching since the first
year so they would have seen that first
anniversary party and we that was our
first big anniversary we had a lot of
fun with that subsequent anniversaries
we got big plans for our fifth year
anniversary especially so so stick
around because we're always having fun
but it really just took off and and then
I realized okay well now I'm doing
something not just to free up time for
me not just to help customers and
friends but here's something that is
helping a lot of people so I just kept
it up and decided with the grace of my
darling wife to keep it going so and
then we got some great sponsors like
thermaltake and brother and ESET nod32
antivirus it's always nice when you get
some things to give away yeah bring
Tammy Cole go plug superantispyware
jawbone we've got so much stuff and
we've got nanodots to give away over the
course of the next few weeks to a little
game using magnets so so if I'm not
working here then can I win something
hmm yes yeah always always I want to win
a job on mmhmm really mmhmm for sure
yeah cuz I guess if you're driving now
you want to want to be safe on the roads
and that's it yeah i'll be doing a lot
of driving yeah yeah it'll be great idea
very good idea jawbone is a bluetooth
headset that has military grade I guess
even better noise cancellation
technology so you can be standing in a
wind tunnel in freakishly loud scenarios
and the person on the other end is gonna
hear you just fine even though you're
talking like I'm talking now very cool
we've got about a half hour left to the
special tonight I did want to look at
virar testimonials if we could if you
have come in thank you very much for
your viewer testimonial if you haven't
sent one yet you can go on to our
website category 5 TV click on interact
and submit a testimonial oh and there's
Neville naffy from the hag in Holland
gives us five out of five sons you want
to give it a go
her i discovered category 5 what it was
doing research and building my own NES
what some episodes about unraid and
after more reading other forms i decided
to build my own unraid Rick build
details on and it gives the address
there's a link if you'd like to see the
actual computer that he belt but in the
meantime I started following the show a
weekly oh so because I'm a bun to noob
but have two netbooks running ubuntu the
linux tips and answers from robbie in
the community are great and explained in
a matter that any user can follow
because of the time difference it's not
always possible to watch the show live
and participate in the chat room but
i've done that a couple of times and
it's even more fun than watching the
show afterwards to summarize great site
and show thank you very much that's very
nice thanks naffy steve nichols joins us
from the UK also gives us five out of
five sons and says just like to say
happy 3rd anniversary to category 5 TV
having been a viewer for over a year now
my admiration goes to robbie and the
team for making such a great accessible
fun and above all friendly community
where everyone of every level feels
welcome and included you that's what I'm
talking about right there is it's
developed into that and that's what I've
you know that's what I realized I really
wanted out of category 5 is to make it
into and everybody's so helpful in the
chat room is fantastic work you're
answering one question and
someone else was in the chat room and
asks another question while you're
dealing with one thing and and other
people in the chat room dive right in
people take over and well Robbie is busy
but here's your answer here's a link yep
Ashley actually said it gives us five
out of five sons and says specifically
how impressed they are with with the
chat room says you've improved a lot
definitely worth watching a triple plus
I remember the time when it was just you
in the chat at Christmas time this is
going way back Ashley's been watching
for some time because one time I
actually pre-recorded the show but
Ashley just made a mention there that
that the chat room has really been
helpful to them in solving some of their
problems so appreciate the the
testimonial wanna take that one this is
this is from judo in Germany five out of
five sons very nice i'm watching cat
five for several months now by a mural
great show with an interesting mixture
thank you looking for a way to donate
some canadian dollars oh I had to notice
that there is no money transfer option
in Europe and direct my bank account to
your bank account transfers easy and
usual actually I just had one of those
today that's not part of email sorry I
have no paypal account and I never will
never never young right now finding out
because i do to give your viewers
another option to donate you might look
at https as as in security / / FL attr
com flattered micropayment platform gets
a hype in germany for some months now
give it a try for two or three months if
it doesn't work for you you might cancel
that one again best regards from germany
p.s i've downloaded 156 a minute ago and
start watching it now best wishes to
your wife and you for the birth of your
third child coming dum dum dum thank you
so much just nine weeks is it nine weeks
to go before number three it's not about
what it is a yeah she's over there
nodding and she's going yeah
just get it out of me just get it out of
me I'll just mention judo well first of
all thank you very much for the
testimonial we do have a flatter account
so if you would like to flatter s that's
FL attr you can actually do that through
our newsroom podcast our newsroom site
category five TV / newsroom flattered
allows you to deposit credits using cash
and then you find sites that you
appreciate what they're doing and you
flatter them so you some of your credits
go to those sites so an interesting
model for donating to two sites and it
starts at only two euro per month in
order to and that money all goes to
whoever you decide to distribute it to
so it's a very cool service and we
appreciate people who do choose to
flatter us well it's very helpful in
obtaining new equipment and probably
most of you were around when Robbie was
robbed and and it's really not worth it
to claim something like that on the
insurance because the insurance goes
outside and you end up spending more on
insurance than what you put out on the
new equipment so people were very
generous and helpful and helped Robbie
recover from the robbery and do the
repairs and we may something security we
recently had my video card blow up to
and this is the first week that we're
using the new video card and users came
together for that as well viewers of the
show and contributed to help us pay for
that so it really is a community with
them it is with people just coming and
giving in whatever way they can it's a
really nice to see in this day and age
yeah for sure and speaking of the new
video card I did install that this week
and did a video I didn't burn me alive
unboxing of that video card so if for
those of you who weren't able to catch
that live we're going to be featuring
that on an upcoming show just like clips
of the live unbox
it's a pretty wild video card it works
really really well very pleased with it
so I can use that a video card well no I
I mean I wouldn't know how to I've never
done that myself oh yes yeah good good
to see mm-hmm what else you thinking for
upcoming show that's right time on well
we have lots of stuff going on with the
show with season for starting this this
is like my last week to kind of sit back
and go okay oh oh okay nice to see you
with season 4 we're gonna be getting
really really busy we've got a new
website that's launching in the new year
we've got some fantastic features that
we're going to be doing over the next
several months one of the items that I'm
really excited about with the pregnancy
is that we're working with you see baby
and they're doing the the 3d ultrasound
of the baby and we're we're actually
going to be sitting down with them in
the studio and talking to them about the
technology about what it is to have a 3d
ultrasound and actually be able to see a
baby in the womb well you guys posted it
on Facebook didn't you on Twitter and
and Twitter throws everything over to
Facebook I don't actually use Facebook
but but I carbon copy everything to
Facebook so that people who are on
Facebook and not Twitter are able to
receive them so I did post it on Twitter
yes so and I'm on my blog so really neat
what they can do now you can actually
see what if the baby looks like in a 3d
image as it was to the what looks like a
skull within this yeah well and you can
hardly make out the old style
ultrasounds but this one they actually
rendered pardon me they rendered the
baby as a 3d model and then they're
spinning it on the screen and stuff as
if it was like a video game baby it's
amazing and that's that's our baby so
that's very very and it actually looks
like a baby yeah it's incredible so
we're going to be talking to you see
baby over the next couple of months and
and we'll be posting that feature that's
a big big feature that we want to do
lots of stuff planned we've got our
Halloween
special coming up Becca is is quite
concerned about about the expense of of
a full quality Starfleet uniform she
says to me today do you realize that
that cost twenty dollars in duty alone
and I know is she's she's gonna forgive
me it's gonna be the best Halloween
special ever notice notice he took the
camera off Becca when he said she's
going to forgive him yeah shake your
head I love you darling Hey well hey uh
well I kind of open up the chat room to
just kind of receive your comments find
out you know if you want to just say a
couple of words to Christie or myself
feel free in the chat room category five
TV now if you mentioning my burning test
with the video card for planet calypso
of course we are going to be doing some
work with planet calypso over the next
several months and I'd encourage you to
check out that game you can actually
we've got a hot link you can either
click on the banner on our website or
just simply type in cat5 dot TV /
calypso and that will take you to the
site but definitely we're excited to be
looking at plant eclipse of the game
that would be very cool and if you have
any ideas of what you'd like to see in
upcoming shows if you want to drop that
into the chat room as well so Rob gets
an idea of yeah worldwide communities
looking for in tech information yeah
definitely you know I have lots of
questions but I think my the most
helpful thing for me was my my computer
in dust bunnies and cobwebs and having
that blown out that was very helpful for
me good good it was kind of embarrassing
ok got that ran out when he pulled the
backup gadget was some guru is as
mentioned that he's actually got his
computer hooked up through hdmi and is
watching oh wait oh and joined category
5 TV up on up on the screen so very cool
Jacques was asking if my computer still
works as well and yes it's still great I
do try to vacuum the signs a little bit
keep the dust from getting in yeah yeah
that's a good idea try to put things
around so the dogs can't go and lay
beside it yeah yeah John I'd love to get
you on camera because you don't often
get to say hi to the viewers can we can
we switch things up a little bit and get
John here Kristy it's great to see you
love having you here we're gonna we're
gonna get John over here and we do have
a special guest who's going to be
joining us this evening I'm gonna give
you a hint
hey what's that
that's fine just for the occasion John's
getting all geared up this is category 5
technology TV nice to see ya you join us
at category 5 TV is he on the which mike
is he on number three hey John number
three how are you sir I'm very well
welcome to this side really happening
thank you oh so you can bring my yak and
the camera just kind of sits there I
know you guys of zune lights do you like
those lights I like them because should
maybe get a close-up ER or no glare
pardon me oh yeah for us to be looking
at them and we have some really nice
studio lamps and Christy was talking
about how the community supports
category 5 and donations honestly bought
a lot of the studio equipment that we
use and these lights were paid for with
donations and that was just a huge
upgrade for us to improve the lighting
in here because we always had trouble
with that our old friend Carrie will
remind you that we used to have really
really bright desk lamps that were just
kind of pointed in our face and it was
blinding i think when i first started
coming around you add those yeah hmm
these came and then these came out these
are soft boxes so they're really really
good really good really nice light so
how have you been enjoying being on the
show great I like it yeah yeah I'm a lot
of fun yeah I'm having a lot of fun
what's your favorite kind of heard about
you know Michelle be in here working in
the studio I like I like the the things
you do you know the one you get into
these kind of tutorials yeah you seem to
enjoy the graphic editing and yeah that
kind of thing yeah because that way
there's always something to learn yeah
and it's not dependent on other people's
questions right you know what I mean
yeah for sure because other people's
questions are very specific they could
be relevant to you they could greatly
irrelevant yeah exactly yeah animal for
sure but when you're doing that on
screen it's something that everybody can
pick up on ya
and it's it's a good way to learn things
go because sometimes the things you
wouldn't even think of getting into
unless you know you see somebody else do
it and then yeah makes you want to do it
cool well well that's been fun for him
yeah it's been nice having you here I
know for the longest time with the show
we had just the tripod and it's just
kind of a static and I was on the couch
yeah that's true right you were watching
kind of from buying scenes and then
finally we said there John you're here
anyway yeah you should care to you know
pitch in a little bit and put your hand
on the camera and that's kind of where
dad's right and it's been great having
here so thanks for being here thank you
I'll go get a close-up you doing hmm now
go get a close-up how do we do that oh
I'm just kidding we've done that we've
never go there zumba didn't come back
and sit down so we have some deep
conversation going on back at the couch
I know but we do have our special guests
joining the girls out doc hello oh yeah
just came from work well let's let's
let's get a microphone on Keri maybe if
Kerry could have the mascot here that'll
be great
just fire that up your mic is still
working good perfect you want me to
leave it on yeah yeah how people in the
yeah Caesarea lean we don't even need to
serve today this is this great you can
just really yeah we said um hmm Carrie
people are quite excited to see you in
the chat room Carrie was our first
resident co-host me who stayed with us
you were here for a substantial amount
of time yeah yeah it was over a year
yeah we had some good times Carrie came
on on board just before our first
anniversary party because I was actually
looking for somebody to walk around you
remember the question yeah would you
mind just walking around with a
microphone and let people ask you the
questions and then I'll answer them kind
of thing and that was kind of the
original plan yeah but then it kind of
it worked out that you know everything
we had a great time and had a lot of fun
and for some reason she decided to stick
around so you guys yeah yeah it was fun
it's really great to be back thank you
so much for having me thanks for coming
so what are you you obviously you're in
your your nurse dreads yeah how's work
going it's going great i love it yeah
yeah tell us a little bit about it your
arm looks great I'm all fixed yeah my
arm this summer and that was kind of
crazy so it only took four weeks to heal
thank God so I was back to work but yeah
it's really good now you've only got a
sore finger oh yeah that's all that's
left oh yeah it's awesome fantastic
eyesight on this guy yeah no we're on a
far other side of the room here so what
what are you doing as far as nursing
goes um I'm in a post-operative Ward so
actually it's a unit in in in on
category five I try to keep technical
terms to a minimum oh so that people
like
have no idea once he doesn't know what
somebody's talking about you know I have
no idea they were talking about sports
earlier tonight carrie oh I was lost
sweden yeah I wouldn't be much help that
was Eric's thing so you know weathers my
thing and sports lyrics thing is going
to play okay so um right on um what can
I tell you on a surgical floor we handle
post-op patients so a lot of bowel
surgeries sounds exciting long surgery I
recognize you from somewhere did you
have surgery yes yeah yeah yeah small
world this year perhaps then I'm kind of
teasing but he's again I had bowel
surgery yeah no thanks guy I was out of
there in three days oh ok Thank right so
you did a good job yeah look at you we
were talking about how the nature of the
show just kind of keeps going get back
sweet now it's kind of going in this
direction okay we're down at about we're
talking about starting to talk about
toilet stuff here yeah I got a good
story how much time is left so you've
been everything works in a post-op yeah
and enjoying that yeah and they're full
time and it's great I'm learning a lot
it's really busy so yeah yeah help when
people are waking up after surgery you
kind of like give them a shake and say
come on get up yeah sternal rub royal
victoria no no that's not recover I'm
not in recovery so they come up from the
Oh are they spent an hour to in recovery
and when they come up to me my doctor's
name was calling warg don't worry dr.
Ward
no no maybe different area I don't know
anyways very good good it was good wow
what has happened to category but I'll
just sit back and push the buttons open
oh and eaten I wasn't aware i wasn't
awake though fortunately I wasn't I
wasn't watching what was going on yeah
yeah oh he got it up there yeah so
everybody I can say hey to to carry
she's looking at the chat room right now
um what else is so anything new panch
out the show there we go yeah oh yeah we
just opened valley surgery doc category
5 TV that's right I'll bring in pictures
Sean come on we got a line and you just
crossed it yeah hey everybody joining us
in the chat room we're joined tonight by
a couple of our familiar faces from days
gone by this is our third anniversary
episode and Karrie Webb is joining us
Kristi Burton John who still works with
us behind the scenes works on the camera
he's the one whenever whenever you see
anybody moving the camera or zooming
around it's just a few do close up right
now yeah do it what's your mad skills my
remote is that the batteries are dead in
this thing I would have been a great
opportunity for Becca to jump up and
just do it and everyone would have been
like whoa well
Rebecca to move up I wouldn't know she
should jump right well so how was
category 5 been like this past year I
know you've had my friend Hillary on
yeah yeah Hillary's gonna be coming back
after she's done in her school I talked
her into the Hatton good I know she
really enjoyed it yeah we're friends
outside of here it's it's been a lot of
fun having her and and that my friend
eric is is joining us on the show now
okay we've had it's been it's been that
kind of a funny time because we've had
some some stuff go on like we were
broken into yeah so it's it's been it's
been interesting that way we've had some
bad things happen but it's been shut
downs and carrying the whole community
is just showing us how much they
appreciate what what we do here and yeah
you know from being here in the early
days that yeah the community is just so
appreciative of what we do and that just
means so much sorry yeah exactly so now
Hilary said that it really amazed her
like we're talking um just outside she
said it was really amazing and
encouraging to see that so many people
in the category five community would
just kind of gather around and show
their support it really encourages
myself I'm sure Becca would probably say
the same that after the break-in
especially it I guess the first thing
that came to my mind was oh my like I'm
gonna have to stop doing this because we
lost a lot of equipment and it was like
well what do you do right so I went on
the air with I think just one camera
that because one of the cameras got
stolen yeah yeah one better and said you
know can you guys help and the amount of
donations that came in bought us a new
laptop to replace the one that was
stolen bought us a new video camera
bought the when Christie was working in
the newsroom we put a monitor on the
computer for her so that she could
be a part of the show in that way and
the newsroom continues now even though
you're not here but I think that's a
great feature of the show that's awesome
yeah so that's been incredible and I
think the show has been having a lot of
fun we've done a lot to try to introduce
new features always groaning moans add a
new stuff every time you come it'll be
there's new graphics or you know we
switched over to wire cast software that
was a big big thing from from when you
were here the software's completely
different so oh yeah so personally
things going well yeah yeah things are
good yeah yeah just--we're can I
remember from one of our earlier Clips
that yeah your brother was getting
married in this bride was gonna play the
drums at the wedding oh yeah here yes
Jenny cleaned and it was really cool
everyone thought he played in her
wedding dress she did she did because
that's great he played the drum yeah
that's great I'm plating it went it went
really well oh yeah it was really neat
all our family liked it who was playing
along with her oh we have band okay so
my brother and her his wife's family
mm-hmm they're all in it her dad plays
guitar and her mom
and then we had a friend playing piano
all right she was on the drums she was
Andhra did the whole thing new church
party in the church no we heard
afterwards but it's just we play
wherever yeah yeah like relay for life
and that's crown hospital Christmas
party hmm all right now but yeah yeah it
is cool yeah very cool I mean something
that probably the viewers don't know cuz
a lot of them aren't local but I was I
was sitting up late one night and
watching the local news and along comes
a television commercial oh yeah and I
said oh my goodness that's Carrie wow so
you did really yeah so after the show
like did you did you start doing some
acting yeah I got an agent oh good hmm
no um my friends of the family Oh
anyways leafy surgery center dot com if
you want to watch the is it on the
website yeah I think so they are about
to get a lot of hits what is it lakeview
surgery center lakeview surgery center
com thanks for that as a Canadian re or
normal re Canadians glad I asked anyway
so yeah that was playing on the local
channel for a thing for months is it
still on no it's a while ago that I saw
it but it stuck out in my mind is it is
er actually that's funny super all areas
is there anyone over there isn't it
avenged I used to be the day I wouldn't
you play everything oh wow that was like
the kind of our thing that can't down
the website rotate from instrument to
instrument you were just talking about
that's cool it was that was in Illinois
I just worked on one side you've got one
song out really well on ease into it you
know look like anything in it so how old
are you why does a teenager no wait a
senator I play with my family sometimes
like a couple times a year maybe you're
and Beaverton every year there's a no
it's every two years but it's called
celebration and in the year not to
change the subject back to this is the
one yes a hint of embarrassment no I
lakeview surgery calm everybody hit it
up they have a Facebook page let them
know that you saw Karrie Webb category
beautiful center and I'm just really
thrilled to be part of it cool where is
it dr. girgis sorry Kevin Barry yeah oh
I'm lakeshore and he's an awesome
physician and does a great job I was
glad to be part of it sort of private
mmhmm yeah I didn't think I was gonna be
and I thought you just need someone to
be on the o.r table but how's the
patient no actually the guy on the alarm
team was my brother oh yeah and this is
my sister-in-law oh look at that there's
good Garth was on our first anniversary
special as well yeah that's dr. Kerr yes
Oh everybody's gonna check this out oh
boy are you showing this right this
moment I am yeah really nice but thank
you for that little tidbit oh you're up
so everybody hit up lakeview surgery
dot-com and click on media you'll be
able to see Cary there in the commercial
i saw on cable TV
yeah that is kind of funny it was kind
of funny like I just was like that
that's Carrie yeah we were taken I sleep
yeah well hey this is a been fun it's
been nice seeing everybody and so glad
to have everybody here make sure you eat
some of the pretzels off the floor by
the way Gary the kids were down here
yeah so hey they make a mess as you
could tell yes coming soon coming soon
mm-hmm congratulation yeah Christie has
a tendency to put her foot in other
people's mouths it's okay to know you
can't have any secrets when she's around
you know just don't put a camera on her
microphone she tells all now I just made
her cry well anybody who would like to
say hi to two people after the show
we've got the chat room up on the screen
here that they'll be able to kind of see
and stuff so if you want to say hello to
anyone who's still here it's been great
having you here for our third
anniversary show and looking forward to
certainly season four is going to be an
exciting time I'm excited about it
because we've got so much cool stuff
coming and I think season three was it
kind of to me felt like a bit of a
working out the kinks yeah we transition
ilysm it was very transitioning that we
started with new software we've upgraded
some of the hardware we've gotten
ourselves to the point where the studio
is looking pretty good and we've we've
done everything in steps it you know you
go from there to here it looks like a
lot all at once but really it's happened
over the course of a long
time we've added little things here and
there and everything kind of comes
together so I think starting out with
season four is going to be more
evolution just going to be a really
exciting year for us we're going to see
some really cool features to thank you
to everybody in the chat rooms addition
as a happy 3rd birthday here the show
and I look forward to seeing you for the
first episode of category 5 technology
TV season for next Tuesday night what a
fine it's not hard time same station
yeah right here category 5 TV and again
thank you so much for for joining us
tonight it's been a lot of fun and yeah
we're out of time that's it what to our
zipper different writings are done yeah
everybody wave greatest hours great to
see
