hello welcome to category five
technology TVs the robots have taken
over and I am pleased to announce that I
will be your host for tonight wah hah
hah hah hah hah hah hah hah hah hah hah
I admit my laugh is not very scary
tonight we'll be learning all about me
Oh bot I love to help humans learn to
code stick around this is going to be a
lot of fun this is category 5 technology
TV
[Music]
our live recording is a trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 TV slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash ia IB
welcome to the show everybody it's so
nice to see you again this week I'm
Robby and over there we've got Jeff
Weston on your left
hey Sasha recomment on the right see you
too yeah it's nice short sleeves I know
we're all in short sleeves tonight I'm
actually wearing a like a standard
t-shirt I know how is that two weeks ago
we had snow banks that were two sashes
hi we've entered the 14 days of summer
but it's true last week our kids went to
school in snow suits today they're in
shorts and t-shirt welcome to Canada
yeah it's incredible tis the season tis
the season oh we've got such a fun show
plan to I know it's going to be a lot of
fun I know just from the before the show
discussions and everything that this is
gonna be a blast now you see our friends
that are here with us tonight we're
gonna be looking at them in just a
couple of moments first of all just to
remind our speaking of shirts category 5
TV shirts are available and they're
being printed by teespring and you may
wonder well what does that mean now
teespring is a fundraising website they
produce professionally screen t-shirts
and that means that when you support us
by purchasing one of those shirts they
will print it on demand for you and send
it to you so there's no there's no
hassles there's no happen to wait for it
you're gonna receive it and we don't
have minimum order quantities and all
that kind of stuff that we've dealt with
in the past so that's a really cool way
that you can support us head on over to
cat5 dot TV slash shirts to pick up
yours and Andy Utley is the first one to
actually send us a picture as well
great photo Andy sent that in and notice
also and now the new gaming rig behind
him there yeah and I was kind of
incidentally wondering what what what
hash rate you get on there with cat 5 TV
miners just just Andy is in the UK so
you know we're here in Canada the shirts
get printed in the United States and
he's received it already in the UK so I
appreciate you sending in the the the
photo and I'm glad that that the shirt
got there and and looks great
Robbie did Andy send in his shirt via
contest that category 5 TV no he he
posted it on Facebook but what I was
thinking is with that sweet gaming rig
that he's got behind him there yeah
maybe maybe someone could hook him up I
wish there was someone here who had some
access keys to maybe like a steam VR
game right like maybe dead Effect 2 VR
Andy Andy yeah yeah okay let's do this
is our winner this week no it's not a
rigged contest it's just a contest for
anyone who may decide to win it's random
in that we will pick from anybody who
emails us that contest at category 5 TV
or send us a picture in there cat 5 a
feral there you go yeah and that is
while supplies last just so you know we
do have a finite amount and we are
running low we're just about at that
point we've been giving them away for a
little bit yeah it's a lot of fun so you
definitely want to participate in that
so you've already won and you're playing
it turns out that you can play in co-op
mode nice which means if you need help
don't ask me eh but if you need to give
help I'm here for you and in the
meantime while you're waiting to find
out if you've won because you because
you've submitted your photo you can just
listen to us on Google music that's
right yes so you can go to
category-five dot TV slash subscribe
because we are Google Play Music and you
can subscribe to the show and listen and
listen to cat 5 whenever wherever
download them to your phone device
whatever and let the good times roll
lots of different ways that you can tune
into category-five TV now we've been
looking at Facebook over the past few
weeks and that partially is because of
everything that kind of happened with
Cambridge analytic
sacha canceling her account and a lot of
viewers also considering cancelling
their accounts and some actually took
that step but just a heads up now we've
actually started to notice that Facebook
has started to implement some changes
into the way they address privacy now
there were some features that were
leaked a couple of days ago that weren't
meant to go out just yet but in
particular as an app developer myself I
noticed some changes in the app dev
Center and basically what they've
started to do as of this month well I
guess early April so with everything
that's going on surrounding the privacy
issues with the API you guys are
familiar with that I mean when the API
can be connected to from an app and that
app can download private information
that can be a problem that's what has
happened so they've made it now so that
any app that wants access to private
information has to be approved manually
by the Facebook staff so that is
probably a move in the right direction
but at the same time it's a little bit
of a pain for little guys like me
because I develop apps that are quite
simplistic in their nature and and they
have been shut off I've lost access to
the API until the review process is
complete so I've had to submit a review
for the app and wait now for Facebook to
review the app and make sure that I'm
not doing anything untoward so what
happens with apps that have already been
approved for connection via Facebook
like I I know if you're a gamer with MMO
was on your phone's ton of the ton of
those would connect through Facebook's
that you have your account protected and
secure you can
back it up if you have to reset your
device and stuff so if you've already
been using an app that's approved is
that now wiped out and you have to read
not the not the user the app developers
so I think that with the larger app
Studios there they're well ahead of this
now I'm I don't develop apps as like
that's not a big part of my business
whatsoever but so it actually took a few
weeks for us to realize that some of the
apps were not working and then finally
when we did it was like oh what's going
on and then tracked down the problem -
oh the connection to the API has been
disconnected because it has to go in for
a review process so even if those apps
have already been approved Jeff they
have to the app developer has to submit
again for approval for them to have
access to those features so if they are
an existing app developer they have
until August 1st to do that not really
sure how that works because they do cut
off access to certain features like
events for example that's one that's
really impacted me this week so maybe
some features of their apps would stop
working right away but they can they can
apply for a reira view to be able to
gain access to those so I think they're
they're taking the right steps anyways -
to protect user data okay so it's a good
good start anyways but a bit of a pain
for us app developers who are not
necessarily the big studios we've got to
take a really quick break now we've got
Obot here live in the studio we're gonna
be talking with them learning how to
code learning a little bit more about
stem and how we can teach our kids to
code I say kids but I'm actually really
enjoying this
we're gonna learn from Obot coming right
up don't go anywhere for a limited time
get your hands on limited-edition shirts
from the category 5 TV network these
high quality shirts are manufactured by
teespring a fundraising website and your
purchase will help support the shows we
produce get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official network shirt today cap five
dot TV slash shirts
welcome back this is category five
technology TV and as promised tonight we
are learning STEM education from Oh bot
and Oh bot has just found its way to
Canada thanks to johanna garcia the
founder of canadian classroom and this
is a company that's been around since
1999 she was at a trade show and they
show off a whole lot of different
educational toys and things like that at
this trade show and while there she came
across Oh bot from the UK and decided
hey this is something that we don't
really have here in Canada and I got to
show you all about it how it works but
because we don't have this in Canada
let's bring it in so Canadian classroom
has got it here in Canada now it's
available in the UK it's avail it's it's
growing it's a it's a very new product
though so tonight we're gonna be showing
you what this what this can do and how
it works basically STEM education is
something that here at the show we've
been really interested in promoting and
learning more about and becoming more
involved in because I love the idea and
I think the same is for the crew here
that encouraging young people to learn
science technology education mathematics
things that are going to skills that
should that should help them in this
tech driven world and that's exactly
what Canadian classroom is working on is
bringing into Canada are all these great
stem based toys and and different ways
that you can get involved in stem now
these are really cool because they teach
kids and I say kids very loosely because
my seven year old is is loving it I'm
loving it I'm a little older than seven
the state of kids kids of all ages will
say I think as soon as you can sit down
at a computer to the day that you can no
longer sit at a computer you're gonna
enjoy these but it teaches you to code
and I've got 200 bots in front of me
today I've got a red one and a blue one
you might think but the blue one is in
fact Microsoft Windows driven and
red one is ready for this raspberry pie
okay okay so yes so I've got this
connected to a Raspberry Pi 2 and I've
got this one connected to my laptop
which is Windows 10 is what it's running
right now so the the software that each
one runs is going to be a little bit
different based on the platform that
you're connecting to so this one being
connected to a Raspberry Pi
I've actually coded it to just kind of
look around and and blink its eyes and
things like that in pure Python so these
are commands that I've just programmed
in just to give it a little bit of
activity here on the show but we're
pretty much gonna be working with the
windows one tonight which is coded using
an interface that is basically very very
similar to scratch and scratch has
become a really great learning coding
language if you will a visual coding
language for kids to get involved in
coding and to learn syntax and to learn
the interactivity between different
commands and and the workflow of coding
so so that's really cool we're gonna be
looking at that one tonight you can
purchase these either disassembled like
a DIY kit which is you know fantastic if
you really want to sit down with your
kids or yourself
it would require parental supervision to
help with this but you can actually just
get the parts and put it all together
yourself and then build it or you can
buy it already preassembled so here we
go can we take a look yeah okay first of
all now what I want to do is I want to
actually bring up their website just you
can get an idea and impression as to how
you can you know what what they're
offering with Obot and it is it's a full
platform I'll say it's not just a robot
I think the robot head is really the
extension that allows you to feel as the
person who's coding it as if you are
interacting with a physical thing it
makes it so much more fun it makes it so
much more fun when you code something
and there's an immediate response
whether it be blinking or talking or
moving its head
whatever it may be it's responding to
your programming so so it's really an
extension of of that so it's not just
you know the same old kind of coding on
the screen you get a lot more to it so
you can get the Obot kit and all that
kind of stuff I'll let you browse it but
it's Obot code UK and the instructions
are fantastic
everything is well laid out which i
think is really important with something
like this because you you you know you
you don't want it to be over complicated
and part of this is the learning
experience and making it fun and they've
done a fantastic job of doing just that
so there's kind of the kit and what you
need and it's all detailed in such a way
that hey you know what you and the kids
could really really do this if your
grandma grandpa mom dad aunt uncle this
is a great a great project to work on
together or if you don't want to build
it yourself you can get the assembled
version anyways so what I want to jump
into is the coding end of things of
course there's the software which is
available for Windows or raspberry pi
raspberry pi again you're going to be
going through the process of setting up
your PI with the Obot and coding it in
python and so I've installed raspbian on
there essentially and just followed the
prompts to install the needed drivers
and software and it's got a diagram here
to show you how to power it and all that
kind of stuff on windows on the other
hand it's in the app store so on Windows
10 you can just download it and install
it from the app store which is pretty
great in that and I'm gonna be showing
you the interface in just a couple of
moments but you can actually start
coding the Obot before you even get a no
bot so you can start learning how it
works you can start playing with it see
if you're going to enjoy it before you
even get the product so so that's really
cool you know what do you what do you
mean by that that you can start trying
it like coding and trying to is there
like a visual yeah Jeff as soon as soon
as I show you the interface it's it's
gonna be like oh okay I see I see so
let's let's bring it up and and you'll
see what I mean
so here it is looks like scratch but
it's got an Oh bot on the screen right
so when I for example if I run the Reis
script he moves he blinks on the screen
right so anything that I do in my code
is happening in in real life on the Obot
so if we take a look at him and run that
same code reset all boom well my mistake
sorry it's there you go let's move him
around a little bit I'll just run this
script here so this is actually
happening on the screen as well see him
moving there oh you can learn to do the
movements and everything else on the
screen you can even do the speech
synthesis everything else cool okay
that's so simple what I've done there
okay so let's let's get into the like
kind of dive into what is possible here
now first of all Obot really really cool
to have you here on the show
hi I'm very pleased to be here on
category five technology TV today and it
is great to have you here can you tell
us just a little bit about you know are
you are you able to speak French for
example I'm a multilingual Obot Cecily's
so see so you're going to see bass is
also nice so this speech synthesis and
the Obot itself is able to be coded in
such a way that we can do multilingual
applications so we're not limited just
to English I've done French there now
where it gets that on the Windows
version is through your your locale
settings so you add a locale and windows
automatically downloads the voice
synthesis and the the text itself like
the dictionary and everything else so
it's part of the Windows operating
system and Obot then translate that into
robot movements now I'm not going to get
too big into the coding end of things
tonight because realistically there's so
much that we can do with this it's it's
gonna be a lot of fun for you for your
family but I'll tell you a little bit
about what what we've done so far so I
hooked this up and it only took a couple
of minutes time to get this up and going
at home yeah actually it took a little
more time to set it up than it did for
the kids to start making it safe hoop
jokes of course that's the one thing the
kids are interesting the first thing was
like poop jokes and red eyes and like
evil sayings and things right typical
kids right yeah so my ten-year-old he is
big on scratch he loves coding and he
really took to it right away
now he's scratch experienced he's he's
he's done a lot of stuff and so he just
jumped on it and started coding away and
making his own program
with your wife interest or yes
would you like to hear a story
I'm sorry I didn't tell you were here
then I was surprised and you can see the
the like excitement around this they're
just going at it
you know I'm hands off and the kids are
just taking over and doing their own
thing
I was surprised though that our
seven-year-old actually jumped on there
and he spent literally an entire day
teaching Obot through code to tell a
story so it was talking it was moving
around and he had actually written and
coded this hilarious story from the mind
of a seven-year-old through the Obot
hello my name is in the rough it's nice
to meet you want to be read okay
amazing and it's good storytelling your
words for you
hello my name is thrust it's nice to
meet you want to be friends what was
that sound very cool so what kind of
features come with the old bot like is
it something where you just program it
or can you like is there like a visual
sensor where you could talk to it and
talks back like there are tons of
sensors Jeff and again I can't show all
of the features of what's possible okay
let's check out one of the things that
we can do is get on back onto their
website and if you go to program and
then code snippets now these code
snippets are for the Windows version and
you see all these kinds of things that
you can do from web querying like it'll
actually tap into the wikipedia API so
that you can ask it questions and things
like that
- interacting with a webcam so that it
will actually follow your your face on
the webcam and you can speak back and
forth with it so there are actually some
sensors for things like when I hear a
certain word I can program it with and I
guess that would be an event so when see
when hello is heard and I can change
that word to any word and and program it
to respond in some way based on the
words that that adheres is it can I take
the risk of doing this live sure I'm
just gonna add test this when the word
test this is heard I'm going to stop the
program and then I'm gonna say say
I hear you okay so let's see what
happens here
test this I oh you know what I don't
even have a microphone Jeff yes yes the
answer is yes you absolutely can set it
up to do things interactively and I just
realized that I don't have a microphone
plugged into this laptop so let's get
into a little bit of the coding end of
things you can see that he's doing some
some things over here because I've
already set up some programming for him
let's go into the program and let's
create a new file so we're just gonna
again we're gonna get into the very
simplistic set up and it comes with some
documentation that is again I mentioned
that they're really keen on making this
simple and easy to get involved in you
get stuff like this where it's like
here's a project so the first project is
how to make him nod the second project
is how to make him speak and the third
project is how to now make the mouth
move when he speaks so let's actually
get a quick look at how that works and
I'll bring it up like that so I'm gonna
first of all make him speak so let's go
let's set up an event and we're gonna
say when the green flag is clicked let's
say
hi there everyone and rocky tho hey lee
hwon
now you notice we're still in french
mode because we were talking in French
there so I can actually control who is
going to be speaking so that was not
French it didn't translate or anything
like that it just simply she has such a
strong French accent and it was a French
dictionary that that it wouldn't work so
in English so I've changed to an English
speaking robot hi there everyone there
you go
okay so you notice that the everyone
life and starts talking but there's no
movement so let's do something a little
bit different so now what I'm gonna do
is I'm gonna set up a control loop and
we're gonna say forever we're going to
we're going to loop this and let's set
up some we're gonna set up a sensor but
what we need to do is create let's see
see there's so much stuff here hey Jeff
you're pretty familiar with with this
well yeah this is very similar to the
siggy doll yes yeah it's scratching your
face yeah absolutely absolutely so what
I want to actually do is I want to set
the lips so let's see if it's in motion
here yes set top lip first of all and
then set bottom lip now by default it's
gonna set the position to five which is
the middle but what I want to actually
do is I want to set up a sensor and say
okay the bottom lip is the bottom lip
sensor and the top lip is the top lip
lip sensor so now and let's let's create
a event to make it say hi there everyone
so we're gonna create a new event and
I'm gonna do this instead when the space
button is pressed or I can set that to
any other key so now if I push start and
hit space hi there everyone so now the
motion is synchronized with the words
and it's as simple as that
but we've just learned how to code we've
just learned how how these two elements
work together so they the
the motion is being controlled by the
voice so I mean what else can you do
there's so many different projects that
we could get into feel like this would
be great for maybe class presentations
like I feel like you'd be a group of
kids and one every week or one one team
of kids every week we'd get to program
the robot to do a quick presentation for
the glass right or you know I I just
picture like when I was a kid this would
be such a good tool for me to not only
learn like cooperation but also to be
able to get up and present something and
you could present anything with this
robot right let's be clear when you were
a kid this was Johnny Five right oh yeah
yeah let's do a little bit more okay
let's get into the motion so when space
is pressed let's do a little more than
just speaking and moving the mouth let's
actually do a couple of different things
like like moving the head a little bit
as as it speaks so let's let's let it
look at the camera right now it's kind
of looking down so find that spot so
head turn eight let's try that and see
what happens hi there everyone so that's
the wrong direction and notice I just
hit space too to try that hi there
everyone so 4 is approximately looking
at the camera now with the like the 8
and 4 is that based on like a clock like
the 12 hours or no I think it's it's the
position like 0 to 10 kind of thing okay
and so what we're actually doing is
we're coding based on like presets so 5
is the middle and 10 is far one
direction and 0 is far the other
direction now I can go ahead not with
head nod I can now make robot look up a
little bit so let's try let's try 8
hi there everyone perfect now let's get
the eyes to turn just a little bit more
toward the camera hi there everyone
beautiful yeah right you think that but
it's we're learning and it's so much fun
let's make the eyes turn to green
because we like green eyes hi there
everyone okay so this is where you're
talking about going with the red eyes
and I'm like yes see that's where I
would jump in and I go red eyes and be
like I am going to destroy the world
something like that right my robot would
be like let me cook you a lasagna you
just want to replace your grandma let's
look at a couple of the sample codes
that are available now it comes with the
welcome script and this one as you can
see is quite large but what it does is
it shows you some of the ways that you
can interact with Obot so we've got some
loops that just kind of move it around
all the time let's take a look at what
that does so you can see it's blinking
and it's looking around doing those
kinds of things and then there's some
things that if I press space for example
a human there
oh but 2.1 here ready to be programmed
if there is someone there please type
your name in now I notice it's waiting
for my mouse movement so I can actually
move the head with my mouse oh that's
crazy isn't that cool
so I can control where it's looking what
it's doing that's neat
and you can see and so what we're doing
is we can learn on the screen so if I
bring that up kind of wide so that you
can see the entire code you can see and
learn and there are even notes to help
us to learn how to code Oh bot so it's
it's a lot of fun there's really no
limits other than your imagination and
it's gonna teach you how to code and I
think you know this is something that
I'm really excited about with the kids
I'm excited about this but I also think
that this product itself is is really
really cool absolutely I mean I will
love this as a kid I love it now as an
atom oh yeah now with something like
this could you
like I'm picturing my kids in the
morning just the way our house sets up
they come down the stairs into like the
living room area before they head to the
kitchen to get their breakfast if I had
a little raspberry pie and the old BOTS
sitting there in the kitchen could it
pick up the motion of them coming in
every morning like quarter after 7:00
and say good morning what would you like
for breakfast like could you show
program it to do stuff like that so that
it's always live and always paying
attention yeah and you could actually
use like the Alexa API or things like
that like you can use API so that you
can interact with it right and talk with
it right I think that this would
probably like parents would like this
for programming like okay time to brush
your teeth and probably kids wouldn't
you know talk back to a the robot said
you see uh maybe I'm somebody's gonna
yell at me on YouTube for this but I
would also be keen to just stick it in
my kids room and then like 10 minutes
after I leave the lights
I'm watching you have the motion sensor
so that when anybody walks by it just
it's like that old Billy bass thing walk
down the hallway and the fish started
eating that shit but make it interactive
so if I look at the code here now again
I'm looking at the Windows version here
Jeff
okay but in the Windows Windows version
for example if I go into sensing you can
see all kinds of different ways but
notice well when you can actually use a
sensor that says when a camera when a
sense as a face or when a camera senses
movement
okay those can be triggers these are
sensors so instead of controlling based
on keys press like pressing the space
button I can in fact control like set
the Obot to do something by seeing
something on the camera or by seeing a
face on the camera hey who goes there
right right that kind of stuff and then
interact what's your name who are you
what are you doing brush your teeth so
we could program one to like when we go
live every week say it's
it's show time show time yeah yeah
absolutely interesting I think what it
boils down to I mean it's really a
difficult thing for me to show because
there's so many different things and you
can say well can I do this yeah you're
coding it you're programming it there's
really no limit beyond your imagination
so if you want to add a webcam Jeff and
make it sense your face or your kids
moving through the house absolutely you
can do that if you want it to interact
with a web api let's show you the
wikipedia system for example this is
mind-blowing to me so if I run the
Wikipedia sample script which you can
get off of their their website it is web
query and run that now when space is
pressed it asked me a question I can see
that so see I'm already learning to code
by looking at the screen what do you
want to know about what would I like to
know about now this one is prompting me
on the left hand side I'll bring that up
so you can see that on your screen it's
prompting me to enter a query so if we
said something like Linux for example so
let's say I wanted to learn more about
Linux and interact with my Oh BOTS in
order to learn that wikipedia says Linux
listen lynn KS is a family of free and
open source software operating systems
built around the Linux kernel typically
Linux is packaged in a form known as a
Linux distribution or distro for short
for both desktop and server use the
defining component of a Linux
distribution is the Linux kernel an
operating system so we can program it to
do well you know if you wanted to write
a program that tells you the weather
forecast when you interact with it right
use some of the available open source
code because it's it's available on the
code is on github the Python code is
available for free on github and you can
you can set it up however you like and
so if the microphone is hooked up to if
yeah folks they use a laptop with a mic
so if the microphone is hooked up to it
could you have a full blown conversation
and it respond to you or do the
responses have to be
program you can use I would say yes but
but that would take much more experience
than I have encoding the Obot right
because you could use the Raspberry Pi
version connected with Python and use a
Python library for say Alexa or another
interactive AI and then it would tap
into Amazon system for example and be
able to communicate using that but a lot
would be the the the front end of that
interface so right absolutely that can
be done that's wild in that cool all
right I know what's going on my birthday
list you're not a kid have you chatted
with me lately I'm very much a kid in a
grown-up's body I'm like Tom Hanks big I
saw that was the opposite if anyone has
any questions about robot at all make
sure you get on to our website category
five dot TV sent us the email there has
anything coming in the chatroom at all
just before we move on but if you are
looking for this on your on your
birthday list or whatever it may be or
you just want to pick one up make sure
you head on over to Canadian classroom
comm check them out it is also available
on amazon co uk so if you want to use
our partner link we are partnered with
the with that website so you can
purchase it through that if you go
through our website category 5 TV click
on support us and then visit through our
partner links or of course you can go
directly to Obot dot co dot uk' isn't
that awesome so much fun it's so much
fun I want one
you've got virtual reality you don't
need a robot well I could have a robot
that uses instead of an alarm clock it
would just like all of a sudden its eyes
would glow and would be like it's 4:45
oh wow we can think of so many different
I think we need to start our own code
base where all of our viewers get a no
bot and start creating these kind of
things like yeah you heard it here you
can do anything that you want
so start coding and let's see what we
can come up with awesome
this is category 5 technology TV make
sure you check out our website category
5
TV and Sasha we're gonna jump right over
to the newsroom my friend beautiful here
are the stories were covering this week
in the category 5 TV newsroom a true
Linux part a smartphone will be
available within the next year it's
already happening people are porting
Linux to the Nintendo switch a company
which specializes in delivery robots
plans to expand its operations from two
campuses to 20 by 2019 with a fleet of
1,000 the driver who moved into the
passenger seat after putting his
electric car to autopilot while at 40
miles per hour on a highway has been
banned from driving these stories are
coming right up don't go anywhere
Jeff Westen Gemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what are you
you're a terrible actor
what does where acting comes into play I
don't know you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash DreamHost
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat 5 TV slash DreamHost
the
is the category 5 TV newsroom covering
the week's top tech stories with a
slight linux bias
I'm Sasha Rickman and here the top
stories recovering we're following this
week after raising more than two million
dollars last year to build a Linux
powered smartphone with a focus on
privacy and opens our software purism
hopes to deliver the first libram 5
smartphones early next year the phone is
expected to ship with an NX p i dot MX
8m 64-bit ARM Cortex a 53 processor and
feature three gigabytes of RAM 32
gigabytes storage and a micro SD card
slot a headphone jack USB type-c port
and front and back cameras but it will
also have physical kill switches that
disconnects the camera mic broadband and
Wi-Fi or Bluetooth for security and
privacy purposes when you're not using
those features one of the biggest
challenges is software the phone won't
ship with Android or iOS instead it will
run free and open source Linux based
software which doesn't have a great
track record with being phone friendly
but now purism has announced that the
libram 5 will support at least three
different operating systems and user
interfaces at launch pure OS version of
pure OS with KDE plasma mobile
environment and a boon to touch pure OS
is the company's own Linux distribution
which the team is adapting to work on
touchscreen devices with phone sized
screens KDE plasma mobile is a mobile
project from the team behind the KDE
desktop environment for gnu/linux Ubuntu
touch is the version of Ubuntu Linux
that canonical developed for phones and
tablets and then scrapped when the
company decided to shift direction but a
boon to touch is an open source project
so when canonical stopped developing it
another team of developers calling
themselves ub ports decided to pick up
the torch continuing to work on the
operating system ub ports and peer
are working together to ensure that a
boon to touch is fully supported on the
phone and that future software updates
remain compatible out of the box the
libram five will ship with pure OS
featuring a known base deck desktop
environments users will have the choice
of installing KDE plasma mobile or a
boon to touch if they prefer to use one
of those alternatives I like it this is
awesome when when can I get one actly
when well it was I don't know if it was
Kickstarter or was it a fundraising
campaign anyways but the plan is this
January of 2019 that's the target goal
and they far surpassed their the amount
that they were trying to raise I think
it was like 1 million dollars and they
went to like 1.5 or something like that
so probably January if things go well
but we have seen like a boon to phone
that kind of failed in the past and some
other Linux phones what is cool about
this I think anyways is that the the
whole idea behind a Linux smartphone
there's a few different things here that
are really exciting first of all it's a
full OS so you get the security and the
privacy of an OS and under the hood it's
something that you can control so you
are now in control of your phone rather
than whoever's manufacturing the
software right in the software that runs
it so but also it's dockable so you can
plug this into a like a 22 inch screen
and sit down like it's a computer and
boom you've got a desktop operating
system up on your screen and it's
powered by your phone see that's
exciting I really I like that there's
the kill switches and and the privacy
security stuff for the fact that I feel
like that will really draw like the
masses over to this the only problem
with that though is not the masses are
not used to Linux yeah they are yeah
Jeff everything that you own is run by
Linux yes I understand that but what I
mean by that is the normal consumer for
a phone is used to Apple telling them
what to do or Android telling them what
to do for the most part so to have
something that is customizable like a
Linux phone I think will be a huge mind
shift for a lot of people they won't
they'll be able to pick it up and use it
but to fully use it to its potential I
don't think a lot of people will have
the know-how and that's gonna take a
little bit of time I faith we'll do a
couple of shows about it when I get mine
and everyone can watch and they'll be
right on board I think people will do
okay I really do I think people will
grasp it fairly well I mean we adapted
force to smart phones from dumb phones
and now it's just what's gonna confuse
us as more features well they can create
an interface and they have created
interfaces that are like iOS or Android
it's just under the hood there's more to
it and a lot more functionality all
right well you two have more faith in
humanity than I do have a lot of faith
in it absolutely have faith in it
especially the fact that now that you
have a Linux phone that now there's just
like an endless amount of different you
know operating systems and distros and
such that can like right now there's
just the ones that are offered but I
know the Linux community they're just
gonna have so many I just want to
install LibreOffice on my phone like
that will be the day when I can just
plug it in and start typing on my phone
like that okay real quick before we go
to the next story is it gonna be able to
interface with app stores as far as apps
go or are you gonna have to yours yeah
yeah the whole like the whole ecosystem
of Linux is repository based so why not
start being able to install apps if you
will through through that architecture
okay it's a boon to its Debian based so
absolutely it's gonna be there okay yes
it has already happened we talked about
the Tegra exploit last week which is now
in the wild and already a user has a
boon to running on the Nintendo switch
not every hardware hacker goes about
things privately and one such group has
disclosed the Nintendo switch exploit
that allows anyone with the portable
gaming device to load Linux on the
switch without much fuss the exploit in
question this time dubbed show elf
2 was revealed by failover flow in a
blog post they explained that a bug in
the boot rom of the NVIDIA Tegra x1
Sasser can be used to take control over
the entire boot process this day ad is
effectively like a us-based rescue mode
intended for initial flashing of Tegra
devices and recovery of bricks devices
normally RCM mode only allows signed
images to be loaded but thanks to the
bug that is not the case as neither
Nintendo or Nvidia can patch the hole it
means every single Nintendo switch soul
to date can be made to run Linux
failover flow released a fully open
source Linux boot stack for the switch
based on Arch Linux almost immediately
other Linux enthusiasts race to get
their favorite distros desktops and
tools running on the switch as well and
a user calling themselves cm SJ has
managed to squeeze the latest a boon to
18.04 release on to a Nintendo switch
the volume rocker already works as as
does the ambient light sensor though
very they note it's very slow at this
point they plan to tweak things and get
it to a very usable state a boon to
aside it is still very early days for
Linux on the switch not all Hardware
functions properly
not every Linux app is available on ARM
processors and performance will vary
from distro to distro the code to
install Linux on your Nintendo switch is
already available on github though you'd
have to be either very brave or possess
a rather disposable income to want to
take it on this early so truth this is
cool this is really cool I mean the
story is I feel like it's only seven
days old and already this has happened
like it's exploded yeah so my question
is if I were to do this could I go back
or is the Nintendo is that oh right
could I perhaps switch back and forth
not necessarily dual boot right but like
boot one and then get rid of it and
flash like almost like reflashing the
original ROM back on to the on to the
switch and I'd I don't know I guess you
could back up the original or if there
is a backup of it I don't think you
could ever undo it because you're you're
basically rooting it right yeah
exactly yeah so my guess would be that
there's got to be a way to do it yeah
you're right you would have to have a
backup of the entire switch system in
order to make that happen and well yeah
it's not impossible and then what would
you do I guess with Linux on a switch is
it just like it opens up your games or I
wonder if if it kind of brings us back
to the phone idea of being able to do
more with your devices and have more
control over it but I think I really
think about indie game manufacturers
people who want to create games but
don't have the big studio and can't get
into the the switch you know you've got
to have Nintendo licensing if you want
to be on a Nintendo switch you've got a
license that game and have that you know
manufactured with the official Nintendo
logo and everything well what I lost a
fortune is once you can get it routed
you get the software in there why
couldn't you turn it into like a
portable retropie in flats in theory
exactly just bring it anywhere with you
when you get home plug it in BAM it's on
your big screen yeah maybe well that to
me sounds like something that you would
run like a game like if it was routed
then you could run the retropie as an
example style interface emulation
emulation station or something like that
wouldn't be but yeah it would be like
the equivalent of that where you could
have thousands of games built into the
switch and then you pull out that card
and pop in another in your back to
playing the normal stuff well exactly I
mean you have all those classic
handhelds from the you know the Gameboy
- what was the the Jennings the Sega
Genesis one but that what was it called
down somebody in the chat room or on
YouTube and freon there's gone but you
know get all those games on it just have
that port of portability awesome I love
it Linux for the win yeah Linux is
winning yeah that's what's happening
here a company which specializes in
delivery robots plans to expand its
operations from two campuses to 20 by
2019 with a fleet of
1,000 starship technologies is
partnering with the coop in at Milton
Keynes to develop the deliver groceries
there
it follows trials with just eat to
deliver takeout in London England one
expert said he thinks that it will be a
long time before they become a regular
sight on normal streets the campuses are
approving are more of a proving ground
for the robots the machines have a top
speed of 10 miles an hour which is 16.1
km/h minder the firm claims none have
been stolen or vandalized with 100,000
miles of delivery journeys completed so
far starship said that the robots will
be put to work in 20 universities or
work campuses across the UK US and
Germany they can travel up to 3 miles
and are fitted with nine cameras radar
and Jaypee GPS and ultrasonic sensors
for detecting obstacles upon arrival the
recipient of the parcel receives a text
message containing a link to unlock the
robot the manufacturer says their robots
can deliver around 200 of the most
common grocery items this is amazing why
this is amazing because it solves two
problems one security that of the
problem with people getting Amazon
packages that gets stolen off of off of
porches so now you get car trunks only
if you have a domestic car so now you're
getting a text from the robot for the
unlock key right so already it's one
extra level of security and secondly it
will make deliveries faster because ok
they can travel up to three miles so
let's say somebody driving a truck drops
off a bunch of these robots that are
making deliveries BAM all the deliveries
go out at once the robots come back they
get reloaded to the next location BAM
they go out again saving gas eaten do
you remember your idea about Amazon
dropping your stuff in a box it's a
locked box this takes it to the next
level and it's like on wheels it's
robotic it's its autonomous phagon is
delivering an it
sits on your porch now I can yeah I can
see that working see I love it now the
one thing that I would say is if it
needs a human minder though you might as
well accept that though right it is
early days that's that is true depending
on how big the box size is it could be
really helpful for people who don't have
any way to get you know there are
prescriptions to their house right or
sure and I don't know maybe it's just
because of my age but I'm thinking
colleges are gonna love this College a
few you know college or university get a
bunch of these on campus doing all the
grocery runs and it's like I can just
hang out in my dorm and the robots going
to deliver everything to me I see that
being used to the fullest potential
right well in college campuses you don't
have let you rarely have the ability to
cook and if you can cook it's like the
microwave or a hot plate so they're
smart to start testing this in campuses
because they will get lots of use yes I
really like the idea though of like
elderly individuals who can't
necessarily go out and do a shop right
so just bring it to me and that's that's
fantastic and and the security side I
mean I feel like if I were Amazon I
would be putting a whole lot of money
into this because it really solves that
problem and if I was the Postal Service
even I would I would do the same because
the Postal Service really makes money on
the fact that they can deliver every
single day no matter what yeah but
they're unionized that's a whole another
story a driver who moved into the
electric car into autopilot while at 40
miles an hour on a highway has been
banned from driving the man babish patel
from nottingham england pleaded guilty
to dangerous driving at saint albans
Crown Court a witness in another car
filmed him sitting in the passenger seat
of his Tesla s60 on the m1 between
junctions 8 and 9 near a Hamel Hempstead
Patel said that he was the unlucky one
who got caught
the court was told the footage was
posted on social media before it was
reported to police the court heard Patel
had told officers what he had done was
silly but that his car was capable of
something amazing when he was
interviewed at the Stevenage police
station he added that he was the unlucky
one who got caught a statement provided
by a Tesla engineer said the autopilot
was intended to provide assistance to a
fully attentive driver Patel was
disqualified for 18 months and must do
100 hours of unpaid work and was also
fine to cover the costs of the courts
why is this still an issue why do people
continue to let their car fully Drive
for them that was never what it was
intended for right in yet fair enough
thank you in the defense of this
particular driver except the fact that
he went to the passenger seat right that
part was silly buddy but if you stayed
in the driver's seat if you have a fully
autopilot car you cannot expect the
driver to then also be attentive how
many of us are completely overworked now
you're sure of the car your car is doing
everything for you now you have nothing
you need to be paying attention to
you're going to zone out you just need
to be able to access the pedals because
the car that these Tesla's are designed
to alert you in the event of a pending
issue so if traffic is getting too heavy
and it doesn't want to it doesn't feel
confident in itself right it will wake
you it will tell you okay it's time to
take over buddy but if you're in the
other seat and someone pulls out in
front of you and the car says warning
warning warning take the wheel take the
wheel and you're in the other seat right
that's that's actually not the part I
take issue with because I honestly think
you should be in the driver's seat but
you cannot expect the driver to remain
attentive when you've taken away the
only task they have to do while sitting
there you're gonna have a bunch of
napping drivers with autopilot and
they're just gonna be hoping that the
chair vibrates or something to wake them
up one time be it I completely 100%
disagree with you
I think I mean you cannot expect your
car is going to fully do the drive for
you and respond the way that a human
would respond it has sensors it will do
the best it can but you need to be aware
of the drop it will respond better than
a human response so then why are people
getting killed how many people got
killed by autonomous vehicles versus how
many people got killed by a human driver
vehicle capable humans have been driving
a lot more than a human but the problem
is when people abuse the technology
humans text and drive Jeff a car does
the text and drive you're right I
understand that but right still there's
no way no way somebody should be getting
behind a car with autopilot functions
and not at all paying attention I you
wanna have your hands off the wheel fine
you want to be in a relaxed state fine
you want to be belting out to liberace
while the car is driving for you fine
but you're still having to pay attention
if you don't bad things will happen but
people who are supposed to be paying
attention in non autonomous cars are
already not paying attention these cars
are going to save lives the problem is
he wasn't in the driver's seat but the
car itself is smarter than the human
driving it no wonder he checked out one
into the passenger seat really the car
is probably smarter than he is okay but
what about dude who was watching a movie
while driving well driving was the car
driving the car was driving he's
watching a movie not paying attention he
got killed I don't know this story
yeah but covered in a year ago it's
because he was he was watching a movie I
want to say was Harry Potter I believe
and he rear-ended a vehicle his car did
not want to have been there to take over
the controls in an instant he may have
lived right but that same guy not
watching a movie driving a car could
have looked down at his phone while
texting and driving and rear-ended
somebody and died but they still weren't
paying attention right but the car is
going to be programmed to pay better
attention than a person actually
naturally will we are tired and
distracted at best
so you're gonna fall asleep or you're
going to daydream or you're going like I
really love autonomous cars and I really
think that autonomous cars will drive
better than humans do
it's been wonderful knowing you Sasha
when you get your autonomous car and you
don't pay attention and you get in an
accident it's been a pleasure working
with you I will not get into an accident
your car well I would not I love the
technology the technology of autonomous
cars is phenomenal but it speed to be
used properly like with any technology
humans have the ability to abuse it and
not use it as prescribed and that is
exactly what happened in this case and
in all the other cases where something
happened you need to be aware of what
you're doing and use the technology
properly I agree but I do trust the
technology more than I trust said you
agree I know but I trust the technology
more than I trust the natural responses
of humans who are driving big thanks to
Roy W Nash and our community of yours
for submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category-five TV newsroom I'm
Sasha Rickman and I'm right I think we
should get the O BOTS to do the news
with that thing so there's none of this
ridiculous arguments so I think what
he's saying is we need to replace Jeff
with the Oh BOTS go really hard to go
there he's Jeff the argumentative one is
Jeff I like it label with that I wonder
how I wonder how thank you so much for
tuning in this week everybody it's been
a pleasure having you here hope you've
enjoyed the show
we look forward to seeing you again next
week good night see
