hi and welcome to new every day my name
is Kari and my name is Jen and on
today's show we're gonna talk about a
man named Phil so stay tuned we will be
right back
this is new every day
with Jen wagger and Carrie Webb
[Music]
hey everyone thank you for tuning in
again to new everyday we're so glad that
you've tuned in and maybe this is your
first time joining us and Jen and I have
been friends for a number of years we
sit down here and we record this show
and just talk about life stuff we talk
about God we talk about the Bible we
talk about how it applies to our lives
we talk about Jesus and what he has
actually done and changed our lives and
given us a new perspective and so we
just kind of engage in conversation and
pull you in along with us so thanks for
for tuning in so we've we've talked
about the book of Acts Jen and then
we've kind of strayed off a little bit
and now we're headed back and what are
we gonna talk about today well today
we're actually backtracking because the
last time we talked about the book of
Acts we talked about Saul's conversion
and as we thought about okay we need to
get back into the into the book of Acts
where are we going and we're like well
we're going for after Saul's conversion
I went wait a second
we skipped over a man named Phil and for
some of you might you might be thinking
Phil who and what's interesting is that
the author of the book of Acts who is
the dr. Luke actually gives almost a
full chapter to a man named Phil or
Phillip and you might be thinking well
who is Philip he has fell yep okay so
according to the commentary it says he
is one of the seven chosen to oversee
the ministry of distribution
distributing aid to the needy and
Jerusalem church now he has become an
evangelist spreading the good news about
Jesus so he wasn't one of the twelve
disciples but and we've talked about
this in previous shows basically the
ministry was getting so large that the
Apostles could no longer give attention
to just preaching and praying the gospel
and so they were through the power of
the Holy Spirit they were told to set
aside a a number of men to look after
the waiting on of tables that means the
care of the church and so we talked
about Stephen a little while ago and how
he was one of those
seven and so Philip was one of those
seven two and chapter 8 the story I
should say the story of Steven ends at
the beginning of verse eight this is on
that day a great persecution broke out
against the church at Jerusalem and all
except the apostles were scattered
through the Judea and Samaria so that's
all so the only ones that remained in
Jerusalem
were the apostles godly men buried
Stephen and mourned deeply for him but
Saul began to destroy the church going
from house to house he dragged off men
and women and put them in prison and
then we went on to talk about Saul's
conversion now coming up to verse four
is this man named Philip who we you know
we first saw back in chapter well let's
just see we saw him around Chapter three
when they actually laid their hands on
people and they actually listed off the
number of people the names of the people
of who would participate in this
ministry and in Philips name was
mentioned around those seven so here we
go verse four starts off like this those
who had been scattered preached the word
wherever they went
Philip went down to the city of Samaria
and proclaimed the Christ there when the
crowds heard Philip and saw the
miraculous signs he did they all paid
close attention to what he did with
shrieks evil spirits came out of many
and many paralytics and cripples were
healed so there was a great joy in that
city hmm I just I love the fact of this
passage what as I read it what caught my
eye was so those that have been
scattered preached the word wherever
they went like even though they were
scattered because of persecution yeah
it's not like they said okay mmm
gotta lay low for a bit gotta lay low
let this thing pass over or I I can't
talk about Jesus he's gonna get me
killed
and what's interesting is that is one of
the apologetics or arguments that they
that Christian I want to say speakers
will often use when they say well we
know Jesus actually dot rose from the
dead because his apostles and those who
saw him proclaimed him because why would
you be willing to die for someone or
something yeah if it wasn't real that
you didn't believe in your nowhere that
it was real
and so like Philip here's Philip after
having been scattered from Jerusalem
continues to preach the Word of God of
the Christ and that's what it says it
says the Christ or the Messiah so he was
claiming that Jesus is the Son of God it
didn't matter that he had been scattered
it didn't matter that Steve and his
friends had been killed he was willing
to lay down his life right for the sake
of the gospel like how it says to me
that's real this is real and what I also
respect about the Apostles here and
about the bonus ones like Philip is that
even though Stephen was just killed like
the Lord used that for his purposes
because in scattering then the word was
spread and we talked about that when we
spoke about Stephen but they didn't sit
in mourning they realized the value and
the had the eternal perspective of the
kingdom of God mm-hmm this is not all
that there is yes and if you feel if you
think that way that this is it that this
is all that there is to life then it
influences how you respond to tragedy
how you respond to persecution and
people commenting or you know saying
harmful things to you then it's much
easier to internalize it because you
don't have an eternal perspective but
it's like these guys knew where the game
was that yes like you're gonna run hard
until you finish and Stephen finished
seemingly early yeah but it was just the
start of their ministry going forward
and you know as you were you were saying
this is so easy when the hard knocks
come when this challenges of life come
just like you said I'm gonna lay low
yeah I'm gonna lay around
I'm
gonna take it easy and as you're
speaking you really child and speaking
to my spirit my sister passed away
almost a year ago now and you know it
would have been easy at that point in
time just you know oh this is so sad and
yet I saw it as an opportunity of
proclaiming the good news of how
faithful God was like even though from a
very earthly perspective it you know her
her life might not have been seen seen
as successful or a benefit yes for those
around her and yet I know that God used
her to do so much in my life and and to
the people that interacted with her so
at her funeral I was they actually to
share the Gospel story of how you know I
don't understand why all this is
happening and and and here's Philip
who's thinking well he's the Messiah
he came to the Jewish people why are
these people rising up like he very well
could have been like what what make
sense doesn't make sense but he said no
I know who Jesus is I am going to
proclaim him and I am going to continue
to go out and it was just you know a
real opportunity for me to share like I
don't understand what's happening but I
do believe in a God who is faithful I do
believe that Jesus really did die in the
cross for our sins so that at the end of
time at the end of our stories here on
earth then we're gonna be you know
renewed with him in like face to face
glory and my sister is going to have a
new body and I'm gonna get to see her
again because those who have faith in
Jesus Christ will be reunited yes and
it's just that's part of the like the
yes story yeah
and that's what Peter or Philip is
proclaiming he's proclaiming the yes yes
like this is who Jesus is and what's
interesting is that part of to be a
group part of the group of seven they
had to have be like godly men and full
of the spirit and and have you know been
a part of that group who followed Jesus
so I just I love the fact that it said
Philip went down even though they had
been scattered they preached wherever
they went so he went down
the city of Samaria which was a big
no-no for a Jewish people big no-no we
saw that in John chapter 4 when Jewish
stuck Jesus he was Jewish Jesus stopped
at the well and was speaking to the
Samaritan woman and everyone was
surprised that one he was speaking to a
woman and in that time that was a no-no
and she was a Samaritan which was also
the Jews did not associate with
Samaritans so it's very interesting that
that's where he goes yeah
and it goes on when the crowds heard
fill up so he's preaching and then saw
the miraculous signs that he did they
all paid close attention to what he said
and with shrieks evil spirits came out
of many and many paralytics and cripples
were healed so there is great joy in
that city so as we go to commercial
break what I want you to think about
what part of the Gospel message brings
you great joy and we'll be back right
after these messages whether you shop on
thinkgeek gearbest B&amp;H photo video eBay
or Amazon or even if you want a free
trial of audible you'll find the best
deals and support the shows we produce
by simply visiting the shopping sites
you already frequent by using the links
on our website visit category-five TV
slash partners for the full and
ever-growing list and help us create
more free content like this show thank
you for shopping with our partners and
thank you for watching
hey everyone and welcome back you're
watching new every day with Jen and I'm
Kerry and we just want to thank you
again for tuning in and thank you to all
of our wonderful partners if you go to
our website new everyday TV click on the
partners tab and you can see all of the
organizations businesses who are
supporting us to help make this possible
and thank you also to category-five TV
and Robbie Ferguson who helps to produce
this program and so we're back with a
man named Phil Phil I know it's it's
what I love is that it's this one
chapter in the book of Acts because he
doesn't have a book named after he
didn't write a book yeah I don't
actually think he's meant
in any of the other like none of the
other writers write about Phil and so
what was it about his life that that
Luke wanted us to hear and I think it's
just this he was a man who loved Jesus
who who was part of that group of seven
who were set apart by the apostles who
when persecution came he just kept going
he just kept going and that's an aspect
of his story that I hadn't thought about
before and I I wonder when he was
actually martyred I would have to look
that up maybe for our next show maybe
that's why he's not mentioned later on I
don't know but it's that tenacity in
that kingdom perspective yes that this
isn't that what life is about is knowing
Christ knowing that we're loved by him
that he was risen from the dead and that
this stuff is real
yeah motivated his actions well cuz it
says they all paid close attention to
what he said why because he spoke and
any miraculous signs happened so I don't
think he's like BAM I think it's like oh
you're sick in the name of Jesus be
healed right so he was aware of what was
going on he saw the need and he prayed
because he believed and so they're
watching him they're watching him just
be a real believer in Christ yes like
like this is and I know a lot of
churches and I and I was hoping with
other people who say that they're
Christians and say that the book of Acts
is not for today that the signs and
wonders done like the healing and the
casting out of evil spirits that was for
that time and it's not for today but I
gotta believe that this is for today
because Jesus commissioned them to go
out and this this whole movement was
just to continue continue continue
because Jesus prayed when he was in the
garden or when he was on with his
disciples the night before he died he
pray for the people who are going to
come to know him through the apostles he
was praying for us I think to live this
way to have a fullness of the knowledge
of God and the word also says that these
signs will follow those that believe
the healing of the sick the raising of
the Dead yes
the casting out of demons mm-hmm the
lame will walk the blind will see Jesus
said you see me do these things and you
will do even more yes and Jen I've just
been challenged lately just to pray
crazy prayers hmm now what I mean by
crazy is like believing that God can do
miraculous things and for a people and
generation like in Western society where
we rely so much on ourselves or
technology or whatever in our lives I
think that God can speak to people by
doing the miraculous through his church
and that in the last times that people
will be turned to him because of the
signs and wonders that will follow those
that truly believe and you know we had a
woman in our church who had hurt her
shoulder and she messaged me saying can
you put this on the prayer chain and
that's what we do we never prayer chain
at church basically he sent in the email
he send in the text message it goes up
to a group of people they start praying
and she said to me after that was sent
and after I received prayer on Sunday
morning my shoulder felt miraculously
better yeah and I was just like yeah
like and it shouldn't shock us but
sometimes it does because not always do
people share with us how they feel
healed or they are healed after we've
prayed for them but I was just like yeah
God like why wouldn't you do this we
asked and we ask in faith yeah and it
was just so cool to like yeah when you
said this is for today this is for it is
for today and and that question that I
asked before he went to break said you
know so there was great joy in that city
and so what is it that brings me joy
about the gospel what is it and it's
probably hearing God's stories about how
when people open themselves up to Jesus
and being changed by him and and hearing
them just share the stories of how they
are trying
farm I used to do this but now I do this
I used to do this and now I do this I
used to you know like my marriage was
just falling apart and then I came to
know Jesus and He healed it like that's
probably one of my greatest joy is just
seeing the power of Jesus Christ
working in the lives of people yeah like
that's my yay God well yeah that's what
brings me great joy when I think about
the Gospel message is just how lives are
changed when they meet Jesus yeah
and I'm more and more convinced that he
really is the answer to every problem
mm-hmm like there is no problem too big
and sometimes like if I pray for someone
to be healed and then I healed it's easy
to think of all the reasons why and then
all the reasons why not to pray in the
future but if I'm not praying then
nothing's gonna happen yeah so why not
just pray no I know I gotta set a share
a story so my mom was at a
parent-teacher night I guess I'm in
school for my little brother and the
custodian was there and she was
complaining of back pain and my mom just
went up and she was like I'm gonna pray
for you back okay and then she just put
her hand on her back and prayed for her
that she would be healed and then that
was it and and my mom walks in faith
believing that God can do like all these
crazy things and then he does and then
he does yes so anyways the custodian a
couple days later spoke with another
teacher at the school who knows my mom
and said after that lady prayed for me
my back is better yes right yeah I know
praise the Lord praise the Lord like I
just believe that he can he can do these
things we're at a time already well at a
time read that passage about Phillip and
say Lord how can I look like Phillip or
what part of Phillips life can I be a
part of in the sense of like maybe
you're feeling opposition but you still
need to step out in faith or maybe God's
calling you to pray for someone or to do
a miraculous sign and you're just like
whoa that's not for me yeah we would say
ask the Lord about that like ask him to
convict you and to give you the curve
that you need to step out in faith and
just continue to preach you know
whatever the words are that he's giving
you to share so and and I just gotta say
pray and ask God to show you something
about that person that he would give you
even like a word of knowledge for them
something that you could share with them
and pray specifically for them cuz he
already knows he already knows them he
already knows them great so we're gonna
sign off may the Lord blow your socks
off this week when you think about what
is it that you would have me do if you
asked him that question and then just
wait and then I mean I'm just thinking
that the Lord is going to have you do
step out in faith in a miraculous way so
may you be strong and courageous knowing
that God is with you wherever you go
so until next week recognize that
breakfast a Kachins new episode of new
everyday every Friday morning and new
every day dot TV
we're also on Kody Roku Plex YouTube and
Facebook or if you're in Southern
California tune in every Sunday morning
at 6:30 Pacific on channel 33 television
for the high desert
