here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV news room AT&amp;T
and Time Warner are merging to create an
ISP TV and media giant an AI judge
created by british scientists can
predict human rights rulings with
seventy nine percent accuracy a device
that makes broccoli taste like chocolate
has been developed smart home devices
were used as weapons in a massive
website attack on friday a clever scam
on Microsoft Windows utilizes the blue
screen of death to trick users into
calling the scammers and a major
breakthrough this week in AI driven
speech to text comes from the labs at
Microsoft these stories are coming right
up don't go anywhere now here's another
great way you can support the shows you
love from the category 5 TV network by
shopping gear best that's the right Jeff
cap five dot TV / gear best it's an
online store for the geek streak in you
or the loved ones well of course I mean
especially your loved ones right because
cat5 TV / gearbest quite frankly has all
of the greatest tech gifts that you
could ever hope for at rock bottom
prices do they have cell phones you
betcha cat5 TV / gearbest has a wide
assortment of unlocked android cell
phones and tablets what about computer
consumer electronics those make a great
gift absolutely from high-tech watches
to action cameras headphones even
virtual reality headsets cat5 TV /
gearbest has you covered they literally
have it all Jeff literally really it's
like a superstore right from the comfort
of your own chair at your computer
through the interweb yeah
I there's no way they have it all it's
true it's just a bunch of a random
electronics test me what about clothes
yep both men and women fashionable
apparel at rock bottom SuperDuper prices
kinda like this well look at this coat
what do you think it's a slimming mock
leather jacket I love it it's available
for less than thirty dollars plus free
shipping a cat5 TV / gear best yeah all
right it kind of got me there Wow any
other questions for me general ah now
that the winter is past flying season do
they have any good deals on save your
own couplers oh my goodness well check
this out dude they have everything check
out over 500 various drones and not only
that they're available mark down by
about 32 up to 63 percent off the
regular price love it what's the website
again while you're going to find
gearbest on our partners pages for any
of your favorite category 5 TV shows
like new every day category 5 technology
TV the pixel shadow but of course if you
want to shop absolutely right now and
you want to go straight to the site all
you have to do is visit cat five dot TV
/ gearbest so that's easy cat five dot
TV / your best that's right happy
shopping I'm Sasha dramatis and here are
the top stories for the week of October
26 2016 18 Time Warner Inc have made
their rumoured merger official with AT&amp;T
to purchase the media company for eighty
five point four billion dollars in cash
and stock the total transaction value is
100 and 8.7 billion dollars when
factoring in time warner's debts ATT's
announcement saturday evening listed
some of the many media properties the
company will own if the merger is
allowed by us regulators atl ret is
already the largest pay-tv provider in
the US thanks to last year's purchase of
directv is also the third largest
provider of home internet service after
Comcast and charter and the second
largest provider of mobile mobile data
and voice services after verizon
wireless ATT intends to close the
transaction before the end of 2017 it
will require review by the US Department
of Justice and possibly by the Federal
Communication Commission communicated
Communication Commission sorry
Republican presidential nominee Donald
Trump says his administration would
block the AT&amp;T time warner merger
because it's too much concentration of
power in the hands of too few can I just
pause for a moment and say Donald Trump
said that something was too much power
into the hands of too few Donald Trump
mr. Trump well I don't know oh to be
honest with you I totally get where he's
coming from it's just Donal Trump can't
say anything about to a bit of irony and
hypocrisy in that statement Oh mr. da
hmm alright an artificial intelligence
judge that can accurately predict many
of your Europe's top Human Rights Court
rulings has been created by a team of
computer scientists and legal ask
experts the AI system developed by
researchers from the University College
London the University of Sheffield and
the University of Pennsylvania parsed
584 cases which had previously been
heard at the European Court of Human
Rights and successfully predicted
seventy-nine percent of the decisions a
machine learning algorithm was trained
to search for patterns in the English
language data sets relating to three
articles of the European Convention on
Human Rights the cases examined were
equally split between those that did
find rights violations and those that
didn't despite the AI success the legal
profession is safe for now UCL's
computer scientist Nicholas alturas who
led the study said we don't see AI
replacing judges or low
years but we think that they'd find it
useful for rapidly identifying patterns
in cases that led to certain outcomes I
think it would be useful actually in
like cases when lawyers are picking
whether or not they want to take a
client on they can just pop that ended
up here if you like let's see what the
AI says says you are little with seventy
nine percent accuracy the computer says
no the odds are not in your favor I am
sorry hmm scientists at City University
London recently showed off a device
called the taste buddy that magically
well electrically tricks your tongue
into thinking a vegetable like broccoli
tastes like chocolate all you have to do
is put a device in your mouth and zap
you for a bit case buddy works by
stimulating taste buds in a way that
allows it to imitate the sensation we
get from sweet or salty foods the hope
is that this technology will convince
people to eat healthy foods by making
them taste like something they enjoy
with the natural conversion being from
vegetables too saccharine treats
eventually the tech in taste buddy might
be shrunk down and built into utensils
allowing people to decide the flavor of
anything they eat don't get too excited
though the team has given taste buddy a
tentative release date of within the
next 20 years chalkley this will save
many marriages I would say you're a
terrible cook love just zap it with
taste buddy exactly my lasagna I well
lasagna is the one thing I did right so
far did ago I can tell you Dave who is
the cook in our relationship has
definitely like muscled through a couple
of mules I have created taste buddy will
be definitely a member of our family
wonderful chalkley wait for it hackers
used internet connected home devices
such as CCTV cameras and Printers to
attack popular websites on Friday
Twitter Spotify and reddit were among
the sites taken
offline Friday each uses a company
called din which was the target of the
attack to direct users to its website
security analysts now believe the attack
used the Internet of Things
web-connected home devices to launch the
assault din is a DNS service an internet
phone book which directs users to the
internet address where the website is
stored such services are a crucial part
of web infrastructure on Friday it came
under a distributed denial-of-service
attack which relies on thousands of
machines sending coordinated messages to
overwhelm the service the global event
involved tens of millions of internet
addresses Wow crazy the malware scours
the web looking for IOT devices
protected by little more than factory
default user names and passwords and it
has been determined that many of the
devices involved in last week's attack
came from Chinese manufacturers with
easy to guess username and passwords
that cannot be changed by the user a
vulnerability which the malware exploits
once compromised the malware enlists the
devices in the attack in attacks that
hurl junk traffic at an online target
Jeff Darmok head of security for global
business service Salesforce pointed out
that the internet infrastructure is
supposed to be more robust he tweeted in
a relatively short time we've taken a
system built to resist destruction by
nuclear weapons and made it vulnerable
to toasters it all serves as a reminder
that despite the internet being a hugely
robust communication system there are
still some pinch points that mean a
targeted attack can cause right
widespread damage this is actually a
really big deal when you can't change
your password or your username for
something I I hate thinking that people
just assume things like baby monitors
and oh yeah you know smarts a fatal flaw
really yeah all the smart devices that
are coming out thermostats and things
and then finding out that you know the
password is a default generic password
that can be obtained just by reverse
engineering
your password is 0000 you've got
problems like I sit down with my
headphones once in a while and with my
and I and I turn them on and it pairs
and my phone doesn't and it doesn't work
and then I'm like okay what's going on
it's paired mm-hmm and then I checked my
phone is not paired okay that's weird so
then I try pairing again I pairs it's
not paired to my phone what's it pairing
to there's something nearby that it is
pairing to mm-hmm probably in a
neighbor's residence funny story about
that actually Dave and I went to a party
like New Year's Eve last year and he had
his phone with a great selection of
music on it yeah and paired it to the TV
at the neighbor's house yes neighbors
five or six houses down so you wouldn't
actually think that no no but then later
like two days later we were at our place
and he wanted to show a video I think it
was like a movie clip or something yeah
two friends and he was like why isn't
this working why you're getting the
neighborhood khalsa what are you trying
to watch we cut into their movie oh my
goodness it happens right that's
hilarious oh that's a funny story that's
not like the toaster taking an entire
community offliner yeah yeah there you
go everything's good Microsoft has
sounded the alarm over a fake ins
installer for its security essentials
which attempts to trick victims into
contacting bogus help centers Microsoft
has sounded the alarm over fake
contacting bogus help centers tech
support scammers have stepped up their
technical game prompting a severe
warning from Microsoft over a new
windows malware that mimics microsoft's
free security essentials antivirus and
then displays a fake blue screen of
death or bsod with an error message and
a suggestion to call a 1-800 number that
is not microsoft support center the
malware disables task manager to prevent
users from terminating the fake bsod and
high
to the mouse cursor to make the user
think windows is not responding clever
this crafty example of an emerging
tactic that's having a greater success
at roping people into tech support scams
so instead of cold calling would be
targets scammers are using online pop-up
ads and fake security warnings to
encourage people to contact a bogus
Support Center microsoft said on its
malware protection Center blog real
error messages from Microsoft do not
include support contact details they go
on to say we've seen attackers becoming
more sophisticated with their social
engineering tactics to try to mislead
users into calling for technical support
and then they're asked for payment to
fix the problem a problem that doesn't
exist that's actually very evil and
clever very be smart yes but you know
the people fall for it all the time and
I get the calls very frequently and more
often than not if you encounter this
kind of thing on Microsoft Windows
safest thing for you to do is to reboot
your computer and just see if it goes
away right if it does then it's quite
probable and the reason I say that is
it's quite probable it was a malicious
advertisement now in this particular
case it's a program that has been
installed on your computer that you have
downloaded a fake version of Windows
security essentials oh yeah and how
would you sir and how would you know you
would you would only know really if well
it's a Windows 10 blue screen of death
right and it was security essentials
right mm-hmm so security essentials is
no longer on Windows 10 so if you're
told to download it then no it's windows
defender is the one that comes with
Windows 10 but you want to be using
something more robust something like
ESET he sets a new version tense we came
out today so you know if you want the
top of the line protection that's where
you want to go but you've got to be
really careful of those things so quite
often it's reboot the computer make sure
that nothing is awry make sure that
everything
it doesn't rishu itself so in this case
because task manager is disabled you
would just like press the power button
it's a hard thing and a lot of times
they really take over the system this
particular one though is probably going
to need some malware removal so you're
going to have to have an anti-malware
product installed that's not windows
security essentials and get that cleaned
up and if it's if it's really tricky
then you want to take it into a shop and
get them to clean it up properly for you
they have boot disks and things and
abilities to pull your hard drive out
connect it to a specialized piece of
equipment that run scans without booting
up the hard drive and that protects you
from spreading an infection there the
worst case scenario some of these things
will damage your files through
encryption and ransomware and things
like that it's crazy trickery I mean I
understand why they're going away from
phone calls because everybody is leery
now and this is smart because this puts
the this puts the contact on the person
right so they trick you into thinking
that you are the one reaching out oh
they're not reaching out to me no I'm
the one who picked up the phone to call
for tech support because I'm having a
problem it's not them calling you up and
saying hello this is Microsoft and we
have detected you have a problem let us
if you're a beauter exact no it's the
other way around so they're tricking
folks by making them feel that I am
empowered I'm the one who has made the
choice to make this call right oh never
realizing that it was based on a false I
wonder if they put you on hold when you
call your don't know it is straight to
let's get this fixed let's get this
fixed let's get your credit card number
I and let's go from there yeah but I'm
your computer I'd be suspicious then
what there was a representative
immediately available this must be a
scam you notice when microsoft said we
don't ever put our phone number in our
error messages yes they don't usually
put their phone number anywhere and they
certainly don't answer the phone
immediately and they certainly don't
provide free support exactly yeah so if
somebody is really here to help you it's
not it's not really Microsoft
not like okay speech recognition
software isn't perfect but it is a
little closer to human this week as a
Microsoft artificial intelligence and
research team reached a major milestone
in speech to text development their
system reached a historically low word
error rate of five point nine percent
equal to the accuracy of a professional
human current transcriptionists the
system can discern words as clearly and
accurately as two people having a
conversation might understand one
another according to Microsoft's blog by
combining their open source
computational network toolkit and
obsessing over the project the team was
able to beat its goal of human parody by
years in just months they hit the parity
milestone around three thirty in the
morning last Wednesday when's you dong
Huong the company's chief speech spot
scientists woke up to the breakthrough
Hwang said this isn't a breakthrough
just for AI walks and researchers
pulling all-nighters it's a difference
you'll likely notice when you're talking
to an AI assistant in the near future so
I didn't even know wonks were a thing
let alone a word that a guy named Huang
woodman's Wang and if you woke up at
three thirty in the morning he wasn't in
fact pulling an all-nighter he did sleep
sad perhaps just for a moment with one
eye for a moment keeping an eye on the
AI I'm not how exciting that would have
been for his life relation Airy huge big
deal for this guy I like it I like when
things go super right big thanks this
week get Roy w Nash from shroud Steve
Delaney and our communities of yours for
submitting stories this week thanks for
watching the category 5 TV news room
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
your tech news with a slight Linux bias
and for more free content be sure to
check out our website from the category
5 TV news room em
tomatoes
