welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Rob you
Ferguson welcome to episode number 242
of category five technology TV for
Tuesday may the what is it the 8th may a
2012 hey week you're a couple but I am
is a 242 already 242 the afternoon is
that what time you get up yeah hey I'll
get you to write off the top this is
eric kid by the way folks Eric Kidd
joining us live and I'll get you to tell
us what's coming up in the news we got
lots to cram into the shares what's
happening in the news is China has
launched two more baidu navigation
satellites Microsoft has pushed out of
fix for a serious hotmail password bug
The Pirate Bay must be blocked by UK
ISPs ouch whoa I have some friends may
not be happy with that a descriptive
camera has been developed by a student
at NYU and google has received approval
to start driving self controlled cars in
Nevada stick around these stories are
coming up later in the show your friends
of course distributing perfectly legal
heirs of course of course hey Eric could
you put this on for me no but that was
just the Senate will put that on you
know today's today's the day
wow I hope you have a little on that
system happy birthday buddy Jesus
anxious you know what's really good at
heck is in that cup you what do you been
drinking what's what's awesome is that
the candles I actually have a tuna five
from my 25th birthday because it was
fairly recently so we can use those
backwards you have 25 yeah we can just a
nice just cuz you know it was fairly
recently that I that I needed those so
perfect happy birthday buddy I can't
work under these conditions no I mean
thank you very much that's insane oh hey
nice to see you joining us in the chat
room nice to have you here if you're
watching live love having you here make
sure you interact with us get on to our
website category 5 TV click on interac
you'll find the chat room you'll find
ways to communicate with the rest of the
community mm-hmm our ears are written my
ears are really ringing it's it's a very
small studio it's like sitting sit in
the bathroom like a closet-sized
bathroom and and blow an air what kind
of you won't never mind okay hey by the
way category 5 TV is a member of the
tech podcast network tech it's here send
in your postcards we love to receive
your viewer postcards here category 5
technology TV get one from the store
preferably one that represents something
that means something to you maybe a
nearby landmark or your town itself send
it oh and also we get a lot of custom
ones we love receiving those as well
category 5 technology TV postal box 29
009 Barrie Ontario Canada l4n 7 w 7 yes
what he said
thanks for your input friend I'm just
trying to help I'm just happy to be here
glad to be alive and your volume 25 well
we might have to reverse the numbers
okay okay when somebody on face you saw
that and said yeah I saw something are
you sure he's not 21 you work it up all
right you got a mobile device scan that
code MDOT cap five TV it's going to
bring up our mobile website you can
watch on-demand episodes of category 5
technology TV you can read what's going
on in the newsroom all that kind of fun
crazy stuff optimized specifically for
your mobile device so what each of those
little marks on the QR code mean Rob you
can explain that to us all 37 for 89 on
of 10 10 okay what else we got tonight
tonight we are I'm so excited it's been
in development for a long time gimp 2.8
that's the GNU image manipulation
program kind of like the open-source
alternative to adobe photoshop so if
you're interested in graphic
manipulation even in the slightest if
you want to be able to touch up your
photos if you want to be able to take it
one step further and do some really cool
effects even the old version has some
pretty very cool effects the old version
is exceptional 2.8 takes it into a
pardon me a much more competitive realm
I think we're really getting close to
that commercial grade application with
2.8 of course working toward their two
point 10 release so so stick around
we're going to be talking all about the
gimp 2.8 also we've got viewer questions
eric is standing by he's got your emails
at live at category 5 TV that's right
got the chat room up there pretty well
organized tonight Oh like I said I'm
just how you play you're glad you like
my coffee in my ubuntu ma this is
heavily caffeinated coffee tonight folks
his last time he complained that it was
half caf as you may recall was half calf
was how's that it was half not cuffs yes
this one scares me because the coffee
maker kind of stopped brewing at six or
eight cups you know what happened to me
or did I put in enough grounds for 12
cups sorry yeah I did the same thing
this afternoon I put in enough grounds
for six cups and my daughter brought me
a coffee and she'd only put in enough
water for three cups it's great that's
all right sometimes that works in your
favor monday so yesterday I got into
work you may have seen it on Twitter I
saw that you have it I mean you're I saw
your tweet but I made the coffee as
strong as you normally would and the
coffee maker like erupted but I was not
in the kitchen at the time so there was
about this much water in the bottom of
the pot okay andressa that didn't come
through so it was extreme it was like
molasses strong the amount aetna of
coffee makers yeah it kind of went so
fortunately we got a new coffee maker
for today it's looking great but that's
not the way to start a monday did brit
yellow it wasn't my fault not this time
not at this time hey we have some
questions should we jump into some
question would you know we're we're not
jumping yet i can tell i can look in
your face I've got well I've got lots of
people in the chat room I want to say hi
to but first we're gonna take a real
quick break and don't go anywhere we're
going to talk about your we're going to
bring up your viewer questions right
after the break I also want to say hi to
you in the chat room and we're going to
be looking at the gimp 2.8 so stick
around we'll be right back at eco
alkalines we believe you should be able
to trust your batteries not just here
but here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here
eco alkalines of the world's first and
only certified carbon neutral battery
manufactured to the highest standards of
recycling and quality without any trace
amounts of harmful chemicals like
mercury lead or cadmium eco outlines
provide performance the rivals leading
national alkaline battery brands at a
comparable price find out more about the
Eco alkalines difference eco alkalines
calm this is category 5 technology TV
we're online triple w category 5 TV eric
j a farm was sang in the chat room that
you look like you're about to fall
asleep sleep what's up lots of happy
birthdays you're gonna have to look over
the chat logs folks nice to see you a
jamison DJ Hot Wheels garbey always a
pleasure we got chris wright who's
joined us alright service so sad to see
I hope you wonder about Eric being an
old man come on now you gotta admit for
an old man he's doing pretty good you
know he exudes youthfulness I'm just
resigned another house good guy what
he's on about um Raven Lord Takimoto
Toby its Toby by the way he told me to
to tell you who Toby t0b Oh Toby 333333
I said in the chatroom Oh Eric doesn't
speak lead so for Charlie speaks in wash
Toby he's 52 come on man hey he's never
he's he's it's gonna take him a while to
get there Oh fantastic Toby Toby was
that in the chat room this week and a
pleasure to see you is he doing in there
I think he was procrastinating supposed
to be doing some work or something huh
procrastination is a terrible thing well
this is the earliest i've ever been late
Oh dear me okay straight to the viewer
questions invincible I'm not reading
those words no nice to see is yeah and
thank you for all the birthday greetings
out there this
kind of nice something is a girlfriend
made me breakfast really yesterday yeah
she's a keeper she definitely is and and
a cinnamon coffee cake with candles
jammed in it and that's the way my days
oh and fresh coffee and fresh juice it
was great now all my kids took me up to
the to the keg last night wonderful yeah
yeah at stake yeah I had max I had roast
beef you had roast beef egg i did how
was it fabulous that that to me I if I
were to go to the keg I would be like
give me a mistake no I thought roast
beef was their thing in steaks were
sailing really no I don't know it was
very good it was excellent I'm sure it
was just fan my kids paid for better
really good should have got the roast
beef on this date actually you know what
the difference between the 10 ounce and
the 12 ounce yeah 10 ounces way more
than you need true and I'm 12-ounce was
way way more than I got through it all
Wow good job anyway we're here it's a
question from Sydney Joyner hey Sydney
who's running debian six and Ubuntu
10.04 Intel is in the third generation
of their current line of processors when
will the Linnaeus community catch up and
be able to take advantage of this
technology whoa what do you mean I'll
repeat the question when will the Linux
community catch up and be able to take
advantage of this technology what do I
need to do to take advantage of this
Sydney go ahead and buy one actually
sandy bridge was was kind of where
things kind of fell apart a little bit
with the colonel but ivybridge the
newest intel processors are apparently
performing very very well including the
onboard graphics which is you know
that's that was kind of where the
problem lies with with the sandy bridge
so with ivy bridge though I think things
are working very very nice with linux so
hey if you've got a specific issue with
the Ivy Bridge chipset and and Linux let
us know
so don't be harassing our viewers you're
telling him his questions not specific
enough well sorry Sydney I I am under
the understanding that a bad mood to a
terrible you know I haven't even
finished my cup of coffee Eric was five
minutes early yeah what am I gonna do
Noel City I i I'm under the impression
and we can you know we can look but i'm
pretty sure that Ivy Bridge is working
real well that's the new processors from
if Farrah Nexus got an article here
first one that came up in Google uh what
do they say oh this is too early yeah
this is before it was released anything
that was May 6 2012 Oh was it good I'm
just skimming it see much happening and
it's too much details of the article
he's in my demon all these ads are just
keep using to me right now okay it's too
much flashiness oh um the driver is
still at opengl 3.0 all right i feel at
home windows driver is going to opengl
for okay i don't know i don't have one
but but i am under the understanding
that they're performing very very well
said they don't challenge them of course
you're only going to get opengl version
3 just now is that what you mean as far
as 3d performance on the chipset hard to
say but you know what linux is i don't
know how to say but it's like constantly
development and bleeding edge stuff and
there's always stuff that's that's being
tested that that is going to be you know
tomorrow's most awesome technology and
we're seeing that with with ubuntu right
now with 12 point oh four it's like
they're there at that bleeding edge and
so we're really seeing a push toward
your technologies which leads into our
next question oh alright today thanks
for the for the question city and i
don't i don't have one a test with i am
under the impression that they're
performing very well i see that they're
only supporting
gl3 right now instead of GL for as is
the case on the Windows platform only
really going to affect gaming like
hardcore gaming if you have OpenGL for
requiring games on linux that would be
the other thing so so we'll see well
John crisp as a question Jon Jon is
running win7 64 mint 12 VirtualBox
ubuntu 11.10 dash 12.04 which leaves
okay you're coming yeah so hi Robbie and
crew I guess I'm hey kuru today hmm not
too pleased with you boo to 12.04 no
sound it seems lots of people are having
this issue and we're fine and does in
mint 12 in ubuntu 11.10 I've tried all
the tricks found on various forms
nothing seems to work suggestions
welcome that's from John and the Lone
Star State down in Dallas alright John
haven't had that problem well what what
gives that be reusing &amp; boos music
doesn't mean in the chatroom seen that
happen installed 12 point 0 for clean
install and things aren't working as far
as sound goes
John um I haven't come across that chat
room hasn't come across that I wonder if
it's something specific to your to your
chips app is it a is it a legacy kind of
system are you using some older hardware
by any chance and I only ask that
because there is a real push right now
for it's not it's not like the windows
push where you know windows 7 came out
you had to buy a new computer plain and
simple but linux is being pushed in the
direction of let's kind of let's kind of
let the legacy stuff drop off because
it's bloat at this point why are we
supporting audio cards or graphics cards
that we're popular back in the 80s and
90s so there comes a point where they
say okay well this is this is bloating
the CD we're just going to leave that
kind of stuff off so that's why I asked
if you've got any legacy stuff that
could be the problem old computer old
audio card especially that would be my
first question why you trashed last guys
question on your trash and this guy's no
no I'm not he's in a bed I'm just trying
to help man you're gonna rue the day he
asked me to come in on a Tuesday night
Oh John I don't have an answer for you
but I think my best answer would be to
get a hold of the Ubuntu community get
into the forum become a part of those
can those conversations it's not ideal
right because you need to have sound I
don't I don't know enough about your
system and it looks like he's not in the
chat room from what I can tell his weary
puppy good guy no idea it's good guy
suggesting you run it my thinking is
that ok if he and and Toby was
mentioning ok I'm afraid now to to
upgrade to 12.4 thong 10-point 04
because what if my audio stops working
because my computer is pretty old oh
it's a version of Puppy Linux for older
machine I kind of had a feeling that I
could so with Toby's comment what I
would say is Toby get the ISO all right
which is the file the the CD off of the
website boon to calm don't go through
like a ruby install or anything like we
demonstrated the other week that was
just to introduce linux to windows users
but for you get the iso boot up from the
CD run it in live mode it's gonna be
slow as death because it's running off
of a CD slow and painful to a very slow
painful death because it's running off
of a CD right so don't don't think
that's how it's going to perform because
once you put it on your hard drive at
three gigabits a second versus your CD
at like one megabit a second you're
going to notice the performance game but
the thing is is that then you can test
your networking test your Wi-Fi if
you're using Wi-Fi i don't i don't
really use Wi-Fi on my computers because
it's pointless and useless but test your
audio right get onto a website like
category five good example because you
can bring up a player window it's going
to test flash it's going to test audio
video performance all that stuff out of
the can through the live CD so youtube
is another example where you can go to
their website click on a video you're
going to hear it you're going to see it
you're going to be able to see if it
works and then if you're confident in
the operating system in the distribution
then feel free to do the upgrade but if
you're really scared Eric and I have
said it before get ahold of clonezilla
make an image of your actual hard drive
a clone of your hard drive that way you
know 15 minutes after your you're done
installing if you find oh no it's broken
everything you can revert right back to
the exact place you were before you
install 1204 all right as far as John
goes John I'm sorry man I don't have an
answer for you but ubuntu forums is
probably going to be the place for you
get ahold of our community of forum dot
category 5 TV as well maybe there's
somebody in there but of course i'm
going to is going to have the forum that
is you know very its people who are
talking about the nudist in the new
distro so that's going to be probably
the best best spot for you of course
comments in the chat room akimoto saying
i'll make sure it's not muted things
like that that goes without saying
really
but definitely you know make sure that
you know you bring up your volume
control make sure that everything's up
try different applications a boon to
1204 is going to work with your sound
card a little bit differently because
each application has its own volume
control so you can have your movie
playing at a very low volume but then
have your skype at full volume for
example so that you can hear a
conversation but be watching a movie
while you're talking to mom so that's a
little different Oh check the stupid
stuff first thanks Chris Rick Chris
Wright suggestion it could be the gravel
grommet I think I'm a jig over there is
not even plugged in you know that green
thing that cable there plug it in cuz
you tripped over last week last Tuesday
when he was getting in the back you done
yeah I'm done we have another waiting
for you to interrupt me you know this is
from old guy Jim jeez I wonder if he's
52 yet old guy Jim ok it's only 49 you
know oh man you know it's funny 52 it's
amazing how I can complement gym and
insult you all in one fell swoop eel all
that there's no I'm the one you know
it's amazing um like as time goes on I
think we're all kids at heart plain and
simple and let's keep it that way right
sadly when I get banged up at hockey the
doctor looks my square in the eye and
says Eric you got 18 you've got to stop
this this is from old guy Jim however
old guy Jim is old guy Jim gay gene gene
oh hey Jenna also a boon to 12.04
excellent made the switch old guy jim
says 52 is a long time ago ok just like
that anyway ok Jim's running 12.04
Robbie f this is more to thank you for
your response last Tuesday to my
question about perfect boom tube hey
yeah I took the plunge and did a double
upgrade from ubuntu 11.04 to 12.04
thinking that it looks like mac OS and i
would just
it but I still don't think it is a
logical front end for a desktop computer
fortunately i downloaded gnome shell and
now use the gnome classic front end much
more logical still working on
determining the differences and make it
my own by the by having to maximize an
application in order to see the menu bar
was another factor to go to the classic
desktop as usual a big thank you for all
you do with category five including
troubleshooting a non-functioning USB
bridge i know we have the same trouble
with the audio portion of our
interactive whiteboards in our school
system i'm glad i found category five
cheers we are glad that you found us as
well I totally hear you I mean you
didn't get the touchscreen upgrade at
the same time as you got the 1204
upgrade because it still feels that way
but 1204 I think whoa excuse me let's
try that again did you get any are you
sir sorry young live TV I know 1204
really starts to feel like a desktop OS
again but it is a paradigm shift it's a
different kind of feeling so twice a
year to you to your operating system to
your computer interaction but I think
after some time of using it you're going
to start to get used to a gem I know
you've installed the known kind of
classic look but i encourage you to
truly don't play around with unity i'm
going to show you one real quick thing
just because one of the comments that
you made and that's you know when you
have an application open you're saying
that okay well where are my file windows
it's it's weird right where's my file
button where's my edit where i want to
paste something into terminal I can't
hit control V or control C because
that's a different command all together
if I you know I'm typing something here
and I want to copy that well where's my
edit for copy this control C is going to
go like that so Jim what you can do I
know what you're doing is you're
maximizing the window and then you've
got your file and everything up here
okay quick little tip for you though
here i am i've got my window anywhere on
the screen i can point to the bar up
here at the top and you notice what
happens as I point I know you can't see
my cursor but i'm going to point out
with my with my mouse cursor and you'll
see that the file better you yeah there
they are there there it's all about
Canonical's &amp; Boon tues wish to clean up
the desktop make it so that you've
you've maximized look at how big my
terminal window is even on this little
screen you've maximized that space very
very effectively they're not wasting a
lot of space with you know menus and
task guides toolbars and things like
that it's very very clean that's kind of
what they were going to loop tool burst
is up top yeah it's always there for the
active room doors so like I say here we
are there's my edit menu up here much
more like the mac OS and as you say Mac
OS write it Mac OS does a similar kind
of thing it puts it up at the top it's
not a part of the window itself it's up
here for confusing for swindles two guys
confusing when you're used to that old
style interface yeah definitely but
doesn't take you long to get used to
that kind of aspect so Jim don't lose
hope it's hard to teach a dinosaur a new
trick no that was no comment on Jim's
age but well I think you've gotten
things he's too old to change the fact
is Jim I think Shane this is good donkey
well it kind of is and it's kind of
refreshing I was talking to mark
shuttleworth this morning and he said
that's part of the the transition is is
the fact that it's refreshing to jump
from 10 point 0 for 2 12 point 0 4
there's such a shift there because I
didn't do the the transition from 10
point 0 for all you know to 11 point or
10 point 10 and 11 point 0 4 and 11
point 10 I didn't do that i went from 10
point 0 for 2 12 10 4 and a lot of
people are doing that because that's the
natural progression of the LTS cycle so
what Mark was saying is it's refreshing
because it's new
it's it's intuitive once you learn your
way around I'm still learning it I want
to get to the point with a boon to where
I can I can answer your questions more
thoroughly because I you know you think
that it's new to you I'm the guy who
sits here once a week and takes you
through tutorials and stuff and does my
desk to to show you stuff and all of a
sudden my whole world is turned upside
down because something that I've been
using for so many years with the gnome
to style interface is gone so that's
where my discomfort comes in so yeah
here yeah Wilda nigeria for sure
invincible mutant says gnome shell
performed better than unity and that's
the case in part of me in some cases
especially if your hardware doesn't
quite support the graphical elements I
tend to like if I'm running a virtual
machine with a boon to 12 point oh four
I'll switch to 2d mode for unity that
way it performs a lot better for me
because it's not tapping into to the the
GL kinda you know the comp is effects
and blur functions and this and that
seems to work a little better in 2d in
some cases but yeah I hear ya thanks
John thanks everybody does yacht yeah
free yeah garbe y'all correct him would
you hmm okay we have time for another
question yeah let's take an okay this is
hi Robbie and co-hosts and they ok yo
lap we're getting a lot of this a hey
Robbie and people hey Robbie and whoever
is there you can go to hey Robbie and
occupant of the other chair yeah okay
let's bring up my computer computers are
amazing cat five dot TV / Cal and dar
anytime you want and I only say this
because it's a helpful little thing look
there's last week co-host Erica lalonde
there's this week co-host Eric Kidd
there's next week co-host Hilary Rumble
the following week Rachel shoe it shows
you who's going to be on it tells you
all about what's coming up on the show
I'm in this great feature you can
subscribe to it it has ical support it
has google calendars
poor you can add it to your Google
Calendar it will notify you before the
show starts it'll pop you an email pires
rock is so excited that it lets them
know that the show is about to begin so
check that out cat5 TV / calendar so
however if we bill o robbie and eric and
you know yeah Ronson yesterday and we
know you sent your question this
afternoon and we've already got four
thirty other questions a heavier today
and we'll get to it and make a lot of
sad then you're gonna criticize them for
next week for saying Hillary is not Eric
so using hey Ron how are you hey Ron hi
Robbie and eric i was able to add a
second hard drive to Mize Reno's system
how do you pronounce up Zorin OS Zorin
is the capitalization is important its
OS as a capital now your trash and Ron's
capitalization okay so we've got Zorn
the operating system ah these are the
come where was I ID was able to add a
second hard drive to the system
excellent Azure and os yes okay these
are the commands I used going to remo
sudo fdisk dash one now I probably be an
elf or list it will show you all your
options okay and then a pseudo CF disk /
dev / as DB okay and then a pseudo mkfs
ext4 / dev / SD yeah one wonder if I
should bring this one I pay yeah perhaps
like this might help to bring this one
up on the screen but we should we should
jump into the news and then we'll come
right back to that is just cuz it took
you so long to get through the question
i know it was my fault wrong I'm really
sorry my Oh dear me Eric my friend take
it away careful your call
i love that he'll stop and correct
himself as well as us every now and then
the dust to heaven it has to be done
here at the top stories from the
category five dot TV news room china has
moved a step closer to completing its
own navigation and positioning satellite
network with the launch of two more
navigation satellites it brings the
Baidu system which became operational
with coverage of China last December to
13 satellites to have global coverage
the country eventually aims to have 35
satellites in orbit by 2020 China hopes
that by do will wean it off the u.s.
global positioning system I didn't
realize that they were piggybacking
interests all there you go Microsoft
rushed out a fix for a serious bug and
it's hotmail webmail services recently
the bug allowed a hacker to reset the
password for a hotmail account locking
out its owner and giving the attacker
access to the inbox the fix was put
together because the bug was starting to
be actively exploited online one
security news site reported that some
hackers were offering to hack hotmail
accounts for twenty dollars or
proximately 12 loans yeah we'll do it
for 10 computer security researchers
discovered the vulnerability in early
April and told Microsoft about it soon
afterwards the bug revolved around the
way hotmail handles the data that must
pass back and forth when a user wants to
reset their password hmm file-sharing
site The Pirate Bay must be blocked by
UK Internet service providers the High
Court has ruled the Swedish website host
links to download hosts links to
download mostly pirated free music and
video sky everything everywhere talk
talk o2 and virgin media must all
prevent their users from accessing the
site mm-hmm that's a big move yes it is
a camera which produces written
descriptions of scenes rather than
photographs has been invented by a
student in the US it's a boat it's free
the device it's a bald-headed guy oh
sorry the device uploads pictures to the
web which is
drive within minutes by users on
amazon's mechanical turk service the
short description is then sent back to
the camera and printed boy you could
have some fun fun this would have worked
really well the week that we were
looking at 10 I and we brought up the
queen of hearts it'll be like a man it
was developed by Matt Richardson an
interactive communications graduate
student at New York University what does
the camera say about Matt genius having
trouble getting your driver's license no
problem just get your car to take the
test no joke Nevada has become the first
state in America to allow vehicles to
apply for their own driver's licenses
car manufacturers have been working on
taking human error out of driving for
more than a decade with innovations such
as lane departure warning self applying
brakes self applying brakes and cars
which park themselves Google however has
come up with the ultimate version of
cruise control by removing the driver
completely with the help of video
cameras lasers and radar sensors it
relies on mapping which is created by
Google's own staff who pre drive the
route filling in the location of lane
markings and road signs point you
wouldn't want to be driving through a
new subdivision despite being controlled
by a computer a driver will still need
to sit in the car Google embarked on an
extensive testing program of the cars
and has now secured the approval of
Nevada's Department of Motor Vehicles
hmm well and so did can you buy the Hat
for your car I don't know it said the
interface what is the programming
interface like that's probably very
future ask yeah yeah that'll is you
can't just slap that on the top of your
smart Kirk any that would be stupid or
your 72 ford pickup I wonder if that
will allow and this is strange if you
think about it but would that allow
visually impaired persons to get around
a lot easier how about alcoholically
impaired people differ there is that I
mean it's the the counter geographer I
was
the cavity the cabbie of the future
right yeah they could put together a
fleet of these four for taxi service and
but but for visually impaired seriously
as a as a means of transportation like
somebody could buy a car they could be
legally blind they can buy this car and
be able to get around on their own in
Nevada in Nevada will be in the van yeah
but that's a start right I think that's
pretty exciting that's pretty cool where
the gambling and other things really
going yeah was it was it total recall I
think the original I don't remember
which movie but i think it was total
recall with the cabs it was a robot that
was driving it and that kind of that
kind of reminds me of it I'm in the cab
with robot before but yeah interesting
we're gonna talk about that you can get
the full stories at category 5 TV /
newsroom the category 5 TV news room is
researched by roy w Nash with
contributions by our community of
viewers if you have a news story you
think is worthy of on-air mentioned
email newsroom at category 5 TV for the
category 5 TV news room I'm Eric kiddin
we also love to receive emails that are
not worthy of honor yeah yeah those are
great too tonight we'll accept any
category 5 technology TV is brought to
you in part by quarter eee electric if
you see these beautiful lights that we
have going there's no flicker there's
nothing going on out of the ordinary it
works great and that's all thanks to
quarter e you can check them out they
are the official electrical sponsor of
category 5 technology TV quarter eee
electric com this quarter running 12.04
Ubuntu are you I don't need to talk to
them you know and get them get them to
make the switch we're also brought to
you by garden gate farms com for
certified organic broccoli sprout and
wheatgrass juice visit garden gate farms
com all right I know we've got a
question there so I am pulling up my
email so I can kind of look through here
okay so this this comes to us from Ron
Ron Smith Rome Smith
okay so they basically created they got
a hard drive in their system their
mounting it for the first time now using
Zorin OS i think we established that
yeah yeah if you can bear with me just
one second maybe Eric can quit and then
insult will be quiet then I'm not
wedding fun don't have to tell me twice
to shut up what I will most herb this
cuz I shut up for someone no hail yeah
well oh okay Ron I'm done I just I
wanted to copy that into a I to keep
your private information private so I've
copied that into a text file so that
your email address and things like that
aren't exposed okay so here we go
alright so Robbie and eric i was able to
add a second hard drive to my Zorin OS
system you're gonna change kevin vision
get a check okay so fdisk dash l yeah I
we get the idea absolutely okay so he's
created a partition probably using CF
disk gone in created the partition for
on SD be called stb one so there's one
partition on the hard drive excellent
okay created it as ext4 you've made a
directory off of the root folder of your
hard drive called data that would be the
first thing that i might change to be
honest with you and the reason for that
is because it's on your root folder and
that's probably I like to put stuff in
an organizational structure so that
backups are a little bit easier and I
know that you're probably not going to
back up anything in the root folder of
your computer on linux but it just kind
of keeps things logical because now what
happens if you had another hard drive
where does that go data to in your root
folder so i like to put things in mount
MNT so what I would do there I would
just change that to make their / MN t /
data I just keep them in there because
that's the folder this message you know
specifically built for data get on uch
modded the data directory
to 777 which may not be necessary if you
do see a Joan correctly you'd probably I
mean it's your own computer so 777 is
probably safe but of course you're
opening yourself up to hackers and stuff
with 777 but probably okay you'd be
better to sudo CH own dash R or just
it's only a mount point at this point
there's no recursion necessary so we
don't need the dash are so you would go
Ron Ron if your user name is Ron mount
data for example so now you are the
owner of that folder of that mount point
but yeah you're probably right that 777
will work for you to Part B G edit your
FS tab that's your filesystem table
added this line / dev / sdb one mount
point / data which just for the sake of
the demonstration I'm going to change
that to MNT as well just so that it's
logical to what I've suggested before
ext4 is the file system using the
default settings and we're not going to
run scans on the drive when you when you
reboot your computer which I probably
suggest just for the integrity of your
drive change this to one or two probably
too because you've already this is sdb
so your SDA is probably one by having
zero at the end of the line there you're
saying don't scan my drive ever don't
ever do a file system scan on my drive I
would set that to which is going to put
it in order one actually what it's going
to do I should explain that if your if
your hard drive SDA is one you don't
want to set this one to one because then
they're going to go in in order so it's
because you can only do one at a time of
that number so SDA will when you reboot
your computer 30 times or whatever your
computer's going to say okay it's time
to scan the hard drives so any that have
one at the end of the line are going to
be the first to be scanned so but
they're going to be done in order so SDA
is your one so leave it that way it's
going to get scan if sdb is one it's
going to go through SDA and then go
through SD be in this
it's going to take some time if on the
other hand you've got SDA is one sdb is
too then they're going to run in
parallel they're going to be
multitasking using the new kind of
structure of the way the linux boots so
now both hard drives will be doing a
file scan at the same time cutting your
time in half if they're both the same
size hard drive so you want to set that
up that way by having it set a zero as
you do it's not going to get scanned so
if you have file system problems they're
not going to get corrected and you're
not going to get notifications of those
problems so I'd probably leave that I
probably set that as too okay so you
wanted to add the drive to increase
storage space for existing folders for
example download folder and virtualbox
folder under your user your home folder
both drives are 500 gig drives there
that answers that question is it
possible absolutely let's do it okay and
what you can do to go to your home
folder while we're at it and just check
on the do LS dash all enter and look at
I'm going to look at demo because that's
my user and you see my username is demo
and my group is demo so if you're Ron
you'll probably see Ron Ron and then
your CH own command is correct Ron Ron
right mount / whatever okay so that's
where that comes from and you know that
because your your home folder obviously
you have access to my children have a
login here and don't know what it's done
to them now i think i've deleted that
account that's what's happening tester
guys in the example one that I used for
testing and it creates the route as
tester guy cool and tester guy okay so
CDM NT as viggle apparently i had a
mount point that i created a random file
name and a stable it's as fickle officer
oh yeah only what Astra okay sudo we got
to be super user to make der this is to
create the mount point alright we're
going to create this one is going to be
we're getting just call that sdb one
okay excellent done it's there okay so
then let's pretend that this is mounted
I've
mounted it and you can go now dash a you
don't need to reboot your computer go
pseudo mount a after you've done setting
up your FS tab and it will give it a go
oh and I noticed something else about
your FS tab just now I realized that I
would change can we talk about BLK ID in
a few minutes do we will we have time
probably not we're going to need to look
at the GIMP here okay here's what I want
to do I'm going to go make der now
notice I've got pretend it's mounted
here okay run and now i'm on the hard
drive and I going to make der I need to
I am I don't need pseudo because I've
got access to it let's do that right now
CH own sdb one demo demo yes db1 pseudo
there ok so now that's owned by my user
so now I can go into SD be one which is
what you were accomplishing with with
your 777 chmod but that's unsafe you
want to set it to your users so now make
your video ok so now I've got a folder
called video on this hard drive i pop
all my video into it go back to my home
folder there it is ok move video 2 dot
slash video backup ok not stat ok I
don't have a video folder what do I have
a video is its plural ok
what I'm doing is I'm backing it up it's
gone okay now Ln dash s4 create a
symlink we've already mounted the drive
so where you go MMTS db1 video space
videos enter okay now I've got a symlink
there if I go to my home folder I click
on videos I create a folder in here and
I go hello you'll notice that my
directory seems to be demo / videos
however if I go to my home folder go up
a couple of levels in my file system and
go into MNT sdb one video you'll see
that the hello folder is in fact on my
SD be one drive okay so absolutely it
can be done we're going to use a mount
point we're going to mount our hard
drive to it what I was saying is you
want to use your ear uuid of the hard
drive not sdb one okay go into your
terminal and i know i'm at a time here
to be doing this for you that I care
more about about Ron than I do about
everything because viewers viewers
matter all right so let's let's make
sure that your favorite the other three
guys yes questions but you are coarser
Rob yes well if I if I know the answers
in the real if I can seriously help you
okay CD / dev Cyril s.s.d.d star okay
cuz i have an SD be dr second hard drive
in my computer so now i want to go sudo
BLK ID and then space sdb one done ok
there's my uuid for this drive that's
what i want to use in my FS tab not SD
be one reason for that is because sdb
one will change your uid will not
because it's specific to the firm this
is actual it's like a md5 of that drive
whereas sdb one you stick another hard
drive in there and all of a sudden your
bio says oh that's now SDC one and now
none of your mount points are working
everything's broken you've lost
everything or seemingly so you got to
figure it out use your uid ok
gang let's take a look at GIMP GNU image
manipulation program has been released
2.8 is the version very very excited
about this well if you're using Ubuntu
12.04 fantastic I'm going to show you
how to install it if you're using
anything earlier than that you can
follow the same process but there are
risks involved you could break your
system that's my disclaimer I'm warning
you now if you're not on 12 point 0 for
this could break your system on the
other hand if you want to follow a
different step by step you can go to the
website gimp.org and you can follow
through a source build which is
frustrating tough difficult because it's
not in the repositories yet it's only
available in PPA okay so in that case if
you're using an older version than 12.04
try building from source probably not
going to work out of the box you're
going to have to know how to do that
don't do it if you're novice user you're
going to have to be building you know
some extra stuff in order to get that to
work on boon to 12.4 there's a PPA that
is available to you and I'm going to
show you how to do that first of all I'm
just going to bring up on ubuntu 12.04
you want to install it first okay
because you're probably using 2.6 and
I'll show you why if you get over to to
the Ubuntu Software Center here all
right just do a quick search we're going
to search for gimp GI MP and again it
stands for GNU image manipulation
program click on more info and you see
here the version is going to be 2
points6 points something there it is 2.6
point 12 okay so that's the one that's
currently in the Ubuntu repositories we
want to get the new version 2.8 is what
we want to try so let's bring up our
terminal and within terminal I'm going
to actually add this repository now keep
in mind i'm going to put these commands
in the show notes for episode number 242
so we got to be super user sudo apt
our ad apt repository and we're going to
add this PPA PPA colon and it's auto or
odo dash que esse LG ula SCH / GIMP it's
going to add the PPA repository to your
system and as soon as i hit enter into
of us yeah it's the work around the fact
that it's not currently available on
ubuntu as a precompiled package ok this
is coming don't be scared this is coming
to ubuntu near you it's just that it
just came out okay this is a warning
just warning us what I told you already
it's going to break your system if
you're using anything but 1204 okay so
that's added the repository now I'm
going to update my app with sudo apt-get
update we're just going to whizz through
the installation procedure just to get
it onto our 12 04 system and some are
saying you know what if you really want
to go with 2.8 it's worth the upgrade to
1204 just make sure you uninstall any
old version of GIMP otherwise you're
going to have conflicting packages and
problems with the configuration because
it saves files in the same place okay
now we're gonna bring backups the Ubuntu
Software Center I'm so used to saying
synaptic package manager I just about
said it again and you did say almost oh
I did oh okay let's do a search once
again exactly what we did before as
simple as that as eric says it looks
complicated is really not and i'll give
you copy and paste directions do a
search for gimp click on more info again
again this is episode number 242 i'm
going to put the instructions in the
show notes for this episode on our
website category 5 TV check out the
version here available in ubuntu
software center now there we go alright
so what I'm gonna do I'm not going to
highlight all these add-ons because
that's that's a bonus to get all this
extra stuff brushes palettes gradients a
scanner plug in all this other stuff
there's some extra things that you can
get with gimp good guy says you can
install synoptic in 12.04 mm-hmm you
can't i'm working out of the box here
this is a brand-new fresh install
Thanks okay he's a good guy fantastic
guy that good guy is so good all right
so now I'm gonna apply that old guys ooh
enter your password will be good to go I
can accelerate things here just because
we're running out of time so we'll just
kind of tow I'm gonna love that until it
dies all right let's bring up the GIMP
here we go it was down he's working at
his books in other words he has no idea
what's going on Thanks job all right
there it is you see it's installed we're
good to go let's bring it up gimp 2.8 is
ready to go looks very different well
the splash screen does indeed look
different do they have one for windows
no not yet for once ladies and gentlemen
Linux is ahead of the game and he gets
upset when I do him no I'm serious
because it gets really like you know
Skype was always notorious for Oh their
way they're like version 12 on Windows
and version 3 and Linux it's like that's
ridiculous okay so here GIMP is 2.8 on
linux and it's coming to Windows and Mac
OS but for now you're going to have to
stick with 2.6 check it out it doesn't
look so new though does it there's a
couple of quick things that I really
wanted to show you with regards to the
new GIMP we've got very limited time so
we're gonna buzz right through this
check out some of the things that you
can do first of all this is a resizable
docking plane now so if you have
multiple monitors you can get this thing
to fill your screen you can now add
extra tabs for example let's say I want
to add a histogram there it is now let's
break it out of there and let's add it
to their now we've got the histogram
there we've got the tool options here
and we can move things around in such a
way that we've now
got this amazing customizable toolbar
that can fill our whole first screen and
then we can do all our image editing on
the second screen for example okay you
can see how easy it was for me to do
that now I'm going to get rid of that
tab I'm going to put my tools back there
I'm going to resize this down one of the
things that people are really excited
about especially if they're moving over
from windows and or even Mac and they're
they're using Photoshop on those
platforms watch what happens if I go
right click and in here let's see I
think it's under windows yes under
windows single window mode so for all
you photoshop fans out there this is
going to give you a much more photoshop
esque until you bring those fans are
there I hate to burst your bubble rob
you but to point it's available for
windows XP sp3 or later did it come out
it wasn't there yesterday thank you
forgive me a little heads-up bomb well
we beat you by a day a few days in the
from days probably didn't even lift for
window I didn't do ghal it I did I did
he did okay so that's that's cool okay
so now we've got this whole new
interface in a game we've got these
dockable kind of areas you can resize
you can set it up it's so customizable
so clean it's using cairo so you get
smoother rendering on the on the canvas
itself it's it's got a better rendering
engine it's using a few different new
technologies that are being introduced
kind of slowly but surely in order to
get toward that two point 10 milestones
where are you thinking this is in
relationship to where photoshop is this
is now i see some CMYK features in here
right already especially the ability to
like break apart your CMYK channels but
it's still an RGB system it's it's
designed for screen but then I got
thinking the other day you know what my
camera takes our DP photos I print them
they look fantastic so you've got to be
pretty particular test and some things
to printers were they didn't like my RGB
output it's cool yeah it's quite
possible you know and some people are
still but it's a different it's a
different game but yeah definitely it's
getting closer
but I think in a lot of ways it wins as
well we're going to look at that over
the next several weeks because there are
some things on here that on the GIMP
that is just so much better plain and
simple I've created a canvas here here's
another new feature because I really
want to blast through some of the new
features what happened before when you
created a text thing you got a little
pop-up window and you had to enter it in
there well now you're actually creating
your text on the canvas like photoshop
you can you can change just an
individual portion of the text you're no
longer stuck having to create other text
layers in order to change the text and
you no longer have to do it in a
separate window you're doing it right
there sweet okay cool really cool stuff
also lots of new effects lots of
different filters that weren't there
before they're really growing things
that really tweaking things optimizing
things they're using g EG l which is
fast and ends really smooth
anti-aliasing combined with Cairo as
well of course and lots of scripts as
well if you go into effects foundry
you're going to see a lot of kind of
things that are going to allow you to do
things really quickly because they've
been scripted so somebody who is really
really good at the stuff has created a
script that does all these you know this
long long task list in order to make
something look a certain way and they've
shared it with you you need to enable
the GE GL under the view yeah yeah use g
EG l you can turn that on if you like
what we're not gonna we're not going to
get into rendering a kind of engine
we're not going to get into it tonight
because then we're getting into
technical stuff that probably doesn't
matter to a lot of a lot of users ok i'm
gonna open two images here that I've
taken myself so I have the rights to
them and I share them with you notice
what happened when I open two images
I've got two tabs up at the top here
that's another new feature I'm gang came
a spider and sat down beside ya there
you go alright so of course you're going
to want to do stuff to your image that
you know like I'm going to check my
levels on this photo because he's kind
of walking in shadows here so this stuff
this particular thing you know that's
not new levels are not new
but I'm going to want to touch up the
lighting on that photograph and we're
not getting into a photography or
editing kind of tutorial tonight I'm
just showing you the GIMP and we can get
into that kind of stuff when weeks to
come send in your questions live a
category five dot TV so you see there's
some really cool stuff things like being
able to convert the photo to look like
it was taken with an old lomo camera so
easily Olmo just by clicking on Loma
yeah like you know like a pinhole kind
of camera like the old style you know
really really old camera they use
pinhole style technology right so you'll
see what's actually happening is
somebody's programmed it to do all these
layers so you've got some overexposure
in the middle you've got some vignette
eng you've got some black and white
layers and some grain and it's going
through and it created that kind of
effect which hopefully you can you can
see that on your screen but there are so
many things that are new here and your
filters in your effects foundry menu
those creative use layers yes their
layers so you can you can manipulate
notice yes ok ok so what I want to do is
I want to encourage you get on to gimp
2.8 and just experiment play with those
filters the other thing that you need to
know is that you're going to export your
image once you're done now you're not
file save as you're going to go file and
export the image and that allows you now
to change to you know jpg ping all that
kind of stuff and that's really to help
the user so they don't misunderstand
what they're doing when they're saving
to a jpeg versus an X CF and losing all
their layers so save as you can save
that in from hike to save as which is a
master file your xef it contains your
layers your effects everything ok layer
grouping I know we're at a time but
layer grouping is a fabulous thing watch
this let's say before I wanted to move
this image and if i have this layer
selected I'm going to really mess things
up if i drag it because it's they're not
grouped ok what i want to do is I want
to add a new layer group by clicking
this button right here ok
and drag my layers into there and now
this group now I'm doing it backwards a
problem I think did you muscle yeah
order them yeah i did because i'm at a
time and I know what I mean that would
affect the damage depending on what Lear
you had on layer groups again takes us
into a much more professional interface
gives you some features that you're
going to love so check it out it's gimp
2.8 from triple w gimp.org available for
linux and windows and land and windows
yes we're at a time folks Eric nice have
a good time was had by all yeah I wanted
to play with that oh yeah all right have
a great week everybody will see it
Bobby
