[Music]
welcome back we are about to put you to
sleep and make it quite enjoyable ah
that's gonna be one of those shows a
where we put them to sleep
exactly yeah no we are going to be
reviewing a sleeping mask with some
audio components to it okay so I guess
the first question I have to ask is why
would you want audio component to a
sleeping mask if you're going to be
sleeping this is what I normally wear
when I'm sleep and Jeff really yeah well
and I was going to say if you ask my
wife she'd say it's because I snore
do you have tinnitus I do ah oh my gosh
so bad so you hear the ringing all the
time and it's like my wife doesn't
understand that the fan is not because
it's hot out it's because I need the
noise so that's true I I sleep with
these in my ear Jeff okay Sasha I've
found a brand of earbuds that are flat
so that I can lay on my side and it
doesn't hurt my ears right right but
they break yeah I buy them in bulk you
can buy bags on Amazon for 20 to 20
bucks for 20 a year buds but they break
all the time and I you know I feel bad
to scrap them I cut the cables off and I
recycle them and there were everything
else not ideal right why do I do that I
listen I learn I sleep better because I
have audio that's you know maybe it's
nature sounds sometimes its nature
sounds for me sometimes it's podcasts
maybe it's an audio book what do you do
you ever listen to things at night
believe it or not most of it is music if
I ever music is it like gentle yes
simply stop no words yeah it's usually
like some sort of this stuff you hear
when you have like a massage so it's
like it's a meditation thing yeah I'll
call that like solitudes or maybe like I
guess technically they call it like
new-age music when you know not
technically it doesn't have to be New
Age but you sometimes hear that kind of
stuff with with like ambient bird said
yes and things like that yeah I love
nature sounds I actually have a show
called immersive nature sounds where you
can you can listen to nature
binaural 3d surround sound with just a
standard pair of headphones and to sleep
with that like a thunderstorm for
example you've got a 12-hour
thunderstorm on on that show where you
can listen for 12 hours it's just
perfect for sleeping with or studying
with that would be 12 hours of stress
for my dog okay but it helps me to sleep
it helps me to get my mind off things as
the main thing because I'm a very
go-go-go guy I'm always programming I'm
always coming up with inventions and so
when I go to bed it's like I need my
mind to declutter right so see things
that's true okay so earbuds are not
perfect what do you use
yeah but yeah yeah same thing same kind
of deal and this seems like it's new to
you like you well I have a white noise
generator that sits beside my bed
similar kind of thing yeah if your
husband hears that well yeah it's for
him okay so maybe if there so when I was
single back reports before I was married
so many many years ago I had a speaker
that was under my pillow and that would
help me because that was under my pillow
and I could hear it but now being
married for as many years I can't do
that because my wife would go nuts for a
while I knew any wife yeah what we first
get like I always fell asleep to music
when we first got married like if if a
cricket passes gas my wife wakes up yeah
the fact that I would normally sleep
with music she was just like that so of
course she wins out so listening to a
reenactment of The Hobbit was not in the
cards no definitely not so I had to
learn to fall asleep with right that's
when the ear ringing tinnitus comes in
yeah it's thoughts start going so
earbuds are not perfect never liked them
they're a little uncomfortable then
along comes cat five dot TV slash mask
you ready for this Jaffe yes because I
feel like we're we're like one with this
right now I stash this like oh that's
weird it's not
okay yeah this is something that I need
it's not completely weird I want it's
not completely weird it's it's a shy
yeah so sweet all right so first of all
this is cap v TV slash mask and it comes
in a nice case it does look a lot like a
G's case but it's not actually it's not
a charging case this is just a holding
case Sasha you're doing some traveling
coming up so yes Dave and I are going
back to Newfoundland so you usually
sleep with a mask when you're on a plane
well this is what would work for me I
don't need I don't need a sleep mask and
I don't need audio or anything in my
home my home is my cocoon but when I'm
in public and needing some sleep yeah
this is what I would and it's hard to
sleep on a plane I'd imagine so I've
never been on long enough flight but if
ever going from like Canada to raelia
and that was a long flight 107 half just
the one jaunt over the ocean and it was
painful overnight because you got the oh
yeah the parents yelling at their kids
I could use this to Newfoundland it's a
sleeping mask okay just a sleeping mask
right nine this side uh-huh uh-huh just
hold it on Jeff don't get ahead of
yourself so first of all the thing that
I got to point out is that it is a
special type of velcro so if you feel
this it's not the kind that's gonna get
caught up yeah yeah that's very cool
it's not gonna get caught or damaged but
here we go so I'm gonna put that on like
that and now like so you know it's a
sleeping mask right right with a twist
so this particular one let's get back
here for you know that's all that's
wrong oh that's a beautiful little
Android device look at the back of here
so we've got stereo headphones built-in
to the sleeping mask and here's the the
inlet right here okay in the case is a
one and a half meter cable I like that
this is detached Jeff to be honest with
you because I always you know I damaged
the cables because you roll over and you
you damaged it so I've had
this actually get pulled out a couple
times and it still works just fine it's
easy to eject which is a good thing
because if I roll over it's not gonna
get damaged right and it works quite
well so there you go so it's stereo
audio built into a sleeping mask okay
hold on well no no before you do that
I'm plug it in you're gonna plug it in
you got some like dubstep being in okay
so what what's gonna play it's an audio
book an audio book okay okay
make it happen Jeff I'm waiting for it
Jeff I just hit play okay turn it up
okay yeah I can hear it turn down a bit
it's blaring beeps blaring he has a very
nice voice but it's David super fine
yeah yeah too quiet you've muted it yes
there a little more
I'll go for it turn it up yeah pump up
the jam yeah okay okay perfect
all right you wanna try that on okay
that's just gonna try that on there you
go so there is a Bluetooth model but I
decided to go with the hardwire because
I like that it does not use batteries
and I don't have to worry about it like
running out of battery life while I'm
sleeping
what do you think sash he does have a
cool voice yeah David Suchet that guy's
got an amazing voice here's a couple of
things that I've noticed in using this
mask over the last couple of days sorry
that I borrowed your tested it here's
the thing it's comfortable yeah okay yes
is it it is comfortable its padded feels
good here Jeff you gotta try it because
you're the guy who who needs one of
these it is comfortable
yeah and I have a smaller head and it
still was nice on me I also think if I
wanted to get into crime fighting career
it would work for that just drill a hole
through the holes in that music well
yeah you could have your own sounds and
and everything like soundtrack yeah
that's what I think dubstep beats
although they're a cat5 dot TV slash
mask you know it's a simple thing it's
cheap it's a it's affordable but it's
well built it works well and comfortable
too it is quite comfortable I imagine
you know we're all we're various shapes
and sizes here and it seems to fit all
of us I don't know if you'd ever have
any trouble with that fitting but even
if you had a really big noggin there's
there's I wonder if you had a huge head
if the earphones would maybe be too far
for example possibly but I feel like the
majority of head girth would be this and
not between the eyes and the ears maybe
well it's pretty standard depth yeah and
I mean those are big ear pieces so I
mean even if your ears were back and
forth you've probably got like inch
inch-and-a-half play at least so it's
pretty good there you go very cool check
it out cat 5 TV slash mask the show cost
me money Ravi oh do you like that yeah
but the show also informs that's right
yes yes
[Applause]
