here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
autonomous race cars are now laughing a
newly demonstrated 3d printed heart
works much like a real one we have found
our greatest weapon against becoming
robot apocalypse Google is giving glass
one more try Microsoft SQL Server 2017
first release candidate has landed and
yes it runs on Linux support for ubuntu
16.04 social experiment a UK Wi-Fi
provider has trick users into agreeing
to a thousand hours of community service
these stories are coming right up don't
go anywhere
Geoff Weston yelling you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what aren't
you like you're terrible actor what this
where acting comes into play oh I don't
know where Isaac you're supposed to act
okay are you building a really cool
website are you building a really cool
website you need hosting one of the
things about a hosting account if you
don't want to have limitations put on
your website
it's sure how much hard drive space you
have how many email accounts how many
domains can point to it well we've got
an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are going to get
unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name the route your own comm dice
to put that amazing website that you've
been working on on there if you run if
you want to build a wordpress site fine
sign up cap five dot TV slash DreamHost
just don't let a little papers on it
just don't do it but hey it's a great
deal folks best deal you're going to
find five dollars and change per month
go to cap five dot TV slash DreamHost
I'm Sasha dramatis and here are the top
stories for the week of July 19th 2017
the sleek low-slung driverless Robo
racecar with on display in New York City
for the formula e races this weekend but
it was the work house dev bot that took
the track you can recognize that bought
by its bubble-like cockpit where human
sits ready to take the wheel if the
autonomous car needs a literal hand
given formula ease one day structure
with qualifying sessions early in the
day and the race in the afternoon
Robo race is able to take advantage of
the empty track in the middle of the day
for demonstrations of its artificial
intelligence system on wheels dev bot
did a practice run early Saturday
morning then spent an hour taking laps
in front of the crowd in the afternoon
dev bot has an array of sensors plus
advanced GPS for navigating the track
which is not programmed into the cars
computers it reads the track and learns
the route as it goes which means Deb bot
drives much more slowly than the formula
e cars the driver took control for a lap
likely to Train the AI at speed and then
an in-car camera behind the drivers
shoulder was projected onto large
screens around the track so spectators
could see if and when the driver had to
put hands on the wheel the completely
driverless Robo racecar did did take a
lap on its own in Paris but it was
moving more slowly than Deb bought in
New York there's no official word on
when Robo race vehicles will be ready to
actually race there was an optimistic
idea that the field of 20 driverless
cars would be taking to the track in the
2017 2018 season but dev BOTS
demonstration on Saturday showed that a
fully autonomous race later this year is
unlikely well there you have it that's
cool can you imagine coming down and
watching race cars that are autonomously
I would love that a little neat I would
not want to be the driver like the
person like the person the non driver
driver well because then you would just
be startled about how but the other cars
like the one that was on display like
this guy here you
there's no driver cockpit that I love
that one does not have it plain and
simple ink rat Oh imagine seeing those
guys go around the track I mean once
they go around one slow lapped have
learned the tiller the lay of the land
and you know what then we can get the
thrill of seeing the race happen no risk
exactly at least no risk to the drivers
and I would assume that they would have
it safely set up for the spectators and
if autonomous cars can work in these
conditions right with cars obviously
we've been in and out right at the time
you know wait at a subconscious computer
level exactly it could be like okay
we're going by the mayor right now let's
do like the students like crazy cut-off
sees exactly well I mean if they can do
things like that it gives me hope for
the future and I know that there has
been something that what it took folks
autonomous race cars give Sasha hope for
the future hope for the future I'm not
mocking you I'm agreeing with you it
works it works really well in the fact
that okay so if you have autonomous
vehicles like this that can weave in and
out of traffic on a racetrack what if
what if you know the model right what if
you could then have cars that are
supposed to be autonomous cars on the
roads learn how to take evasive like
strategy maneuvers maybe have some
autonomous I don't know ambulances out
there or something that could really
dodge get through traffic
to people faster I like it cut that you
want to have a race car ambulance but
maybe one day
once they perfect it absolutely
eventually the science of prosthetics
has been advancing by leaps and bounds
over the last few years and research
into soft robotics has been especially
complimentary the same techniques that
go into making a robot arm that flexes
and turns like a real one can go into
making more complex subtle organs like
the heart as Swiss researchers have
demonstrated one problem with artificial
hearts is that the metal and plastic
mechanisms can be difficult to integrate
with tissue or damage the blood because
of their unnatural movement style a
small team at ETH led by doctoral
students
Nicholas chorus has created what they
say is the first artificial heart that's
entirely soft with its pumping mechanism
achieved by causing the silicone
ventricles to pump very much like a real
heart the heart was created using a 3d
printed method that lets researchers
make a complex inner structure while
still using soft flexible materials as
destructor as the structure the whole
thing is basically one single part so
there's no need to worry about how
different internal mechanisms fit
together this heart is a proof of
concept not built for actual
implantation so the materials they made
it from don't last more than a few
thousand beats which is about a half an
hour but the plan obviously is to have
materials and designs that work for much
longer than that even I think to myself
okay so say you don't get an artificial
heart that would be a long-term
situation but what if you're in a
hospital waiting for a transplant and
you only need a month before or you know
you only need two months right yeah
waiting for transplants yeah interesting
right then it'll bridge the gap because
you hear a lot about people who just
like the transplant I just didn't come
in time right they only needed it I'd
like a small amount of time so yeah
maybe this 3d printed heart might not
last 30 years like a like a human heart
would but it would last 30 days which
isn't nothing at Jamison dialysis but
not as much as an actual heart an organ
yeah yeah that could work
good job guys patented a security robot
in Washington DC suffered a watery
demise after falling into a fountain by
an office building the stricken robot
made by night scope was spotted by
pedestrians whose photos of the
aftermath quickly went viral on social
media for some the incident seemed to
sum up the state of 21st century
technology we were promised flying cars
instead we got suicidal robots wrote one
worker from the building on Twitter
Peter singer author of wired for war a
book about military robotics commented
apps are our best defense against the
Robo apocalypse it is not the first
accident involving night scopes
patrolling robots which are equipped
with various instruments including face
recognition systems high-definition
video capture infrared and ultrasonic
sensors last year a 16 month old toddler
was run over by one of the autonomous
devices in Silicon Valley shopping in a
Silicon Valley shopping center
don't worry his injuries were not
serious and earlier this year a
Californian man was arrested after
attacking a nightscope robot that man
who was drunk at the time the incident
said later he simply wanted to test the
machine according to nightscope that
somehow you see my baby just would do
yes totally disgusted at time in you
know poke it expulsion product can you
see me now push it yeah that is that
testing the machine I understand that
but it was 16 month old baby situations
yeah my bachelors and it sure and I've
been minute Jerry yeah lucky the you
know fortunate for the parents and for
the child today okay and there could
have been a real injury it's a sir three
hundred pounds yeah so you know that
would hurt running over your foot right
exactly so it's obviously needs some
bugs worked out I still and in support
of the Robocop's
oh yeah look you look like r2d2 damn I I
love them I think that how great would
it be if you had it like if you had a
simple toy right I'm not make you sad
does anyone else feel sad I feel sad but
if you had something simple that needed
to be done right like it's so great to
have a robot to be able to do it simple
not walking up the stairs have you ever
seen the Doctor Who episode though where
the robots have the smiley emojis and
the angry emojis you don't want to get
one with an angry emoji no no so yeah
maybe they should stop it's funny
because I actually really do like I
suffered you know the uncanny valley
that whole phenomena
I actually suffer pretty bad like I
don't like the inflatable slowly armed
man freaked me out because they look
like people having seizures you're not
going to get that from one of these in
floating axe yeah see what do you say
look they make me kinda look like a
human thank thank goodness they're
adorable
yeah yeah okay
Google is reviving a failed glass
project the smart headset designed to
augment everyone's vision as a product
for businesses the Internet giant said
it is designing and upgraded an upgraded
version of the glass headset released in
2013 that will have a better battery
life and be more comfortable to wear the
revamped headset will be called glass
Enterprise Edition and is designed for
use in industries such as manufacturing
and healthcare google says it can
augment viewer user's vision with
hands-free information as they work well
the company publicly ditched the smart
eyewear stopping sales and deleting the
glass social media accounts Google had
quietly kept it alive for the past two
years Google has spent this time working
with dozens of partners to create
customized software for certain
industries and businesses it has tested
the new product in the US with firms
including DHL doctors at dignity health
and agricultural machinery manufacturer
AGCO the firm's reported the tool had
helped improve efficiency and reduce the
time and reduce the time taken for
administrative tax tasks you know that
realistically though all the people are
going to do with Google glass
[Music]
we're going to do it that's all that's
it whoa
no I okay here's what I want I want
Google glass I wanted in my life I work
as you know in a very busy chiropractic
clinic I see people coming and going all
the time doing it Google glass to know
the names of the people that are walking
in in case I Robbie sorry were you
saying something
yeah okay in case that there's somebody
that I don't exactly immediately
recognize and know the name of right I
want them to say like that would because
this is Fred then I can hey Fred how's
it going reminds me of I don't want you
to know that me remember the episode
yeah it's true with the weather like you
know on their phones and I know
everything about you just by looking at
the phone that was a good episode that
was a creepy awesome episode sort of
want Google glass I don't want it to be
very obvious that I'm wearing it I don't
want I mean I guess Google glass wants
you to be advertiser hiring up but I
want to just like connect to one side of
my glasses
hmm Microsoft's long gentle embrace of
Linux continues with the first release
candidate of SQL Server 2017 Microsoft
said the early release would land in the
middle of this year arguably since this
is only the RC one-level release
Microsoft's SQL Server on Linux is
running late there's not much detail on
what's in the box with with this TechNet
blog posts only saying SQL Server 2017
support for Linux includes the same high
availability solutions on Linux as
Windows as Windows Server including
always-on availability groups integrated
with Linux native clustering solutions
like pacemaker
there's also Active Directory
authentication so the main joined
Windows or Linux client or Linux clients
can use their domain credentials to sign
into SQL Server
as Microsoft discussed last December
when the first public preview landed
getting SQL Server on to Linux needed an
abstraction layer which the company has
dubbed drawbridge drawbridge provides a
host extension running as Linux
application this initializes SQL pal
which offers the windows calls needed to
launch SQL Server it's not only about
Linux the other goodies in the release
candidate include analytics in either R
or Python graph data processing for
discovering complex many-to-many
relationships and an adaptive query
processing to the auto-tune - auto-tune
the database TLS support is also built
into the release to encrypt data between
the SQL server and clients are you and a
boon to user if you're using the boo -
16 points and academia it hits
end-of-life tomorrow July 3rd July 20th
released on October 13th 2016 a boon -
16 point 10 is a short-term release with
a nine-month support cycle that support
period is about to end this means that
no further maintenance updates critical
security upgrades or updated packages
will be released by Ubuntu developers
and no official support will be given
third-party developers who distribute
software via ppas or other repositories
often end support for AOL release 2
releases - although the software itself
will continue to work it's highly
recommended that you upgrade to a
supported version of a boon - such as a
current short-term release of boon to
17.04 or the current LTS release ubuntu
point or a boon - 15 point o4 LTS to
ensure you continue getting security
updates and critical fixes the supported
upgrade path from a boom to 16 point 10
is to a boon to 16 or 17 points 0 for
Ubuntu 17.04 continues to be actively
supported with security updates and
select high impact bug fixes and will
continue to receive them until february
of next year
unwitting customers in the United
Kingdom who didn't read the terms and
conditions for use of a public Wi-Fi
hotspot agreed to perform 1,000 hours of
community service including unclogging
sewers and scraping gum off of the
street the gag was conceived by Wi-Fi
provider purple the company inserted the
clause into its terms and conditions the
technically legally binding agreement
consumers approve in exchange for free
and use of Internet throws those few
virtually few had actually read the
terms the company said it did so to call
attention to the fact that consumers are
regularly agreeing to terms that they
might not actually like including
granting access to private information
and data about their web browsing habits
other community service tax agreed to by
the users included providing hugs to
stray cats and dogs and painting snail
shells to brighten up their existence
the agreement also promised a prize to
anyone who actually became aware of the
prizes existence after reading the terms
and conditions yet after two weeks only
one person came forward to claim the
prize this isn't the first time a stunt
like this has been told in 2014
cybersecurity firm f-secure ran a
similar experiment in London London
operating a Wi-Fi hotspot that anyone
could use in exchange for their
firstborn child yep the so called Harrod
clause was clearly stated in the terms
and conditions and six people still
signed up though it's not clear how many
of them simply disliked their eldest
children Wow
I will tell you I don't always read my
terms and conditions it's true so it's
yeah sick and tired of it it turns out I
frequently use this free Wi-Fi that's
really close to my work and after today
reading this story I thought maybe I
should read those terms and conditions
well - its kind of twofold though isn't
it because when I connect to a public
Wi-Fi mmm-hmm I'm not doing anything no
I'm not doing anything private ever when
you're on a public please don't don't do
it I mean people go to a hotel and they
use the
free Wi-Fi and then they realize that
their accounts of Alban hack yeah don't
your online banking on free Wi-Fi don't
but that's that's common sense but when
I go I don't eat like it needs in the
email address well I just make something
up like I'm not going to use I know I'm
it's bad practice right yeah but
actually I know that they're spying on
you exactly I know that they're spying I
use it - like wiring for modify like I
do it to like do nothing else on my
phone I go when I go to KFC I use the
free Wi-Fi I enter support at KFC CA as
my email address that's awesome and then
I bring up their website and I bring up
the coupon and I saved myself $3.00 on
my purchase just like that for the way
that's how we do it
big thanks this week - sparkly balls Roy
W Nash Garvey the Albuquerque turkey and
our community of yours for submitting
story sets this week thanks for watching
the category-five TV newsroom don't
forget to Like and subscribe for all
your tech news with a slight Linux bias
and for more free content be sure to
check out our web site from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
tomatoes
[Applause]
you
