welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode number 566 and right off
the bat Jeff have you heard the news I
have not what's the news they found
water on Mars did you hear that this is
just breaking news today folks and we've
got two and now we're broadcasting this
live on Wednesday the 25th if you're
watching this on demand after the fact
this is huge I mean beneath the ice cap
of Mars's southern hemisphere the
southern pass of pool they found a
massive pool of what they believe is
salt water so they don't believe that it
can host life but it gives them hope
that maybe maybe maybe they find
something that's a little less salty yep
I just had to I had to mention that off
the top this show was exciting daddy's
very exciting news so they believe that
water did at one point flow on the
surface but because of the atmosphere on
Mars it just can't exist there and it
would evaporate but today they announced
that under the surface of the of the
pole is water and possibly a lake system
there you go in that day I can't wait to
hear more great opportunity to hear more
okay so on this show yes on category
five technology TV this week now you
notice it's just Jeff and I and we go
way back and we are audio nerds yeah we
love sound and in fact we've brought our
friend with us here tonight our binaural
audio rig and he records in binaural 3d
audio so tonight we're gonna be
reviewing a pair of bluetooth headphones
that will blow your mind they're not
like any other bluetooth headphones
you've seen they've got an added feature
that you are not gonna believe also a
set of speakers that's so affordable and
yet they look great and they sound
amazing I can't wait stick around
is category five technology TV
[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
Technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 dot TV slash TPM and the
international association of internet
broadcasters cat 5 dot TV slash iai be
either Jeff is back or Sasha has grown a
beard I'm voting for Sasha's gotten
hairy there you go there you go ok
Sasha's away tonight she wants us to
relay the message hello that's that's
really that's the whole message yeah I
would have thought say hello I would
have been more like more love oh yeah
like I miss hi just hello yeah so that's
all you get folks that's all you get so
send send your emails to Sasha a
category-5 dot TV how you been man good
for the last three weeks I have not been
here and I know bothered to say hello ah
what a jerk yeah I know it's ridiculous
summer you're supposed to be able to
chill and relax
yeah but work has just gotten so busy
that what it's been I was saying last
week like I don't know why Jeff isn't
here yeah it's it's been work it's I
think last week I was do we not pay you
enough no you don't owe you really
really uh that whole volunteer thing all
I asked for a package of nerds but no
that's all you need your package to
nerds man oh it's a tech show I thought
you meant you wanted me to be here well
you're always my nickname is package of
nerds alright whatever
just nerd that's not that whatever yeah
no it's just been busy with work and I
think there was it was in the last week
of the week before I was planning to be
here and just things went awry and about
an hour and a half before the show I'm
like I'm not gonna make it
you know and sometimes it just it's the
way it goes the way it goes and then
Robbie does the mad dash to move the
cameras around
and everything else not to guilt-trip
you or anything but I hope you feel
guilty I don't at all no all right yeah
well what's new in your tech world is
there any new device that's making you
excited I'm still wrestling with my Oh
droid with your xu4 yeah and when you
say you're wrestling like it's really
small and and you would overpower it
believe it or not it's kicking my butt
what's going on it has no internet it
has no internet okay so the xu4 is a
device from Odroid it's it's about the
form factor of a Raspberry Pi and it's a
single board computer but it's got eight
cores it's got two gigs of RAM it's a
power horse as far as that goes so why
no internet well so if you remember
about a month and a half two months ago
I mentioned that I got in the odd row
and I was I found a version of Raspberry
Pi or retro planet oh yeah and so what
had happened is I loaded that onto the
SD card I was playing some games it was
great and then I'm like oh why am i
leaving my Bluetooth controllers hooked
up so I went out bought a bluetooth
dongle oh yes
plug that in and I was like oh I need to
do an update to get you know yeah
something for the drivers to work and I
couldn't connect to the internet for
whatever reason I couldn't download and
had you just not connected to the
Internet okay I need to because all my
roms were on there I was enjoying
everything yeah no need to do an update
because I had the latest version of this
software and I was trying to do you know
not get upgrade up get a update all kind
stuff nothing was working like this is
driving me nuts so finally I started
going into the backend programming of it
and for whatever reason there is no
internet it's just not picking up signal
from one app top date was just telling
you I couldn't find the host that's
correct so did you try turning it off
and on again I did yeah thousand with
the Genet cable plugged in you can't a
cable plugged in and the both ends to
the router on the other I even switched
it from my turquoi minor yeah my
Raspberry Pi yeah use that same cable
call you're losing like 10 cents a month
I know
well no no just to test it so I took
that cable plugged into the odd right
nothing but that I plug a cable back in
but did you reboot while it was plugged
in to get DHCP everything I had it all
even contacted
the company that are coming from okay
and and they're like yes sometimes it
will come the internet will come
disabled here's instructions to turn it
on mmm the software it did that nothing
so okay that's my big and that's hard to
do when you don't have an internet
connection how do you apt-get install a
module for the kernel when you don't
have an internet connection
yes so that's been my big tech okay so
what you need to rule out is the network
interface controller of course I suspect
that the distro that you're using this
retropie build perhaps was built to be
headless off are not headless but
offline I wiped it out wit and then what
did you install I installed Debian and
it still didn't give you not work
mmm see good this is the nice thing
about the SBC's Jeff is that you could
just grab a second SD card for
experimenting yes
start trying different distro see which
one works the Tribune Tumut a works
great on on a xu4 yep they have builds
right on the heart colonel website for
download in the wiki yeah I tried I
tried
headless I tried yeah with like a GUI so
you get right to the desktop yeah I
tried ever enough and nothing's working
so I'm wondering if the device itself is
actually just toast as far as that goes
I can't imagine that that's what I
they're really good devices like they're
well built I know but I've been so busy
the last three weeks you got to play
with it yeah for sure
so that's that's what's new for me in
the tech world that should be a show
bring it in well we'll figure it out I
would love to do that and quite frankly
I'd love to do it live just yet it
stumped you you know to be another good
test is to take your SD card out now
plug it into my xu4 oh and boot it and
see like that would rule pardon me that
would rule out the network interface
controller that's sure it would mm-hmm
say I don't have a second actually for
maybe it's my do another xu4 you need
ten of them I do and you can buy them
through our store no but seriously I
bring it in bring in the the device and
the card I'll plug it into my X you for
sure will boot it we'll see if it has
networking if it doesn't
we know it's the distro right although
you've tried a couple different distros
and that's kind of weird yeah but we
could also plug your xu4 into my network
and see if it gets DHCP maybe it's a
networking issue well that could be it's
possible do you get an IP address like
these are the things like can you do
like a can you set your IP statically in
network / interfaces nothing absolutely
nothing but the weird part is my network
picks it up you see it on the network I
can see it on my network now yes no you
can't 100% it's not possible I can see
them do you get a local IP from so this
is a DNS issue from my network but the
device itself will not pick up anything
so you need to look at slash etc' slash
resolve there's a file there no open
that file with nano or something yeah
and that has the cache of the DNS
resolver so maybe maybe maybe maybe
what's happened is that your DNS
resolver is using the one that person
the person who developed the software
used and if they are say in the UK and
they don't allow Canadian users to
connect to their DNS server so what you
can do is you can edit that result file
but you're getting an IP address not on
my device but you're saying you see it
in the DHCP pool yeah the router
yeah the router so you're getting an IP
and you could find the IP address the
router sees it but it's not giving me an
IP it sees the device and for the IP
comes up question marks like this is my
challenge I want to see this Jeff I want
you to bring this in there's gonna be a
show or something yeah just bring it in
sure let's just make it a show that's
figured while driving I've never run in
anything like there's anyone else run
into something like that one of the
funnest things about single board
computers these little itty-bitty
computers is that you can just tinker
play around wipe the card reinstall put
in another SD card try out the bangs oh
yeah but if you're running into a snag
like that I'd want to plug it into a
different network and just see if it's
that but check your resolve file and set
it to like at Google's DNS servers like
8.8.8.8
right that I I kid you not I've probably
spent 10 hours at least playing with it
trying different things I I had no issue
with like blowing up the software just
trying to figure it out
he's I just install it yeah yeah and I
was yeah it was at the point my wife's
like I think you need to give it a break
yeah like it's driving me nuts
and even the foo is reiterating my
comment like bring it in so that we can
try it on a different network maybe it's
your DHCP server doesn't play nicely
with the xu4 which would explain it
maybe there's a yeah really sure why not
what would cause that MAC address
conflict maybe that's pretty work on
that point it'll work at once don't work
at one point no it never worked on the
never never work right on a different
network just to rule it out
troubleshooting is fun yeah
figure it out got one network at all
yeah I got one here I got one at home we
don't want to work maybe we'll do it for
show
there you go there you go yeah so that's
my life any so that's your tech fun
that's my tech fun but RIT truthfully it
really is what like it's fun to play
around with that kind of stuff and it's
fun to troubleshoot and you're like I've
never tried that before oh I've never
been in this file before and so you get
to just through the process of it get
more familiar sure so that is that's
part of it it's fun isn't exactly that's
why I say I've been I've been doing bug
fixing yes I'm a programmer and
programmatically
I'm bug fixing like crazy and through
the process of bug fixing I'm learning
I'm learning how certain things work
like right now I'm dealing with a kernel
issue on a pine a 64 plus and because of
that I'm having to learn how to compile
in new modules to my kernel and and
figure this kind of stuff out so so I'm
learning I today had an issue on one of
our servers at work and I was playing
around and I and I realized that I
needed to write a Python script and I
don't know Python so I had to do some
googling and I had to write a Python
script it's been years since I've
forgotten a Python I was like seven I do
a lot of bash I do a lot of PHP and I do
some pretty cool stuff with bash
and some cool stuff with PHP don't be a
hater come on now they're still validity
PHP is capable that's right
Python was the very first language I
ever programmed in oh yeah no gw-basic
for me really yeah I was a little bit
earlier than you ms-dos was the first
well ms-dos is a no ass so what was your
language you would have been in qbasic
yes yeah I was kim insuk yeah wow it was
great takes me back yeah for computer
base to ring and all this kind of stuff
python for the wind says leech and x1
it's great to see you chatroom nice to
see so many folks a friendly familiar
faces we've got sold through their Garbi
I do see ALP Eck big kitty is there with
us as well as c128 d who else is joining
us here I mentioned the foo is here with
us nice to see ya wait word one is here
storm chaser 3000 is also joining us
it's nice to see you again this week and
incidentally storm tracer 3000 says
their first programming language was
scratch oh oh you're just a young one
yeah just a youngin
but that's a great base because you're
learning syntax and if you learn syntax
like I'm learning now I'm teaching
myself Python and so syntax from PHP mmm
sort of translates I think there's a
really good translation between PHP and
bash certainly you know like the
indentation doesn't matter as much as it
does in say in Python right but well I'm
learning and once you learn syntax you
can kind of translate that information
that that knowledge to other languages
and I think that's a great great thing
indeed all right all right I want to say
thank you to all of our patrons this
week and some folks have also thrown a
little extra in the tip jar or even
bought a category-5 t-shirt things like
that just various ways that you can
support category 5 TV our internet
installation is paid for our rent is
paid for we are all volunteers here but
you supporting category 5 TV is what
makes us able to do this
for free whether you're watching this
online which is probably where our
biggest expenses lie like just producing
the show having a studio space doing the
show and then putting it up online for
people to be able to download for free
and watch for free that cost a lot that
costs us a lot of money and if you're
watching on cable TV you know that's a
little bit different because it's we
don't have the same bandwidth expenses
on that but there are time
considerations with that and the extra
time that goes into providing the the
video files to your cable network so we
appreciate you supporting us in any way
that you see as a way that you want to
support us and for those of you who have
this week we appreciate that very very
much I did this week thanks man
Amazon Prime day hey oh yeah we weren't
here last week so do you want to tell us
what you got I got anything tech a
laminator nice yep I just laminate
anything just for the purposes yes want
to laminate like I don't have a
laminator I need a laminate there you go
I mean there's no really no other reason
last week I mentioned that we got a
stream deck and this this is here and it
only tell you two for it only took five
minutes to set up it's it's very it was
really really great so now if I push a
button here it's like instantaneous zoom
in on Telestream Wirecast and it works
really really well it does so I'm
looking at we're using the size for the
buttons and I haven't programmed them
all in but you'll see Wirecast here I've
got a Wirecast button and standby things
like that mm-hmm so I got all my
controls I'm going to set that up and I
can actually be reviewing that on a
future episode as well I look forward a
lot of fun stuff coming up
speaking of reviews tonight I mentioned
at the top of the shows this is like
audiophile heaven tonight we're looking
at a pair of bluetooth headphones right
after the break but they've got a little
bit of a twist in that
you don't need Bluetooth interesting
stick around for a limited time get your
hands on limited-edition shirts from the
category 5 TV network these high quality
shirts are manufactured by teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cap five
dot TV slash shirts
welcome back this is category five
technology TV tonight is for the audio
files in the audience or is it just for
us well Jack you come along for the
journey how did we meet you know the
story radio radio and so part of that is
our passion for really good quality
sound I think one of the most liked
other than like the songs we played one
of the biggest conversations I've had
was oh you got new headphones right what
do they sound like Oh feature like you
know but back then it was all hardwired
into the board there was no such thing
as Bluetooth that's true right so now
everything's Bluetooth and wireless like
iPhones don't even have a headphone jack
anymore and that people are like oh
that's crazy what but realistically I
just want wireless headphones now that's
true that's all I want
works with all my devices and anywhere I
go I can have wireless music I bought
the the rebel BTS and your you have a
pair of that do I love them they were my
favorite headphones for so long yes then
after daily usage the head strap snapped
yeah so they still work perfectly but
they're made of a recycled plastic and
the reviews will say oh it's made of
plastic they have an environmental
conscious mindset behind the rebel be
teased in that it's recycled plastic and
the components are recyclable and and
but they still work but the plastic
broke I hate that you couldn't remelt
them no it's like use my my liquid
welder my plastic welder to put them
back together no it's too much tension
on this big old bald noggin of mine so I
had to pick up a new set of headphones
and I stumbled upon something new okay
and a brand that I had never heard of
before
really and they're called power locusts
power locusts power locust locust like
like not locust like the no not no T's
nah you can check these out of cat five
dot TV slash headphones these are my new
baby and they just arrived today Jeff oh
so like literally brand new they're
still in the package Jeff real should we
hand over there yes and take a look why
wouldn't we
I don't know this is how it arrived Jeff
bubble wrap it all well baby Fran my nog
right now all right I'm gonna save that
for the kids there we go first thing I
notice is the power locust has included
a lovely hardshell case that's always
nice mmm-hmm but how can a pair of giant
headphones fit into that here we go also
they've got the hinge design okay
yes are you ready yeah tada
okay let's set that aside just for one
moment here and get a look at the
accessories okay we've got a standard
headphone cable so that you can use
these if the battery is dead for some
reason and you want to keep listening
you're gonna be able to plug them
directly in that's fine you've got a USB
micro charging cable I've got a couple
of little manuals and things like that
we'll take a look at those later no big
deal
okay so the hardshell case is first
thing I noticed and I do love that and
appreciate that now these headphones
have bluetooth 4.2 and EDR Jeff is
wondering what the heck does EDR mean
are you wondering that am i right no
I've heard of it I'm okay I'm blanking
on well when you see Bluetooth EDR it
means that it has a technology in it
that essentially is like an encryption
blocking technology that prevents
man-in-the-middle attacks people being
able to listen to your what music but
Jeff why would you care if people are
man-in-the-middle attacking listening to
your music no these have a built-in
microphone and you can use these for
phone calls wirelessly to your phone it
has a
traditional tactile power switch I do
kind of like that that's cool and you
just flip that on and off okay we've got
4.2 bluetooth low latency we've got the
EDR and you see that I've chosen orange
because that's just my thing but there
are several different color options
available to you Jeff what frequency
response would you be looking for you
can feel free to switch around cameras
if you want to say hi or ricans
frequency response so you're an
audiophile like me what are you looking
for in a pair of headphones you know
what I I don't know I've never really
paid attention lately I can hear you but
I can't see you Jeff but okay fine there
I don't know I am I traditionally Jeff
yep I look for 20 to 20,000 Hertz
because that's what I always figured was
full spectrum now or enough these
headphones the one thing that was a bit
of a turn-off for me looking at the
specs is that they started 110 Hertz so
110 Hertz is the lowest it goes and it
goes up to 20,000 Hertz and normally
that would make me say okay I want to
find something that's 20 to 20,000
because that's just you know it's like
it that's just what I look for right but
I started looking at the reviews and
people saying oh wow the bass is
fantastic it's so crystal clear and I
thought oh maybe maybe maybe they've
done something to this I mean they've
got giant drivers in here that's gonna
give it great bass even in spite of the
fact that it doesn't go down all the way
to 20 Hertz which I can't hear anyways
my human ears can't even hear that right
so these are 110 to 20,000 Hertz and I'm
going to give them a try in just a
moment to see if they actually live up
to the reviews playtime we're gonna get
about nine hours music listening we're
gonna get about six to eight hours of
talk time if we're using them for phone
calls and things like that you can
switch between the two and it only takes
two and a half hours to fully charge
these
but now Jeff you want to know what
really sold me on these from power
locusts it's not the color is it the
genus of the cushiness is good they look
cool blah blah blah blah blah blah
headphones or headphones there are a
million to choose from an Amazon cooks
you breakfast
we've got tactile buttons for volume and
things like that great yeah that's cool
and then we have a micro SD port what's
these bluetooth 4.2 headphones
include a micro SD port that allows me
to put music on a micro SD card so that
if I don't have access to let's say I
don't want to stream music from my phone
maybe my phone's battery is low maybe I
just want to listen to music and go for
a jog and not take my phone with me well
I can just put them on an SD card I've
got that option
no that's an option I've never seen in
bluetooth headphones and I love it in
addition to that I've never seen that
hidden somewhere in here is also an FM
radio built right in so this is Jeff
it's about everything you need
everything that you need in a Bluetooth
set of headphones I'm gonna bring this
over to you
okay so one of the questions we have
from the chat room is from the Fuu who
wants to know about the firmware and how
easy it is to update your figure
while updating the firmware in these I
do you update firmwares and headphones
I've never done it so that's something
to check so I don't know that's I'm
going to check their website I'll post a
link directly below let's fire these up
and see if we need a firmware update
connected just like that to my laptop
really boom
it said it was ready to pair my laptop
popped up grabbed it so you don't even
have to put in a coal light I didn't
have to put in a code huh I paired it
Wow
let's try it you ready sure oh yeah yeah
I can hear that this is the impossible
thing to review it's true well we can
review they just they can't hear we'll
be right back
just this is some good television right
here
Jeff's pretty particular about the
headphones that he wears and they're
impossible to let you hear how they
sound
or are they because we have a very
special friend here with us tonight I'm
just gonna miss the rest of the show
okay I'm gonna take these over to our
demo oh we've got a binaural dummy head
here Jeff stupid dummy head all right
I'll be right back okay you talked to
them you're leaving me again
okay that's some sweet sound that's got
some great low-end I like that so am I
being replaced by the dummy head
I'm jealous of the dummy head those are
some very very now tell me if I'm
yelling yeah you are they do sound good
I'm excited about them they look cool
too they do but what's really impressive
is that your depth is not great on those
light as far as distance great but when
you were talking I'm assuming you were
talking you were just mouthing but I
couldn't hear a thing like they're great
for noise canceling speak to me speak to
me now I gave things to you I can yeah
that actually has really good noise
cancellation ah
very nice I felt like I was on one of
those game shows like put on the
headphones so you can't hear check out
the power locusts headphones if you're
interested in that I'm in love with the
fact that it also has the SD card reader
yeah that's pretty impressive now is
there any audio format it doesn't read I
haven't tried it Jeff I just opened the
box okay haven't tried it we'll try it
perfect I imagine you're gonna have a
like mp3 support obviously who knows
check the specs we're gonna put a link
for you and cat5 dot TV slash headphones
I'll have all that information for you
check it out today cool and in keeping
with our desire to be audio files
tonight this is our chance because
Sasha's not here with us tonight true so
tonight and and considering we have our
dummy head with us in binaural 3d stereo
sound and I should mention hey make sure
you put on a pair of headphones to watch
this because you're gonna be able to
hear what the dummy head hears we're
gonna be right back with a set of
speakers that are unbelievably good
quality for the price
[Applause]
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching welcome back
this is category 5 technology TV 10
night we're talking audio yes we just
reviewed some amazing Bluetooth
headphones with a SD card slot mmm
something I have not seen I or in any
other I love the idea and I can't wait
to try that out yeah it's just gonna
load it up sure I think every format
there's no format it's not gonna support
these days come on now can you do me a
favor try and upload like a video format
and see oh come on you know you got to
convert it to an audio format I
guarantee you probably but just it's
like tinkering around I mean I feel like
it's like I let me Google Google that
for you moment where I need to check ok
really Jeff really sure cat 5 TV slash
headphones are we really back on the
headphones well we don't have to be well
why are you asking questions about it
because I'm still thinking about them
they were that good well the thing is is
that the specification so looking at
this a little bit closer the
specifications on the current brand
website doesn't show what formats it
supports oh okay perhaps here's what
we're gonna do we're gonna throw every
audio format at it because I've got a
license for goldwave I can save to
anything next time around I like it
how's that sound okay perfect okay so
not have
phones what do we got in the studio Jeff
back in the radio days yeah one of the
things that we had were really great
speakers it's like key to a radio
station is having great speakers so that
when you're working late you can crank
it and it sounds good it's like your own
personal that was my favorite part about
doing oh yeah oh yeah and one of the
things about studio speakers and working
in now I'm a recording artist in the
past I was a recording artist I should
say now I'm a dad I've worked in a lot
of recording studios and at that time
there's there's a style two speakers
that it just there's a look to them
there's a sound to them yes and that's
kind of what we're looking for when
we're looking for good speakers to this
day I still am drawn to speakers first
by the look then the sound true I mean
you need two four speakers you want the
sound but it's that look that draws me
in but if they can be really
good-looking aesthetically pleasing a
little bit on the geeky side like tech
centric as far as the look goes like
that studio look plus sound great plus
here's here's the one that usually
doesn't fit into the mix Plus affordable
cuz usually if I'm gonna spend a hundred
bucks on a pair of speakers and they're
gonna sound like we are not allowed to
say it on this family-friendly show
they're not gonna sound very good right
now Edifier has taken it and blown that
away with there's these speakers that
you know I'm just gonna jump right over
there
sure can I can I do this no you're not
allowed okay we're not reviewing them
I'm gonna I'm gonna head on over to our
review table and let's let's switch over
here you go all right I love these
unboxings if Sasha was here could you
imagine two unboxings at once so these
the Edifier r128 0t oh it's still sealed
like this is legit unboxing Oh Jeff what
kind of unboxing video would be pre
opened well I'm sure you could do it to
make sure that everything's there but
this is like low if it's not don't you
want to know that on
unboxing video true that if they you
know if something was damaged or
something like that wouldn't you want to
know that yes okay oh there we go okay
nothing's gonna be damaged here you can
see they're very well packaged
absolutely individually here we go okay
so those are the speakers
we've got instructions remote control
just fell out there this is just very
simple it's got mute and volume up and
down that's kind of nice
what do we got in the bag let's move
this box out of the way that way I can
be in focus okay speaker wire from days
of old hey is that that's actual speaker
wire it's not like that is like 12 gauge
speaker wire my friend
so for plugging into a sound system no
this is to connect the two speakers
together we're going to see okay we've
got an RCA cable and now you look at
that you think oh that's all it's cool
everything is low HDMI no well what if
you want to plug these into a turntable
what if we want to put these into a
record player and get retro with it
right cool then we've got another RCA
cable but this one has a headphone kind
of plug on it so that we can plug it
into a laptop
the other thing Jeff is you can plug
this into your TV and now these become a
set of you know enhanced speakers for
your television or what else can you
plug that into say a computer yep
desktop computer with these on your desk
alright let's get into these shouldn't
be too hard to get into now you do not
have to buy an amplifier with these
because these are Howard speakers these
are not passive
yes sorry for the wobble there you are
look at that nice and sleek I like the
wood look again these are the Edifier
r128
0t now I'm gonna pull the grill off
because we want to get in here and see
what these actually look like the
quality I can just feel the build
quality as I'm trying to pull this
is not what you'd expect from a
hundred-dollar set of speakers see that
right there is very attractive beautiful
I'm gonna use those without the grill
for sure so we've got a four inch base
driver and of course this this hole here
this is for base reflex and that's like
a little two-inch kind of looking thing
we've also got a 13 millimeter silk dome
tweeter so that brings out the highs if
you're not familiar with speakers what
we've got this is like a mid-range bass
speaker and it takes care of the the
middle of the spectrum then you've got
the tweeter which enhances those highs
so you get those really nice crisp high
tones as well from your music if you've
only got one or the other you're not
going to have full spectrum sound these
accommodate these these will have great
sound so whether you want to plug these
into your TV or other devices they do
promise that you're going to get great
sound no matter what surface that you've
got these set on okay specifications as
far as the output goes we've got 42
watts RMS combined total so what you see
here so basically 21 watts of speaker
pull those off there we go and I love
the look so we're gonna take a really
quick break Jeff and then we're gonna
plug these in we're gonna set these up
on our main studio and we're gonna put
them into binaural mode so that you can
hear how these sounds stick around
Jeff Weston Jemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website
are you okay you're terrible actor what
this we're acting comes into play I
don't know you're supposed to act okay
are you building a really cool website
just because Jeff is confused doesn't
mean you have to be visit cap five dot
TV slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host welcome
back this is category five technology TV
we've got the Edifier x' plugged in
ready to go excited now first thing I
noticed okay so you asked about the
speaker cable so I've run a speaker cord
this speaker cable between the two
speakers that's it so this one is
passive this one is aggressive this
one's got the amp built in okay you can
see that there aren't a lot of controls
on there but on the side here we've got
basic controls to enhance the sound what
does it say on here so we've got treble
bass and volume that's all you need
folks that's all you need so treble and
bass you can control with the actual
tactile knobs volume and mute if you'd
like you can use the wireless controller
okay are we ready to fire these up I'm
ready now we have a very unique scenario
here tonight because here at category
five TV we actually have a binaural
recording system so that dummy head that
you see there is recording in binaural
3d sound so if you put on a good quality
pair of headphones you're going to hear
essentially I mean with the limitation
of the microphones in the binaural dummy
head you're gonna hear essentially what
it sounds like here to us okay so are we
ready I'm ready
oh goodness Wow
the Edifier r12 att's those are
exceptional I can't believe they're a
hundred bucks that's it that's it folks
you gotta check them out cap v dot TV
slash speakers check those out we've got
to take a really quick break when we
come back you've got our news yes look
at these good as these stick around
hi I'm Ravi Ferguson and I love being a
Vimeo Pro member as a web broadcaster I
need an affordable video hosting
platform that's as flexible as me a pro
membership lets you upload up to 20
gigabytes of HD video each and every
week with no additional bandwidth
restrictions that means if you produce a
show that uses even up to 20 gigabytes
of storage your limit resets itself the
following week so you can do another 20
gigabytes and keep doing that week after
week now category 5 with all of our
shows use roughly 10 gigabytes per week
from there Vimeo automatically generates
all the files that you need to provision
your RSS feeds and roku channel website
media player or even video downloads in
multiple bit rates with no limits on
your bandwidth usage or how many people
can access your files what's best
the price is astonishingly affordable
and for a limited time Friends of the
category 5 TV network will receive a
whopping 25 percent off the annual price
all you have to do is go through our
link cap 5 dot TV slash Vimeo and sign
up today for your twenty five percent
discount to top it off you get 30 days
to try it risk-free if you're not happy
with Vimeo Pro you pay nothing if the
deal is only for a very limited time go
to cap 5 dot TV slash Vimeo this is the
category 5 TV newsroom covering the
week's top tech stories with a slight
linux bias
I'm Jeff Wesson filling in for Sacha
Rickman and here are the stories coming
up this week according to research
published in Nature a machine learning
can help robots perform chemistry
experiments faster than human scientists
researchers have been exploring how
algorithms can predict the outcome of
chemical reactions for a while now but
the project goes one step further and
actually uses a real robot to carry out
some of the experiments it doesn't look
anything like what you'd imagine there's
no humanoid robot on wheels ipping
around a lab
or mechanical arm swishing beakers of
colorful liquid rather it's a system
that contains a series of pumps and
reactors all attached to a mass
spectrometer a nuclear magnetic
resonance spectrometer and an infrared
spectrometer the pumps contain samples
of chemicals to be mixed the solution is
then fed into reactor flasks and sent to
all the different types of spectrometers
to be analyzed it's nothing too fancy
and most of the hard work is done by the
machine learning algorithms which are
behind the robot the system determines
if a chemical reaction has occurred or
not scoring it at a zero for nonreactive
or a 1 for reactive the machine studies
the information from the different
spectrometers to see if new molecules
have been forged the model was true was
trained on 72 reactive and nonreactive
mixtures from known chemical reactions
classified by human chemists a team of
researchers from the university of
glasgow built a neural network and
trained it on nearly 3500 reactions they
flagged almost 600 to be held back for
validation and then tested it on nearly
2,000 reactions it's pretty accurate and
can predict it if a chemical reaction
will take place about 86 percent of the
time according to the simulations after
this stage the robot can then begin
performing some of the reactions chosen
by the algorithm the system saves time
and energy by helping the chemist
discard pointless experiments that
probably wouldn't result in anything
useful it can also give them hints to
what reactions they should explore to
find new molecules for drugs dyes or new
materials this is neat that's cool I
mean think of the time-saving nature of
something like that absolutely and as
you add more chemicals to the mix I mean
it was just 72 but if you expand that
say go 300 like exponential increase on
the amount of reactions you could
possibly have to do not have I mean III
know not long ago I was reading that
what they found a new as a new mineral
or a new the scientists I don't know
Jeff the story is yours no no I know but
scientists have discovered something new
recently it's a new like aliens
something like that but you know a story
like this to have the computer like
sitting there doing the work for you I
mean you could be off doing other
research wallet sure I like the approach
that it doesn't have to create reactions
in order to understand whether or not a
reaction will occur right like if I take
you know if I'm artificial intelligence
and I know that mixing blue with green
or blue with yellow will create green
then I don't have to do it to know that
correct so if I've got a mix of
chemicals I'm just going to know that
hey if I mix these it will do this so
then the scientists don't have to waste
their time doing and it's with 86
percent probability of being accurate at
least it allows them to skip over stuff
that would otherwise be time consuming I
would imagine like if you're doing
research it's all for sure time to just
try things it makes me wonder though
from a standpoint of recreation because
that's one of the principles of
scientific models is if you're going to
do something you need to be able to
recreate the results sure to see if a
couple of different you know research
facilities we're using the exact same
software you're starting it from Ground
Zero if the software would produce
different results as far as the
algorithms would go or if you'd still
get that same you know oh this will Jax
will not because it says 86% accurate so
you know you there is some variation
that you could not have and you see what
happens yeah and you know that's you
know when you take that spin on it you
start to think oh well it's not really
that accurate but really hey if I got 86
percent on a test at school I'd be three
but think about okay if I have a
thousand tests to run as a scientist if
I've got to do all this stuff to have it
come back and say oh don't bother with
that one I'm pretty sure that that won't
result in anything to have the
artificial intelligence come back and
say that based on its own findings right
and it can work 24/7 it can be running
tests and mixing things overnight so
that when I come in in the morning it
can say oh you know what I don't think
there's going to be a reaction to that
right so don't bother I can start
working on things that
you know we're gonna have a reaction or
that I'm not sure or that the AI is not
quite 100% sure on right when it becomes
back like Oh 17% chance that it's
right every action like that's what then
that margin of error we'd better try it
exactly that's cool it's funny as I was
reading the article I was thinking I can
see them featuring this on the TV show
Big Bang Theory yeah it's all about you
know spectrometers and stuff when it
comes to you know some of the
engineering stuff and the tests and it'd
be fun that's just a TV show
I understood this is reality Jeff I know
but this is really show it would give me
a thought starter for the for the
writers absolutely I'll let them know
next time I'm talking to a prolific
habit hacking group has struck again
this time stealing close to 1 million
dollars from Russia's PIR bank the heist
occurred on July 3rd about five weeks
after the sophisticated hackers first
gained access to the bank's network by
compromising a router used by a regional
branch the theft which is conservatively
estimated at about nine hundred and ten
thousand dollars u.s. is the latest
achievement of a group who's being
called the money taker group named after
a piece of malware that they commonly
use while utilizing several sis admin
tools and custom malware one of the
earlier hacks of the Russian bank's
internal network was initiated by
gaining access to the home computer of
one of its system admins now first
reported last November that members of
the hacker group had conducted 20
successful attacks on financial
institutions and legal firms in the US
UK and Russia at that time and a follow
up it was reported that money taker
netted about fourteen million dollars in
the hacks 16 of which were carried out
on us targets five on Russian banks and
one on a banking software company in the
UK hmm this is scary
you'd like to think that banks are
secure you hope so
but it was literally one computer and
it's so ok they've compromised a router
and they've compromised one of the
admittance computers that had remote
access so then I start to think ok so
they're using social engineering tactics
like these folks we think about hackers
ok let's just kind of think about a
hacker for a second and you think ok
they're sitting in a dark room they're
on a computer they're breaking into
computers they're hacking into computers
they're using code to break in but that
wasn't the case here no they're using
social engineering tactics which means
ok Jeff is an administrator on some big
corporate network ok let's just pretend
right role play I can role play ok your
name is Francesca my name is Francesca
and I work at that big national bank she
works at a big national bank and while
you're working there you are you're
overworked you're tired you're working
15 hour days sometimes 18-hour days yep
and you're beat and you're just like
okay I want a weekend off I'm gonna put
remote desktop on one of the computers
at work then I'm gonna go home and I'm
gonna be able to remote into work so
that I can do my work from home sounds
great
yep well now social engineering tactics
phone rings and Francesca gets a call
and says you know we're calling from
such-and-such and somehow through social
engineering tactics they've tricked
Francesca into giving access to their
that her computer oh no I've been
tricked
exactly so now while she's sleeping that
night presumably she sleeps yes she's a
hard worker she's very diligent but she
has to get rest 6 o'clock meeting and so
they get in there at 2 o'clock in the
morning when the computer is idle and
they see oh look at that there's a VPN
or a Remote Desktop Protocol connection
to work mm-hm
click on that oh we're in oh it's a
login for the bank and boom boo-boom
they're in and suddenly through social
engineering tactics they've tricked or
somehow hacked in now the other side of
Al where well now where is anything like
it could be remote access remote
administration software it can be remote
administration tools that are
legitimately used by IT personnel in
order to administer computers when I'm
fixed
Computers at halfway across the country
I don't go there no I send them a file
they open it and I've got access so if
you fall for receiving that file from
someone who is not me well you're done
yep and if you've got access to things
like work now the other side of it was
this router now a router that sits on
your network so the ISP he shows up and
says okay we've got your new internet
router here you go we plug it in and
you're up and going you've got Wi-Fi
you've got access to the Internet people
don't think much of it and you'll always
be up oh the firmware is out of date by
years the passwords are possibly set to
default passwords and things like that
it's amazing how often that happens it's
scary I mean you think that it doesn't
but it really does yep so that's a whole
other can of worms but it's is it
malware as in a hacker sitting at a
computer coding something that gets into
not necessarily it can be them writing a
code that goes out on the internet to
all the IP addresses and finds routers
that contain a certain signature right
or websites that contain a certain
signature that are on internal land
right that are hosted on the same
network as the bank their bank of the
bank website what's sad about this story
though is that the hacker group used a
known malware program called money taker
that's why the groups called money taker
sure so you would think if it's known
than any competent security network at a
bank or you're updating their all of
their software to watch for this but but
then if they block it so if they blocked
it Jeff wouldn't they just wouldn't the
attacker just say it way is it money
taker
it could be remote desktop
it could be log me in it could be any
number it could be VNC it could be SSH
it could be anything that in and of
themselves are benign right this router
in and of itself is benign but because
it had exploits in it they're able to
crack into it and use it because most
routers are you know you can now operate
it on the network level and access other
computers on the network open up ports
on the firewall to redirect to all the
computers so that you have remote
desktop access
to them and blah blah blah and it goes
on and on I am surprised we still get
stories like this though you would think
with all various issues that we've had
over the years with hack attacks and all
the kind of stuff that you think humans
would wise up Jeff you would think but
no we're pretty dumb apparently not dumb
just they are we we've we like to fall
into a bubble where we where things are
benign like we think that our router is
benign yeah we think that our smart
connected devices are benign and then we
find out that the tracking watches have
been mapping military bases in the
Middle East like these kind of things
you think they're benign but then they
can be used against us if we are not
ultra careful and if we don't understand
those technologies case in point
autonomous cars he's gonna go there
folks I'm gonna go there just when we
started to think autonomous vehicles
were looking good someone's developed a
GPS spoofing device that can send them
driving straight into oncoming traffic
billions of people and a growing number
of autonomous vehicles rely on mobile
navigation services from Google uber and
others to provide real-time driving
directions a new proof-of-concept attack
demonstrates how hackers could
inconspicuously steer a targeted
automobile to the wrong destination or
worse endanger passengers by sending
them down the wrong way on a one-way
road the attack starts with a two
hundred and twenty five dollar piece of
hardware that's planted in or underneath
the targeted vehicle that spoofs the
radio signals used by civilian GPS
services it then uses algorithms to
plant a fake ghost route that mimics the
turn-by-turn navigation directions
contained in the original route now
depending on the hackers ultimate
motivations the attack could be used to
divert an emergency vehicle or a
specific passenger to an unintended
location or to follow an unsafe route
passengers responsible for the device
are thankfully not out to cause trouble
they're from Virginia Tech which is
China's University of electronic
sciences and technology and Microsoft
and research they wanted to demonstrate
the vole
abilities in our current GPS driven
infrastructure they warned the threat
becomes more realistic as car makers are
adding autopilot features so that human
drivers can be less involved or
completely disengaged the researchers
proposed several counter measures the
one they say is the most promising in
terms of its effectiveness and cost is
computer vision techniques to cross
examine the physical world landmarks and
street signs with digital maps given the
widespread use of cameras and lidar this
protection could be put in place with
software level upgrades I like this idea
that they're able to get around it so
quickly and that the groups who have
found this exploit by using this really
cheap device are not using it for
malicious purposes I mean you see the
ones who have unveiled it yeah now is
you know are there other devices out
there sure it's a two hundred twenty
five dollar piece of equipment like
that's not hard to replicate sure so I
mean the fact that it's that simple to
do that's it is scary and it's what you
know in the story you know talked about
with emergency vehicles I'm thinking
that's a scary thought Jeff absolutely
and imagine the damage that you could
cause if you threw all of those on say
you know fire trucks in a city yeah you
know it's like oh we got to get to this
address because the building's burning
you're over here instead like just a
simple yeah and you like to say and
again it goes back to us thinking that
things are benign and you'd say why
would anyone do that and then you hear
some of the things that are in the news
without getting into it and realize
there are people out there that would do
that sure and why the question is why
there is no answer it's a rhetorical
question but there are people out there
that would do that kind of thing and so
how do we protect ourselves against that
kind of thing but by improving the
technologies and maybe maybe maybe maybe
just the the technology providers for
GPS satellites and things like that
we'll look at this and say oh dear we
need to make some changes we need to
implement some some changes and and with
autonomous vehicles like well if what
about the cars that don't get the patch
right or that don't use lidar in
addition to satellite imagery and
positioning and cameras yeah it's it's
it's unfortunate that this kind of stuff
becomes so prevalent the more we advance
our tech and I mean it makes sense like
as we advance more you're gonna have
more of these exploits but it's like
every time we make a leap forward
there's somebody who's out there to do
something potentially horrible yeah and
I like to have faith in the human race
slowly losing it there's some bad eggs
out there we're fortunate that all of
our viewers are wonderful people
absolutely and 100 or so you know we
can't relate to that mindset but again
it's back at hackers and what is the
motivation behind the hack yeah what is
the potential damage I mean it could
start with something benign and then you
know like it is right now and is it you
know somebody thinks hey this would be a
really great way to rob a company by
misleading all the cop cars or you know
who knows what what could be done but
you know that's that's now two stories
in a row of kind of hackers that are
just given a bad name to hackers but not
all hackers are bad there are some good
hackers out there no there aren't
yeah there are come on Jeff think just
give me one example just one well I've
got one so if you happen to think that
all hackers are bad think again as we
look at hardware hacker who has solved
the issue of Amazon's Alexa devices what
if the user can't speak or hear if voice
of the future of computing the voice is
the future of computing what about those
who cannot speak or hear that's the
question posed by developer Abhishek
Singh the creator of an app that allows
Amazon Alexa to respond to sign language
love this Wow Singh's project uses a
camera based system to identify gestures
and interpret them as text and speech
the developer says that future smart
home devices should be designed to be
Clouseau for deaf users the past few
years have seen a rise in popularity of
voice assistant runs voice assistance
run by Amazon Google and Apple in fact
the study by smart audio report suggests
that a data adaptation of smart speakers
has exceeded that of smartphones and
tablets in the US but for the deaf
community a future where devices are
increasingly controlled by voice this
poses many problems now speech
recognition typically has trouble being
able to pick up the rhythms of deaf
users and a lack of hearing presents a
clear challenge to communication with
voice based assistance a sings project
offers one potential solution rigging
Amazon's Alexa to respond to the text to
American Sign Language the developer
trained an AI using machine learning
machine learning platform tensorflow
which involved repeatedly gesturing in
front of a webcam to teach the system
the basics of sign language once the
system was able to respond to his hand
movements he connected it to Google's
text-to-speech software to read the
corresponding words aloud the Amazon
echo reacts and it's low and it's local
its voice responses automatically
transcribed by the computer into text
which is read by the user as a solution
it is a workaround with the laptop as an
interpreter between the user and Alexa
but as Singh says there's no reason that
Amazon's show or any of the other camera
and screen based voice assistants
couldn't build this functionality right
in Amazon has taken the hint and has
announced that as of Monday more Alexa
users will have the option to turn on
captions for echo devices with a screen
Alexa captioning has previously been
available for us owners of the echo show
and echo spot the company is now
bringing the feature to users in the UK
as well as Germany Japan India France
Canada Australia and New Zealand love
finishing the news on a good news story
that's cool this is so amazing okay I'll
give you that a hacker who is doing
something for the good absolutely
there's more than just sing but I
this and I love that he said I'm just
gonna deal with this myself with a
webcam taught it's eyeliner you know
like it's it's amazing so good but what
what I wonder is will they be able to
take the programming and adopt it to say
video feeds that have a sign language
interpreter you know how like you could
watch you know some oh like use that to
translate yes so you you know maybe you
can't watch something that might be on
TV but but it will translate it for you
yeah I seem to recall Microsoft was
trying to do something like that but it
wasn't very accurate and I started to
think about you know how accurate is a
system like sings for example but then
you start to think about okay well the
English language so to translate a video
for example that has ASL in embedded
into the video it would be you'd have to
the AI the interpreter would have to
know and understand the language right
that is being presumably spoken yes
and that would be incredibly challenging
now you look at a device like a Alexa
device the even though it speaks the
language be it English or whatever
language you've got it set to the
commands are very rudimentary yes so
it's it's their preset it's like doctor
spate so it's like preset commands that
you are speaking to the device and that
it is speaking back and it's generally
pretty pretty basic
as far as language goes yes absolutely
Alexa what's the weather sorry I didn't
mean to set yours off but those are the
kinds of things and then when if it
responds by text captioning then it can
say whatever it wants but if my signing
and I can't sign so I can't do it for
you but if my signing were to set it off
with Alexa what's the weather and then
the google translator said that aloud or
the Google text-to-speech set that
allowed then it would be quite possible
absolutely yeah for sure I like that
it's cool
it's it's neat I like the people do this
stuff
very much so good on you hackers got the
bank job yeah those ones those ones are
jerks that's does of you making things
more accessible we love you that's keep
up the good work
big thanks to Roy W Nash and our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five dot TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category-five TV newsroom I'm
Jeff Weston filling in for Sasha Rick
and I'm Robbie Ferguson glad to have you
here I'm glad I could be here to
interject a few points and I thank you
for being here this week I hope you had
fun with us and we look forward to
seeing you again next week
I believe the whole crews here next week
are you here next week that's something
I hope so Sasha is gonna be back from
her vacation as well I'll be here and
we've got a great show planned for you
so we'll see you again next week take
care bye
