Sasha you were you're having trouble
with getting into chat right I am yeah
bone there we're trying to figure out
okay well how can you get your phone up
on a bigger screen and so on and so
forth
we've encountered this with broadcasting
where we're always looking for ways to
bring in other camera sources so whether
they be cameras themselves computer
screens or mobile devices oh thanks
right so you know we've done slimport
slimport is amazing this is so cool I
don't know if you knew this or not but
that little USB port on your Android
phone yeah can do other things it's USB
so it's not just the charging port it's
not just a transferring port you can
install a slim port adapter by simply
plugging it in there it's a stall and
that is a full-sized HDMI output for my
phone huh so now I can hook up my phone
to the TV or projector oh right that's
smart pretty cool right yeah so we've
used that in the past here at the studio
any time we want to bring up the phone
yeah but it's wires more cables have you
ever seen our floors here here and watch
side non-research you know there are
wires everywhere and more wires more
hdmi cables make a better buy oh thank
you
it does work very well but it you know
it's it is what it is so my guess is
that you have a wireless solution what
if what mm-hmm
well miracast is something that's built
into your Android phone it's also you
know there there are drivers that you
can install it on a boon to that are
kind of under development Windows 10 has
it built in so it's a it's an open
platform open protocol for screen
casting for getting the the screen of
your device onto another device
wirelessly okay called miracast so the
neat thing about it is that because it's
an open technology it's coming into the
place where you don't have to spend 150
bucks to get a device that you can cast
- yeah it's not chromecast you're
familiar with chromecast but that has
you know it's going to be a compatible
application or it's going to have you
know the chromecast capability within
the app it's
l4 you've got to do it through the
browser so a little bit different
miracast is just if anything that's on
the screen absolutely anything so it's
like using an HDMI output but look it's
it's all there so as I was saying the
cost comes down because more
manufacturers are able to bring them out
truth be told more Chinese manufacturers
are able to bring them out right there
more and more readily available and then
all of a sudden you get things like this
from anycast the m2 plus which as you
can see here is just a little dongle
it looks like Chrome catalona it
actually does it even has like a little
circle yeah it's like a knockoff logo
but it's actually like yeah it's like an
eye bulb
yeah anyway so let's get into it so what
this allows us to do is stream
wirelessly from our phone to this device
so getting into the box just get a quick
look at what we have here some cables
yeah cables we wanted to get away from
cables all right but here's the thing
this cable goes into the back of this
device is not going to plug in to our
phone and all that kind of stuff even
though it is just microUSB so okay
that's micro USB that is a Wi-Fi dongle
right and this is USB presumably for
power okay
now the key thing here with our m2 plus
which incidentally you can get through
our shop you can go to cap five dot TV
slash anycast and that's going to be
able to hook you up with one of these
they're dirt cheap so there you go so
this dongle as like a chromecast has
simply an HDMI full-size plug on there
so you plug that into the side of your
TV your TV has a USB port for service
but it also gives power so then this
goes into the side of the TV as well for
powering the device and then we've got
USB micro right there which is going to
power the anycast device and the Wi-Fi
is going to give it its own access point
so guesses why would it have its own
access point built in you've already got
Wi-Fi in your home network
any guesses just put that out there
chatroom alright I'll give you a hint
and by way of hint I mean the answer
traditionally with these kinds of
devices you plug them in and okay how do
I get it now connected to my Wi-Fi
network I've got to plug in a keyboard
to it I've got to bring it up on the TV
I've got a set up networking I've got to
plug in all the more cables and so on
and so forth so by having this now this
Wi-Fi is not what we're going to use to
connect to it this Wi-Fi this Wi-Fi is
going to allow us first of all to
connect to this device to configure it
to then connect out to existing Wi-Fi so
we can do all of the setup from our
phone from our computer from anything at
all its app free you see some of the
reviews that will say oh well the app
was you know in Chinese or the app was
garbage or you don't need an app for
this why are you installing an app for
miracast
it's already built into your phone I'm
going to show you that in a couple of
minutes time but because it's already
built in and because this is configured
through Wi-Fi so all I have to do is
just connect my phone to its built-in
Wi-Fi login to the interface set up my
router and then it's working boom
playing him simple ah perfect so we're
going to take a really quick break while
we're on break and you're enjoying this
wonderful commercial I'm going to simply
plug this into our Telestream Wirecast
broadcast computer you can plug this
into your TV you can plug this into a
video capture device like I'm going to
do tonight and what this will allow us
to do here is bring up a phone on the
screen so if we ever want to do an app
review or if you want to be able to look
at your phone the chat room cool on a
big TV or something like that is
miracast to wirelessly stream it and
your phone is still something that you
can stick in your pocket and to simply
turn on and off miracast okay so that's
that we're going to come right back
after the
Jeff Weston jela you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what are you
no all right you're terrible actor
what does where acting comes into play
oh I don't know we're Arctic you're
supposed to act okay
fair enough I'm building a really cool
website are you building a really cool
website you need hosting one of the
things about a hosting account is you
don't want to have limitations put on
your website that's true how much hard
drive space you have how many email
account how many domains can point to it
well we've got an amazing deal for you
for a very limited time cap five dot TV
slash dream host for just five dollars
and a bit of change per month you are
going to get unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the roof of your own
calm guys to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat five dot TV slash
DreamHost just don't fulfill the paper
size just don't do it but hey it's a
great deal folks best deal you're going
to find five dollars and change per
month go to cap five dot TV slash
DreamHost welcome back this is category
five technology TV now the miracast
device the m2 plus from anycast is
available at cap five TV slash any cast
just like it sounds and it's plugged
into our Telestream Wirecast broadcast
server into a mage well capture card so
that's HDMI input for a computer that
allows us to stream from our cameras or
from any HDMI device now we've got five
HDMI inputs in our server so I've just
plugged it into one so all I have to do
is just click on four wire cast to
switch screens and that is what I see so
you see the SSID up there that is the
built-in Wi-Fi that we were talking
about and the PSK that's the pre shared
key that is the password that I can use
to connect to it right now or that you
can use if you're within about two
kilometres to hack our network
you know that you want to keep that
private that allows people to make
changes to the settings of the device
but that is essentially it so now in
order to access that of course all I
need to do on my phone is look for that
anycast SSID just like connecting to any
Wi-Fi hotspot and then bring up my web
browser go to the IP address which is
going to give me and then I can just do
the settings for my Reverend I've
already taken the liberty of doing that
just to expedite things today for the
sake of a live broadcast but just know
that if you have any trouble setting it
up it is actually quite simple just kind
of trace your steps first step is
connect to its Wi-Fi that's built in
then on the screen on the TV screen so
this screen is going to change screens
to say here's my IP address all you need
to do is connect to it so then I connect
to it from my phone or my other you know
my laptop with Wi-Fi connected to that
device and then it will allow me to set
up my router go my router is my existing
in home or in office network and that's
the Wi-Fi connection so that this device
can now connect out to all of my other
Wi-Fi devices so now when I'm connected
to my own personal Wi-Fi I can access my
anycast device from my phone cast to it
so it is kind of a moment of truth
because you know I've had everything
unplugged and it's just been sitting
here on the desk put it back in the box
so that we can do fancy unboxing and
here we go ok so on my phone being that
this is Android all I need to do is just
bring down my settings up here and
scroll over and now because I have this
feature enabled you may need to turn on
this on your menu but I actually have a
icon up there at the top and I've taken
a screenshot there just so that you can
see that at home now when I click on
that I'm going to switch modes over here
I'm going to switch over to this now
because I'm on the same Wi-Fi network as
this as soon as I click on miracast my
phone now says connecting to any cast
d/f and there goes like as quickly as
that with it there you can see there's
the miracast icon up at the top there so
now I've got this ability to actually
use my phone
and I'm casting directly to it so why
would I want to do this obviously for me
here in a broadcast studio it makes
sense if we ever want a demo an app
braying Android how fantastic is that
that I can do it wirelessly just from my
phone if you're at home a lot of
live-streaming happens on your phone
right you think about the countdown you
know New Year's Day New Year's Eve night
yeah and the countdown is always
available through their app you can
always you know tune in on your phone
but what about being able to cast it up
in 1080p to your HDTV exactly you don't
want to have to buy like a million
dollar add-on and not much a cape I mean
even for sharing photos I give you're
sitting roads you yeah we're old-school
like the slideshows we kind of are every
time Dave and I go away we have people
over and we show our my photos allow me
to miracast them yeah example we
actually like why isn't it like I'm days
shooting them off to the TV right and we
have like we have a fun big TV we have
comfortable couches we have people over
and we sit them down and we show them
there the pictures so miracast the
pictures this would be easy it works
right you can see if I switch back to
miracast that I have done very miserably
with my steps today if I bring up my
media and video I can bring up you know
there's podcast attic which allows me to
watch and listen to podcast bring up
YouTube and there's our channel now
interestingly enough I mean the first
question that you're going to ask is
what happens if I take that and I rotate
it mm-hmm
well what does YouTube do well at least
is supposed to there goes yeah take its
time prove me wrong I don't know why my
phone is slow to rotate but anyways
miracast is going to follow suit
oh it's faster on miracast no it's not
it's just I thought that one time yeah
but there you have it it is actually
going to now I'm going to rotate my
phone there you go so it does it like
that okay that's that's cool fancy so
now if I obviously hit play on the video
you're going to see that on here
so now it's nap milk in our bandwidth
for all its work did I even push play no
I didn't there we go different okay so
the show is playing and then I switch
back to your cast and you'll see that
simultaneously it's playing there now
the quality looks horrendous well what's
that about YouTube hello 240p no thank
I'm here at the studio we've got
miserable internet on LTE so I'll just
switch to 720p and we'll see it there we
go
doesn't that matter yeah so it's as easy
as that so we've got the ability to have
it on in both places at once you've got
a tablet you've got a TV 2 or VR goggles
oh and share your experience exactly so
I'm playing a VR video game right which
I can't normally share with anyone else
because it's on my phone it's in my
goggles and I'm playing like this and
they're wondering what's going on now
they can watch it on the screen as well
Daniel glass full screen anything else I
mean games on these things these days
are pretty impressive what's the what's
the performance like do I have anything
even worse laughs I've got lego starwars
yeah I mean the kids want right does it
even play on here what do I find out
yeah one way to find out ah so this is
just live casting miracast episode 516
episode where Robbie plays video game
looks superb but actually looks really
good
my phone is not you know it's an lg g3
so it's not really that it's not a
hugely impressive phone I mean your
phone may be better than this but so
that's that's live streaming through
miracast from my phone well be great if
you have kids and stuff too and they can
play on the big screen and not everyone
has to like huddle around phone I think
so yeah we're just to be able to bring
it off yeah so there you have it that is
the anycast m2 plus they're available
really cheap go to cap 5 dot TV slash
anycast I'm sure you can think of a ton
of ways to use this it's just one of
those things I like to have I like for
everyone so that if I ever need it we've
got it I do have a question from the
chat room
about your experience with it and
battery life the food wants to know I
haven't I haven't really observed any
difference in battery like that's
getting honest with you I usually keep
my phone charged anyways you know I've
got a phone soap over here yeah when I
get to the studio I plug in my phone
when I get home I plug in my phone
that's just that's just me I keep my
feet at a full charge whether or not
miracast uses more life now it is going
to be tapping into your Wi-Fi so as you
know you're using your wireless internet
it's going to drain your battery life
faster than if you're in airplane mode
but it is that's all its really doing is
you know it's processing it and sending
the content over Wi-Fi as opposed to
battery life just to let you know now I
have experience slimport because this is
what we originally used here at the show
and my phone gets hot with that that's
interesting there's a lot more processor
usage with slimport
whereas when I'm using miracast there's
no notable change in use like as far as
heat goes when I'm using my phone so I
can be casting from my phone and it just
is operating just as if I was on Wi-Fi
there's no additional heat there's no I
don't notice any anyways I haven't ever
you know put it into a spectrograph or
anything like that but so I find it's
really quite efficient but and it
obviously works really well yeah it
surely does
let us know what you think
[Music]
