what you're about to experience is a
free worldwide interactive broadcast
from Ontario Canada we broadcast live
every tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time
get your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live and category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host or I'll
be Ferguson's welcome to episode number
170 of category 5 technology TV nice to
have you here hey hey I'm glad to be
here because guess what this is a very
category 5 Christmas indeed let's ring
to it I like it my Christmas everybody
Merry Christmas tonight we are going to
be learning what I meant to teach you
last week how to get some free christmas
music to listen to we got four days just
enjoy what I have to show you yeah and
we've got a very special guest now
you're a special guest but I've got
another special guest standing on that
on the sidelines here if if you would
like to make this way on da da da ladies
and gentlemen presenting ah there he is
thanks hun oh baby ferguson areas Liam
Daniel Ferguson on his first mission all
day me who gave you
dare he I don't know if you guys little
marry us ariat he's a big man well I'm
of the show Merry Christmas thanks I'm
wave to everybody yeah good good all
right yeah gadget with some gurus
wondering where the baby sighs Starfleet
uniform is haha it's on mail-order way
to find out how big it was tonight we
are gonna be taking a look at zimbra
desktop the latest version we're gonna
be installing it on my linux machine but
you should note that it is available for
windows linux and mac and we're gonna be
checking that out as well thank you very
much Robert and everybody else sakamoto
in the chat room that's my baby boy
can't believe we're a family of five now
I know it's free while are you babies
pretty wild so it's kind of an exciting
time I'd like to have a baby right
before Christmas yeah excitement after
excitement air already like shopping
like what do you buy a kid that's for me
here have another sleeper ya know it's
very exciting I was indeed his world
baby preview and he will be a star of
some internet broadcast oh yeah for sure
it's no good about it tonight also we
are giving away that brother printer
that we've been taking qualifiers for
for the past several weeks rest around
we've got a brother multifunction center
from category 5 TV and brother canada
excited to be giving that away I'm
excited yeah and I'm also excited cuz
there's lots of stuff going on in the
news yeah what's going on I'll tell you
okay dun-da-da-da XBMC version 10 is
released his facebook was forced to shut
down shut down its services on thursday
night
Yahoo plans to shut down many of their
services including the popular delicious
service and alta vista bell canada sets
an example for what would be
telemarketers in canada with a whopping
1.3 million dollar fine coach and lastly
blip TV is to adopt html5 for standard
player so stick around for the latest
news from the category 5 TV news room
hey now that could be big news holla
would right yeah we're definitely gonna
we're looking forward to hearing about
all that exciting so hmm how's your week
on fabulous it's good to be home it's
nice to get in the groove I've been
living at the mall I feel trying to get
my last minute don't you know no okay no
listen I've gone three times so I went
three days in a row and I walked out
don't you hand it every time so I'm
still like whoa I just I gotta get her
done txtn people and tweeting oh yeah
just tweeting in the mall yeah you can
set up yeah um yes I do actually it does
go to my phone because I have like a
android phone or something jealous no
hmm so yes anyways it's good to be home
and I'm glad to be here on category 5
once more in real life in real time
that's nice that's that people say hi in
the chat room hello world ja thanks you
for buying some nice gifts for him I did
I bought you a bag of cool beans thank
you I'm here a week I don't have a drum
roll track pressing on get your
questions him you can email me live at
category 5 TV or of course join us in in
the chat room at triple w category 5 TV
we are there right now Tuesday night of
course if you're watching this after the
fact you can you can resort to the email
which we will be able to address next
week as well live at category 5 TV
mmm-hmm speaking questions you have
stuff coming yeah sure I believe we've
got a viewer testimonial tonight as well
that we should look at at some point all
right um well let's get at her and do
some questions for
fantastic this one comes to us from
reckon robbie i have an IT industry
question for you and a request for your
opinion if i was to enter the field in
my 40s and elected to specialize in a
part of the field that would be one of
the most valued or compensated which
areas of the field would you recommend
to specialize in particular from your
personal experience if you maybe were to
start over yourself you see four and
like the potential for success for an
older person entering the this kind of
technology fields so late in life what's
your thoughts on that hmm well the thing
is it's not about age right it's about
really when you're looking at at any
form of Technology employment what is
going to be your advantage is is whether
or not you're able to troubleshoot and
whether you're able to to learn and go
with the flow because the thing about
technology as you can't you can't really
get an education and technology and
expect that you're going to be able to
carry a career with that education
because your education is predominantly
in the field with technology what you
learn in school is going to be a good
kick starter but if you don't continue
to learn in the field and you don't
continue to expand your knowledge then
you'll very quickly find yourself
obsolete it because technology moves so
incredibly fast so so it's important to
to make sure liked if you're going to
pursue a career in in technology you've
got to assess you know am I willing to
become a part of something that's so
fast-paced and so fast moving if you
want to be able to
be fixing computers for example
computers change substantially every
three or four years so like to the point
where if if you're limited to an
education you're not going to be able to
move beyond older systems kind of things
so sure as far as as far as the higher
pay goes the the scale really is it
depends on you know where you're
employed is kind of how it works but
really when you're starting out you're
going to be most likely working for
someone if you're if you have business
sentence in such that you're able to
start your own business then that's an
opportunity for you to perhaps start
doing technical support and on-site
service calls for for smaller companies
to kind of get you into the field that
could be an opportunity comments in the
in the chat room they're just saying
well it kind of all over the place so i
think yes tough a like cuz cuz but it is
such a fast-moving field and and so it's
not like like if you were to study to do
a trade in an industry where technology
may change but the the actual skill set
doesn't ever change right with
technology your actual skill set it
becomes obsolete if you don't keep
adding to your skill set so it's a it's
quite a bit different if you get into
web design you know two years later the
entire internet is a different place
it's a different landscape so it people
who went into school and learn
dreamweaver or even worse like front
page or something like that and college
and they're still teaching these things
it's just nobody will hire you at that
because it's not it's not a technology
that's current so same sort of thing
you've got to be able to keep on top of
the technology so it's it's a challenge
because you've got to be able to push
and learn and continue to learn so
working in I would say that the best
thing for you would be to find something
in the field that is not only of
interest to you but is something that
you enjoy it's really easy to burn out
in a field that's so fast-paced and so
fast moving so you got to love what you
do otherwise you're just going to find
that it's very quickly going to become
too difficult to keep going because
because it is a challenge so find
something that you enjoy if it's
computer repairs stick to that learn as
much as you can and continue to learn as
new technologies come out one way that I
continue to learn when i was doing
computer builds and things like that was
to constantly order in new hardware for
clients so that i was always so that I
was always learning on the cutting edge
so whenever a customer would order a
computer i would order the parts for you
know x system so that i could learn this
new system that just came out when the
sockets would change when the type of
I am would change things like that but
is there a lot of money in hardware
sales know so it's really in support is
where the where the money lays so if you
can build computers and put them out or
sell computers and put them out and then
sell support contracts then that's the
way to go but if you're gonna be working
for someone else is probably going to be
in support where you're going to have
reliable work and possibly more money as
well because you're not working on a on
a like a percentage of a sale for
example hmm hope that helps all right
take that and run with it yeah moving on
to yet another question hi Robbie and
Eric and Hillary Hillary I have fresh
installed and boon to 10.2 I novo
thinkpad edge laptop dual boot setup
with windows 7 okay everything was
working out of the box for a couple of
weeks i usually get grub to screen um on
and then choose between Windows 7 and a
boon to i restarted the computer one day
and I get the bios VI or less yeah
screen but it fails to show the grub to
boot screen all I get is a blank black
screen with a cursor blinking in the top
left corner any ideas on where to start
to fix this this comes to us from Greg
Greg I guess it could be so many
different things what I'd want to know
is if you've made any changes to your
computer recently in particular
modifying your BIOS changing the boot
order of your hard drives wouldn't
possibly cause a problem like that if
you've modified your grub menu list file
and possibly caused you know corruption
to that or broken it or something so
that it's not able to boot then that can
cause a problem as well if you haven't
done any anything like that or anything
along those lines then you may need to
fix grub but my concern would also be
there is a potential that it could be
hardware failure we don't want to be
booting up a system if it were it's kind
of like a you know what you perceive you
you want to know if the hard drive is
failing on you
in case so if that if that hasn't
happened if you haven't changed any
settings to cause this then you'd want
to make sure before you start tinkering
with it that it's not a hard drive
failure because the more you work on a
hard drive that could be failing the
more potential you have for data loss
because you only get so much time before
the thing just comes right out so ways
you can tell it like you could boot from
a live CD and just try to connect to
that hard drive try to mount it and make
sure that you can access your data I
would back it up if you can at that
point there's a laptop right so mm-hmm
so booting from a boot CD like a boon to
live CD getting to the desktop mounting
the hard drive so that you can see that
the contents of that hard drive would be
a good idea if you can't see the
contents if you can't mount the drive
and I would be concerned how about
potential for data loss just in case
there's there's hardware failures so I
don't want to rule that out just in case
and then if if that's not the case if
the hard drive does access just fine and
that's just corrupted bootloader then
you could try something like the super
grub disk which will allow you to
reinstall grub it which is really just a
really quick way nitty gritty replace
your grub and it'll get up and running
so and of course if anyone in the chat
room has any suggestions just pop a pop
a line there and you'll be able to read
that in the IRC logs as well break
alright what that helps good tip bet
yaks a chat room they always have lots
of insight yeah laughs so make sure it's
time one guy they are a thousand takes a
judge to raise a child it takes a
community of category five viewers to
fix your computer you can quote me on
that there's a little long hell yeah
okay I'll work on it okay let's uh
because I forgot last week and I feel
really bad because now we've only got 44
days right left to enjoy your Christmas
Day I really wanted to show you about
how you can get access to some online
radio stations get all right enjoyment
of christmas music without the
commercials without all that stuff
sounds good to me yeah so what you can
do is it just bring up your internet
browser go over to shoutcast calm
is the company that makes win app you've
probably heard of that mm-hmm shoutcast
calm is their directory of shoutcast or
mp3 based online radio stations there
are currently almost forty four thousand
internet radio stations to choose from
here and they're sorted by genre so if
you've never used this before it's a
fantastic resource of radio stations and
they're not all terrestrial radio
stations a lot of these are in fact
internet only so you get the advantage
of commercial-free oftentimes they're
very little advertising on the on the
radio station and that's it's quite
enjoyable to listen to and there's such
a variety that if you're not happy with
what's playing it's very very easy to
find another station in the same genre
so right now this very moment shoutcast
has a button on their front page that
says Christmas radio stations and if we
click on that that's going to give us a
list of the radio stations that are
currently broadcasting which have listed
themselves in the Christmas genre you
can see that you can see the bitrate so
this column here shows you the bitrate
bitrate is essentially the quality of
the feed if it's 128 you're you're gonna
be hard pressed to tell the difference
between that and CD quality it's very
close to what you would hear like on the
FM radio so the quality is quite
exceptional so I would start with ones
that are in the 128-bit range because
those are going to be the best quality
sound if it's higher than that then
that's cool too but that takes more
bandwidth so if you go down to for
example 18 18 FM the Christmas mix and
click on play by default and this works
this works on Windows Linux Mac whatever
you're using it's going to load this
player down on the bottom and Hilary can
hear that hmm it just instantly starts
playing so me I prefer not to have to
use my browser and I prefer not to be
using flash which I'm sure this is yes
okay so what I'm going to do is I've
stopped the music from playing and I'm
going to go up to the top and I go help
settings it's going to tell me that
music is going to stop playing that's
okay in my settings window you can see
that the default is to play the
shoutcast stations in the show cast web
player and there's a couple of options
but the second option here play
shoutcast stations in the default Media
Player example winamp itunes windows
media player for example so if you're
using mac or windows that covers you so
what I've done is I've selected that
option and then I go save settings so
now next time I click on that same
station it was 18 one FM i guess i've
gone out of Christmas now and go back
into Christmas radio stations there we
go 181 FM the Christmas mix and I click
play and now because I've set that it's
asking me what do you want to do with
this file here i am in a boon to linux
and by default it has the movie player
installed which is totem i can tell it
do this automatically for files of this
type from now on these are pls files so
a winamp playlist or mp3 radio playlist
and i'm going to open that with my movie
player if that's not selected here you
can go to other and you can select slash
slash user slash bin slash
told him and that's your movie player
okay and then hit open and now hit okay
notice again I've set this to do this
automatically for files of this type
from now on I hit OK and now up comes
totem lets you and there we have my
Christmas music playing in this window I
can close my web browser minimize that
do whatever I like hmm I've got
fantastic access to a huge resources
Christmas radio stations and once
Christmas is over if you don't that if
you don't care for or want to listen to
christmas music there are all those
hundreds of thousands of different radio
stations i choose from there are tons of
different genres that is shoutcast calm
fabulous resource and a game it's not
like live365 or anything like that where
you where they've got lots of
advertisements on the stations and
things like that these are actual
broadcasters who are using their own
broadcast servers and chef casscom is
just an index of all these broadcasts
this was really really excellent good
tip down that people four days four days
to Bristol is max out 181 m another one
that is pretty good as Christmas melody
they've been around forever and they
have a pretty good selection but I found
18 one is really good this year well I
like that this is category 5 technology
TV you'll find us online at triple w
category five dot TV I'm Robbie Ferguson
I'm Hillary rumble hooray bringing you
the questions of the world and Christmas
cheer I'm gonna start going I'm Robbie
Ferguson yes you could do yes I'll do
hooray it works anyway moving onward and
upward
this was a nice little email I quite
enjoyed that I would like to share with
you all comes to us from array just
watched episode 169 and I really dig the
Blues installation song oh so keep up
the good work and seeing hillary was
great oh thank you thank you very much
incidentally if you missed the Blues
installations on is it downloadable cat
five dot TV / blues awesome that is so
awesome I really like that that was
pretty funny oh that is cool I'm
definitely to check that out after the
show you can thought was hilarious check
it check check it okay back like you to
some rap there chick chick chick the
christmas rap holiday rap get it wrap
presents and wrap all right i'm gonna
move on with some questions thanks he'll
your help hey Robbie I just watched the
show um and congrats on the birth of Leo
thank you I tried the H point two six
four feet but the old media player i use
really struggles to play it can't really
keep up for some reason it much prefers
DV uh div x or x fit if i'm the only
person that uses di DX feet i guess i
can trade or transcode it myself which
is what i did this time okay thanks
actually you're it's very question
you're certainly not the only person
i've received quite a few emails from
people saying you know why haven't x
feeds been updated this week and stuff
as we work on building the new website
which launches in two weeks by the way
january first as that is being worked on
pardon me the feeds are a part of the
rollover process the the RSS feeds these
are so that people can syndicate their
players if you if you want to
automatically download the weekly
episodes and things like that there are
multiple different types of video files
that you can automatically have
downloaded to your computer so it's very
handy but in the transition process of
the building of the new website this
entire process is being automated
in the past I've had to manually create
your RSS feed so that's so the ones that
are not getting updated right now are
the ones that I previously had to
manually update the ones that are
already done automating are getting
their updates so so it's a little
inconvenient for 23 weeks but when it's
all said and done it's going to it's
going to be fantastic it's going to be
very very quick you're no longer going
to have to wait sometimes till Wednesday
to get your RSS feeds it's going to be
like that so it's going to be pretty
awesome so so bear with it as as some of
the feeds are a little bit behind but
those are going to catch up as soon as
as soon as the new site is launched
because that's all a part of the same
system so we're very excited about the
new site have you seen it you have i've
been i've been perusing a little bit
yeah cool but wasn't a bitch fantastic
so thank you betta team for all your
hard work it's gonna be really really
fun oh yeah January first don't forget
and if you're trying to register on our
website you'll notice that you can't
currently register we're under lockdown
laughs because of the new site good news
is I was able to transfer everyone's
user account to the New so good person
and I gave you 150 category 5 viewer
points wait just for being registered on
there's a viewer points there are viewer
points what does that mean it means you
can redeem points for ballots to win
prizes you can redeem points for
category 5 gear downloads cool discounts
on products so with that yeah so
everybody who is already registered on
our website has been imported into the
new site and that
quite a load of work I tell you yeah I
believe it once I got through yeah I was
able to add everyone their points so
everybody's starting out with 150 points
to start and and I'm gonna talk to you
in January about what we're gonna do for
new registrations in January is we're
all right okay lots going on in the new
year for category right yeah that's
awesome is very exciting very cool i
like that i like like the way you
operate robbie Ferguson do yeah lots
going on get her done you do get her
done there's no no getting around it um
oh I got a comment email okay not a
question but a comment comes to us from
brian crossing hi Robbie first of all
congrats to you and back out on the
birth of aaliyah thank you I am still an
avid fan of cat5 and I've noticed the
quality improvement just seconds before
you ever mentioned it in superb looking
forward to the new site launch keep up
the great work that you and your team
provide cheers from so thanks Brian
that's very nice to get that we're also
looking forward to the new site launched
as mentioned double yes double fist pump
lots lots of excitement and Jubilee I'm
also trying to keep up with the chat
room for those of you who are watching
who have never if you've never watched
the show where we're live we're
broadcasting yeah so I'm watching the
chat room here we've got a ton of people
in there chatting away and sometimes
it's hard to tell whether they're
talking to us oh yeah are each other
they're just chatting away yeah looks
good hit him good but it leads to quiet
time as I study the chatter yes cuz
we're like hmm what's going on then
we're like Oh what are the question here
hello mm-hmm hey good guy gadwal d man
810 great to see you
is daddy was a guru I see lots of
friendly faces in the chat room people
are asking and one person in particular
a gadget with some guru what is category
5 gear well there are as nobody if you
never seen on the website it shows
particular items fashional items
sporting the category 5 logo does it not
indeed it does hmmm perfect for purchase
for the loved one that you haven't
bought for you at this Christmas season
available in all sizes don't think we
can ship that quick hell the anti can
he's left one of them is a holiday fine
it can be a New Year's present there you
go new year or birthday 2011 ring in the
new year with your category 5 where garb
Khloe with the new site launch we're
also working towards having DVD
availability for now long like I be able
to actually download DVD copies of the
show oh wow burn them to to DVD you you
must remember back in the days when when
Carrie was here that we did up like the
shirt for aspiring geek chick and all
that we've got the category five hats
like yeah there's the shirt that we did
up for for Carrie we've got you know
there's tons of different things from
mugs and t-shirts and whatever else but
we've also got coupon codes that we're
gonna be launching in the end the year
double cool in here so that's awesome
hmm I'm excited for that lots of cool
stuff going on for real for real for
real and of course we welcome people to
submit their suggestions if you have
ideas for the new website I can get in
them on twitter twitter.com slash Robbie
Ferguson great suggestions there and
plan to implement any any suggestions
that are that are reasonable Stephen
Haskell for example Steve mentions that
they'd like to see a lot of tutorial
videos directly on the website so we're
talking about at part of me editing down
tutorials I'm better ok we're going to
edit down tutorials based on Steve's
suggestion and that and make those
readily available so that so you can
watch just those key tutorial videos
such as yeah the craft of a
photomanipulation series for example
those things are all gonna be available
on the new website as tires on X so if
you'd like to send me a Twitter messages
twitter.com / Robbie Ferguson tweet away
tweeters I've compiled mm-hmm you ready
for the news yeah yeah I am because
there's lots going on in the world from
the category five dock to the newsroom
version 10 of XBMC media center the
popular cross-platform media software
was released this week x
emc is an open source media player and
an entertainment system with an
interface design for the living room the
focus of this new release is add-ons in
particular the new add-on system allows
you to install add-ons such as themes
and plugins directly from within the
program in addition the release offers
improved hardware acceleration and more
why not give it a try and download it
from XBMC org today XBMC live offers you
the chance to boot a complete XBMC media
center off of a CD facebook was forced
to shut down its services temporary app
temporarily after an employee
accidentally leaked new features for the
site that weren't quite ready for launch
the social network which is used by more
than 500 million people around the world
was offline for around 20 to 30 minutes
on Thursday night a spokesperson for
facebook said for a brief period of time
some internal prototypes were made
public to a number of people externally
as a result we took down the site for a
few minutes it's back up and we
apologize for the inconvenience my blog
log founder Erik mal Coulier mal Coulier
announced through a tweet on Thursday
that Yahoo plans to shut down several of
their web properties including not only
its own creation but also delicious
yahoo buzz and alta vista part of our
organizational streamlining involves
cutting our investment in
underperforming or off strategy products
to put better focus on our core strength
and fund new innovation in the next year
and beyond a yahoo spokeswoman said via
email we continuously evaluate and
prioritize our portfolio put a product
portfolio of products and services and
do plan to shut down some products in
the coming months such as yahoo buzz our
traffic ap is and others we will
communicate specifically our plans when
appropriate Blake Irving executive vice
president and chief product officer at
Yahoo responded to the leak by
expressing that when he finds out who
revealed the slide show to Eric they're
gone the news comes one day after yahoo
slashed four percent of his workforce or
roughly 600 employees hmm
the canadian radio-television and
Telecommunications Commission or the
CRTC is finally enforcing their
telemarketing rules and is making
belcamp bal canada an example to any
would-be telemarketers who want to
market their products or services to
Canadians on the national do not call
list between january and october third
party telemarketers hired by belt
promote its television phone and
Internet services place calls to
Canadians who had their numbers on the
national do not call list the crtc said
in a statement yesterday all
telemarketers must respect the wishes of
Canadians who have registered their
telephone number on the national do not
call list or requested that a
telemarketer include their number on its
internal do not call us andrea rosen the
CRTC's chief telecommunications and
forces enforcement officer she said this
in a statement even though the calls in
this instance were made by third parties
Bell Canada must ultimately ensure that
the rules are followed while Canada has
been fine a record 1.3 million dollar
fine for breaking the crtc rules blip TV
is a platform for web shows and offers
hosting distribution and advertising and
even host and distributes episodes of
category 5 blip TV co-founder and CTO
Justin day has revealed that the site
will switch from html5 as its standard
player replacing the more popular flash
player many sites are exploring idea of
making the switch but many have delayed
citing issues such as digital rights
management and difficulty in displaying
add content flash is a popular method of
video content distribution but relies on
a plug-in from Adobe the plug-in has
been plagued with security flaws as well
as performance issues html5 the latest
draft standard of the markup language on
which the web is based includes support
for video playback directly in the
browser that's kind of cool this direct
playback would allow for a better and
more efficient experience the changeover
for blip TV should occur sometime in
early 2011
get all these full stories at category 5
TV / newsroom the category 5 TV news
room is researched by roy w nash with
contributions from gadget wisdom guru
that go ferguson and our community of
viewers if you a story you thanks worthy
of honor mention send us an email at
newsroom at category 5 TV from the
category 5 TV news room I'm Hillary
rumble
category 5 TV is brought to you in part
by planet calypso this massive
multiplayer online game is available as
a free download from cat five dot TV /
Calypso now once you've got to
downloaded and installed on your Windows
computer make sure you say hi and
there's something for everyone here on
planet calypso from hunting to mining
crafting and just plain socializing and
having fun with your friends you can
download it for free at cat five dot TV
/ Calypso if you're a linux user like
myself of course this makes it worth the
dual boot cat five dot TV / calypso i'll
see you on planet calypso this is
category 5 technology TV episode number
170 it's tuesday december 21st nice to
have you here and you can find us online
triple w category five dot TV I'm Robbie
yeah I'm Hillary hooray it's aren't you
attorney thing we're we're testing this
out how do you feel oh my lanta no
Hillary yes we've been experimenting
with YouTube I know I recall this from
yes before I'm very excited about it
with you what do you think about YouTube
and Google's speech-to-text engine
that's really cool that takes a video
like a one hour broadcast like category
5 scans the file audio right and creates
closed captioning automatically based on
the words that we say that's pretty rad
pretty rad indeed because there's a
whole audience out there who can be
accommodated this way and like
in and be able to understand what we're
saying without lip reading you were
mentioning is that you were mentioned
last week that you have friends who
listen who are deaf I do are they are
they watching and lip reading her some
are like some will follow the chat room
some have like just some hearing loss or
hard-of-hearing so they're able to to
hear bits and pieces obviously not the
same level as you or I but those who are
profoundly deaf would rely solely on
like lip reading and just the strict
visuals so which is here it's
interesting to know yeah that that
people are watching whoohoo can't
necessarily here that's very nice to
have you here now we have them working
with YouTube's and Google's speech to
text and very excited about what the
service could entail but I'm not too
excited about the accuracy oh like is it
like okay you know how on ye olde
television when you were to put closed
captioning up it wouldn't recognize some
words it would be like mom like that
kind of let's just say they've gone one
step further and they've compared the
rumor around to a dictionary oh and said
phonetically hmm this sounds like this
oh and it just starts randomly slapping
in words gotcha but don't really have
anything to do with what's being said so
let's say maybe the word Ubuntu wouldn't
be found in the dictionary it's quite
possible or if for example say something
just anything cool and i am talking at
the same time oh and then google says
okay i don't know what this word is I'm
gonna make something up hahaha gotcha it
becomes kind of problematic now amber
Jameson is mentioned in the chat room
that we could just submit our own closed
captions for all 170 hours of video
if one of you wants to take that project
on thank you for volunteering we
appreciate there you go what I do hope
is that we'll be able to take the cat
the captions that Google is creating
automatically edit them for accuracy
gotcha okay and create something that's
semi legible if you've gone to our
youtube channel youtube.com slash
category 5 TV don't forget the TV at the
hmm with no dot then enable the closed
captioning you'll see what I'm talking
about Hillary I've got a little bit of a
demonstration this is last week's
episode I would like to see just the
intro all right pay attention okay what
you're a go to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room and turn
category five TV or email us at live and
category five TV and now let's begin
here's your host where I'll be Ferguson
welcome to this episode number 169
category 5 technology TV host Ravi
Ferguson and I'm Eric good
we're like hey you know what I some
scary stuff I'm quite literally laughing
out loud that was hilarious what a hoot
oh my goodness those are real captions
people I can't believe it that's plenty
for those of you who are relying on the
YouTube napkins please rely on our lips
meet the lips yes oh my goodness that's
out of control oh so do I need to ask
eric to shave right thanks doc we can't
read your lips we go facial hair
apparently they also can't read the
audio version that is so I'm Eric kid I
didn't know that Erik was an
anti-american just something really
thinking I had no clue eric is not a to
American just so you know all of our
lovely American viewers those are real
captions from google is so funny oh so
in summary we're gonna have to do what
are we gonna do especially like if those
are like seemingly regular words and if
the translation is funky for that what
are they gonna pull up when you say
stuff like I don't know lubuntu with
that I mean that we're not gonna be able
to hear Jodie say let's begin anyway oh
honey I'm gonna have to have redo that
with let us begin no let us start the
broadcast and just clean it up we're all
gonna have to work on our addiction and
Lange pronunciation we're going to start
sounding like this just for you youtube
here we go that was funny I really
enjoyed that zimbra desktop a fantastic
application it's available for you free
of charge and we're gonna take a look at
it right now all right ducktown done mmm
i'm still laughing yeah that's before
i'm gonna just sit in my temper here as
a matter of fact that's only the first
ten seconds just try to make it through
ten minutes I'm serious he is very
serious all right let's see what comes
up here damn brah zimbra zimbra dot-com
/ products / desktop dot html4 the
closed captioning wizard
here we are zimbra desktop it is
available for Windows Mac and Linux I'm
going to grab that linux version and
again you can get this for any of those
operating systems but here on linux
you're just going to get this tgz five
it's at our a tar.gz now I've already
downloaded this just to save the
bandwidth so it's sitting on my desktop
so once you've downloaded that file to
your linux box and I'll just say Hillary
if you're running a boon to woof you can
save yourself every step I'm about to
show you by just heading over to perfect
boon to dot category five dot TV easy
and follow the steps there because then
you can just say yes to the question
would you like zimbra desktop oh you
have to be running ubuntu linux or
kubuntu or edgy boon to or any of the
boom tubes and you'll be able to install
it using that no I want to keep this
non-exclusive because we've got viewers
who are using other distributions of
Linux so I'm saying that to the ubuntu
users but we're going to do it the
step-by-step the actual manual way okay
so that those who are using a different
distribution will still be able to use
the information on tonight's broadcast
so you'll see thank you all right let's
hop over to a clean desktop I've got my
Z desktop 201 is the current version I'm
gonna right click on it oh it happens
too quickly there we go okay I can close
that and starting come on
hang a right click on that and I'm gonna
go extract here because in Linux file
roller is just going to create a folder
for you there it is and within that
folder is all the files that are within
the archive okay there it is so you see
there's everything for the zimbra
installing zimbra desktop i should say
so what I'm gonna do is I'm going to
bring up my terminal and I'm gonna go
this is on my desktop remember so CD
desktop with a capital d / z and hit tab
it's going to automatically fill in the
rest for me if I don't have anything
else with starting bizet if I do I could
start with zde or ze and hit tab and it
will fill that in now I'm in that folder
and I do an LS for a directory listing I
can see that there is an installed PL I
need to be super user for the first step
the installation so I do sudo dot slash
install PL which is wrapped to the next
line that is there and i hit enter enter
my password and there we are it's
launched the text mode installer for
zimbra destin press ENTER to continue
read the agreement accept or decline hit
a for accept this is why we needed to be
super user use sudo when we ran that
install script because it wants to
install by default to slash opt / zimbra
that folder is not writable by our home
user our regular user so we need to be
super user I'm just going to hit hit
enter and that's going to use the
default it's installing the files it's
good now here's the question would you
like to continue to install data files
for user what does it say route because
I'm pseudo remember my answer that is
absolutely not no I only wanted to do
this because I wanted to install the
application but I don't want to actually
set up the user as a route so I'm going
to say no to that question it's done
now it says to install data files for
additional users please login as the
user which i already am Robbie and use
this command / opt slashes in bruh /z
desktop you can copy that if you like
double click on it go edit copy all
right and then if I go edit paste it's
pasted that to my terminal see that
notice I'm not putting a pseudo before
that because I want this to actually
install as my user so now as soon as i
hit enter you'll notice the difference
is it's going to install to slash home
slash Robbie slash Zed desktop i hit
enter for that default choose the folder
where you would like to create the
desktop icon slash home slash Robbie /
desktop it's great hit enter you can
start zimbra desktop now by hitting
Enter or hit control C I'm going to hit
control C so that we've exited I can
type exit and you'll notice and now on
my desktop I've got Zipporah desktop
let's bring it up
zipper desktop is really starting to
bridge the gap and there are a lot of
applications that are doing this
bridging the gap between internet web
web two point oh if you will and an
application because technically zipper
desktop is really a web application it's
something that can be run through a
browser so by installing it into a
zipper desktop you're actually getting a
web application installed on your
desktop as if it were a native program
but interesting the way that web two
point oh if you if you will as it's
nicknamed is kind of revolutionising the
way that applications run and it's also
having effect on the netbook industry
the tablet industry because a lot of
these applications are no longer
applications they don't really have very
many system resources because they're
actually advanced websites they're
basically Ajax driven website so now
that's already up zimbra desktop is
ready to go and you can read through all
this stuff it's going to allow you to
set up your email provider notice what
I'm doing tonight is I'm actually using
zimmer desktop I do not have a sim
Burkle collaborative sweet server if
you'd like you can set one up what that
allows you to do is access your calendar
your email everything from any computer
from anywhere through a web browser
zipper desktop on the other hand allows
me to access my existing pop3 or imap or
microsoft exchange or gmail account for
example without having to have an
intermediary server we can connect to an
existing server I've clipped to continue
and it's asking me for my account type
so let's see what we got zimbra gmail
yahoo microsoft exchange imap regular
imap and pop but we knime app and
pop/imap allows you to leave your email
on the server so if you have that
capability that's probably what you want
to use so that if you check your email
from this computer you can still get the
same emails on another computer and they
will share the same inbox if you want to
actually download your email you can use
pop and that's been actually downloaded
to your computer removing it
server so I'm going to choose I map my
account name this can be your name this
can be whatever you like your full name
category 5 can be demo that's what I'll
call myself I could put Robbie Ferguson
if I want demo at category 5 TV my
username so this is the username that
I'm using for in order to connect to my
email account on the server this could
be something that's provided by your isp
or if in my case I've got my own web
server is going to be a username that
I've assigned pretty straightforward to
fill in all these settings using the
defaults as pretty straight is pretty
easy so you can use SSL if your server
supports it that's secure so that you
can actually encrypt your email
transactions ok
so you'll see all I've done is very
simply entered my email account
information this again is an IMAP email
account which most pop servers will
actually support you'll seen out and
down at the bottom check messages how
often you like to check it is defaulted
to 15 minutes you may if you're in
business one is check at every minute or
every five minutes depending but
whatever you set this to you can still
force a sin and receive so even if
you've got it set to every 30 minutes
when you're sitting at your computer you
can hit center receive and it's going to
do a force check so let's set it to five
minutes in our case and we're going to
validate and save these settings this is
going to test your settings and if they
pass if everything connects okay you're
going to be able to get in there this is
telling me that I have an invalid or
untrusted ssl certificate which in my
case is because the server that I have
is a shared hosting server so if you're
on a shared hosting server the ssl
certificate may be owned by the post as
opposed to buy you so it's seen that hey
you're on category 5 TV but this secure
certificate actually belongs to whoever
your host is so it's a little bit so
it's morning there that I have valid
certificate because it's registered to a
different company so here it's all set
to go and I can launch my desktop all I
did there as I said you know I don't
it's okay with that ssl certificate so i
continued and i launched my desktop and
here we go with denver i'm going to
maximize that zimbra desktop that
quickly has been installed and loaded on
my computer for the first time i'm going
to hit send and receive you'll see that
it's synchronizing to my mailbox up
there
first time that you sink depending on
how many email you have it may take some
time this time because I just set up
this account for this the sake of this
demo and sent myself a lorem ipsum email
you'll see that it was pretty quick so
you've got the preview pane over at the
right hand side by default and you can
change things now zimbra desktop by
default is going to use conversation
view mode which some people may like I
personally don't like it I like to view
my inbox as basically new messages first
and older messages last and I organized
the conversations myself what that means
is the conversation is organized like
this so i can see that i sent that email
i received that email if someone replies
it gets added to this list for me i
don't like that myself so i'm going to
change the view to buy message and now
it just looks like a standard inbox
that's the first thing I'm going to do
out of the box go through your
preferences on zimbra desktop because I
think you're going to find that there
are some really cool things that you can
do with this just as a desktop
application itself without having to
have that in term step of having a
zimbra server which is cool because then
again it can access your email and
everything from anywhere there is the
calendar which allows you to keep track
of all of your dates you can add remote
calendars if I right click on local
folders here and go new calendar I can
create as many calendars as I like but
let's say we want to add the category 5
TV calendar I can tell it to synchronize
appointments from a remote calendar and
go through HTTP colon slash slash cat5
TV / calendar and then hit OK and you'll
see that that's actually going to
synchronize now to the category 5 TV
calendar and within a few moments we're
going to actually be able to see all
upcoming episodes of category 5
technology TV directly on our zimbra and
we can subscribe to Apple has a great
resource of calendars if you want to get
like holidays for your country for
example I subscribe to the Canadian
holidays for example and they are set to
show up as green so I can always see
when when a holiday is coming so you see
that as quickly as that it's already
synchronized there we are here's today
I'm Pennsylvania
yeah lovely and every tuesday we put
information about the broadcast and
what's gonna be happening that tuesday
cool you can see that this thursday
happy birthday to kristi happy birthday
Kristi for example John just had a
birthday and you weren't around but i
did call to wish you a happy belated and
happy birthday john so you can catch all
that kind of information through our
calendar and that can become a part of
yours ember desktop it's got full
address book tasks a briefcase and
there's a social aspect to it as well
which allows you to follow twitter and
all the different kinds of things there
by going add remove accounts you can
actually have twitter and facebook as a
part of your zimbra experience so that
it's all in one place you can get
messages from twitter right here in
zimbra desktop it's really quite
fantastic so and excellent for both home
and business use highly recommended it
and i will post links for our desktop in
the show notes rep so number 170 and of
course in the meantime that is zimbra
com very cool cool no Robbie yes it time
for you to be Santa your song to give
away prezzies I love free stuff well
we've got a wicked awesome multifunction
Center printer category 5 TV and brother
canada and we'd love to give it away
today we've been taking qualifiers for
quite some time and so if you have
qualified good luck this is the
multifunction center let's see we've got
information right on our website
category 5 TV or interact
I'm gonna run out of time before times
a-ticking it's a common someone will win
this marvelous prize you know someone go
good luck everyone it is a beautiful
multifunction Center printer it's the
only one from Brother Canada and here we
go with the draw bought machine this hat
is kind of blocking there we go we got
come on God hope you will win I feel our
time to win yeah my god i hate overhead
flick i would like to know how to play
guitar something and then i can write a
theme song and we can
we're at Troy 74 piece Bailey Spidey man
come on good luck it's for the
multifunction Center printer the scanner
flatbed scanner the sheet feeder camera
card reader color screen works Wi-Fi and
networked from category 5 8 are well
yeah hello no anticipation is killing me
just think how they feel I know they're
like come on come on come on come on and
there we go dun duh congratulations in
merry Christmas to pace Bailey Merry
Christmas page Danny beautiful printer
oh well round those treat you wrap
fairness congratulations mm-hmm you'll
find out more information about that
printer by going to cat five dot TV /
mfc that will tell you all about the the
printer that is the mfc dash j 615 W
all-in-one printer that we're giving
away from Brother Canada and
congratulations to you thanks Baily I
don't want anything we've been a great
show I'm filled with the Christmas
festivus spirit yeah I'd like to reflect
that on the show and now someone has won
this lovely prize because it's all about
the gifts it's all about the free stuff
let me tell you that's the show not
Christmas the show the shows on
Christmas is quite conversely about the
opposite hmm yeah giving giving
absolutely loving
try to give to the show giving a printer
well I hope that everyone has a very
merry christmas and and i'm looking
forward to being back next tuesday night
in DD are you are you you're not hearing
next week i'm not sure where i will be
yeah but I'll keep you posted you may
see me in some shape or form you just
never know I'm like the street I'm a
free spirit I just going on but the wind
takes me there you going so that's that
John it's good to see you tonight I know
why people have missed John and he's not
on camera tonight but he's here he's
watching the show from behind the scenes
given us our directions everybody
wishing you a merry christmas he's our
live studio audience member true blue
one live studio audience member hey I
didn't have one so that's that I think
we covered everything tonight look at
that cor blimey good show in the last
item on my list Merry Christmas
everybody christmas hope you have a
fantastic time and be safe he's saying
afford to keep it real I i I've got
three babies now three be waking up
Christmas morning with the kids and
blowing it way out of proportion having
a good time with them visiting with
family and stuff it's gonna be nice oh
yeah yeah so merry Christmas everyone
and thanks for being here tonight and I
hope that hope you had fun most of all
get your questions on live at category
five dot TV through the week leads to
and don't forget that our new website is
coming along and it is launching on
january first so make sure that you have
it set check it out to our New Year's
Day have a fantastic hi everybody
alright Christmas take care
