[Music]
this is you every day with Jeff Weston
and Lawrence Cruz
this is new every day so glad to have
you here
I'm Jeff Weston normally Lawrence is
here but that's not the case for this
week he's away on vacation took his wife
away and you know that's okay he's
allowed to have a break every once in a
while so we bless him and his wife as
they're off resting and relaxing this
week just me that's all right I'm going
I want to speak to you from my heart
today something that God's put on my
heart for many many years that I believe
is vitally important to the next
generation and that is how to be a godly
pair but before we get there few
housekeeping things if you're just
checking us out for the first time
you've never heard of new every day you
go what is this show you can check us
out on our website new every day TV
maybe you're just watching us on YouTube
or Facebook maybe somebody said hey
check out this show on Plex or Kodi or
maybe you're visiting in Southern
California and watching us on kvv b tv
television for the high desert whatever
it is that you're using to connect with
us so glad you here why don't you say hi
if you're watching this on youtube you
can comment below if you're on Facebook
comment on this post or you can send us
an email my email is Jeff at new every
day TV you can email Lawrence and
Lawrence at new every day TV and tell us
where you're watching from in a couple
of weeks we're gonna be doing a talkback
show and that means you get to ask the
questions so flip us an email what have
you always wanted to know about the
Bible about God about spirituality
what's that topic that you're wrestling
it with whatever it is send it to us ask
your question we'll be more than happy
to answer it because sometimes you don't
know who to ask maybe you don't have a
home church maybe you don't have a
pastor or other Christian friends to
talk to maybe it's a question you're
embarrassed to ask cuz you're going I
grew up in the church but should know
this answer hey you know what I've been
in the church now for over 30 years and
I'm still learning things and that's
okay so send us an email it's Jeff or
Lawrence so Jeff a new everyday TV or
Lawrence a new everyday TV ask us for
your question and we'll be answering
those in a couple of weeks okay so for
today's show I want to talk to you about
something that's very near and dear to
my heart
and that is how to be a godly parent
when I was a teenager you know I had
these life goals everybody's like oh I
want to be this in my job I want to do
that I want to be so rich whatever it
might be in my case I had three goals I
wanted to have a solid job that I can
stay in for life I wanted to get married
young and I wanted to have a family
all of those seemed pretty basic but at
the end of the day life doesn't always
work out that way no thankfully God
heard my heart's cry and He blessed me I
have an excellent job that you know
quite frankly is you know I can stay in
till the day I want to retire and I love
that God has blessed me so well with
that and as far as my wife I could not
have asked for a better partner somebody
that knows me inside and out that is the
strength to my weakness that I I can
support when she is low I mean
everything about my wife is perfect and
I wanted to be a dad and God has allowed
my wife Knight to be the parents of an
incredible three children we're now
starting to enter teen years with our
oldest so that you know that's that's oh
he's a fun challenge but you know I love
being a dad but before I became a dad I
asked God what does it mean to be a
parent what does it mean from your
perspective God on what it is to be a
father and and what is it for my wife to
be a mother and so that's something that
God has taken me on a journey on through
the last 12 years and it's been a
whirlwind journey I mean kids are always
wild to say the least they you know
every day is a new experience and no kid
is the same as the other well worked for
our oldest didn't work for our middle
and definitely didn't work for our
daughter and who's the littlest but
that's okay and being a parent is a
learning experience but over the last
couple of years of impressing and even
further knowing that those teen years
are
and kind of realizing that oh my
goodness I have potentially 50% of the
time left to have a significant
life-changing impact on my oldest I mean
he's now 12 potentially you know with
college or university could be moving
out in as little as six seven years you
know maybe he's going to be one of those
kids that sticks around at home because
he goes to college nearby and I've got a
few more years but regardless that time
is running out where I have the ability
to be an influence as the father in his
life and so I've pressed into God and
said what what is it that you want in a
father what is it that you want in a
parent and so God has given me six key
traits of a parent from God's
perspective on what he wants and so I
want to walk you through those the first
one is live by faith if God is not the
first thing in your life what else is
there because if your life is not built
on the cornerstone of Christ on your
faith then you're not going to have the
influence on your kids lives that you
want to and so when it comes to living
by faith I wanted to pull out a couple
of scriptures that I believe are quite
helpful and one of them is Hebrews 11:1
and six now faith is confidence in what
you hope for and assurance for what you
do not see and without faith it is
impossible to please God because anyone
who comes to him must believe that he
exists and that he rewards those who
earnestly seek Him now that right there
is a well-known scripture you know
Hebrews 11:1 and six two very known
verses but what do they mean and at the
end of the day what it means is you have
to be saved you have to live by faith
you have to be able to trust that there
is a God out there that you cannot see
you cannot touch who loves you that has
made you that has created you for who
you are and put those around you who he
wants to be around you and in my case
that's my kids and so for from the day
my kids were born
I have instilled in them
the values of faith if you can call it a
value I believe that having a
relationship with Christ is absolutely
paramount it's it's key to salvation
obviously but having grown up in the
church and at a period in my life walked
away I can see the difference in having
a life that is focused on Christ and a
life that is not and I want my kids to
learn that and with that I'm also
teaching my kids that living by faith
also means not living by self you can't
rely upon just your grit and grime in
life to get ahead you have to trust God
and part of that is knowing his voice
knowing his word and knowing what God
has set and so a great scripture for
that is James 1:22 do not merely listen
to the word and so deceive yourselves do
what it says and that word is the Bible
one of the key elements to the Christian
faith and my wife and I have tried to
teach our kids is you need to read your
Bible the Bible is God's Word the Bible
is God's instruction manual for life and
if you don't breathe the manual how are
you going to know how to live life and
so from an early age our kids have
always wanted to read the Bible we don't
make it a you know this overbearing
thing like oh you're off to go to your
room and read your Bible that's not it
but we bring Scripture into every
conversation as much as possible and we
try and turn life into a teaching moment
and so quite often our daughter will
pick up her Bible I mean she's only in
grade two but she'll take it to school
and on recess she'll sit there and read
her Bible and there's time she'll come
home she'd be like so I was teaching
so-and-so at school about this in the
Bible and I'm going are you kidding me
my two-year-old is being an evangelist I
absolutely love it but what's great
about it is that she's not only just
reading she's understanding she's
applying and she's teaching others about
it which is you know
wonderful wonderful - a father's heart
the second example of being a godly
parent is be the example of Christ and
that's a natural progression from having
a life where you live by faith in
Deuteronomy 6 6 and 7 it says these
commandments that I give you today are
to be on your hearts impress them on
your children talk about them when you
sit at home and when you walk along the
road when you lie down and when you get
up we were just talking about it talking
about Scripture with your kids showing
them how to live a life of faith but but
with that it's setting that example so
with our kids we're always like I said
talking about Scripture but we're also
using it as teaching moments and trying
to show our kids that it is an active
living document that the Bible is very
relevant to their life today and so
often we'll have situations pop up and
you know we'll pull out a script don't
be like you know so-and-so went through
this in the Bible and how did they
handle that and what happened with them
and and stuff like that and you know
it's funny I think of a story my wife
had this bracelet that she absolutely
loved and she had misplaced it and it
was gone for like six months and one day
she kind of woke up and was distraught
about it she really really wanted that
bracelet and she said to our kids she's
like you know I I just really want that
bracelet I miss it and she was quite you
know you know emotional about and she
went to our room and she's like God
where is it where is it and she spent a
moment of prayer and I said God would
you reveal it to me and sure enough
within about 30 seconds it's like Oh
check that spot spot that she'd never
thought to check a spot that it didn't
make sense that it would be there but
somehow the bracelet was there and she
found it and so she instantly went to
our Cancer like guys you like you know
how I just came down and said I was
looking for this bracelet and while I
prayed and God told me where to find the
bracelet and you know he cares so much
about you and she pulled out the
scripture you know about God caring for
the birds and the flowers and if he
closed them that much how much more does
he care for you and it was great for our
kids to see that to this day
about a year and a half later they still
talk about it and every once awhile
they'll be missing a toy or something
and they're like oh god but you help me
find that toy I really like that toy and
I don't think there's a toy that they
haven't found yet when they've prayed I
could be wrong I haven't been there for
everyone but they've always come up with
what they've been praying for and God
cares about those things and so we've
been using scripture to teach our kids
and I would encourage you to do that as
well find relevant examples in life and
apply them to the Bible or flipside find
the Bible and apply it to the relevant
examples in life maybe you've got a kid
who's struggling with the situation at
school pull out the story of David or
Daniel and even the Old Testament
stories there's always some sort of a
struggle that somebody's going through I
mean Joseph I mean those are great
stories and you can key them to your
child's maturity level if you've got a
little kid you can make that story
really simple if you've got a teenager
you know you can go into the nitty
gritties of that that story that that
book that that that key piece within the
Bible that will help them understand the
situation they're going through or help
get them over that hurdle and so being
the example of Christ and showing them
what Christ says in the Bible is
absolutely paramount to setting your
kids to the next level of success in
their spiritual walk if they don't have
you as an example who they see all the
time who's going to be their example I
mean God entrusted your kids to you and
you want to honor him with your life you
want to do the best job you can do as a
parent and being the example of Christ
is modeling after the perfect example so
it totally makes sense
all right before we go to a break I want
to go to point number three and that is
honor and love your spouse know maybe
you're not married anymore maybe for
whatever reason you've gone through a
divorce maybe
it just didn't work out life happens you
want to honor your children's parrot I
know that can be hard it's not easy
especially in today's society I mean
over 50% of marriages are breaking up I
believe that's the latest dot that I've
heard blended families are the new norm
and the you know the typical version of
family that we used to see on Leave It
to Beaver doesn't exist the way it used
to that's not the norm and that means
that family dynamics are different they
could be hard but whoever you've had
children with you need to honor that
person because God has allowed them to
be a parent maybe they're not a great
person they've messed up that doesn't
matter
you still need to honor them as the
parent who they are and what they're
doing now has no impact on the fact that
they are the parent they are that
co-creator of your children and as the
co-creator as that parent that second
half you need to honor them you need to
show them respect as the parent and that
could be hard some days but it's what
God asks for it's what God wants because
he set up parents to create children you
can't have one child with one parent it
doesn't work that way you have to have
two people I want to go through couple
scriptures in Ephesians I'm going to
bounce through a couple different verses
so I'm just gonna read them straight
through but it's Ephesians 5:21 - 20 -
25 - 27 28 to 30 and 33 says submit to
one another out of reverence for Christ
wives submit yourselves to your
husband's as you do the Lord husbands
love your wives just as Christ loved the
church and gave himself up for her to
make her holy cleansing her by the
washing of the water through the word
and to present her to himself as a
radiant church without stain or wrinkle
or any other blemish but holy and
blameless in the same way husband's
ought to love their wives as their own
bodies after all no one ever hated their
own body
but they fat and care for their body
just as Christ does the church for we
are members of his body he who loves his
wife loves himself however each one of
you must also also must love his wife as
he loves himself and the wife must
respect her husband it's right there in
Scripture that is a commandment from God
it's not a ten commandment but is it is
direction it is a way that we are
supposed to live and if you don't have
the relationship with your spouse that
shows your kids that you honor their
parent whether it's the mom or the dad
then you need to take that to God and
you need to say God how can I show my
kids that I honor their parent and maybe
you've got a loving relationship and
that's easy to do because you're like
hey I love my spouse and I love them as
a parent great but that doesn't stop
there because it's like it says in the
scripture you know love them as you love
yourself quite frankly I like myself I
like myself a lot and I care about
myself I put myself and my needs you
know I take care of those and my wife
should be the same way my my children's
parent should be the same way that I
should be putting them first as it comes
to being a parent and if you're in a
situation where maybe that's not the
case you're not together with the parent
showing respect and love can be very
difficult and I'm not going to be here
to give you advice on what that means
what that looks like because maybe
there's legal documents involved maybe
there's corridors who knows but that's
between you and God I want to encourage
you just before we go to break to say
God how can I honor
my children's parrot how can I show them
love the way that you've asked me to
we're gonna take a quick break
don't go anywhere stick around for more
from new every day
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cap five
dot TV slash shirts welcome back this is
new every day
today I'm talking to you about the six
traits of a spiritual parent as God asks
us to be parents and so we've gone
through the first three and that is live
by faith be the example of Christ honor
and love their parents the next three
we're going to go through pretty quick
they're pretty simple pretty easy and
that's okay and maybe you're just
checking in going yeah these all make
sense to me good wonderful
keep practicing them number four is seek
out godly men now I wrote this from my
perspective as the father but if you're
the mother you want to seek out godly
women the point is seek out people of
the same sex and the reason that I say
that is because it's about proper
boundaries if you're in a loving
marriage relationship and you decide to
make all your confidence guys then when
you start going to your confidants
questions are gonna be raised eyebrows
go up and you don't want to put yourself
in this situation so it is proper to
find godly examples in your life who are
of the same sex as you and so that's why
I say CKO Gothic men because for me I'm
a guy in proverbs 18:1 it says one who
is isolated himself seeks his own
desires
he rejects all sound judgment now why
would I pick that scripture and at the
end of the day it's because the point is
we're meant to be in community we are
meant to be in relationship with one
another and you need to have people
around you that can work through your
issues with you that can talk to you
that can be a teaching you know person
for you that can say hey this is what
you're going through I will I would do
it this way or hey if you thought about
this scripture says this you know you
always want to be trying to be better as
a parent and in order to do that you
need to be able to talk about what you
go through as a parent with other people
who can provide godly wisdom and having
godly friends around you to that you
trust their advice au jus trust their
confidence is crucial especially as you
get into the team years of your kid's
life you need to be able to talk about
some of those tough topics with somebody
that you can trust that you know is
going to answer you with godly wisdom I
mean maybe you don't have any other
Christians around you and that's fine
that's okay but I want to encourage you
to try and find somebody and if if you
can't find another question around you
your you know the only Christian in your
town okay pick somebody around you who
you trust their judgment who you know
has sound wisdom because if you don't UN
may end up making mistakes you know
learn from somebody maybe talk to your
parents say hey how did you handle me
when I went through that really bad
phase in my teen years you know
obviously your kids are going to be
different but learn from people use
their wisdom to your advantage of being
a parent point-five train your kids for
life and I've got two sub points for
this the first one is education and
second Timothy 3:16 to 17th says all
Scripture is god-breathed and useful for
teaching rebuking correcting and
training in righteousness so that the
servant of God may be thoroughly
equipped for every good work when it
comes to education obviously the Bible
is a great starting point
for raising a godly child and educating
them through that but at the same time
there's also real education going to
college university whatever it might be
learning a trade if your kids are gonna
go off to school and you know do
something with their lives that requires
a little bit of extracurricular you know
learning then support them show them the
value of that and maybe they're going
hey you know what I'm happy with high
school I want to do this I want to
whatever whatever it is your kids still
need to learn and from a young age right
till the day that they die because we're
always learning they need proper
education and as a parent you should
always be striving to improve your level
of knowledge so you can train your kids
and educate them as well our oldest is
home-schooled and so my wife is the one
who takes the charge on that I'm off to
work
you know out of the city every day and
so she's the one who's picked up that
task and those days I'll come home and
she be like okay I never alert this at
school this is really cool you know
things change science changes all that
kind of good stuff
but it's it's neat to watch my wife
learn new things or relearn things that
she's learned in the past and she's
applying those things with our son and
he has taken learning from something
that he didn't like because he just the
way his brain works he wasn't a fan of
the typical education system and my wife
has found a way to take education and
make it fun and to make it dynamic and
something that he strives to excel in
and that he looks forward to and it's
amazing the difference that it makes in
your kids life and the relationship you
have with your kids when you can educate
them in a way that speaks to them maybe
your child is a visual learner find ways
to educate them in life through visual
means maybe they are you know an
instructional based kid and you tell
them what to do and then they do it you
know maybe they're hands-on
you need to do it with them so you know
popping up the hood of the car or
working on the engine together or
hopping in the kitchen and making
cookies together or you know packing up
a bundle to take to somebody down the
street who who's in need you know
whatever it is however your kids learn
figure that out and apply it that way to
them so that they can learn the second
element of training your kids for life
is discipline this one is probably the
toughest as a parent I know that when my
kids don't follow the rules and it's
like you know the thousandth time that
they haven't done it in the stress level
is here and sometimes it can be hard to
handle those situations but there's a
scripture that I read to myself all the
time that God has really put as a key
verse for me and raising my my kids and
that is Ephesians 4:6 sorry Ephesians 6
verse 4 fathers do not exasperate your
children instead bring them up in the
training and instruction of the Lord and
that verse as a father is a daily
challenge for me
don't exasperate your children don't
correct them or discipline them to the
point of them going not because they're
in that emotional moment of but because
you just won't let up you won't give
them the time to be a kid you know with
our kids every one of them learns
differently every one of them responds
to discipline differently you know what
works for one doesn't work for the other
for myself growing up the thing that
really affected me when it came to
discipline was when my mom said
disappointed
that was like the Silver Bullet to take
out whatever my issue was like I could
be having the worst day possible when my
mom goes really disappointed it was like
I am so sorry mom and the tears in star
flying because I didn't want to
disappoint my mom and in my mom's case
she could simply say that done it was
over I would correct whatever I was
doing wrong and move on and my mom
didn't need to go further she didn't
need to yell and scream and start
throwing things and grounding me forever
because that would have exasperated me
and as a parent you need to know your
child's limitations you need to know how
they respond to correction and operate
with in a way that doesn't exasperate
them but brings them up in the training
and instruction of the Lord and what
that means is going back to Scripture
kind of circling back to point number
two and if you can have that
relationship with your kids or you don't
frustrate them to the point of rebellion
that is a key winning moment as a parent
and I want to encourage you that you can
do it as a parent God will equip you in
the way that's needed and the easiest
way to get there is prayer and that's
point number six pray for your family if
you're not praying for your family
you're leaving out a key element to
being the godly example of a parent that
God wants you to be we are meant to pray
for our kids as as the parents you are
over your children when you pray for
them you are covering them you are
petitioning on their behalf to God for
their needs for their future for their
struggles for their strengths for
everything in life about them you should
be praying and let your kids know you're
praying
pray with them show them how to pray let
them know that they are a priority to
you personally and spiritually if you
want to be the godly example of a parent
that God wants you to be those are the
six steps that God has told me I need to
follow and so I want to pass that on to
you you want to live by faith you want
to read the Bible daily teach them in
Scripture you want to honor their other
parent whether it's mom or dad you want
to teach them through education through
through discipline you want to have
godly examples of people around you that
you can learn from and you want to pray
for them I want to encourage you to be
the parent that God has asked you to be
the parent that God has made you to be
and if you're not a parent okay maybe
that's not the life that God has chosen
for you and you've got other roles but
you still have influence you still have
a parental influence over somebody in
your life because there's always
somebody looking up to you and maybe
that's a role as a spiritual parent
these same principles still apply I want
to encourage you to think about these
six points pray about them ask God is
there something more is there seventh
point that you have for me or those six
good enough and hey as you go through
this journey of being a parent have fun
kids are fun even as adults they're fun
be the parent God want you to be enjoy
your kids they are truly a gift from him
all right that's all the time we have
for today Lawrence we'll be back next
week
you have a wonderful week catch a new
episode of you every day every Friday
morning at new every day times
we're also on roku cody plex youtube
google play music podcasts and news book
or if you're in Southern California tune
in every Sunday morning at 6:30 on kbdb
TV channel 33 television for the high
desert
you
