welcome to episode number 313 of
category 5 technology TV it's Tuesday
the 17th September 2013 great to see you
nice to have you here my name is Robbie
Ferguson and I'm Becca Ferguson hey
Becca my beautiful life nice to have you
on the show again nice to be here yeah
what's coming up uh coming up in the
newsroom Microsoft is trying to bribe
iPad users to switch to a surface tablet
and they're paying them to do so hmm
valve is going to start allowing users
to share the games they've purchased on
Steam a teenage hacker has mastered the
work-from-home get-rich-quick scheme
raking in fifty thousand dollars a month
what before his arrest oh and soon
workers in Europe will be able to suit
up in a robotic exoskeleton some would
say it's for safety and but we think
it's for awesomeness stick around these
stories are coming up later in the show
excellent hey remember you were here on
episode 307 this is like twice in as
little as a couple couple months mm-hmm
excellent well hey last time Becca was
here on episode number 307 of category 5
we started looking at how to convert an
actual physical computer into a virtual
machine tonight we are doing part two of
two we're gonna make it go so don't go
anywhere we'll be right back this is
category 5 technology TV
at eco alkalines we believe you should
be able to trust your batteries not just
here but here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here Eco alkalines
of the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco outlines provide performance
the rivals leading national alkaline
battery brands at a comparable price
find out more about the Eco alkalines
difference Eco alkalines calm this is
category 5 TV category 5 TV is a member
of the Ted tech podcast network if it's
tech it's here and the international
association of internet broadcasters
Becca I'm so excited y star trek
renegades made a lot of money on their
IndieGoGo campaign Becca and I have been
I mean we're just waiting for the next
Star Trek a we watched next generation
first then we watched what Deep Space
nine Voyager Voyager next then deep
space nine then enterprise and here we
are there's no star trek left there's
nothing going on what are we going to do
to satisfy that Star Trek void well
we've been watching a lot of Stargate
yeah we've been watching stargate as a
replaced good it's nice to have many
many seasons of that we're only what
season 7 of sg-1 yeah I believe so then
we've got Atlantis after that and all
that kind of stuff but really I mean it
really boils down to we're trying to
fill that void of Star Trek and Star
Trek renegades is a pilot episode for a
new possible a potential new series
being pretty directed by tim russ the
guy who played Tuvok on Voyager so it's
it's legit I mean this got some of the
people from Voyager it's got even one
guy from from Stargate sg-1 as well and
you know they're there it's not just
some you know fanmade kind of thing and
there's
no I had some of the actual stars a real
deal mmm so they were looking to raise
twenty thousand dollars to make it
happen and of course the you know if if
we can beat that and beat that and beat
that then we can do this this and this
and they got like a hundred and eighty
something thousand dollars so they're
well on the way to being able to put
together the pilot and then pitch it to
the station and hope for the best so
that's the next step can't wait to hear
more but cap five dot TV star trek takes
you to their IndieGoGo profile it tells
you all about this the the pilot what
they're pitching what they're going to
be putting together and then we'll just
have to watch that I guess to find out
what the studio says and whether they're
gonna actually go forward and turn it
into a Star Trek series yeah here's
hoping yeah takes place just after
Voyager like 10 years after 14 years
after void or I think it was you'll find
out on that site cat5 TV / Star Trek
okay so we've got our mobile site up and
running for you it's a meat cat five dot
t do I have to do is just visit that
website there it is mcat five TV scan
that code that will bring up our mobile
site we've got live audio streaming
video streaming live we've got on demand
video as well if you want to watch back
episodes you can do them right there on
our mobile website that's pretty awesome
so and the other night becca said to me
the the server rooms making some strange
noises tonight you might want to go
check it out find out what's going on
and i said well that's not weird that's
just the new transcoder servers that the
new server is up and running i got a
power supply for an old server we had
this old server that was kicking around
in the garage somebody had donated a
long time ago and that was back before
we had built the new server that we're
currently running when our server was
dying and so they gave us a server and
said see if this one will work for you
unfortunately didn't work for
broadcasting it wasn't powerful enough
but it is a really powerful system it's
been sitting in storage for ever since
then we never had a use for it so got a
new power supply for it got it up and
running that was all that it needed hard
drive and a power supply and I've got it
using running our new transcoder and
what that basically means is super fast
turnaround of episodes so that means
when the episode is over tonight the
show if all goes well because this week
is our first week running it the show
will be up and running on our website
very very quickly after the show we're
talking anywhere within two hours as
opposed to what used to be was about 16
hours so and also your downloads if
you're subscribed by the RSS feeds
they're gonna be super super fast job
was saying the other day I think on
Monday he was testing with me and said
ho ho it's so fast that's the new
transcoder unit that is powering that
for us so very very excited about that
if you want to learn more about what it
is why I'm so excited about it and why
back is just like huh go to my blog it's
bald nerd calm I don't get into a lot of
technical details but I did go to all
the effort of putting together a
balsamic mock-up diagram to kind of give
you an idea why this is so exciting why
it's going to make such a difference for
the show and also how it's going to help
us to pay the bills surprisingly as well
so that's an important thing as we move
forward so hey we've got some new
viewers who have registered on the
website maybe you could tackle a few of
those for me it's on it's on the list
yeah yeah um Lance hurdler 7032 nice to
have you joining us um God knows don't
know who that is but God knows um no 925
bloggers great to have you all joining
us also got an email kind email from no
925 bloggers just letting us know hey
you know Here I am I found you guys I
love the community love the show where
have you been all my life is how they
ended the email and is it we've been
right here for the past almost you know
we're coming up on our 7th season starts
in just a couple of weeks if you can
believe that so nice to have you joining
us all three of us and everyone else
who's joining us for the first time this
week and certainly you know do as
they've done go to our website category
5 TV register online for the show you'll
get some extra perks will give you a
shout out as well and you'll be able to
participate in some of the contests that
are only available to
registered viewers the speaking of being
able to pay the bills and you know the
bill getting this transcoder server up
and running we had the power surge a
couple weeks ago when when the lightning
strike happened and donations really
help us with that I want to thank
everybody who has donated this week it
makes a big difference and just helps us
to have that cushion and just flow of
donations to be able to put into
wherever the need happens to be the from
week to week because it does differ and
we are working toward that renovation
project as well to build Studio C very
excited about that Beck and I were
having a conversation and will you made
the suggestion and I'm like gung ho
chromakey green screen virtual studios I
can just see it now we're working on an
IndieGoGo campaign so you know can start
considering that it's gonna be really
exciting I don't want to give you too
much Becca's not giving you anything I'm
we're at you know I'm hopping you're
here yeah prompting her that you know
she can say a little bit but yeah just
know that we're really working toward
stepping things up for season seven and
during season seven it's not going to
happen right off the get-go when season
seven starts because you know there's
quite a bit of stuff that needs to go on
but we're going to be growing over the
next little while it's very very
exciting so all right well you're
watching category 5 technology TV it's
time to get into the feature for tonight
thanks for joining us nice to have you
here and joining us at category five dot
TV back on episode number 307 becca
joined me and we talked about how to
take your laptop which is windows 7 and
convert it into a virtual machine
because we got to stick linux on that
laptop because the kids want to play
super tux plain and simple you know so
we got to be able to get that on there
there are so many different reasons that
you'd want to do this I think server
environments are the key one I mean
server virtualization is fantastic being
able to take two three four servers
physical servers condense them down into
virtual machines and and virtualize the
whole thing on one piece of hardware
you're using less hydro you're paying
less bills you've got less hardware to
fix if something goes awry
if you've got a hard drive that crashes
sure it affects all of the virtual
machines now instead of just one machine
but you take out the hard drive from the
raid and you replace it and all
everything's back up and running you
only had to replace one hard drive so
you know if you've got a raid one with
two drives you've only got two drives if
you've got four servers all with two
drives and you've got eight drives that
could fail so you know ratio wise you're
probably doing a little bit better but
it just cost wise awesome stuff so
tonight Beckett we're gonna jump right
back into that where we left off all
right all right fans I'm gonna let her
do the teaching tonight not really and
if this is you know this is not of any
interest to you because it is a little
bit technobabble ish I just made up that
word copyright it can you do that on
while we're doing this just cop
trademarking we're going to get into you
know something that's a little bit
technical but it's it's fun if you will
I've got a lot of emails about episode
307 saying this is a really fun thing to
be doing when you're going to do episode
part 2 and I and get it so that we can
actually boot this thing so here we are
okay so backing up to episode number 307
if you can believe it I actually hit
some snags near the end of the episode
you'll remember that we kind of where we
wanted to boot it up and it wouldn't
boot and so I was thinking okay well
maybe we need to do a fix MBR maybe we
need to run through a couple of you know
maybe even a repair install whatever it
takes to get this thing up and running
and that might work in certain scenarios
but then I got thinking about it and I
realized that windows especially windows
7 is very very picky for this when you
install it it detects your controller
card so the controller that you're using
to power like that your hard drives are
plugged into those are all can there
there detected at installation time so
if you're if you've installed windows 7
onto your laptop which I've done it
detects the the bus that's in that
computer and it installs drivers but it
doesn't it kind of locks it down to
those drivers so now you
I've virtualize it over like I did an
episode 307 and try to put it onto a
virtual machine I might have trouble
with Windows saying it can't make it
work because the hard drive controller
has changed that's where we hit a snag
and that's where tonight we're going to
back up just a little ways we're going
to say okay watch episode 307 that's got
the real dirt grit of what you need to
be able to do but there's one other
thing that I want to do and that is to
make some changes to your registry which
are going to basically loosen things up
when it comes to your hard drive
controller detection upon boot so then
you know if we back up and we do that
first and then you do the clone process
that I taught in episode 307 then when
you copy it back to your virtual machine
when you clone it back to a virtual
machine just like we did an episode 307
everything should boot up just fine
without having to go through all the
hoops that I would have had to go
through tonight if if I hadn't decided
you know what we're going to back up a
little bit and do this a little bit more
effectively more efficiently so
understanding how the hard drive
detection process goes and everything
and and realizing that we need to over
or change some things in the registry
there's a certain tool that was
developed or distributed by a German
magazine called CT computer and we're
going to actually tap into that tonight
I'm going to show you how to do this so
back on that laptop you remember this
screen the first thing I want to do is
actually bring up the registry editor
but so I just type regedit but you don't
want to hit enter you want to
right-click and go run as administrator
that's very important you need to be
administrator for this task so first
thing I want to do now that I've got red
regedit up can you guess just take a
guess what do I always do the first
thing I do community knows Becca just
assumes that it happens and she just
knows that her stuff is safe why is all
your stuff safe because you back it up
because I'm very particular about
backups right you know that as well as
anybody here so the first thing we want
to do take that we're going to go file
export I can just throw this on my
desktop there we go just give it a name
and just make sure that you've selected
that all of the keys are going to be
exported and then save that so now we're
going to have a backup of our registry
because we're about to mess with it
chances are pretty good we're not going
to break anything because we're going to
be using this pre provided registry
import but we keep a backup anyway so
there we go okay so now there's there's
a couple of files for files that we need
we're going to go into our computer and
then system pardon me system root and go
into system 32 and drivers when we're in
that folder they're going to be for
files that we need to find at a PSS so
just there you go and start typing the
next one is intel ide dot sis we just
need to make sure that that exists pci
ide dot sis and the next one pci ide x
dot sis and if all those files are
already in there then we're going to go
otherwise you might need to extract
those from the cab files on your CD your
installation media for windows 7 no
problem now we need to obtain that merge
IDE registry key I've fix which you can
get at cat five dot TV / merge IDE
that's going to give you the file and
that's specifically just it contains a
few files forget about the bat file and
all that just grab that reg file we're
going to right click on it and copy and
I'm just going to put that into my
downloads folder just so that I have an
extracted copy of the registry file so
now back at my registry editor which is
running as the administrator i'm going
to go file import and you'll see that
it's not in my downloads because i'm
running as administrator it's actually
and it might be if you're running is the
administrator user I don't it's going to
be in my users and then it's in the
Bekaa folder because we're running us
Beca and you see downloads and there's
the file so now import that file and
we're good to go and now that that's
imported we're literally at this point
ready to proceed with everything else
that we taught in episode 3 70
370 no we're not that far 307 have I
said 370 already tonight maybe hopefully
not hopefully I said 307 look for
episode 3 07 if you're looking for
episode 3 70 it's in the future and I
don't even know what the topic is yet
hopefully it's about virtualization
because I might have referred to that to
that so importing that those registry
keys basically just set it up to be a
little bit lacks with the hard drive
auto-detection upon boot so now you go
through the steps of episode number 307
exporting that using clonezilla software
saving onto an external hard drive or
network samba share for me a samba share
or something like that and then here's
where the magic happens you've imported
it into your virtual machine let's bring
up VirtualBox on my computer here system
tools Oracle VM VirtualBox and you'll
recall everything has already happened
so I'm set and ready to go but I want to
walk through just one thing that I
touched on during the last segment on
episode 307 and that is the hardware
abstraction layer or how basically a
modern computer has the ability to use
io a pic which is I guess a more modern
version of tick which you don't need to
understand what all that means it's it
has to do with the way that your
hardware is detected and access through
your computer and all that virtualbox
disables io a pic by default when you
create a virtual machine because it's
not quite as performance it doesn't get
as good of performance is just as with
it turned off so because you've
installed remember you've installed
windows 7 on your hardware physical
hardware so during that process windows
probably said oh yeah this hardware
supports io a pic so I'm going to enable
that during the install process so then
it is enabled on my image that is now on
my server on a samba share so in our
virtual machine settings it's important
to say now because the default is to say
no we want to make sure that it has I
owe a pic and
enabled and you'll find that in system
motherboard and it's a really really
simple thing to do but if you're having
trouble booting that's probably what it
is make sure that enable I owe a pic is
turned on beyond that you just kind of
go through and just make sure that
everything looks like the way that you
would want it I've turned on 3d
acceleration to the acceleration and
crank my video memory up to the max
because I want to be able to use arrow
effects on my Windows 7 computer as well
as maybe do some gaming and things like
that because that's what that's the only
reason that you use windows right right
yeah okay bridged network adapter so
that you're able to access other
computers on your network and things
like that and just go through and
everything else you know it's pretty
straightforward standard stuff so since
since running that registry patch I knew
that it was going to be a time-consuming
process to export the virtual machine
again using phone Zilla and re-import it
back but you know those stamps from
episode number 307 so I've already done
them and I have done nothing else I
promise you that everything has been
shown here so now I've got that
re-imported I imported it this morning
just to make sure that everything was
going to go okay there's my windows 7
laptop i simply re-imported using the
clonezilla image exactly like i did
before we're going to boot that up for
the very first time and here's what is
awesome and becca's going to recognize
this because she's she's actually still
using that laptop right now at this very
moment here we go it is the moment of
truth though isn't it but you'll see
what I'm actually doing here is I'm
loading this as a virtual machine so
windows seven is loading in a window on
my linux computer and there it goes got
a mouse cursor and just moving it around
so you can see this is actually a
virtual machine and that screen you
didn't see that last time because i had
simply already logged in as becca but
i'm going to do that we're gonna log in
as you so that looks just like the
laptop screen
there we go I just do that to mask your
password that's all so this is the first
time we've booted into this virtual
machine brilliant stuff and remember
that okay and there we go done and done
so the resolution is down you'll see
that it's picking up new drivers because
it's detecting all this new hardware
it's actually virtual hardware on our on
our Linux computer so it's going to pick
all that stuff up once it's done that
we're going to install the guest
additions into virtual box but i just
want to show you something here we've
got our test folder which was in the
middle of my screen before we did the
image but there it is test folder has
got one text file which we created in
episode 307 this is a test file there it
is that's a part of very image okay so
it looks like all those drivers are in
and everything like that we're just
going to bring up this menu at the
bottom which is a part of virtual box
and we'll go devices and there was at
the bottom install guest additions
that's going to mount a virtual CD to
the windows 7 machine it may still be
detecting graphics cards and things like
that see if it picked it up there it is
okay so it's a virtual CD Drive and
there it is I've got a 64 bit windows so
I'm going to click on the amd64
installer you need administrator rights
okay so i'm going to right click on it
as before and go run as administrator
that just prompted me for my password
there okay welcome to the guest
additions because now i'm running a
virtual machine what this does is it
installs drivers to allow me to operate
this more like a physical machine it's
video drivers so that I can make it fit
my my computer screen it's a mouse
driver so the mouse operates a little
bit more accurately and you want to
authorize it we're going to install
here we go so this whole process I mean
it takes a little bit of time to get
through it once it's done you literally
have a virtual version of your physical
computer in this case it's a Windows 7
laptop that we picked up and we've
completely virtualized the entire thing
now all of the files with the way that
we've done this all of the files have
been transferred over so I've got all my
documents everything that was in that
computer is now in this virtual machine
and I can actually reform at that laptop
after backing up this virtual machine of
course and i can install linux on it and
and i haven't lost that Windows
installation or any of the programs that
were there so if you're trapped in a
situation where you're using Windows
because you're using a particular
accounting software or a particular
piece of software that you absolutely
need for business or for whatever
purpose here you can virtualize that
computer turn it into a virtual machine
on your linux machine and then wipe out
the computer and you're good to go and
and nothing's lost and everything's
still working okay so now it's asking me
to reboot now that the drivers are done
let's see what happens now so if all
goes well those drivers are going to
give us a virtual graphic card and that
is going to allow us to scan the scale
the entire screen with the with the
video here it goes booting up for the
first time ever since installing guest
additions it's the real deal and this is
all there is to it folks Becky you look
thrilled about this it's just like I'm
not on camera he's talking
virtualization I hear enough about this
booting up this this is exciting right
yeah
and for those of you who are listening
to the audio only feed you're missing
some of the visuals here but we are
actually booting up into windows 7 as a
virtual machine here and everything is
working flawlessly we're using
VirtualBox from virtualbox org that's
free software it's available for you to
download and install on your Windows Mac
or Linux computer I'm using it on Linux
this is point Linux and you can see that
now that I've got those graphic drivers
installed notice it's stretched right
there when I maximized if I resize the
window it actually resizes windows
microsoft windows within that window in
such a way that i can use windows now as
an application on my computer I can
close out a virtual box there and now
I've got microsoft windows running as an
application so now I can hit the right
ctrl key and the f key on my keyboard
for full screen mode and I'm literally
running Microsoft Windows exactly as it
appeared on that laptop computer but I
am actually running it as a virtual
machine on Linux
yes let me know your experience let me
know how it goes and you know follow
through first of all start with what we
started with tonight okay so that is
merge ide and getting your system
prepared for the virtualization process
then go back to episode number 307
follow all the steps there and then you
will have a working system I I don't
think there's much that could go wrong
in a situation like that but I've had
people actually say to me that no this
is impossible even along you can't do it
there's there are a lot of steps and I
hope that I've done this in the same way
that you can actually follow it and and
certainly in the show notes there will
be step-by-step directions to help you
but people have said to me that it's not
possible they said you know what you
need to if you want to virtualize
windows you need to back up your files
and you need to install windows 7 into a
virtual machine and then move your files
into the virtual machine but then you
lose all your settings you lose all of
the way that it's laid out the way that
you had it set up and all your user
accounts and all that kind of stuff all
your passwords possibly and I've just
proved that this can be done and it
works fantastically well look at that I
don't know if arrow works let's that'll
be the first question I get let's take a
look I'll just bring up to two things
out of the box I do not appear to have
any arrow that's that's fine I don't
really care what is arrow arrow is like
the it's it's like Windows attempt at
doing compiz effects cool kind of eye
candy and stuff like that but we do have
transparency and everything looks like
it should and it certainly operates well
and all your applications all your
documents all your files as you see are
in place so can't go wrong this is
category 5 technology TV thanks for
joining us tonight my name's Robbie
Ferguson I'm Becca Ferguson Becca what
do you say about what it's time to hit
the newsroom and see what's up at
newsroom category five dot TV lots of
exciting stories tonight
okay Microsoft has launched a u.s.
Marketing offer to people to exchange
gently used ipads for Microsoft products
such as surface tablets the company is
offering at least a two-hundred-dollar
token to go towards product products
such as the surface RT in the surface
pro Microsoft is far behind Apple in
terms of global tablet sales and market
share one you a spit us-based analysts
expressed doubts do I think that many
people will take Microsoft up on this
offer in a word no said Gartner mobile
device analyst van Baker the app
ecosystem is the problem for Microsoft
and this offer does not fix that problem
ah that's an interesting point yeah and
now I've actually had my hands on a
surface pro and I gotta admit that the
hardware's kind of funky I do like the
fact that the case becomes a like a
Bluetooth keyboard or however it
communicates it works really well that
way but the OS I can't stand it no but
that's me and even the look of it I mean
hello bunch of squares on a grey desktop
seriously I mean that just seems like
we've stepped back in time to when
everything was tables on the Internet
maybe that's personal opinion it
certainly is but the hardware seems cool
but that's an interesting point about
the Appy ecosystem because Apple I'm
sorry and Google Play has everything
that you could ever need Windows
blackberry not so much well Microsoft's
two hundred dollar gift certificate
offer is valid in its brick-and-mortar
stores a surface RT tablet costs 349 and
a surface pro or it retails at about
seven ninety-nine okay intriguing well
let's take a look at what I got oh yeah
valve is going to let you share your
Steam games with family and friends get
this the family sharing initiative is
going to let users of steam share their
library and games with up to 10 other
device
other people using that account or those
games can actually play the title store
their very own saved games their own
in-game achievements and valve said that
a small-scale trial is actually going to
be happening mid month this month so
some of you may already be experiencing
the wonders of being able to share your
Steam games with family and friends kind
of opens things up I think because steam
as a distribution mechanism is fantastic
it's like brilliant it's it's more along
the lines of how things should be in
today's modern you know high speed
internet world you should be able just
to bring your game up on any device
right yeah to be able to share it like
you used to be able to share disks it's
kind of cool yeah who knows what a lead
to mm-hmm police in Argentina have
arrested a 19 year old man accused of
heading a gang of hackers who targeted
international money transfer and
gambling websites dubbed the super
hacker Oh stole my I really don't mind
original yeah what's your hacker named
like I can just picture as the police
are bashing down his door what's your
hacker named um the super hacker yeah
well anyway this super hacker teenager
was making fifty thousand dollars a
month working from his bedroom in Buenos
eris police say yeah he's a super hacker
if he's doing that Wow the young man
lived with his father a computer expert
and in the teenagers room officials
found high-capacity computers which
allegedly used malware attacks to build
up a network network of thousands of
zombie computers which were then used to
illegally divert money from the accounts
leaving virtually no trace behind the
team could spend up to ten years in jail
if he's convicted thanks and the
question comes up i mean people ask all
the time why do hackers bother to create
viruses well there you go 19 year old
kid fifty thousand dollars a month
because you let him install a virus on
your computer
and by that I mean you know you're
running Microsoft Windows you clicked on
a site maybe you don't have good
antivirus protection or something but
there that's huge hmm but caught so
obviously he's not the super hacker that
he thought he was yeah I'd be
interesting to know how he was how he
was traced tracked down yeah how they
knew he was called the super hacker I
think that was something that he made up
on the spot that's my guess is not like
you couldn't think of a cool name Neal
was already taken a web site average a
super has a super hacker that's great
okay this is a moment that we've all
been waiting for when you can go to work
strap yourself into a robot they've been
wait and go that moment no but now that
you know it's possible would you not
think wow huh this is real folks efforts
to develop an exoskeleton for the
workplace are underway and it's funded
by the EU well hey 12 research
institutions from seven european
countries are involved in the robo mate
project it's not what it sounds like
robo mate it hopes to test a robotic
suit that can be worn by factory workers
and they hope to have this thing ready
within three years hmm Wow they say the
machine could actually reduce the number
of work-related injuries one expert
however warns that workers would have to
be convinced that the body suit itself
is not going to cause an injury would
you think of that of putting this thing
on and and going about your factory work
with a robot suit on yeah I'd be uneasy
about it I'd be a little bit odd a
little bit cyber it looks kind of
strange it certainly the early mock-ups
look fairly basic the skeleton of course
being a real person and the suit being
the helmet and the exoskeleton but we're
really hopeful that as they develop this
that it will start to look more like
Mecca
I by akira tag on deviantart because who
wouldn't want to go to work looking like
this guy oh yeah factory workers
everywhere yikes you never get any work
done because you just be too darn scary
well that's it for the news folks get
the full stories at category-five TV /
newsroom this week the category five dot
TV news room is researched by roy w nash
with contributions by our community of
viewers if you have a news story that
you think is worthy of on-air mention
email newsroom at category five dot TV
category five TV newsroom I'm Becca
Ferguson thanks Becca I'll give you a
chance just to bring up some viewer
questions in the meantime want to let
you know that we are looking for sales
people in your area that means if you'd
like to help us by promoting the show
selling advertising and making us
Commission on the sales all you have to
do is email me contact at category 5 TV
is where you want to email just give us
your name and location i'll send you
more details about how you can get
involved so thank you all for your
support and we look forward to working
with you hey this is category 5
technology TV our website is triple w
category five dot TV we've got your
viewer questions we're going to get
through as many as we can okay let's see
here viewer question from well comment
rather from ABQ tky from Albuquerque New
Mexico hey ABQ Albuquerque KY um says
not a question just too polite greeting
to all the beautiful co-hosts oh ok you
two Ferguson just kidding okay haha he
meant me not not the other Ferguson cuz
this Ferguson over here is the most
beautiful of all beauty so anyway he
says you people up there in the North
Woods I've been watching category 5 for
a few months often on roku sometimes on
the website in ancient times I was an OS
to zealot
I've even used CEM a bit Wow os/2 that
brings back memories that was back when
i was using like desk view 386 and I was
wowed by this operating system that was
multitasking and GUI because windows and
3.1 was not multitasking it was single
task you could only do one thing at a
time you had to close that or minimize
it to be able to do anything else and
all of a sudden os/2 was like screaming
awesome sad man we miss it the thing we
got Linux he goes on to say it goes on
to say but I'll never admit to knowing
who uncle Clive was I actually don't
know who that is so I guess I just won't
admit it we'll never know I'm gonna
google it um the machine i'm on at the
present moment till very recent days
used to run lint linux mint but then
anomalies began developing first with
cinnamon which i had wanted to try then
even with mate right now it has point
linux golly gee I wonder where I heard
about point Linux seems stable so I'm
pleased yeah I love it another machine
has mint cinnamon stable oh and a little
one with mythbuntu all right since my
recent anguish over men leading to point
during which i only lost some stuff
maybe we can forget about remote logins
for now back up what's a backup ok ok
enough get the show ready thanks yeah
and that's from the Albuquerque Turkey
thanks man appreciate the email nice to
have you joining us and love your
comments hey you can email us live at
category five dot TV if you'd like to
send us a note or a question as well we
love to receive your questions and that
we will do our best to answer them to
the best of our abilities your ability
that's not my well you can you can take
us to having that mean feel free to take
a stab at it all right next one that's
about linux i want you to try i'm not
sure that that would be a good
it would be a stab in the dark that's
for sure Zack so how handy is it been
married to a geek just kind of works out
well when the computer things don't work
and yeah works out well for sure it's
good to be good at something um okay so
this is a viewer question from Steve hey
Steve says uh oh well sorry it's a
comment not a question oh oh well it's a
comment not he says enjoy the show neat
computer thanks for showing how to hook
the small computer up be careful with
all that lighting lightning lightning
yeah careful with all that lighting
lightning rikomagic mk802 we were
looking at over the past couple of weeks
very cool Steve glad you liked it and
yeah we did pretty well considering how
close that that bolt was didn't we I I'm
very impressed because at the old studio
you remember we used to go through
servers and things quite regularly and
we had light bulbs explode and yeah that
was kind of scary actually we had we
were renting and we had the landlord
come in with electricians and trying to
figure out what was happening but that
wasn't lightning no was that like we had
electrical issue yes so here at Studio C
no studio yeah we're in Studio C we're
working on studio D to have lightning
strike just outside of the kitchen
window and not have anything of any real
importance get fried was awesome so
that's why we run upss folks
uninterruptible power supplies good ones
like like we've reviewed here on the
show check out our green initiatives
you'll learn more about the cyberpower
green power ups is that we run okay so
the next one is a question and it's from
someone named Stan you sure it's
question starts with hi I have a
question this had better be a question
then about the use using Wirecast how
can I create playlists ah
I the short answer is you can't okay
well next question all right question
Wirecast is a source broadcasting system
so it's a cameras which are you're able
to switch from one camera to the other
so I can go from here to here to here to
wherever I want to go within sources as
far as playing back-to-back sequences of
files which I believe that's what you're
asking for sequences playlists are not
currently possible with Telestream
Wirecast out of the box now some people
what they'll do is they'll set up
another computer with say Windows Media
Player or something like that they'll
set up their playlist and media player
that once they'll run desktop presenter
they'll push play on media player and
they'll bring it in as a source through
desktop presenter and let the playlist
play that's the workaround and it works
really really well telestream Wirecast
version 5 is coming out at the end of
this month and it's been announced that
no it won't support playlists from what
I understand it's not one of the
announced features but desktop presenter
does support up to 60 frames per second
so desktop presenter right now works
fantastically well but to imagine that
it's going to be operating at 60 frames
per second and it's piping audio so I
don't think that you'd have a problem
with doing it that way I'm just doing a
screen capture on whatever computer on
your network as a playlist system out of
the box unfortunately it's not yet
supported Craig has hinted in the in the
forums at at telestream that there's a
possibility can't go in any details but
the developers know that there's a
demand for playlist feature and without
saying anything more that it may be
coming in a future release we don't
really know when that is unfortunately
it's not yet so but i hope the
workaround will help you thanks for the
question
okay so next one is from frank from
Crossville Tennessee hey Frank nice to
have a very global audience again
tonight hmm let's see question I believe
having been a long time OSX 10-unit user
i recently switched my linux when my
imac died i started i started out with
ubuntu 12.04 LTS in March then moved to
Linux Mint 15 made about a month ago and
really loved it I saw the show about
point linux OS and I've installed it on
an older desktop computer for my
grandson to use it also has the mate
desktop and looks a lot like the mint
that I'm using hmm so my question is
would there be any upside to move from
mint made over to point Linux made or
are they so close to the same that the
move just wouldn't be worth the effort
thanks and keep bringing us those great
linux-based shows well what is your your
mint based on is it based on a boon
tours are based on debian because i
would think that that would be the
biggest difference I know meant was
originally based on ubuntu i know that
they were bringing out some debian based
ones as well if it's based on ubuntu
then that would be the big difference
point linux is based on debian stable
seven wheezy so that means it's backed
by the Debian repositories it means that
there is a really really solid testing
cycle that goes through for all packages
so when you run something that's based
on debian that is solidly based on
debian like point linux generally
speaking your files as they come in from
the repositories are going to be tested
stable very rock solid with something
that's based on say boon to sometimes
they push out packages a little faster
so you get more current software but
it's not necessarily as stable not to
say that it's not stable I'm not making
that assumption but just to explain a
little bit of the difference sometimes
debian based systems are a little slower
to receive the newer packages because
there's more tests
that goes into it and the cycle in order
to receive those new packages that takes
a little longer was that the only
question there was some stuff about is
it really worth the question was if
there would be any upside i owe the
upside the other or would it not be
worth the effort I don't know like I
really love and mate is is like gnome 2
brought back to life and and so if
you're running that on mint your
fantastically happy that's good I love
how easy it was to set up my comp is
effects on point linux and sometimes
that's a good that's getting more and
more difficult these days because it's a
deprecated piece of software and and so
you know we're starting to see it fizzle
out but fortunately Peters done a really
great job at Point Linux in making it
functional and making it work perfectly
well and that helps us with the show
because we've got things like desktop
zoom we've got all the you know expo and
and all the stuff that you want from
your linux desktop if you're running you
know if you're into that kind of stuff
and productivity of comp is so there are
different you know there's not really
advantages either way that's the same
basic system I think that mint certainly
has a larger community playing it now
you know out right of course they've
been around a lot longer they're very
well known they've been supported by a
large number of people point linux as
much smaller very new very few people
know about it we're trying to get the
word out because i personally love it
and i think that our community can
really take to it and there's an
advantage to that because it's what I
run on the system so if you're into the
show and and you like to you know ask
questions and I can certainly answer
them about point Linux but if I answer a
question about point Linux it's probably
the same answer for mint and Debian
seven and because they're all really the
same thing at their core especially if
you're running mate because that's
exactly what I'm doing with point Linux
it's kind of like the same thing so it's
just who's maintaining the packages how
well they're doing with it i think peter
is is doing a fantastic job of
maintaining point linux and and making
sure that
things are stable and that's really his
focus refer back to the episode where we
talked to him and and and learn about
what his motivation behind it is and
it's really about making a rock-solid
sort of old-school Linux experience
where it feels like Linux should have
been and to me that is you know that's a
really good reason to be doing it and I
think he's doing a fantastic job so let
us know what you decide and how it goes
but I think you'll enjoy either one okay
um see here trying to decide if it's a
comment or a question you don't need to
preface it with okay here's a question
oh wait a minute nope it's a comment oh
it does have a question mark it's both
it's both what do we do if it's a
comment and a question Robbie okay hey
Ravi thanks for the demonstration I am
quite convinced about the mk6 0 to K
policies all right who's this coming
from well it just says none from none it
says oh so I don't really think that's
well it could be a nickname but uh yeah
from pear tree pair there it is okay
yeah we know pear tree was having
trouble wanted to know that it was
actually 1080p had a question for us
last week the MK 602 which we
demonstrated it was so that's what we're
referring to all right Karen okay sorry
um well he says I've bought an MK 8023
about six months back the four core unit
yeah after reading several reviews which
all promised 80 1080p support and it
would only display 1280 by 720
resolution on a 37 inch full HD TV the
mode lines for 9th 1920 x 1080 are there
but when trying to switch the TV screen
we just go black for 15 seconds and then
return to the previous resolution away
the hardware at the MK 602 and mk802
three
look similar rockchip 3066 chipset
dual-core cortex a9 cpu and mali-400 GPU
so how would I get it to display 1080p
regards PT pear tree do you think
there's a possibility is there any
chance that it's your TV because I can't
see that being the case I've run even
the initial to core original unit the
mini PC that we reviewed Iran that in
1080p mode on the on a TV and it worked
perfectly so then when your screen goes
black it's like it's trying for a
resolution that it doesn't support like
your TV doesn't support the resolution
that is trying to give you so could it
could you try changing the overscan i'm
not too sure if you've got that unit i
would try it on a different TV first and
foremost in full 1080p just to rule that
out and check the specs of your
television I don't know what model it is
and just find out if if there if it's
very particular about what you know
frequency or something that the 1080p
signal is coming from also know you
tried and you tried an 802 so you you
just plugged it in with one of those
short little cables that came with it
right if you're using an extension cord
or something then I could see maybe the
cable could be a problem could it also
be your power unit could it no because
it comes back so it doesn't make a lot
of sense to me because it should work in
1080p I know that the 602 does I
absolutely know that and I and I showed
that on last week's episode but when you
buy one and put it onto your TV would it
work perfectly with your TV because
that's an odd situation if your TV
actually supports 1080p and it's turning
off go on black one so don't know what
to suggest try that 802 on another TV
I'd like you to go out and grab one of
these mk6 o2s because I think they're
fantastic and it works really well but
the 802 is even more power
full and even a better processor a
better system the the 602 is very
convenient and then had and it's nice
having the AV outputs but the 802 is is
more powerful and it should do even
better for you so if you already got one
of those I'd want to rule out why that
is not working for you so sorry man try
it on a different TV okay and just let
me know if and what it's got to be a
1080p TV and just let me know check the
overscan settings make sure that you
know adjust them I don't know if your TV
might be messing up when overscan is not
set to something under it supports I'm
not too sure it's tough one okay here's
a question from old salt hey old salt
hey Robbie thank you for all the help
you give I followed your advice in
episode 3 08 and now have three
partitions windows 8 windows 8 recovery
and ubuntu 13.04 nice hope to be dumping
windows 8 sometime in the future cool i
installed compiz fusion compiz fusion
extras in ccsm I was hoping to get the
clothes window burn but it doesn't show
up in the program am I missing a package
what did you install compiz fusion
compiz fusion extras and ccsm i presume
you mean the the plugin extras i'm going
to bring up my package manager here and
refer back to the episode where we
looked at Point Linux because we did
demonstrate all this stuff as well but
let's take a real quick look here the
package may not be the problem it may be
that you don't have the extra stuff
turned on compiz fusion plugins extra
that is the additional stuff okay so
that has to be installed but then once
you've got so you've got ccsm which is
comp is config settings manager
installed so bring that up and type
animations or an M and you see
animations add-on that has to be turned
on otherwise animations will not have
the extra effects and I'll demonstrate
that for you here old salt I'm going to
turn off animations add-on now i'm going
to click on animation
and you'll see that if i change my open
effect i have that okay no burn okay so
now I'm going to cancel that go back and
turn on animations add-on that came in
with the extras the plugins extra
package I've turned that on now I can go
back into animations and when I
double-click you'll see that the list is
much more extensive and it has the burn
plugin okay so that's probably what's
happening maybe you've installed the
right package but you just have not
turned on animations add-on in comp is
config settings manager that will likely
do it for you so and there are a ton of
other stuff is that's really poor
grammar I'm sitting beside an author and
a ton of other stuff just going to smack
me there there are a lot of other
awesome animation plugins that are
available through that so you get things
like being able to make your screen fold
up into a paper airplane and fly off
when you close a window and all these
kind of things i like the burn and smoke
and and the beam up when i open windows
and you can play around with it and have
a lot of fun and it's just eye candy but
it makes it a little more fun to work
with your computer makes things seem
really really zippy to like the beam up
i set it to a very short threshold so it
just as like and it's like if things are
just zapping their way onto my screen
and it just makes it feel really fast so
it's kind of an interesting thing
mm-hmm that's all I have to say about it
thanks old Sultan hope that helped makes
you happy if it makes me happy you know
being able to know thanks dear no
seriously there's something there's got
to be something said about that look
there's my desktop I can bring up a
terminal window does your terminal
window do that awesome does it do that
no if you're on Windows you're probably
thinking how does he do that this is
Linux awesome okay last question for
tonight I guess we are almost at a time
it's from Sir wences oh yeah I have only
been aware of your show for a week or so
but I've been trying to catch up the
last year online awesome reviewing your
show notes I don't see any references to
elementary OS which i have installed on
one of my computers what do you think of
eos it has some idiosyncrasies but i
think it's a brilliant distribution very
icon plastic uh well i think what's you
know what do I think of it so I think
that it's a you know it's a young
project I mean it's been around for I
think under a year just under a year but
they like I love Linux i love that
different flavors of linux can be
birthed for different purposes and
different you know communities different
reasons point linux like i say because
he's keeping with this old style look to
the operating system i really really
love it because I'm a little bit old
school but you might like eos because
it's a little bit newer and funkier and
but they're doing some really cool stuff
like using you know more modern file
systems instead of ext3 ext4 so you know
that you get an out of the box system
that maybe is a little bit more high
tech but there's a place for every linux
distribution except for the one that i
try to make that was a fan
we haven't looked at it here on the show
just sir winces because you asked why
you haven't seen it in the show notes we
tend to stick with up with the distros
that we look at unless we're doing a
feature or doing a review we're sticking
with point linux for example right now
because it just keeps some consistency
so that people aren't confused if okay
well how do you do that than that
because every week it's a different
distro but we could certainly look at it
if you like us to and show it off for
the viewers it is a it's growing into a
fairly impressive distribution so we'll
be excited to see what happens with keep
watching distrowatch and see what
happens over the next little while so
that gets so good to have you here
thanks for joining me tonight I know it
sir it's fun time oh yeah married a geek
what can you do and she great folks have
a wonderful week thanks for being here
with us this week and I'm looking
forward to seeing you again next week
let's see what happens with these
transcoders start timing me have a good
one take care night
we hope you enjoy the show category 5 TV
broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven pm eastern
if you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV check out the local
show times in your area at category 5 TV
and find out when you can watch live and
interact in the community chat room
category 5 is a production of prodigy
digital solutions and is licensed under
creative commons attribution 2.5 canada
we'll see you next time thanks for
tuning in
