the following program is made possible
by
quest ministries
what is the position of creation today
on the authority of God's Word that's
what we're talking about today from the
CTN studio in Pensacola Florida this is
your creation today show I'm one of your
host Erick Hoeven and I'm joined by the
famous world-famous Paul Taylor not the
only one who's world famous you were
doing a show in California recently I
did you are too girly TBN te broadcast
network we're going to have a few clips
from that show because they will help us
to talk about the position of our
ministry why it matters and why it
matters that it matters it does matter
so please pay attention closely as we go
through exactly why we do what we do
remember we believe the Bible is
literally true and scientifically
accurate in every detail
you
welcome to the creation today show we've
got a great show for you as we answer a
couple very interesting questions that
really get to the foundation of our
ministry and we review an episode of the
TV in broadcast praise the Lord they
invited us to be a part of just a couple
weeks ago but before that that's right
but before that we're going to mention
the proof of God conference which is
coming up in October it's coming up very
soon time Tempus Fugit along so if you
haven't yet booked your place at that
conference you need to go to proof
conference com that's exactly right that
I really think the spots are going to
fill up and we're not gonna have any
more seats left so I it is limited
seating so if you can come we'd love to
have you there in orlando florida
October twelfth and thirteenth and it
really is going to be just a dynamic
conference really designed to to help
believers defend and know their creator
that's the whole point of it that is the
whole points of aud so I'm excited about
that got some great speakers you're
gonna be there I'm going to be that
you're going to be there I'm going to be
there and what else would they want o
callaghan any will be there at sure
that'll make it extra special yeah I'm
seitan brueggen Kate even more special
and Mark spent his early then special
guy and a and other it says here and
another to be announced other to be
announced ah yes that will be exciting
now will be exciting I think I think
that'll be exciting when we do have a
great show for you we want to answer a
couple questions that came in recently
so Paul kick us off with one of those
questions I found this entertaining well
here's the question that really goes to
the heart of what we believe abs in
ministry Alex wrote in and said so
recently I watched a video about the
Bible how the Bible uses circular
reasoning to prove itself they claim
that you can ask a creationist the Bible
is the Word of God how do you know which
then leads to how do you know so which
then leads to because the Bible tells me
so why do you believe the Bible because
it's infallible how do you know it's
infallible because the Word of God is
true which finally leads us to how do
you know it's true well because God says
so I feel a chink in this reasoning he
says but honestly I cannot think of how
this can be broken Wow so basically the
argument
oohs and we hear this from skeptics and
scarves they say listen you can't it
comes down to you can't use the Bible to
prove the by yes I think to be fair the
context of this email showed that Alex
is actually one of our supporters but he
wants to know what the basis is for the
the whole argument and to understand it
and this is a problem that many people
have and it's really what we're
concerned about as a ministry what is
the foundation of our ministry and is it
a circular argument that the Bible is
true because the Bible says it's true
because the Bible says it's true and
that's it what what is our firm ground
that we stand on here's what's
interesting it really does come down to
a circular argument but it's okay
because any ultimate authority will be
circular for example you know we use the
Bible to prove the Bible another example
would be if I told my children something
to do and I said son I want you to clean
the room and he said why I said well I
cuz i want you to claim your yeah but
why well because it's messy i need it
but why daddy ultimately is going to
come down to because I said so I'm your
ultimate authority but that's a circular
argument dad I have that it's allowed to
be I'm your authority and really that's
exactly what God's Word is it is our
authority yes the circle of course is
broken at the points of God's
inspiration exam that's why we need to
appeal to what the Bible actually is and
we're going to explore that in a lot of
detail in this program particularly will
look at some clips from tbm because
before we do that there's another
question that came in which is also very
it's also a typical of the many emails
that we get and here it is david says
how do you sleep at night I can answer
that one right now like this yeah or it
could be like that usually sometimes
it's more like this yeah but anyway okay
got that one answered what else is he
went on to say either you are incredibly
stupid and this is addressed to both of
us by the way whoa yeah I do credibly
stupid or shameless con men you prey on
weak-minded individuals or your
helplessly weak-minded your cell
however your attention to basic
propaganda procedures leads me to think
you go to extreme efforts to poison
American culture with views that you
personally disbelieve solely for
monetary gains that's what it's about
sorry about the money Paul it is it is
because we're rolling in it yeah you
know when you drove me over here in your
rolls-royce you know i alway know you
didn't drive me around never stand
anyway it's an interesting one actually
let me assure you that if we'd wanted to
earn loads and loads of money wouldn't
be doing this job they would do but I
also can assure you most definitely i'll
speak for both of us on this yes we are
one hundred percent believe what we are
telling you we would not be here telling
you this unless we believe that's for
sure yeah this really is to us a
foundation national issue that literally
what you believe determines how you
behave and so we want people to
understand a true proper belief system
because of the way it makes you behave
after that and that's a whole nother
subject yeah but it's incredible how
many times we get emails coming in
telling us the way we're stupid that
were unqualified that we don't know what
we're talking about the overwhelming
majority of emails like this one which
you can't get from the way I read it out
are usually full of spelling mistakes by
so you can make 10 spelling mistakes i
can do that somebody calls you stupid
and then spells it wrong yeah i gotta
let that go because that's not my
expertise well i'm a former school
teacher so they usually don't see that
but really what we're talking about here
is what is our Authority what is the
position that we have and I think on
that subject it would be good to to show
a clip from a show that you're on recent
but you are on a show in California and
we'll talk about how you came to be
there in a moment but let's just have a
look at this first clip because in this
first clip you had 45 seconds really to
tell the host of the program to tell the
television audience what the basis of
your ministry is all about let's take a
look yeah and Eric what what what is the
big thing what is your big issue let's
get all the big issues out and we'll
circle back to a lot of them well I
appreciate it and thank you very much
for letting us be here and praise the
Lord with you the big issue for
me is he did it right at the beginning
people need to be able to do what God
commanded us to do second Peter commands
us to be ready to give an answer to
anybody that asks a reason of the hope
that's in us okay now we could look at
that and we could say well that's really
hard but actually it spells out that
it's very easy to do that and even if it
was really hard to do that thankfully
you don't have to be as smart as dr.
Ross in order to do that even if it was
hard that doesn't mean we ignore the
commands of Scripture my big deal is
that ninety-five percent of the
Christians I meet cannot give an
adequate defense of the god they say
they believe in and that is a sad
testimony to where Christians are today
so creation today our whole goal is to
educate people on how to defend the God
of the Bible okay Wow and you mentioned
the point that ninety-five percent of
people you come across cannot defend
their faith and really I said I mean how
did you come about with with with this
impression of what people I get to
travel the churches all around America
and as I discuss with people even even
people that claim the name of Christ
when we're on the streets when we're at
universities people that claim the name
of Christ when I press them and say how
do you know that God exists they don't
give satisfactory answers typically I
this want to run into a lot is well it's
just a faith thing you know I was raised
that way so that's why I believe that
and we can get into in the next segment
you know the problems with that but
they're not giving a solid absolute you
know thus saith the Lord type of answer
and that's what God has called us to do
he's called us to be able to give an
answer so what burdens me
is teaching people how to do this
because I want people to know the one
true God of the Bible that's for sure
well you are talking about more than
after the break salute plate all right
we'll be right back right up to this
I'm Eric oven from the creation today's
show I know firsthand how much your
monthly support would encourage the
category 5 tvteam support the show by
supporting category 5 at patreon.com /
category 5 join erik joven and Paul
tater from creation today with special
guest ken ham from Answers in Genesis
along with Carl Kirby of reasons for
hope mark Spence of living waters in
sight n brueggen kada proof that God
exists for the proof of God conference
in orlando florida october 12 through 13
for more information visit us online at
proof conference cough or call toll-free
eight seven seven four seven nine three
four six six welcome back you're
watching the creation today show with me
Paul Taylor and with Eric Hovind and we
were talking about a show that you were
on on TBN recently you traveled to
California for that and perhaps we
should just mention who was on that
program with you this was a fascinating
show when when they schedule but they
really didn't tell me who the other
guests were but at when I got out there
I found out Ray Comfort my friend Ray
Comfort was going to be there ken ham
was going to be their advances in
Genesis if you're familiar with creation
of course you'll note ken ham with
answers in genesis and then they were
going to have dr. hugh ross who's an old
earth creationist and very vocal about
it they're going to Sean McDowell who I
would consider a friend but also
believes in an Old Earth and then John
bloom dr. John bloom from biola
university who's an old earth
creationist so we're sitting backstage
there at that TBN and Matt crouch the
host says hey if you could say what your
big thing is what would you say and then
I kind of said hey my big thing is I
want people to learn how to defend the
God of the Bible because most people
can't do that and they let me share that
but then backstage before we all went
out he said listen we're changing it up
instead of just bring in one or two out
of the time everybody's going to be on
stage the whole time and in the back of
my mind I'm going look who we got here
it's is going to be a big debate this is
gonna end up being a debate I was like I
wonder if he's okay
then he said hey if you disagree with
something feel free to you know say hey
wait a minute I don't think like that I
think this way and in the back of my
mind and I guarantee everybody else mind
sitting there everybody's going there's
Kim ham there's your Ross there's going
to be spots we're going to have a
showdown medical asst if you want to
watch the whole program we're going to
we're cooking it a couple of clips in
this program but if you watch the whole
program you'll find that we've got that
on our website which is creation today
dot o RG and before the break Eric you
were talking about so that the the
little excerpt that we just showed where
you'd said that ninety-five percent of
people asked I'm not able to defend
their faith and yeah you were talking
about so the sort of arguments people
have they say well this is bear you know
I believe in God because that's the way
I was raised or it's better to believe
and not believe isn't it was something
like that and things that you were
saying were weak and I think it might be
worth expanding on that particularly
since you came back from a meeting not
so long since and you had quite a strong
anecdotes about what happened the this
really shook me I went to a church I was
speaking at a congregation and I was
really sparring with them so to speak on
hey why do you believe what you believe
why are you a Christian why do you
believe in God and I was so to speak
putting the atheist hat on and saying
okay i'm gonna bleep i'm gonna be the
unbeliever and let me just challenge you
on that stuff and I was I was not
getting great answers and so I asked the
audience I said let me ask you something
how many of you if you were born in
India believe that you'd be Hindu right
now if you were raised by Hindu parents
you believe you'd be a Hindu right now
and most everybody raised their hand
said yeah I'd probably be a Hindu and
then one gentleman said but i'd only be
a hindu out of ignorance and so just a
Holy Spirit moment God said we'll ask
him if he's a Christian out of ignorance
so well how do you know you're not a
Christian out of ignorance and nobody
had an answer for that see this is for
me this is one of those questions that I
feel like a lot of Christians are scared
to encounter atheists because they're
scared of questions like this hey you're
only a Christian because you were raised
in a Christian home or you're raised in
a Christian country and that's just kind
of the thing to do here and they want to
run away from that those are the kind of
questions that I as I was growing up
especially over the last
years of my god quest I felt like you
know what if this is true it ought to be
able to take on questions like that it
ought to be able to take on those hard
difficult questions why am i a Christian
and yeah I was I was I was shocked that
most people couldn't tell me why they
are a Christian today that you know that
i never get never got down to because
it's true because we do and this is what
they were not able to say and yeah and
it could well be then some of the people
that were encountering that we're
talking about may well be ignorant
Christians ignorance out to Christianity
yeah pull my teeth bucket they're
Christians out of ignorance yeah they
don't actually know the basis of their
faith and this is worrying really two
different weather actually they've got a
faith there at all the point is that
this is true and this is the point that
you wanted to bring out very much in
this second clip that we're going to see
a very important clip where you are
really talking about you are really
invited to talk about what your big
thing was yeah so to show that because
this is my big thing and I think it's
spelled out pretty clearly let's let's
check this out yet I think everyone in
the audience everyone watching
understands that I think we get that
that you know the secular scientists
don't want to they want to try to
explain away the missing piece which is
God and so somebody downstairs who was
it that said ever the Bible declares
that everyone knows that there is a God
okay pick up on that because that's kind
of the jump jump in on that yeah it's so
important to understand Romans chapter
one tells us very clearly everybody
knows God exists the invisible things
from the creation of the world are
clearly seen so that we are without
excuse yeah two months ago is that the
largest gathering of secular humanists
in the history of the world called the
reason rally in washington DC and i got
to interview dozens and dozens of
atheists and i would even get
point-blank with them and say listen if
I could prove the God of the Bible to
your satisfaction would you worship Him
and what do you think I said no they
don't this is not an intellectual issue
this is not science versus the Bible
this is an emotional issue they can
sin they hate the God that they know
exists wow they Romans one says they are
suppressing the truth in unrighteousness
they know the truth but they are
suppressing that truth but they got mask
it by wanting to have second answer all
the the issues of astronomy they have no
other choice what's interesting when you
really push them when you squeeze an
atheist you're talking about squeeze and
Ray Comfort when you squeeze an atheist
or an unbeliever what you'll find is
they'll admit we don't have any
knowledge at all that's what they'll say
they'll say we can't know anything the
reason is because if you say you know
something you must you must say that it
comes from God and I got an analogy can
I give you a little analogy all right
here's an analogy out of all the
knowledge in the universe how much do we
as human beings have out of everything
there is to know about everything what
the what the fleas are doing on the dog
right now at home how much do how much
knowledge do we have very little right
let's just pretend that we are with all
our doctor degrees and things like that
let's just pretend we think we've got
one percent of everything there is to
know in the universe that would be
stretching it especially for ray but if
he's a friend i can say that if we only
have possibly 1% let me ask you a
question is it possible out of all the
unknown stuff out there is it possible
that we could find something that proves
wrong what we think we know is it
possible we're wrong about everything we
think we know and the unbeliever stops
right there and says yes it is it's
possible we could be wrong about
everything because we don't know
everything I was telling this to my
seven-year-old daughter I at breakfast I
just got done debating an atheist till
two o'clock in the morning online got
her cereal ready she was seven years old
I said Stephanie you're not gonna
believe this are some people to say we
can't know anything at all seven years
old she went well how do they know that
I was like whoa my seven-year-old killed
it and what ken says and he wants to
jump in here what ken says is so true it
is a matter of authority we have to take
the one that knows everything reviewing
stuff to us to know anything at all if
it wasn't for the God that you
everything
we could know anything and it is
incredible we're talking about the issue
of authority and this surg program by
the way is the most wat ever program on
TV n by a factor of 10 times more than
the second major program we're gonna
discuss cyclic in more detail right
after this
welcome back you're watching the
creation today's show with Eric ovin and
Paul Taylor the smart one we just got
done watching this clip from TBN that I
had to got the chance to be a part of
and it really was an incredible
opportunity I remember sitting there
thinking oh my goodness what's taking
place right now is epic I mean this this
is this is was unheard of you mentioned
that it's the most viewed program times
10 yes I mean it's amazing how many
people are interested in the subject
matter and it's a very very important
subject matter and you know and you
won't blow your own trumpet on this so
I'll commend you forward to the audience
because you know it was commented by a
number of people that only two people on
the panel had their Bibles with them and
that was Ken Ham and Eric and that's
because this is an issue of authority
that's because you used you let's face
it you wouldn't be making the arguments
on your own authorities was not Eric
jovenes authorities coming across this
is the authority of the word of God You
Know Who am I to say something who are
you to say something it's the authority
of the word of God and yet there are
other people there pontificating on on
views and this and that and it's just so
very bunch of head knowledge without
going to the ultimate authority what's
funny if I can share a quick clip about
this Ray Comfort was planning on going
on the show and promoting the evidence
Bible they called him that morning and
said hey we've had to change the format
of the show we're not going to do that
he's like oh man and then i SAT there
the whole time doing this with my
evidence by one he's sitting over there
on the other side going this is great
God I could have planned this any better
thank you good product placement so but
yeah I by the way I do recommend the
evidence Bible great Bible yeah and
there's one thing you've said in that
clip which you know should pick up on
and you also find it so in another
context if you look at some of the
interviews on our youtube channel which
is youtube.com forward slash creation
today you'll find an interview that you
did with an atheist at the reason rally
where you actually asked him outright
and said if I could prove to you beyond
any doubt that that God exists would you
worship Him and his answer was no and
that's what they keep on saying I asked
that a several of
they kept on saying no and it's so sad
it really is that proves that it is an
issue of what is authority then you
cannot take their the platform away from
their own authority they've got to be
able to stand on their own authority now
on the panel Ken Ham wanted to comment a
little bit on this and you to talk about
signs didn't say you want to set up this
clip that yeah ken ken did a great job
because right before i was speaking matt
said okay so this whole idea of science
and God and you know and kind of did the
typical no no if I can say and tried to
separate science from the Bible whereas
we say no no science in the Bible agree
one hundred percent so can address that
as well as God into the whole idea of
the historical science versus
observational science I needed it just a
fantastic job of explaining this check
this out if I can inject a little bit
here too and and I like what Erich is
saying there because there's another
aspect you were talking before and I
thought you know let's just stop for a
moment because we all talk about science
science in the Bible science versus the
Bible of our versus science we're using
the word science let me to stop for a
moment I mean if I was to ask you a
question I'm not doing this yes thank
you support all right thank you so just
pretend okay if I ask you a question
what do you mean by science I mean you
use the word but what do you mean by
what would your answer be see if you
look up the root meaning of the word
science it means knowledge and the thing
that I think we've got to be careful of
here is distinguish between different
sorts of knowledge for instance there
can be atheists who are great scientists
because they do observational science in
the present five senses help build a
space shuttle or it's gone there will
help build yeah whatever it is
generation SpaceX whatever it is but you
know what I mean I mean so we can honor
scientist to do that when a when the
scientists are involved in putting the
rover on Mars we can applaud them but
then when they start talking about the
origin of Mars that's a different sort
of science okay that's what we would
call historical science it's its beliefs
about the past when you weren't there
and what we've got to be careful of is
this often when people are talking even
Christians sometimes mix historical an
observation
together and we've got to learn to
separate them out and see the Bible is a
book of historical science it's really
primarily a book of history and what
what is happening in our world today is
that there are many Christians even who
are scientists who are taking man's
historical science and adding it in to
the Bible and reinterpreting God's Word
is what we're going to understand it's
only God who knows everything I always
put God's Word first I use God's Word to
judge what man is saying not the other
way around and I think that's very
important the thing is that again this
clip that we just saw ken is making a
distinction between observational
science and historical science yes
that's a huge distinction that has to be
made isn't it I think so because what's
what he was saying then is that
observational science it's the science
has done here and now the laboratory
stuff the observations and measurements
you take here and now I like the
anecdote you give about that about
proving when you were born oh yeah when
I share that one request yeah what about
how can I prove that i was born in
manchester in the north of England 27
years ago and what do you mean you don't
believe it was 27 acres okay a little
bit longer ago than that but how can I
prove it could you measure the wrinkles
on my face the other changing
extrapolate that back in time no you
wouldn't actually do a science
experiment to prove it because we're
talking about something that happened in
the past but that doesn't mean I can't
prove it I can't prove it scientifically
but I can prove it I can get hold of a
document known as a birth certificate
and after all birth certificates are
pretty easy to get hold of aren't they
pretty easy for most people and if you
get hold of that that is documentary
evidence well you know the Atheist
wasn't there supposedly millions of
years ago when they say that the earth
was made I wasn't there 6,000 years ago
when I say that God made the world but
the point is although it can't be proved
one way they were scientifically it can
be proved by documentary evidence
because we have the documentary evidence
here that's the analogy that I love
because science can only do inductive
where we're looking at Clues saying okay
what is this clue mean what does it tell
us about what might have happened and
we're starting down here trying to work
our way to the top what
have is we have deductive argument ation
we have not just the clue to work with
but uh the surveillance footage if you
will I mean if we were looking at a
crime scene and only looking at the
clues trying to figure out what happened
we could get the story wrong yes but if
we had surveillance footage of exactly
what happened then the clue would fit
perfectly with the footage and that's
ultimately what we have is we've got the
videotape we've got the footage of what
happened and it's God's Word and it's
just the important presupposition to
everything that we believe which of
course is what I conference the proof of
God conference is about how we emphasize
the presuppositions behind what we
believe and very quickly we've got a
major announcement that probably people
know about watching this program if you
if you haven't heard yet we got some big
news after the TV in show Ken huh ken
ham and I have been talking and Ken has
decided to join us at the proof of God
conference round of applause please ken
ham is going to be joining us and we're
just really really excited about that
it's just going to help us underline the
importance of this message and remember
if you want to know the whole basis of
what we talked about you can find that
out in the three new Answers books 1 2 &amp;
3 edited by ken ham and of course the
whole presuppositional approach in the
conversation between Eric and sytan
brueggen Kate on the think CD very very
great people to guess of a soak there so
that's our show for today yeah thank you
guys so much for joining us I want to
encourage you to write in questions
visit us on facebook facebook.com slash
creation today and on youtube
youtube.com slash creations a day
do you need the tools to defend your
faith visit our websites for up-to-date
content attend one of our live events
and shop online at creation store org we
are creation today
Oh
