welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode 511 for Wednesday the
what the heck's of July July girls puppy
birthday happy birthday we haven't got
to that yet this is the beginning of the
show yeah we don't know birthday this is
this is a super clueper do doo doo doo
doo doo just piss yes thank you anything
this is episode number 511 for Wednesday
the 5th of July 2017 nice to see you
we've got quite the show planned for you
tonight and speaking up tonight we got
some very fun things to show from my
little trip down to Toronto for the
virtual reality Toronto conference that
is going to be really fun to show you
guys it's gonna be so awesome it's like
reality but not it's there but it's not
there you know these glasses are so real
oh you're so real this is so real this
is real this is that that's why we're
over there anyways yeah I'm really
excited sure that was everyone's nice
dream to VR stick around fashion here's
what's coming up in the category sci-fi
TV newsroom delays in flight diversions
at Gatwick Airport due to someone flying
their drone where it's not allowed
facebook internet beaming drone has had
a successful flight and flawless landing
and a US judge decided that protection
against Facebook's tracking is up to the
user and has thrown out a court case
that claims otherwise stick around the
full details are coming up later in the
show
this is category 5 technology TV our
live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream wire cast and nimble
streamer tune in live every week on roku
cody and other HLS video players local
show times visit category 5 TV category
5 TV is a member of the tech podcast net
work if it's tech it's here cat5 dot TV
slash PPN and their national association
of internet broadcasters cat5 TV /iae
welcome to the show this is category 5
technology TV it's episode number 511
and I am your host
Robbie Ferguson nice to see you I am
Sasha Durr made us I'm still Henry
Bailey brown eye home changed hasn't
changed how was your week last week you
were away my arms are still tired
because you know the air show is really
flying is totally not sure you know I
got like the World War one aircraft in
with f-18 Demo aircraft yeah got
snowbirds pretty cool this new breed is
good no birds cause it was really fun
it's it's Rick is this I feel like it's
their first coming very like out of my
lifetime I've never had an air show and
very they'll hit like the the army base
in Angus Borden yeah yeah like that's
where they always do like they always do
born but like never berry which is
perfect because I carry on our
waterfront SAS and I walked in front and
we could see them flying by like what's
that noise you favorite tiny we can see
that well it's funny because like if you
look on Google Maps Barry's like a
natural stadium because it's a bay that
curves it's called Ken felt day but it's
it's a perfect stadium and even the
mayor's oh yeah we have it like a
natural stadium here so that's intended
to Drew because when the fireworks
happened they put it out of ya and
people sit all around the waterfront and
watch down by other bay cool stuff so
how was the air show we had fun
totally versa to get any pictures or
video or was just there to enjoy I was
there I look at him believe it or not
I'm going to say that I was there to
witness it but in true fact I forgot my
battery from my DSLR it was like a
wearing your yeah I had like my whole
bag and everything I had like my 200 mil
lens and everything I'm like this is
going to be so much fun Oh Elaine's come
out so me that is not enjoy anyone
seriously let the guys don't even know
like I packed up a gig bag for first
Shelley Shelley was going up in a hot
air balloon and she wanted to take the
I'll know and set it all up for charged
all the batteries got it set up and
presented it to her and say okay well
here's how you turn it on turn it on
disc not sound yeah I think they're with
drone shoots it's like you drive down to
like London or somewhere no SD card I
did that would not be the Lego Lego
world's shooter gotta go to Walmart I
don't know why oh but I hate to do it
because you know Kingston has acting
yeah but it cars sake immediately told
SD cards are too small to put up to Polo
on or LC factory that trying to Polo on
it that'll be awesome tastic Hey this
weekend past was the finale of season 10
Doctor Who no spoilers no spoilers
baby but I want some closure we gotta
wait for the Christmas episode they went
and did that to us so also well you know
I always do that wearing this shirt
until December 24 feel like we're almost
there it's almost Christmas they call
out the episode the episode was the fall
of the doctor so it's like oh my
goodness
they're they already going to die that
they already use that name I feel like
they've used every level I'm sure they
probably mean guarding the red tape to
follow the doctor the rise of the doctor
the life of the doctor who's the new bad
guy the Cyberman yeah 2.0 that's how it
happened yeah yeah no actually kind of
like zero-point energy to discover the
russ berrie pie oh my gosh yeah our
forum is back if you can believe that go
to forum dot category-five dot TV great
place to interact with us with other
viewers and people who are involved in
our community in various ways and nems
is there category-five technology TV and
a variety of other programs that we
carry and that's kind of cool so we've
got a place where you can throw in your
questions
give us your show ideas your
testimonials and what you think that's
perfect but can we all get an account
right and three Oram category five TV
you're going to show me how right sure
we click on register oh just like that
is like that I know the complicated man
if you turn on email notifications it's
handy because then if someone replies to
your post then you get a response by
email to know that you've got to log
into the forum and then you can also
somebody like mentioned Sasha or
yourself or myself or the darle or fill
a Dalek in a comment or something then
get it sent here the emails totally I
like it
speaking of flying Henry the arocs Black
Talon finally got it up in the air it's
I don't know like a mini drone I guess
you'd call it because it's not a micro
it's not a nano it's quite a bit larger
try that do you know how heavy it is
like is it like it doesn't have to be
live into grams or something it oh no
it's nothing like that I don't have a
scale if you're on the set with us today
it was very very light it's like I kind
of play around with it oh yeah yeah so I
did this was the first time because it
has a built-in 720p camera with fpv so
you can definitely see what's going on
you can but I've never I've flown with
the met the screen on the on the hand
controller as we did on the drone zone
but I've never flown with the virtual
reality goggles first time do you feel
how was it
it was really cool really neat yeah do
you feel like you were flying yeah okay
yeah I want to discuss that I was there
with my I was in the field with my with
my 9 year old son Zak oh he was doing
some film work for me but then he wanted
to try the monitor here's our reactions
to the Erik's Black Talon ok I'm in
there whoa
oh man how far am i back oh this is
really weird not very far oh man I'm
looking at myself haha that is cool I
want to I want you to fly soon with me
with the virtual where's it going I
think the wind just caught it but this
is weird because I'm seeing it from the
drones view not from my own eyes
well you're seeing it from your own eyes
and you see the drone through the camera
not really
okay so first time in the air whoa I'm
just pointing that I'm pointing at the
drone okay but you cannot see it I can't
see it okay well I'm going to come back
toward us and then I'm going to put on a
VI I'm kind of low how close am I um
well oh this is trippy I find I'm moving
my my head with the drone but you're not
you I am oh I'm looking up and down with
my eyes I'm afraid to get any kind of
acceleration or speed because there's a
little it's not like a latency there's a
little bit of a choppiness but the
clarity is really good and obviously I
am flying this with just my cell phone
in these goggles that's cool Zak I like
to try I don't think you should go and
much further am I pretty far yeah see I
see what the drone sees so to me it just
feels like I'm just I'm there you're
flying yeah you're stupid I know I'm not
moving very very fast because I'm a
little nervous too I'm moving really
slow aren't I
no that's pretty fast I got a little
nervous there
because I did kind of take off wow it
was really really cool okay you want to
try holding B you want to put the
headset on yes okay jack is going to my
camera guy today is going to try on the
headset so put those on and can you see
just a bunch of grass right now oh my
god now I feel like I can fly because I
feel like I can see the drone okay so I
was moving pretty slowly how does that
feel Dec you're looking all around
you've got your you're looking at the
sky with your head isn't that trippy
okay I'm going to try one of the faster
modes
lagging a little bit of lag
I hear it
it's nice that the FPV works so well
[Music]
frames per second note that is
first-person view of the the virtual
reality that's everywhere he has no fpv
so fpv now let's try the altitude hold
which is really impressive for a drone
that doesn't have a GPS that's amazing
that altitude hold means that it stays
in the same position so look at that now
the wind is taking it away but the
altitude is staying the same I'm not
touching the radish my nose but then I
scream
so alpha-2 whole works surprisingly well
for one without a GPS
ah did you fly it right over my head
yep do you think they're okay it's going
there's a good little play around flier
there she is the Black Talon from Eric's
drones nice little flier with a lot of
fun to fly actually cool
just want to reach out and touch it to
the VR experience I have you ever flown
with goggles no because like again I do
like the commercial stuff where we
aren't really allowed to okay but I have
a few friends that love drone racing oh
yeah and like yeah of us got one of
these things cornell ago i wonder miles
and i would want to go somewhere where
you could like go like check out caves
or check something out where you could
actually go constantly right like get
all up in the weird crevices in a cave
without crashing your drone sure I love
a good enough at it that you could set
up obstacle courses and things you see
if you like Red Bull Air Race like the
little pylon let's do that let's do that
category 5 their race
nice speaking of goggles and virtual
reality though we want tell us a little
bit about what you've been up to I was
up to something in the virtual world but
then I found out I was in the real world
because it was really confusing because
I went to vrzo which translates to
virtual reality Toronto that's pretty
fun no it was a conference that happened
down I think around a week ago down in
Toronto Ontario and it was pretty much
everything VR so is really awesome they
had some few augmented reality stuff in
there too but the main focus was VR and
it was awesome because sure he had the
gaming and like simulations and stuff
but we also saw like a lot of neat
applications and art aspects of like VR
especially when it comes to like human
social interaction like we saw a lot of
communication stuff happened - cool
awesome so now what are what are we
going to see here like I have you
experienced VR before other in like
little array and little Timbits I have
but like never never yeah so Canadian um
but never like this in depth of in-depth
before like I've tried like a Nam
wrestling it's such a rare exactly and
the thing is that I I really tried like
around three or four years ago the
original um oculus rift
okay she was acquired by Facebook um but
everyone at this conference had the new
HTC vive which means that you have the
space to walk around in
right as well as like you could see like
your your protocol II interact like a
touching thing exactly you have an
entire space to walk around and the
course like that for its sensors and
everything else is all around like your
little play area but you're going to see
some of these are so unique that they
actually have physical real-world
objects like a bike for example that
interact in your game so it's a really
interesting experience and there's a
horror video game as well as lush that
space is like game alright so lack near
your disclaimer time - it's so spooky
heads out of the room I guess oh no no
no no no keep them in it's so cool okay
but no 13 and over all right I can't
wait to see this you know what I'm
really excited sure because again before
we start it's not just the gaming and
everything else aspect we see some
really amazing ideas for VR that I never
thought possible
like we see how charities can use VR we
see how we can make it accessible how
artists like make music video out of VR
it's it's it's insane so cool I'm really
excited to show you guys thank you guys
what happened so I want to take a look
head on over all right
see you there hey guys I was going to
Tenri from category 5 TV we are at
Ryerson University down in Toronto
Ontario today to take a look at VRT oh
the conference for everything VR let's
go take a look and what they have in
store
you
so here we are guys we are in probably
the best room in the entire VR
conference we're in the game arcade
right and what do you guys have for us
today here well part of the game arcade
is this game called paper dude which is
a old-school revival of a I guess the
90s game called paperboy
so we've rebuilt it using using virtual
reality and we have people sitting on a
bike and they're fully immersed as they
pedal they're moving forward and they're
using their arms to throw newspapers
inside mailboxes so basically it's are
all image to this old classic that's
amazing he's not wearing a helmet right
now so is it considered safe it's pretty
safe although it is pretty immersive
okay that's amazing so what what a
company do you guys come from so like
what do you guys do at your studio like
who are you guys sure so we're a company
called Global core and we do a lot of
interactive installations and usually
they're featured inside exhibits at
conferences or at trade shows and
museums here it's also May it's so like
what what do you guys see in VR moving
forward like do you see a lot in gaming
do you see like more interactive
storytelling what what do you personally
see in VR in the future I see a lot more
social like a lot more people in the
yard like inside of the experience
together so yeah a lot more like a lot
more like multiplayer kind of scenarios
that's awesome so like a more social
aspect into it right um so I'll kind of
cap off today before he gets too tired
here um what's what's your favorite
experience so far in VR that you firstly
had like in the entire VR realm I've
been really into interactive
documentaries so there's a few that are
out for the Samsung gear they're pretty
good and yeah awesome I'm gonna ask you
one more question um so today kind of
how like a set up with him riding on the
bike so how's this working I see you
have an HTC vive here you have some
sensors behind me so how is this kind of
setup working right now for you guys so
right now we're using the HTC volume
just going to reset it
and we're using the hand trackers so
these are trackers that are eventually
going to come with the vibes that allows
you to kind of put them on you know
different objects like for instance
these gloves so instead of holding the
vibe controllers we're allowing you to
still be able to hold on to the handle
bar and it just kind of becomes a little
bit you know a little bit more fun a
little bit more immersive yeah that's
awesome does does he get bonus points
for hitting me in the head no okay no
okay thanks okay thank you so much guys
that is some really really cool tech and
it's really amazing to see such a such a
while implementation with it it looks
really cool though I like um believers
now oh my gosh oh so weird okay
also too I like Rouge's grab things or
you know reveal a favor
okay so there's like a center like it
all right there and I could go like that
I like my little safety zone here but
you could very cool I just start typing
with it go yes oh my god oh that is
weird
so all these like different mailboxes
that have to like nails yes oh man oh my
god oh my gosh can't oppose the goodness
that per forever
yeah did you do this instead of like
your own friends I did your favorite
never sleep it's like the hardest job
I've ever oh my gosh oh my gosh I have a
new respect for Olmec we did the story
oh my gosh man that is cool and here we
are so we have another tree for you guys
um so tell me about this game it's
called debt effect VR so what's this
game about okay it's a first-person
shooter game it's being released very
recently on steaming in early access you
get like 10 levels or all ready to play
and it's very good game as you see and
you can see you got a lot of enemies you
got also very heavy weaponry you have
like 30 weapons and each level you've
got to upgrade them so it's very good
also and in two weeks we're planning
actually released the full version on
Steam and it will have the multiplayer
and also mmm it's like a person version
versus person it's a VP yeah you know
what I'm yeah PvP so it's good and also
detroy levels so you got to love it more
in China hours more so it's good it's
great actually that's that's amazing so
as soon as you said space I'm all in
like I love space so this is an awesome
game and you said you had multiplayer so
you can interact with other players so
you said there's like a person person
person mode right yes definitely and I
should probably tell you something about
this story but it's great you know a lot
of these games got that kind of story so
it's a like you are on monster in faster
ship which is having to star and
actually the things got pretty bad there
everyone so you just woke up fro from a
Kryptonian sleep and you found out that
all your colleagues turns into zombies
that's that is not good that is that is
not good yes and you have to find
against these zombies and also against
the soldiers who actually are coming
from the earth to kill you because they
think that you are the enemy so it's
yeah it's a bit of a sticky situation
than a like it's a
and you've got a drone there also the
bad dogs and yeah a lot of enemies but
what's a good thing you got really a lot
of weapons yeah you got like for
shooting you know I don't even know that
is all yeah and also the Draenei is also
like a bull with arrows swords different
type of sources and upgrading still
upgrading right space explosions
multiplayer how can you say no to a game
like this that's just absolutely
fantastic
what's your studio name again that's fly
interactive awesome and this studio is
actually very small to small indie
studio based in Czech Republic really
yep wow that's awesome so you guys are
on Steam right now people watching can
go buy this right now for early access
and you can blow stuff up in space that
is absolutely fantastic do you do you
have any final words do you have any
hints or words of advice for people
trying to survive zombies in space ah
yes let's get on let's get on the board
right yeah good thank you so much or at
all thank you so much that that is some
really cool stuff now I have to go blow
up some zombies so I'll see you later
bye but
sorry guys much really hot
now we're going to tone things down a
bit
and we're going to talks about some more
serious stuff and we're going to give
love to the world now so I my new friend
here
what exactly is give love well what is
it yeah so give love is a world first
via our donation platform and what that
means is that organizations causes
charities are able to upload their
content in the form of 360 videos and
tell their stories and then end users
like yourself and me are able to go to
the oculars app store download the app
review that content and at any time
donate seamlessly through that set wow
that's that's absolutely amazing so um I
think you said oculus like what
platforms will this be available upon so
our launch platform is the oculus app
stores gear VR headset so right now
we're considering it to be kind of a
single user in-home experience but we do
have plans on the roadmap to support
group experiences going forward that's
amazing um is it free to download or is
it like a one-time cost or absolutely
free that is absolutely amazing now how
the heck does somebody like this come up
with this like whose idea was it to
let's change the world by using virtual
reality like how do you guys come up
with that idea like it must be crazy ya
know it's a great question so we work
with an organization called 3,000 miles
to here and what they do is they fund
brain cancer research so years back we
had developed a Google glass prototype
for them that allowed them to keep in
touch with their donors well while they
had an event called Race Across America
where the bikers could bike across the
country and then they would seamlessly
be able to receive donations and this
was kind of the evolution of that so we
wanted to know how do we make it easier
for people to keep in touch and one of
the insights that we got from them was
that there was a time lapse that occurs
between the point of impact when someone
feels compelled to donate and the point
at which they're actually able to and
this helped us close that gap that's
amazing because today I've been hearing
a lot about like kind of like the social
impact of ER
like things like multiplayer getting
more social but to know that you can
physically change the world now for the
better by putting on a headset that's
that's pretty darn cool um that's that's
just amazing so like how would an
organisation get involved like this so
like if there's like an organization
that's trying to like look after water
or people would they come to you guys
like or do you go to them or how that
work for these organizations so a little
bit of both right now we're doing some
organic outreach some PR this is
actually the first place that we're
demoing right here at VRT oh so for now
it's both if organizations are
interested they can reach out to us at
the primacy comm slash give love and
yeah we'd be be happy to talk that's
that's that's amazing are you guys going
to give a lot of love out there we're
trying to it's do or do not there is no
try
you gotta okay thank you so much your
health guys that's that's pretty cool
so we're downstairs now and now we're
seeing a lot of really creative uses
with the VR so you guys made a PR you
tell me about that what is it like so
it's like a music experiences and played
through as a story that is rapid
progress imploded enemy is such an
awesome see what you need to do is them
and something sometimes nothing
happening sometimes okay handles and
ideals some like Marcos Astoria artists
like growing up childhood or coming to
like coming to adulthood yes I mean
whatever yeah for just now I get out
exactly that's not really into like it's
a fully interactive music video I've
never driven before like how to judge
believe it like I mean cake for equality
at Nora's Asian Age acknowledgments
there are reasons for a share box it
will be attached with you all the bureau
we need or we don't census in Aries or
anything to think of it so spread out a
little bit and we're very close
help me get it so we hope it interactive
itself you guys might be already so like
how can somebody like your experience
like a good online as you can how you do
how how many like watch your videos
you're ready to draw good but I mean
anyone was an oculus really okay go
ahead and do it so what are you guys
gonna share you I'm sharing it on the
future like maybe like I felt like I
believe like a silo be our website or
anything would be Sheree's greatest
lecture me on it but everything about
them I'm sure to check it out
I believe next year another big ball
they hang you can like what you can do
is you can pick it up and you see if
they're real or not but by picking it up
a certain order we hope you go there
real then you good so this is the real
mr. stark girl okay so there now it's
your shot okay and it's real simply you
think anything is you were half get in
there I thought all of that but did you
buy the purple then approval for yes
alright they need it okay
query here it's oh no like yeah he's
gonna do that I get you out right where
you are and then we played a lot of cool
we have this exact table at work
seriously well OH
this is the that's the real ball doesn't
look like a Mitch mm uh Christmas I
guess you soon yeah like how you think
you like play your buddy's like yeah
like a trust get a table yeah go back to
that like astronaut
I listen to the ball right yeah and
that's it folks so many amazing things
in VR here today down in Toronto thank
you so much for watching now got to run
back to the studio see they're running
back to the studio I switched my shirt
so Somali okay look like it was so much
fun it was pretty darn fun again like I
wasn't really sure what to expect with
that right because this is like yeah
like you've seen like a lot of cool
games and a lot of her yeah but like
again like artists are really picking up
on things and same as like the social
aspect to like again a lot of it was
really like social driven like
interaction between people and of course
like the charity stuff with like give
love that's cool on a course some video
games who can go wrong I'm sure now the
last interview there were some mic
problems during the record so what they
were talking about they made a music
video yeah so all these how it works is
that they were working with another
artist down south there and um yeah so
basically it was an interactive music
video so you basically followed along
the journeys so I saw scene hoping we
didn't - yeah well no I don't remember
that but like from the screens that they
were showing us like in like a little
private area of course the artist owns
the music um it was really unique right
because it's like um as they're saying
like you follow through the story and
you actually interact with objects which
keep things pressing forward oh man it's
so unique because again there's so many
uses especially in the realm of like
just artistic yeah uses for the VR that
it's exciting and unique experiences
because I'm totally what Sasha may
encounter in that music video would be
different than what I
exactly and that's the cool thing too is
that you really do make your own journey
and when you see things like ah like all
these games and like the paper throwing
because I was cool because we might have
this earlier it's exercise it is for
videos right like imagine if you're
playing that game for like an hour like
it doesn't feel like remember on dark
near you're black yeah yeah their bikes
yeah for my so but the big screen in
front imagine in VR as a fitness
application that's being able to because
you you I think I think five or ten
years it's really going to take off of
that realm yeah like you know even under
like five I think we're going to see
that start to pop up a lot more often
and I hope so because of great ideas and
as you saw here today there's so many
amazing uses out there for it already
yeah and it's still like it's still new
technology like they're supposed to be
coming out with a new headsets hopefully
soon like you're still working on the
controllers as you saw with the bike one
they have like the new motion
controllers but hopefully with the new
upcoming headsets that are higher
quality maybe better motion tracking
it's going to be pretty cool nice pretty
fun stuff out there what do you think
would be the ultimate use for virtual
reality post your comments below and
also you can go over to our forum forum
dot category-five dot TV thank you so
much Henry appreciate you doing that
Henry much hey Sasha
happy birthday hi Sasha thanks I don't
need VR to know that connector I
actually have something up on my screen
I was like hmm what is the copyright
status happy birthday to you we can do
it Thursday dear Henry ine Larry first
ago
yes and we can get away with it now
singing you know because copyrights open
now so I teach a public domain and made
your huge VR debut yeah I just 23 okay
whatever
ridiculous just ridiculous all right
Josh are you ready to take us away into
the news oh yeah I can be ha ha ha
whatever thrive
oh yeah it's how fast okaybut are look
at the time good time tonight called
busy relaxing watching you know you to
work Henry you thought Henry got
everything covered for you tonight is
not that nice how'd your turn it's your
turn okay here are the stories were
covering this week in the category 5 TV
newsroom delay in flight diversions at
Gatwick Airport due to someone flying
Facebook's internet beaming drone has
successfully a successful flight and
flawless landing and a US judge decided
that protection against Facebook's
tracking is up to the user and has
thrown a court case that claims
otherwise thrown out of court case it
claims otherwise these stories are
coming right up
don't go anywhere Jeff Weston yelling
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website what
are you alright you're terrible actor
what that's where acting comes into play
I don't know what are acting you're
supposed to act okay fair enough
building a really cool website are you
building a really cool website you need
hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
it's sure how much harddrive space do
you have how many email accounts how
many domains can point to it well we've
got an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are going to get
unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the roof of your own
com dice to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat v dot TV slash
DreamHost
still fucked out of a paper size just
don't do it but hey it's a great deal
folks best deal you're going to find
five dollars and change per month put a
cap five dot TV / dream host I'm Sasha
dramatis and here the top stories for
the week of July 5th 2017 a drone flying
close to Gatwick Airport led to the
closure of the runway and forced five
flights to be diverted an air force
spokesman said that the runway had been
closed for two periods on Sunday of nine
and five minutes after the drone was
sighted easyJet said that four of its
flights were diverted while British
Airways said one aircraft was diverted
to burn burn mouth burn mouth other
flights were put into holding patterns
as a precaution Sussex Police is
investigating
so drone safety prohibits any sort of
drones near airports right and although
your name guy so tell us a little bit
about regulations around airports say
what that's kidding yeah um so anyways
you're in Canada it's different around
the world right now but we're seeing
more and more of these kind of close
calls happen yeah it's scary right
because you only know that drones are
going to get more and more popular like
I'm about to get bigger and more robust
right like even when they get smaller to
which they are like jji has their new
spark and all those nutriment out so if
everyone has like a selfie drone now and
it's like Oh what if it hits a spark or
something or like what what if something
happens and it flies away it doesn't
really matter if it's like smaller big
if it goes in a jet engine it's going to
do damage why can they do like some sort
of weird like scrambling fry your drone
if you get too close thing at airports
because you're not smart and flying your
drone your Airport then your drone
should be fried yes but no because if
you're sending out special radio signals
then those might interfere with actual
aircraft both of us ought down the 77
violet is not working with it yeah you
know it may not be perfectly balanced
right and I think public education is
going to be a huge factor in this
because again like it comes down to
common sense but unfortunately common
sense isn't so common apparently and
I've been reading a few articles that
there have been several large fines in
the UK recently when it comes to drone
use because just like here in Canada I
guess commonwealth's kind of the same
thing on how like if you fly over like
open areas it's okay because you're out
in the middle of nowhere but if you fly
over cities and stuff then that's where
it gets really serious right because if
it falls on people if it's near an
airport things like that here in Canada
the rules are nine kilometers away from
airports and not any aerodrome so farmer
Joe has is like little grass field or
whatever that still counts fb9
kilometres away from that which cuts off
like 90% of Ontario like our province
from flying drones so it's all about
balance right because we can't keep that
sorry this is going to be really
opinionated we can't keep that
now because it stifles growth of the
industry right for both hobbyists and
commercial commercial it's a little bit
easier because I did my time I can fly
anywhere and with a commercial drone
you've got a GPS so they can just put
fences up yeah I aligned I was flying my
big drone at my sister's place which was
kind of close to an airport and I was
trying to get up and there was a ceiling
there now there are some place like any
no so think you have a thing yeah well
actually but a litter no this doesn't
have GPS so they can't stop well here's
the thing if you really want us to do
damage knock on wood don't try this at
home if you really wanted to do damage
it's not that hard to do right anyone
can buy a drone or make one now oh yeah
and do whatever with it so it's like we
want to have laws in place that make
things safer but don't punish those that
want to do good with it right that's it
very area right now yeah and this makes
me think okay well this is going to end
up causing regulations to hurt people
like me and you yeah and we're not going
to fly near any well just just a cap off
on that last point and we should be good
but like there's companies and Russia's
now that are selling DJI products that
are geo France unlock now so like we
have hackers that are same on I know
it's it's really unfortunately right a
see obvious yeah and the thing is if
you're a commercial guy like me you kind
of you can unlock them sure um so it's
just saying yes I have my special flight
operator certificate yes and all the
rules and that's it so for us commercial
guys is not that hard for non-commercial
keep it into the zone there for a reason
yeah yeah and not to not to take any
more time but just how naive am I to
think that an airplane an aircraft could
have some kind of a barrier on the
engines that would protect against
something like this going over to the
engine no I can't yeah masters may turn
it around well no because like as soon
as soon as you start putting things in
front of the engine you're getting less
airflow which makes it more costly which
makes it less it just wouldn't work that
way unfortunately because literally like
every little bit of degree counts like
every single molecule in that engine
counts like we need it to be as
efficient and that's what blowing and
Airbus and all those big guys are saying
we need these planes to be efficient if
they can get an extra
like um two pounds or like two grams on
to the aircraft they will do it like
payload wise that's tough so it's again
it's gray area because you want to
balance safety with like your right
because it's your own thing again we
could talk about this all day guys but
out of this I think we're going to see
more of this unfortunately but hopefully
we see some more creative solutions not
mine
which takes planes out of the air
potentially right Facebook has completed
its second test flight for its
solar-powered internet beaming drone
called
Aquila the flight was conducted on May
22nd in Yuma Arizona and lasted for one
hour and 46 minutes though Facebook just
released the information last week
Facebook said that the drone landed
perfectly on a prepared landing site an
earlier version of Aquila was
substantially damaged in attract or in a
crash substantially damaged in a crash
during its first test flight over
Arizona last year according to an
investigation by the National
Transportation Safety Board to avoid
another crash Facebook tweaked the
design of Aquila by adding wing spoilers
a smoother exterior and a horizontal
propeller stopping mechanism the second
version of the drone also includes
hundreds of sensors to record details
about flight performance Facebook plans
to use achelous of being Internet access
to n connected parts of the world the
drone is larger than a Boeing 737 and
designed to stay aloft for months at a
time at altitudes of roughly 60,000 feet
it's completely solar-powered and
requires the same amount of energy to
run as 3 blow dryers Facebook is good
there I like the idea for natural
disasters we talked before with the
first generation of this drone which
apparently crashed and burned
oopsy which is probably why Facebook
didn't say that it worked until after it
worked yes that's why we haven't heard
anything about it since it's alive yeah
but it's a it's beaming down Internet
connectivity to third world countries
places that don't have internet and
places that are disaster torn so you
think about a hurricane going through a
tsunami where infrastructure is damaged
or destroyed now they're able to
Internet connectivity emergency
responders and individuals so they can
let their families know that they're
safe very good news a US judge has
dismissed a lawsuit against Facebook
accusing it of tracking users internet
usage between April 22nd 2010 and
September 26 2011 regardless if they've
logged out of the network US District
Judge Edward Davila on Friday June 30th
stated that the plaintiffs didn't manage
to prove that they had reasonable
expectation of privacy or suffered
realistic economic harm or loss the
plaintiffs alleged that Facebook
leveraged like buttons found on other
websites to track which sites they
visited which essentially meant that the
world's largest social media network
could create a detailed documentation of
their online activity and browsing
history this argued the plaintiffs broke
federal and state privacy and
wiretapping laws it works this way when
you stumble upon an article that you on
the web that you'd like to share on
Facebook often times they're already be
integrated buttons that you can click on
to share the set article directly to
various channels including Facebook
Twitter reddit and more when a user
visits a site with a specific type of
like button the browser sends
information to two places to Facebook
and the server where the page is stored
the lawsuit adds that Facebook had
promised that cookies are deleted when
the user logs out however the site
continues to receive the information
until a researcher spilled the beans on
Facebook's behavior in 2011 the judge
said that the plaintiffs could have gone
out of their way to keep their online
activity private either by using
incognito mode on their preferred
browser or by using an auto tool by the
digital advertising Alliance but in the
end the judge said they fail to prove
that the social media network illegally
intercepted or eavesdropped on their
interactions by our viewer thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight linux'
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our web site from the
category-five TV newsroom I
sascha Tomatoes thanks I said this is
category five technology TV welcome to
the show it's so nice to have you here
don't forget our forum is up and running
at forum category five TV would love to
have you check in over there
and become a part of our community of
course we also have a live chat room
during the show and all through the week
if you head on over to our website
category five dot TV you will find ways
to interact with us on the interact menu
who is not just a clever name you can
actually interact interact a lot of
questions comments come in on to our
website the forum is a new way to post
your questions and comments but what do
we have this week as far as that goes
all right I have one from Peter Peter
wrote us ask I wonder if you've ever
looked at different sizes of audio files
when in various file formats I know some
formats are lossy but a one-hour stereo
16-bit file would be over 600 megabytes
for is it called a WAV file well yeah
but only 114 megabytes for WMA 93.9
megabytes for flack yep yep 83.3
megabytes for that's really impressive
for flack to the department yeah yes for
a CC and 15 not 4.9 fe AAC sorry Jason a
CC AAC and 54.9 megabytes for MP we're
comparing different file formats for
audio and thinking about the size the
tile becomes okay the best audio format
still seems to be mp3 even though it's
not technically supported anymore all of
these formats are supported by my wife
Mary's 8 gigabyte mp3 player so I'm just
curious what will be the best format to
use to fit a ton of audio books on it
any suggestions oh okay yeah mp3 is
probably the most widely supportive as
far as devices go and I use mp3 because
I can just drag and drop it on to
anything and it plays yeah if you start
going into like a AC even WM WMA is yeah
windows media audio it's a proprietary
codec for windows media so you know
won't work on all devices once a on all
devices some may have paid for the
Matins or whatever they are yeah to be
able to use them let's thing with mp3
and WAV they're very open and the thing
is when you compare the two mp3 is the
compressed format yeah right so you're
going to be saving a lot more space when
it comes to that as you can see as you
saw in I'm analysis right right so we
have to look at it this way so Wave is
lossless so this is what lossless means
it is raw audio it sounds like it sounds
and there's no loss to the sound that's
why it's called lossless lossy means mp3
takes that and removes the stuff that
isn't necessarily needed stuff it's
outside of the the audible spectrum so
things in the you know 24,000 Hertz it's
going to remove those things because the
human ear can't hear it anyway so why
bloat the file with it so it it does
that and then it compresses and you can
lose quality so what it comes down to
then Peter is figuring out what your
ears are capable of hearing and we know
that we're like 20 to 20,000 Hertz we
know that the human voice is much much
different than that we might be what do
you think about seventy to fourteen
thousand hurt yeah and I ad so well so
they're this knowing the spectrum we
save some space
well III would also just save stay with
mp3 this time because file format that's
the contained yeah I know that's the
thing because when you say it's
unsupported or whatever it's it's still
supported just like was it the patent or
something that finally came up or is it
like the the creators of it have said
you know what we're not we're not going
to it's not going to be we're not going
to continue supporting we're not going
to continue developing it like Windows
da no and those avi yeah something like
that a bi containers I don't know
so mp3 is a container it's the file
format but what happens within it and it
is the codec as well so it's MPEG layer
3 so a file container that's oh that's
the dot mp3 or dot WMV or WMA
that's the container and then the codec
is what's inside of that to actually
play so when we understand the relation
of those two things so mp3 being a
compressed format we can compress it at
all kinds of levels using a variety of
different styles of mp3 like do we want
to use CBR you may have heard of
constant bitrate variable bitrate is
saying hey I know that it I wanted to
sound about this good but then when the
drums start kicking in I want to turn
that up a little bit because there's so
much more stuff happening that we need
more data in that moment but then when
it goes down to hush all of a sudden we
can drop down so variable bitrate says
oh I can save some space here because
they're whispering and there's nothing
going on so variable bitrate will save
you a lot of space while still
maintaining overall audio quality could
we do some demonstrating of how this
kind of works yes a couple other things
to remember if you have so generally
speaking a good quality like CD quality
sound file is going to be what 44 point
1 kilohertz and that's CD so that's the
frequency response or the frequency of
the file itself okay a lot of numbers to
throw out there but there's a difference
between frequency and bitrate 44 point
one kilohertz is CD quality 48 is better
than CD quality 16 is way worse okay
like telephone quality so bitrate on the
other hand is how many bits of data per
second are we going to have happening so
you've seen like a forty four point one
kilohertz file with 128 kilobits per
second bitrate so that's like close to
CD 192 would probably be closer to CD
quality and you can go as high as like
320 and the CBR spectrum so so then
there's another thing that effects your
file size I'm throwing a lot of data out
there is it stereo or mono mono audio so
if you put on a pair of headphones and
you're listening to music you hear all
the stuff going on around if you're
listening to audio books like Mary is
and they have music and it's all around
and there's things happening over there
and if you close your your eyes or
whatever you can hear things all around
that's stereo sound if it's recorded in
binaural audio so it's 3d 360 audio
that's stereo sound so you have to use
stereo sound if you want that offense be
the best way to listen to an audio book
could you imagine if you were just like
your eyes were closed and you were just
sitting on the couch and you were like
behind you so like you're in the block
like you're in the movie and you can
hear them talking like yeah ASMR all the
way oh my gosh you're not rubbing my
earlobe thing geez go crazy ah
so if it's a stereo file in that it has
to be both sides and it's surrounding
you know then that's going to use twice
as much data for the same amount of
quality so we know then that if if it's
just someone talking it's an audio book
they're speaking into a microphone
they're reading to you then it's
probably doable in mono because it's the
same thing on both sides and they're
just talking to you and so we can get
away with mono so now that we can make
it a mono file we can actually reduce
the quality exactly in hash in mono and
it's going to be the same audio quality
perceptively as the stereo file with
twice the quality so that means twice
the file size okay if it's a hundred
Meg's in stereo we can cut everything in
half and make it mono it will sound the
same to us but it will only be 50 Meg's
right okay that's what I mean by this
okay i'm going to jump over to my laptop
my wife back is an author and category 5
TV network is we're actually launching a
series of audio books so mary you may
enjoy these they are coming soon we're
working on our first non-seasonal audio
books and then we have one at halloween
we have one little or christmas as well
oopy mm-hmm so got a couple here and if
i click on one this is a stereophonic
file category-five dot TV and along the
left side of the
so if you seen the contours of ancient
equipment portable myriad trash along
with tables and given your balances had
collected dirt dead insects and chunks
of machine Rebekah's voices get center
so with an audio book like this it's
produced it's got music it's got sound
effects things happen all around you in
stereo you're going to get a better
effect but if we want to really cram
enough files onto that a free player we
can go with mono and we do do just fine
so Peter let's look at how we can
actually do that I'm here on Debian 9
and if this will be the same on any
Linux distribution so I'm going to go on
mine it's going to be su to become root
on yours if it's if it's boom - it might
be sudo su but now what I want to do is
apt-get update well Pete update I'm
going to install a quick little program
here apt-get install Oh is it looking my
no hello my machine is looking on the CD
I wonder if it will work app get install
lame is what if actually offers don't
let it blame you said it I need to just
quickly add sources because my my system
was installed from flash and I haven't
ever there we go I'm going to remove the
cd-rom repository ok apt-get update or
apt update ok apt install lame know
which repositories sorry you don't you
don't need to worry about this aspect
Peter this is just me that stretch
updates I need a couple other I may need
to plug in my just to make it happen
quick
come on where's Lane located okay I've
got my flash drive here I apologize you
know this is this is one of those things
where it's like okay we don't ever know
what's going to happen if something
happens now they know how to handle it
just yeah it's Robbie with Cobb that
flash drive and just plug in the flash
drive how's everything need him Oh am I
not going to be able to get lame that is
so lame you know in the meantime be
deafening nine sources dot list let's
even get a proper sources list here this
mine isn't missing a bunch of stuff
shooter apt purge Nano the first thing I
type on a new system what no Nano the
great editor come on now okay Peter I
apologize and viewers at home I'm just
grabbing some okay here here are some
source list I don't have a good source
list because I installed from from the
optical media so I'm just going to grab
the demo from the Debian site with the
non free components don't there we met
this is London apt-get update now we're
getting it from the web there we go
that's where it was supposed to start
folks the interwebs
so Peter if so now I've done the apt-get
update it's just going grab my current
repositories fantastic and then we're
going to install the application called
lame boom
totally apt-get install lame there goes
there are so many things in this world
that are lame lame is not is actually
awesome what is it it's an mp3 decoder
encoder for Linux whatever you can
install it do anything you want with
these mp3 files okay so I'm going to
jump on my desktop and then into the
audiobooks folder I've got those two mp3
files there and if I look at them the
one I'm looking at is Gerren and it is
27 megabytes so what I want you to do is
first of all you'll notice if you do
lame - - help there isn't a lot of
information there so instead I want you
to learn to go man lame man ditch day
man lame bro all right so here's our
manual so first off we've got options
okay so this is what we're looking for
but these are the input options lame is
going to recognize an mp3 file as an mp3
file so I don't need to worry about any
of the input options does that leave
them be and you're fine so let's get
down to our actual encoding here we go
operational options so this is where I
would take a pen may I borrow your pen
yes you may thank you so I'm going to
look at this and I'm going to say okay
mode I know this is an audiobook Peter
so I want to do mono so for mode we do -
M and then for mono we do scroll down
just a little ways here see that mono is
M so my actual command is going to be -
M space M for mono so it's going to
change the mode to mono now let's
continue on in the man pages and see
what else we need - a is for if you are
using a PCM source don't worry about it
because your source is mp3 - D allows
the left and right channels to use
different block size types not
applicable free format D code we don't
need any of that keep going keep going
replay gain you probably don't need that
but that is just a
Way of telling your mp3 player if it's
compatible with mp3 game that you know
these are the maximum and minimum levels
and that will try to equalize them for
you the audio should be alright keep
skipping keep skipping and what else do
we need - queue for quality okay so -
queue we want to set our quality to
something that's going to be pretty good
and looking at this - q0 is nuts
- q0 says the quality of this encoder is
so darn good that is probably ridiculous
it doesn't affect the file size all it
does is it just takes more time so if
you're working on a really really big
file doing - q0 is going to be nuts as
far as the time goes versus - q4 4 would
be faster but a little less quality
whether it's perceptible or not but i
have a fast computer so I always do the
I don't mind waiting for it so I'll do -
q0 next up - h simply add some high
quality improvements to the lame encoder
why would i not do that because you want
something fast if you want something
fast don't do all the high quality stuff
because it takes more time if you don't
mind waiting hey dude - H you see that
use some quality improvements encoding
will be slower but the result will be of
higher quality doesn't affect the file
size ok so do we want constant bit rate
which is - the CBR no we want to go we
talked about it we don't want ABR either
that's the average bit rate we want VBR
the variable bitrate I've already
described what that does so we're going
to use the new variable bitrate so we're
going to go - - VBR - new you see that
on your screen and then our VBR quality
that's right here our variable bitrate
and - B and then the number is the
actual quality of our VB our file zero
being the highest quality 9 being the
worst quality figure that one out it's
not probably the aggression that I
should yeah so we're going to you know
what I'm going to leave - B as is so the
default is 4 I'm happy with that if I go
any lower
that it will be a larger file if I go
higher I'm going to lose quality
so our bitrate with a lowercase B that
is the that is the is that this no
that's the bitrate
so this is the kind of the where we're
averaging things so - B I know that it's
speech we talked about how if we're
doing mono we can cut things in half so
we know that this is 192 or 128 kilobits
per second if I cut that in half it's
going to sound exactly the same because
it's mono mono okay yeah so we can go as
low as 64 without affecting the sound
quality it's going to be half the file
size so let's try that let's go - B
that's a lowercase B 64 I'm jotting this
down so that we get the full command
upper case B that's that's the maximum
allowed bit rate why would you want to
do that because you really want control
over the file side so I'm going to say
you know I want the minute the minimum
to be I set it to 64 I'm going to
explain in a second why we're going to
actually go lower than that but I want
the maximum to be 96 say for example so
that the file size is controlled so what
variable bitrate encoding does is it
looks at the file Peter and it says okay
we're right now if we had this bitrate
we're going to have good quality and
it's going to fluctuate between the
minimum and maximum that you have set
so again if we're whispering if we're
talking like this there's no drum if
there's no keyboards there's nothing we
could drop down to 8 kilobits per second
and it'll still sound fantastic because
there's just my voice okay okay
audiobooks very very common so the lower
case B I'm going to say no we're not
going to go with 64 I'm going to go down
to 8 8 and our maximum let's go up to so
that's a capital B capital B and I'm
going to post all of this in the show
notes below so make sure you check out
our website category 5 TV or if you're
on youtube you'll see that in the notes
capital B we are going to go with a
higher bitrate than that we're going to
go with 96 I'm going to say that is the
absolute max
that I want to hit as far as my variable
bitrate goes and that's it that's all
that I need so I've got - mm we know
what it means convert it to mono
- q0 really good quality at the behest
of speed and then we've got - H for high
quality stuff VB our new is the sub - -
PBR - nu is the the type of encoding
we're going to use - B lowercase is 8
that's the lowest bit rate and the
highest is 96 capital B - 96 let's do it
okay so my files take Garan and we're
going to go lame and I'm going to start
with my command so - mmm mono - q0 good
quality - H high quality encoders - - vb
r - nu that's our actual format it's
going to be variable bitrate using the
new algorithms - B with the lower case B
is 8 that's the lowest I want to go as 8
kilobits per second and then the highest
- capital B is 96 input file Garen and
then output file my output dot mp3 enter
boom there it goes now this is taking an
entire audio book which is a short story
so it's not overly long but let's see
how long this takes us there goes what
do you think we're going to notice it's
mono ooh there we go all done LS - lah
my output is 14 Meg's Garen the original
audio book was 27 Meg's let's give a
quick audio sample just to see and this
is how you're going to do this Peter is
you're going to try all different kind
of bit rates try all different kinds of
settings and find out which one is going
to work for the audiobooks and then
convert them all to this format to save
a lot of space you can see that already
we're saving a ton of space if I do a
media info on Garen by Becca Ferguson
the original oh I don't have media info
installed that's a helpful tool when
you're doing this install media info
and then run that command again this
tells us all about the codex and bit
rates and file size and all that kind of
stuff so it shows us this original file
with constant bitrate 192 kilobits per
second and lossy does it say if it was
stereo yeah joint stereo there you go so
now if I look at my new one media info
my output you'll see this one now is
variable bitrate overall that rate is 80
4.2 kilobits per second and we should
see that let's see
format version layer 3 lossy do we see
that it is in mono at all I'm looking
for it I'm looking for it someone
probably spots it
I don't see it you guys see it oh no Han
they've done it differently channels one
channel that's the same as saying mono
okay so let's give it an audio listen
here's the original so this is full
quality quite a bit larger category five
dot TV presents a short story by Becca
Ferguson okay so that's the original now
let's jump on to my new version category
five dot TV presents a short story by
Becca Ferguson okay so you hear how
entirely acceptable and yet original
file twenty-seven Meg's new file
fourteen very cool just like magic we've
kept the sound quality pretty close to
the same now we're using variable
bitrate so it's finding that kind of
fluctuating between different bit rates
in order to get good sound but generally
speaking we are getting similar quality
but in mono and cutting the file size in
half you can really play around with
that take that command Peter and anyone
else watching this and thinking hey this
is kind of neat and say okay now let's
say my lowest is eight and my highest is
32 and try that because you can keep
experimenting and say what what kind of
difference is that going to make so now
the highest bitrate it can touch is 32
that's nutty lucky but we're mono now so
that's actually the equivalent of 64
kilobits per second which is half of 128
which is CD quality right so it should
be quite bearable let's look at the file
size difference will let you this file
now is only seven point four megabytes
original file category five dot TV
presents a short story by Becca Ferguson
okay new file this is the super - super
duper tiny 17.7 Meg's category five dot
TV presents ort story by Becca Ferguson
you hear what happened there we start to
hear a little bit of hitting this so you
experiment with those take it up to 64
instead of 96 and play around and get
the sound that you're looking for
see how you can fluctuate the sound
improve the quality as you make changes
to those numbers cool thanks for the
question I hope that that's helped you
out nice thing about lame is because it
is a Bosch terminal application you can
code it into scripts you can add it to
servers you can do all kinds of stuff we
use it here at the show for our mp3 RSS
feeds so when you download an mp3 for
our podcasts on any of our shows it's
all created using lame through a script
that runs on a cron job right that's
that you have it well this is category 5
technology TV I hope you've enjoyed the
show tonight it's been really really
nice having you here thanks to Henry for
all the work that you did oh so much
more I prefer to go antosha
great to have you here thanks for
everything and I thank you for being
here and look forward to chatting with
you in the forum at forum category 5 TV
and through our website which is simply
category 5 TV see you next Wednesday
night good night
[Applause]
