we are looking at how to encrypt an
external or removable device so that if
you put your personal files on it as a
backup you don't have to worry if
someone steals it or something obviously
you want to have redundancy but I'm
talking about the privacy aspect here
and that's it we're talking about them
plugging it into their computer and
being able to access your private files
we want to do away with that by using
encryption we're gonna be doing it
entirely through the Linux terminal so
for tonight's demonstration I've got
simply this okay
it's a Kingston data traveller 16
gigabyte USB flash drive hey hey I mean
it works you want to throw some files on
it and keep a backup of those needed
files first of all what the backup a
backup is redundant copies you of your
stuff right it's got a bunch of nice
pictures of my kids on my computer they
are not backed up if I move them to this
right because this is now the only copy
right they are backed up if you moved
into two of those you know yeah but
preferably let's copy them let me
redundant copies so that if this one
gets destroyed or lost or stolen or
whatever and they fail you know USB
flash drives they say laughter so much
use so making sure that you have
redundancy and copies and something
off-site so that if there's a fire or
something like that they're gone don't
leave these things plugged into your
system because then if you get hit by a
power surge and your computer gets shot
guess what so does the thing plugged
into the USB port so okay those are just
kind of tips that don't have anything to
do with encryption but tonight we're
going to learn how to encrypt this so
I'm going to plug this in to my computer
here and let's see what happens here we
go so I'm just plugging this into my
laptop and no applications to open it
but there it is on my desktop I'm going
to just double click on it and you'll
see that I have a top secret mile in
there and within that top secret file
I've got something secret it could be
anything right so now the process that
we're going to use tonight is entirely
destructive so we're going to be
starting with a drive that has nothing
on it essentially keeping in mind that
if you've already got data on that
Drive you need to move it off to more
redundant storage so that we can now
encrypt this so the advantages to
encrypting this file system essentially
are you have to know the password in
order to access it so the advantage then
of course being if somebody gets a hold
of that data drive they're not going to
be able to open the files but you will
be and we're not individually encrypting
files and having to decrypt them no
we're setting it up so that you just
simply enter a password in order to
mount it and then you can access it just
like any other USB Drive we ready to get
into it sure are all right let's bring
up our Linux terminal here I'm using a
boon to Ma Tei this will work on any
flavor Linux and we're going to follow
you know steps that are generic to any
debian derivative operating system
so that's boon to debian of course I
need to boon to like a boon to matei or
boon - Kubuntu or anything else anything
that is based on you know debian and has
apt-get that said the steps will work
just fine if you want to use yum as well
you're going to have to substitute some
commands all right okay so with that
drive plugged in watch what happens when
I go LS slash dev SD star you see how
I've got SD a and SD B okay so that's
two hard drives currently connected to
my computer if I unplug that drive from
my computer okay because it's not
mounted so I can do that now and then do
that same command you'll notice I do not
have s DB anymore right so safe to say I
mean really cheap and dirty trick to
find out what the drive assignment is
but hey that's s DB right there so when
I plug that in if I can find the USB
port there we go
help me out here okay I'll just cancel
out the GUI stuff do an LS again and
you'll see STD is in existence now key
point here we are encrypting a partition
on this drive so not the whole drive not
the drive as in a device if you do
encrypt the device so that slash
SPB you're not going to be able to
access it you're not going to be able to
mount it and the headers are going to be
messed up you can fix that by deleting
everything and setting it back to
unformatted in G part edit or something
like that or F disk but we're going to
save you the trouble by just telling you
right off the bat we've got to have a
partition this particular disk already
has an SD b1 so we know that that is in
fact the partition but if you don't have
a partition table on your disk you can
create one with your favorite partition
editor such as G Part II D so the first
thing I need to do is become route in
Ubuntu I'm going to type sudo su and
enter my password in Debian I would just
type su and hit enter and that is felt
su for those of you who are just
listening so now that I am root I'm
going to type apt-get update that just
simply downloads all the latest packages
from the repositories so that anything I
install is going to be the latest and
greatest then I'm going to go apt-get
install and we need that particular
package that's going to allow us to do
this we're going to type crypt setup and
then hit enter my particular system
already has crypt setup installed you'll
see this crypt setup already has the
newest version in ubuntu so you can run
that command just make sure that you've
got the latest version and you'll be
good to go so a couple of steps here
first of all we need to actually make
the drive the partition I should say
encrypted we're going to use what's
called luke's lu KS and it's all done
through crypt setup and nice and simple
if you follow these steps so we know
that we have dev /s DB 1 so that's what
we want to in fact encrypt so the
command in order to do this knowing that
is crypt setup - - I'm going to do
verbose first of all so that I can see
the output here then I'm going to go - -
verify - pass phrase what that does is
it tells the system to ask me for the
password twice just in case I typo
because you don't want to mess that up
and then we're going to use 512 bit
Luke's format and it's a capital F and
then the device itself be very very
careful here dev and
db1 and i say be careful because this is
entirely destructive it's going to wipe
anything that's on that disk and encrypt
it on that partition I should say so if
you accidentally put SD a 1 and that's
your main hard drive you can destroy
your entire well we're along all right
and that's where backups come in so
we're going to hit enter on that and it
says it warns me just like Robbie does
hey are you sure you want to do this I
need to type uppercase yes make sure you
read that it's irrevocable yes enough
that says uppercase yes but hang
lowercase well it does that so that you
actually have to think about it
okay enter your passphrase I'm just
going to enter a password here to use
and then there's that verify passphrase
that asks for a second time and now
cannot format okay it is still in use
let's make sure that it is not in use
let's see what is causing that it is
mounted to boon too so I can eject that
now I could also if it's mounted because
I really want to teach you this in the
terminal let's do mount and we can see
and now we can go mount and then pipe
grep and we're going to go SD b1 this is
a better way to do it and UCSD b1 is
mounted on slash media slash Ravi / USB
16 gigabytes so let's see if I can just
unmount that forcibly from here I'm
going to copy that to my clipboard if I
may you may not be able to do that if
you're in a true terminal so I'm going
to go you mount and then paste that in
and it's gone okay so now I should be
able to run that command because if I
run that grep again notice it is no
longer mounted to my file system okay so
nice to have these little issues come up
so that I can show you what happened
what to do if if you encounter it ok so
then I've just cursor DUP to recreate
that command and then I'm going to type
yes enter my password again I've got to
kind of start over here and here we go
it's not going to take us much time
done okay so now that Drive is an
encrypted
it has nothing on it it has no file
system it's not ready to go whatsoever
we can't even mount it what we need to
do is we need to in fact mount it using
the crypto cryptography system so first
of all I want to confirm that it worked
I know that it did but let's just do
Crypt setup and then we're going to do
what's called a luke's
dump and again it includes a capital D
and then dev stb-1 now if things went
well you're going to see key slot 0 is
enabled that means that my password is
stored in the headers of that drive now
if I do a Luke's dump on SP a1 you'll
notice that dev SDA 1 is not a valid
Luke's device it's not encrypted so I
can see that SB b1 is encrypted it has a
es sha-256 and it's all set 512 bits
it's good to go so now next step is to
in fact open that device and we need to
do that through of course the decryption
system so I'm going to just jump into
you know what I'm going to create how
what's the word a mapper looking for the
words and this noggin of mine we're
going to create a mapper to this drive
so now that it's encrypted we can no
longer just mount SD be 1 right because
it's encrypted we have to create a
mapper so that we can then mount that
decrypted Napper okay I follow
yeah so let's try it in kind of a test
case we're not going to set up a crypt
tab or anything just yet so we're going
to go crypt setup Luc's open with a
capital o surprise and then dev slash
SBB 1 and we're going to call this what
do you want to call it back up enter
enter the passphrase for dev slash s DB
1 because there is one if you enter it
correctly it has created the mapper so
now if I go LS dev mapper I should now
see one called backup
see that mm-hmm so I can now start using
that so watch this thinking of that
mapper as now my decrypted version of
the partition I can format it okay so
now it's time to actually make this
thing into something that's usable what
is going on trying to do a show here
room in the Jakarta class body second
side yes I mean a carrot I try to do a
presentation here chat room is all like
here ok f is now 9 years old
oh it's because I'm gonna flip me Luke
Linden says let's make some ass mine
looks dumb no you're not about Luke
stuff and it should pick survive
I'm doing is Luke it's any Japanese
brother dying over here you're good got
a Balu stump but I'm trying not to laugh
oh my goodness I'm crying
how many Luke's are watching this clip
comment below
Oh as they're watching it on your thumb
on the lip on the liver
oh my good eye you know I can I normally
give considerable myself this stuff and
you kept cutting back to the mic and I'm
like trying not to die and I just I
couldn't do it
Oh Lyndon you're horrible
I love it I'm so happy than the Hoffmans
that point I am gonna have to do another
live stump music just to show you you're
regularly doing chick mister killing me
oh my gosh oh this is the real show this
isn't even the bloopers are
oh wow oh oh my goodness I am crying
people in the chat room cried you
apologize don't you just learn
I mean you Luke alright are we ready oh
definitely not ready to make a file
system do we understand where we're at
you have created a mapper which is
basically what would have normally been
our slash dev slash stb-1
it were not encrypted right created that
mapper so that we can now format it okay
so we're going to go make FS just like
you normally would
dot ext3 okay because that's what I'm
going to create this as slash dev slash
mapper slash backup okay so now it's
going to tell me all right it's just
doing it doing it that's going to take a
little bit more time you know one of the
things that I is always kind of irked me
a little bit about the terminal system
so you never get that percentage there's
like it just sits there and it's
thinking of it like you look at a window
a percentage bar and it's going to tell
you you know oh I know it's like I'm in
a 10% left 200 hours yes for a minute I
know but just something to reference
like I did an update on my system the
other languages I'm waiting waiting it
it gets to the point where you going
so my system free yeah yeah you know so
if you think it might have froze oh
there's a thing you can do Robbie showed
this if there's a thing zero check me
I'll be here - me - is going to explain
it the thing you can do what you do is
you call Robbie no no bring up another
terminal window Jeff and type IO top to
see what's using your your i/o your
inputs and outputs notice I'm not super
user so sudo IO top instead and that's
going to show me what's currently using
my okay Val Culex you see the top one is
make and it's going to come and go but
make FS ext3 right and it's doing that
and it's using my eye oh you see that
popping up every now and again so that
tells me that still make FS ext3 is
doing stuff with the io enough so that
it's hitting top
right okay to where it's right out of my
mouth well that answers your you know
that problem is it actually doing
anything yeah you know perfect now you
know and we're having a great time
tonight learning about how to encrypt
this USB flash drive now it's all done
and you'll see that that's simply
returned to the the prompt so now Jeff
if I type sudo I don't need pseudo
because I am route right now but if I do
I owe top note that make FS ext3 is no
longer going to show up there because
what I finished right it's not doing
anything anymore and so the i/o is
finished being used by that application
so now we have that drive encrypted and
formatted as ext3 let's bring it up in
our GUI because that may be why how
we're going to access that moving
forward let's take it from scratch okay
no software needed I just injected it
and going to plug it back in let's see
what happens sometimes your session will
memorize the password so all right click
on it
that's what we're looking for enter a
passphrase to do what unlock the volume
so you notice I can't even access it
unless I know the password I'm going to
enter some gibberish and we're going to
say forget password immediately and
connect and you'll notice you got some
Oh went nowhere and then it says error
unlocking dev slash stb-1 no key
available with this passphrase
incidentally that's the same error
message that you're going to receive if
you've accidentally created the volume
on the device so s DB vs. s DB way so
keep that in mind if you're seeing that
error message and you know you've got
the password right maybe you did it on
the block device rather than the
partition so let's try it with the real
password I'm going to click on it again
and I type in my password here and I'm
going to go forget password immediately
because I don't want my computer
remember it can
did I type it right
there we go we just typed it the first
time so now I've got a completely empty
ext3 file system so you'll see that that
is now accessible on this computer so on
next week's episode we're going to learn
a couple more things we're going to
learn now because it is a read-only file
system I don't have access to it as this
user it's not read-only pardon me it's
owned by root so only root can now write
to that file system we may want to make
it so that our user can actually access
that drive we're going to look at that
next week and we're going to look at how
to make it so that my computer and my
computer alone can open that drive
without a password anytime I pop that in
okay and I'm talking not just not just
from the GUI so of course I could say
remember forever sure that's the GUI I
want to think about things like a server
where I only have SSH access for example
or I only have a terminal I don't have a
GUI so how do we do that we're going to
learn about creating a crypt tab we're
going to learn how to actually mount
that device through our FS tab and
decrypt it automatically using a key
file so that's going to all happen next
week on episode 506 so if you've enjoyed
learning about how to create this volume
we're going to learn how to take it one
step further and make it into the
perfectback backup set so that we can
start throwing our files on it and then
when we eject it it's no longer going to
be accessible on other computers cool
now in the chatroom the fu says that
Luke's supports eight passphrase slots
that's correct
so you can have multiple pass phrases I
know what you're doing I know what you
do I'm just relying what's in the room
what okay I know I know I know what the
foo is doing Oh what did I what did I do
no but get worms no Jeff no Jeff crypt
setup Luke's dump staff stb-1 and now I
can show you that we have eight key
slots
you are correct I love my shadow plane
I love the shout here we are my so job
done I pretty well captain yes the
funniest encryptions tutorial on youtube
today
[Music]
[Applause]
