welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Rob
Ferguson welcome to episode number 241
of category 5 technology TV it is
Tuesday may the first 2012 yeah that's
actually quite beautiful snow came and
is finally gone again which is so much
snow whatever 30 some odd degree is
coming this thursday i'm looking forward
to that how are you doing welcome to the
show everybody nice to see a nice to
have you here nice to have you here
Erica yes second time him yeah I'm happy
to be back good been a benefit a long
month a lot of new projects i'm working
on yeah what what are you up to these
days um well actually I'm working on a
mural on painting 14 yeah I'm painting
one we digitally designed it it's to
bring wellness into the high school that
like to go to so it's too kind of raise
awareness of occlusive pneus and kind of
people who was feel kind of left out so
yeah we're doing big mural and take
about three weeks to do it's in the
entire forum and then I'm kind of
working on a mockumentary a mockumentary
yeah it's gonna be probable 45 minutes
long and it's for a project that I gotta
do and it's called growing up in the
burbs are you to start by any chance
yeah just like kind of you know it's not
for some reason like beer ad comes to
mind yeah I get called airhead probably
won't won't use that one but yeah I
can't really think of anything too harsh
i'm not really like that hey nice to see
everybody in the chat room so sorry that
we're late getting started this evening
we had some technical difficulties off
the top if you're following along in the
chat logs you'll know that or make a
note that we are 13 minutes behind
schedule so at at the 13 mark is where
you should reset the counter to zero so
but great to be here glad that that
we're finally on and good D good to see
you and and I'm excited about your
viewer questions and I don't know
there's a lot that come in and and love
chatting with you in the chat room as
well so so make sure you say hi in the
chat room erica is going to do her best
to follow along there and myself as well
tonight we've got those eco alkalines
batteries that we're going to be giving
away a full year supply it was it was an
intense day of sorting through your
ballots tonight today we had well over
200 ballots that were cast well over
that so that's great turnout yeah so
we've got a lot of we're gonna we're
going to run through your names a little
bit in just a few minutes time but we
can jump right into just checking things
out in the chat room if anyone has any
questions or if you want to get things
started in that regard mm-hmm um well we
have a viewer question from our emoni
and it says that i was advised by a
forum to watch your episode 103 unraid
server and episode 10 for a week with
unraid in order to learn more about a
project i'm researching can you please
tell me how I'm able to watch these
episodes of your show thank you very
much sure 103 and 104
or a little tip for you and I'm sorry to
not be looking at the camera here i'm
also getting things all set up for you
but a little tip for you if you go to
there's a special URL on our site that's
kind of hidden in the back end but our
player is play dot cat five dot TV so
anytime that you want to catch one of
those episodes as long as it's part of
the kind of season two and beyond you
can just append the episode number to
the end of that so just to give you an
idea let me just pull up my browser
window here so if you go play dot cat 50
prompting me for a password there plague
cat5 TV / 10 3 enter will in fact start
playing episode number 103 for you so
that's a quick way to number one track
down that episode so kind of cool so any
of the any episode if you want to just
really quickly get to it you can just
type it in there and also category 5 TV
is a member of the tech podcast network
if it's not if it's tech it's here
thanks Erica I feel like I should have
like some some music or something as I
kind of get things all set here there we
go you've got your very own name at the
bottom nice yeah chatroom any questions
for us off the off the top is we get
things up and going here tonight well we
have my dad on the show yeah he's here
tonight that's gonna be kind of cool
yeah we'll talk to him about what he's
up to these days now we didn't receive
any postcards this week you know that we
love to receive your postcards in the
mail mm-hmm certainly would love to have
you send yours in
yeah that's for sure I think it's
awesome that you guys can send some
postcards to us it's really nice to
actually get them so you know I still
send them when I go on vacation so yeah
that's that's true too you can send your
postcard to category 5 technology TV
postal box 29 00 9 very Ontario Canada
l4 n7w 7 we'd love to receive those from
all over the world cool well if we have
any questions in the chat room all I'll
field those right now as we just kind of
I'm just getting my head on straight
after quite a quite an afternoon of
getting things set up so yeah I think
we're good to go from here on in well at
least be able to work pretty quickly to
get it all up and running wire cast is
fantastic that way getting things back
up and running but yeah good stuff Hagar
be nice to see ya a couple people in
chat room wondering what was the cause
of the problem and essentially cameras
didn't come online our USB bus wasn't
wasn't coming online so so big problem
so we're down to one camera tonight just
to get up and running had I had more
time behind the scenes to get things up
and going I probably could have figured
out what was going on and in the big
picture but here we are we're on the air
so
well we have another viewer question it
is from Abby I guess abbey mail I can't
really pronounce it and it's robbie have
you tested a boon to 12.04 betta and
we'll up and we'll perfect a boot to
work with it many thanks to you and your
co-host Jim hey Jim perfect bhuntu is a
dead project plain and simple I mean
that was a great project when a boon to
was known to based operating system
distribution as it is now I've kept the
site online but as the old LTS is phased
out I think we're just going to let
perfect boom to die off unless there is
a demand for specific features but truth
be told you know it was a great project
for those early earlier distros but now
ubuntu is kind of made it obsolete so
it's unfortunate I've considered maybe
porting it over to debian but then we're
stepping away from ubuntu linux so if
that's something that interests people
then that's certainly an option as far
as testing ubuntu 12.04 yeah now we're
actually into the LTS cycle so the
distro has been released we're going to
be talking about that tonight so I'll
help you two to see what that's all
about so we're going to look at that
tonight gem and looking forward to it
it's it's pretty decent I think they're
finally getting somewhere with with the
with the unity interface where it's
actually user friendly enough to you
know that I could actually see it on the
desktop a little bit more than I could
with like 11 point oh four and
especially 11 point 10 so things are
progressing they're very very well so
we're going to take a quick break as as
we switch some spots around here on the
set and Lionel lalonde from eco
alkalines batteries is going to be
joining us and we have a full year
supply of batteries to give away so make
sure you stick around you could be the
winner don't go anywhere we'll be right
back at eco alkalines we believe you
should be able to trust your batteries
not just here but
here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here Eco alkalines
of the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco alkalines provide
performance the rivals leading national
alkaline battery brands at a comparable
price find out more about the Eco
alkalines difference Eco alkalines calm
this is category 5 technology TV and i'm
joined by lionel lalonde from eco
alkalines tonight and good to see you
again in a little while it has been
robbed thanks for having us back in the
show we're very excited to be here yeah
you'll remember lino was here I don't
know if it was about six or eight months
ago under a year ago anyways and and
we've done this before and had a little
bit of a chat about what eco alkalines
represents and and what's so
significantly different about your
battery brand and how you do things
would have been up to in the meantime
well you know the folks in our company
have been we've been traveling quite a
bit we've actually we have attended
several shows in Las Vegas Chicago
Florida and basically working more on
our in-store presence right now we've
done a lot of work in the past on the
our web presence and certainly have
gotten our batteries listed with many
online retailers we've actually have a
government as using the batteries we
have military's using our batteries and
ghouls and some of the city's next week
them off to London for my first time
London England okay so I'm out there for
a week to visit with many well-known
retailer so under the next several
months we'll be we'll be announcing some
major watches with the retailers in
Canada the US and
in England fantastic so we're starting
to see equal OPP lines brand batteries
in more and more retail outlets and it's
correct so are they available one of the
questions I've had on the on the show
several times I mean we obviously you
sell them off of your website so i
presume that they can be gotten anywhere
in the world are they currently
available everywhere or the we have as i
said we have more of a web presence
again they're available on Costco
Walmart Best Buy future shop right in
the u.s. they're available on global
industrial Granger Wow right now we have
a good in-store presence in Canada we're
working on the u.s. fantastic me a
relatively new company we're just
exactly just over a year old fantastic
that's really good impressive so tonight
we have a year supply of e co op lines
batteries to give away this does not
represent the year as you remember we
had invincible mutant one last year and
he laid them all out and it was just a
plethora of batteries so so are we good
to give these away like a we already
we're set fantastic well basically what
we did over the past several weeks in
kind of honor and and observance of
Earth Day just a couple weeks ago we
wanted to basically allow people to be
like it's earth day all year round by
using an eco-friendly product like eco
outlines batteries in their devices so
so we have a year supply to give away
make sure you follow eco alkalines on
twitter make sure you visit them at cat
five TV / eco as well and you'll see the
links for the facebook profile all that
stuff there as well and we'd love to
have you learn a little bit about the
company as well so i'm going to start
drawing names here here we go these are
like say lots of the line
Davies
which means people
your account specifically
interest
good luck everybody
I did see total
fly
literally there are so many people that
have
this is going to take
this for a year supply of eco alkalines
batteries for you tomorrow
five dot TV
Cass through Twitter you
enter Facebook and get their facebook
profile
TV / eco for the winner who have wins
the batteries will contact
excellent
when they're slowing down
in the winter Pascal tete roll hi I'm
sorry if I mispronounced but Pascal
congratulations good going gradual
ations and you are the winner of a year
supply of eco alkalines batteries so
what do you have coming up over the
course of the next year interested to as
you said we're working on the number of
retails at retailers they'll be rolling
out the batteries in their stores around
the October time period back to school
yep so we'll certainly announce that
soon as that happens for your show and
certainly come back on and probably
celebrate with another giveaway
fantastic so wonderful now we appreciate
you being here if you see eco alkalines
batteries on the store shelf at your
local retailer make sure you pick them
up and give them a try they are
comparable as far as the quality of the
batteries two major leading brands but
they are eco-friendly 98% recyclable and
they're just fantastic carbon neutral
the world's only certified carbon this
battery is understand so Robbie wanna
thank you for having us in the show and
also for all your support throughout
this year on you know I really love you
commercial thank you those are think
well done you should get a part-time job
with se19 again thank you rob lowe
appreciate it thanks for being here and
congratulations once again to our winner
tonight pascal this is category 5
technology TV thanks for joining us
tonight and you can find us online at
triple w category five dot TV a seamless
transition it's pretty good almost
really good as anyone yeah get your
questions in with us tonight live at
category 5 TV or of course join us in
the chat room when we do our best to
keep up there jot wandering in the chat
room if if your batteries Lionel Lionel
sitting backstage are they available in
europe and I you can yell and I'll
really be that they will be trip to
England next week
be busy with the number retailers
wonderful good also in Sweden and an
hour sweden Ireland and and Europe as
well Anglund Lionel is going there on
monday to to start to continue talks
with that was some of the major
retailers out there so I'm sure you'll
start seeing them very soon so i'd love
to stay linux take care of Lionel thank
you he's off to hockey says he'd love to
stay and chat about linux and I know
that that's the case big linux buff that
guy he's still questioning me changing
over i don't know he's changing over i
am i still gotta do that i'm going to
show you how tonight excited about that
yes i love to to field a couple more
viewer questions before we start looking
at a boon to twelve point oh four okay
and and send your questions into us III
wanted to say I'll add tonight is kind
of a little bit laid back and we're just
kind of you know you're sitting in my
living room just consider it that way
and we're just having a chat hanging out
right not the usual you know down to the
to a tee format show so here we are
we're just hanging out yeah just hanging
in nice to see you thanks for joining me
in my living room the work room living
room lazy mostly okay so we have another
viewer question and says hi cat five my
laptop yet my laptop does a clicking
noise when I power it all here earlier i
was listening to paramore yes and while
i was playing it i started clicking in
my music stopped then no and then the
clicking stopped and my music carried on
Iran for tests on the hard drive and it
passed all four I play the same song
again and just in case I had a bad
sector but I played okay afterwards is
my hard drive on its way out thanks
you're all awesome and this is from I'm
Toby Toby in the chat room I saw you
there since that's my question yeah Toby
dude when a harddrive starts clicking
all right picture
picture an old record player you you oh
we have that talk we had that talk she's
a good nostalgic fan so a record player
an LP player you've got the needle
that's scratching out to the to the
inside of the record and when it gets to
the end it starts to tun tun tun
slapping like that the inside of a hard
drive kind of has that same appearance
it's got a needle that's moving across
the the surface of the hard drive it's
called the heads and those heads if they
become demagnetized or get otherwise
mixed up or if the PCB board is messed
up they can start slapping and when they
do that it can cause all kinds of
problems and it could mean a pending
hard drive failure so if your data is
currently readable this is a good time
for you Toby to create an image of your
hard drive get clonezilla make a copy of
everything that's on your hard drive
make an image so that you can transfer
that over to a new hard drive when that
time comes I don't want you to lose
anything clicking generally is bad it is
nicknamed the click of death so like the
red ring of death on your xbox it's it
just once it starts happening if it
starts happening you're for one thing
count your blessings because a lot of
times your hard drive just dies and you
have no warning it sounds to me like
you've got a little bit of warning so
good you've got everything backed up
that's good I wouldn't trust that drive
for anything if it's if it's clicking
it's on its way out
bad situation always have a backup
sounds like Toki's wise about that can
be used to get it back girls yeah you're
really lucky I lost all my music no no
one deaf to war know like a death just
turned on my laptop watch it didn't turn
it on just black screen of death oh dear
wouldn't even turn on oh yeah is my last
laptop and now i just have I don't know
a newer one that I just need to get
upgraded mostly I'm kind of out of date
justice reminding the chatroom that
sometimes you can hear that little click
when the hard drive heads parked
themselves part that's the old term for
our ll drives and stuff that used to
take that head and move it off the
platter these days it's very it's very
how do you say silent is what John says
but it's it's very cushioned so you
don't ever really hear that and if you
do hear it it usually what that means is
it's not parking it's actually slapping
the spindle of the drive you've got like
the circular thing in the middle that
has the bearings and everything that's
what its most likely hitting when you
hear that click click click and what it
is is that the heads trying to get the
data but it can't get there because
there's something wrong with the heads
yeah sound right and it's funny because
people think oh well I'll switch to SSD
the the solid state hard drive which has
no moving parts and then we rule out
that problem and but then all of a
sudden we've got the presentation of a
whole new problem where demagnetization
or the floodgates break in or whatever
could be at least with a spinning hard
drive you've got a chance for data
recovery in that you know I can't they
can replace the heads if it's the heads
at a data recovery lab and you can get
your data back because it's still stored
magnetically on the platter with an SSD
it's not stored magnetically anywhere
it's stored in floodgates so if it dies
it dies it's hopefully got your stuff
packed up so always always always have a
backup yep I learnt my lesson yeah so
now how's your backup scenario
I still haven't learned yeah why is it
that we can say we've learned our lesson
and yet you're still not backing up well
the thing is I kind of gave up like I
had so much music cuz like hardcore
music fan and I just was like kind of
discouraged to even try downloading
music again so I literally just have all
my got yourself up for more failure yeah
like that was good five years of music
on my old HP laptop and then I recently
just got a toshiba but at the same time
I just have pictures and i use it for
internet like i'm kind of discouraged
even try to get itunes on it again yeah
yeah i need like an external hard drive
an external hard drive that you use as a
backup like a secondary copy is key a
lot of people will and i see it in
business all the time people will buy an
external hard drive and they'll take all
their pictures and they'll drag them
onto the external hard drive moving them
off of the computer and then what
happens if they drop that external hard
drive when they're disconnecting it well
i just moved all of the images off of it
well Chris um by the way I have the
Hanson movie I never really got about
he's making you lost all your buildings
are handsome I'm the movie I know that's
the deaths them no I lost my spice girls
you know Spice Girls you can borrow mine
I slowed the spice world movie if
anyone's the ages if anyone still has
those I don't I recently notices you
don't have anything in her house anymore
I literally just put in my mom actually
donated a VCR to us so we just installed
a VHS VCR
just funny because it's sitting
alongside of all this technical gadgetry
plug down through RCA cables and well
it's nice for the kids to have access to
the old videos that they have especially
to Disney movies yeah lots of Disney
movies on VHS boy oh boy yeah yeah it
would got time for another question if
we have any we have of course we have of
your questions I know we do this one is
interview questions actually a chat
question um it's from invincible mutant
nice name is there any good tool on
lenox to recover extension for a
petition ext4 partition ex-staff
recovery on that depends on what you're
trying to recover their there are tons
of tools and i won't get into data
recovery tonight just because that's not
something that I'm really well-versed at
I like stuff like like photorec like a
test disk is a fantastic application
test disk all one word that you can
install through apt or through synaptic
it's a command-line suite of tools but
it would do a fair job to go through
using the photorec tool it can it can
access your data but it depends on
whether there's a hard drive failure or
if it's just a file system failure
because if if you're like Toby and
you've got this click of death happening
and you try to run data recovery
software on it guess what you're going
to get halfway there you're going to
kill the drive because you're doing a
sector-by-sector read and you're going
to lose everything so you're better at
that point if it's if it's a hardware
failure you need to get it into a data
recovery lab somebody who can repair the
hardware first before attempting the
data recovery if you feel confident in
the hardware and it's just a software
issue then I would recommend trying test
discs and try photorec which comes with
that photo wreck I always thought it was
just a photo recovery application based
on the name but it scans through and it
picks out any files that seem important
like doc files Excel files photos all
that kind of stuff txt files and
recovers those two
a separate hard drive so very cool tool
and it's free that one's free so i can
recommend that because it's a good deal
I'd like to talk a little bit about
ubuntu 12.10 yes okay go okay very good
it's a linux distribution so have you
heard of it before like yeah I heard it
was better for business and kind of like
if you have it your own better business
what business that's what I heard I
heard for online business which I'm
trying to get into at the moment so yeah
I think I think I'm interested you know
actually start actually using my laptop
and except for videos you're familiar
with linux I know that you're you've
mentioned even earlier tonight that
you're you're kind of curious about
linux and maybe want to make that
transition hmm you've got windows
installed in your computer right now
yeah one of the tough things at that
point is what do you do because i want
to try linux but I'm I don't want to
lose all my stuff and I don't
necessarily want to commit to it if it
doesn't work out if for some reason you
know it doesn't function on my hardware
or something but wait you can actually
do is you can actually try it on your
system first there's a couple of
different options you can boot from the
CD and it will it will run on what's
called live mode which is kind of cool
but here I am and I've just got a bear
windows XP installation and Erica I can
just bring up ubuntu com and when you're
there check this out and this will you
know you can do this from any of your
windows systems Windows 7 Windows XP I'm
just using XP because it was lightweight
and quick to instead that to set up for
tonight up at the top just click on
download and what I want to do in my
case I want to get the desktop edition
not the server or cloud infrastructure
edition I want to use desktop and don't
let that faze you because it doesn't
mean it won't work on a laptop it is it
will detect that that it's a laptop and
it will install correctly pardon me pick
up all of the sudden okay so what you
I do erica because I'm booted into my
windows computer right hmm just to
simplify things if you scroll down a
little ways you see looking for an easy
way to install on windows check out the
windows installer so cool enough you
click on that and allow it to download
that program there we go and let's run
it okay so as simple as this we can see
that we can set up lubuntu 12.04 on our
windows platform system basically I can
leave everything as default if I like
set up your username I might set it up
you know if I was you I would set it up
as Erica right let's call it demo 1 2 3
demo 1 2 3 and let's give it a try I'm
going to go install please use all
lowercase letters in your username
whoops there we go so it's actually
going to download that directly to my
windows partition so I haven't had to
use a CD I haven't had to buy anything I
haven't had to purchase anything off off
of a website and wait for it to come in
a nail or anything like that it's a very
very or you don't give it any
information on that no why should you
write and the activation and the the
actual setup of the system it looks like
now it says remaining time seven minutes
and 40 seconds we're going to kind of
time that and see if that's accurate
because here we are doing this in real
time this is a real install of ubuntu
12.04 on our windows XP system or it
could be a window set in system
depending on how you want to have it set
up or what you're currently running what
do you have on your system right now
windows seven window seven so same same
method to do this so
cool stuff any any comments in chat room
love to hear from people who have
already tried ubuntu 12.04 yeah let me
know your favorite part of it and you
know what convinced me I really want to
get to know this program what's neat
about Ubuntu now it is Linux okay so the
main differences are you've probably
heard that viruses and things are not
the same level of threat as they are on
a Windows computer on Windows you're
essentially always running as an
administrator in which case viruses can
easily get into your system there are a
lot of open doors in your windows system
to allow viruses to get in and on
windows 7 they've improved that by
adding you know certain types of
security to the the operating system but
what do we tend to do when we get the
pop-up this is do you want to authorize
this do you want to authorize this you
ever really read that no you just say
always authorize this yeah just kind of
okay okay okay and they never get out of
my face I want to get on the internet
meanwhile who knows what it's installing
it could be a virus it could be whatever
else with ubuntu which is linux so it's
a distribution of linux and it can get
confusing because there's all these
different you hear linux mint and Zorin
OS and pc linux OS and debian and open
suse ins and su SE and and all these
different distributions but really what
it boils down to is they're all linux
and it's an alternative to microsoft
windows is an alternative to Mac but it
operates on PC hardware so with your
Windows 7 computer you can install this
Linux in our case that we're doing today
it's ubuntu 12.04 that's the latest
release that just came out last week and
it's what's called long-term support
what's neat about this one is the first
time that on the desktop canonical the
company that makes Ubuntu it's the first
time that they've said okay we're going
to give it a five year release cycle so
you're going to always have the latest
and greatest all the updates security
fixes all that stuff for free for the
next five years
so and that's generally that's kind of
the life that you would expect if you
get five years out of a computer these
days you're doing pretty good certainly
if you get five years on a single
installation because then you're just
getting that's just getting silly three
years would be good laptops I've gone
through them like crazy yes literally
every 2-3 years three years max yeah so
a five-year support cycle is yeah that's
going to cover in the life of your
laptop guaranteed now I don't think that
it's quite accurate because I think I
talked for a little longer than just a
half a minute but it says that we've got
six minutes and 30 seconds remaining
here to our installation but I'm going
to let that go as we as we allow that to
continue on our windows system I'm going
to actually boot up I've i've already
installed ubuntu 12.04 on another
machine here and so I'm going to I'm
going to boot it up and we're going to
take a kind of gander at at what it
looks like so that you can get a the
first impression of what do them too
looks like it so I'm just booting that
up on this system here
this is category 5 technology TV nice to
have you here do post your questions and
comments in the chat room particularly
we're talking about ubuntu and linux
right now erica has never tried Linux
and so we're giving her a chance to to
see what linux is all about at least
from a very you know entry level new
user standpoint I've already booted up
into the system here Erica so I'm going
to enter my password as as I set it up
on this computer and get myself into the
system for the first time so here we go
on it on a new system on your laptop
it'll probably be pretty zippy on this
system here now of course I'm
virtualized so I have three operating
systems running right now in the same
computer so things are a little slower
than they would perform on a fully
native system so so you see immediately
things are quite a bit different as far
as the interface goes from your
Microsoft Windows platform basically
your applications are down the left-hand
side and you've got this dash home
button when we click on this it opens up
kind of your most recent applications
here but also gives you a chance to
start searching for applications so if I
want to do you have to type in the word
photo and it gives me a photo manager if
i type in internet let's see what it
comes up it brings up empathy if i type
in you know if i know that i have
firefox and type fire and even if i type
fi it already comes up so it's fairly
intuitive as far as getting to your
application it takes some time to get
used to a little bit because you're used
to the paradigm of the the Windows
desktop basically and the old-style way
of doing things but this is the way
things are starting to push you'll see
right off the bat that this has come
with writer calc and impress these are
alternatives to the Microsoft Office
suite so your office writer for example
this will allow you to open your doc
files save to doc files and it's
entirely compatible with all the formats
that you traditionally use on your
Windows system
so if you have documents things like
that you can still work with those
mm-hmm calc is this is kind of a clone
of Microsoft Excel and again compatible
with your xls files so works very very
well yeah I have a statistics class so I
gotta use that a lot yeah yeah so we
should give to go let's see how the
installation is coming along on our
windows computer here because I and it's
still kind of it's still kind of
hovering around that same point so we
probably won't get to see this one in
operation tonight but it's going to be
the exact same operating system and
what's neat is because it's installed as
an application on your Windows system
you can boot into windows and remove it
if you're not happy with it for some
reason or if you're satisfied you can
just start using it on a regular basis
and no harm done it's free and you don't
have to worry about the viruses and
things like that you've got a great
security suite one of the cool things I
think that you're going to really like
about this erica is the Ubuntu Software
Center and you know feel free click
around click on stuff and say hey what's
all this stuff do look at system
settings it's amazing how well laid out
this is for for the user if you want to
set up your backup Erica all you have to
do is just click on backup makes sense
what do you want to do well let's get
started right show my backup settings
get going and what's neat is it will
actually prompt you let's say you
haven't and haven't set up your backup I
think this is a good idea you've been
running a boom tube for a couple weeks
you've never set up a backup well all of
a sudden lo and behold a boon to warns
you hey you haven't set up a back up yet
it's time click here to continue and it
makes the steps very very easy using
deja doop and that does a really really
good job on backing up here your core
system files so excellent stuff and
that'll work with your external hard
drive your network anything like that
but what I want to show you tonight is
this Ubuntu Software Center which is
very very cool you're probably used to
on Windows having to
find websites of applications and
download them having to go to the store
and purchase CDs yeah which they still
do right with a boon to any of the
applications that you want are here in
the Ubuntu Software Center so let's say
we want to get GNU image manipulation
program so i'm going to type in GIMP and
the first thing that comes up is the GMG
GNU image manipulation program so I've
highlighted it I can go more info and
find out more about it say I've never
heard of it before and I'm just looking
for a painting application or something
I can click on it it's going to give me
screenshots it shows me everything about
it and also gives me the option to get
some of the extras which are fantastic
because then you've got the chance to
get some of the you know the bonus
features of the software that normally
you you know if you were on a let's say
it'll be photoshop you'd have to
purchase these additional plugins yeah
and so it's an alternative so let's just
say we want to install it so I'm going
to click on install and enter my
password let her go so now I don't have
to sit around and wait for it I can go
back and I can start looking at other
stuff and go through if you're looking
for educational programs there you go
what would be one thing that you might
look for there's games there's whatever
you need um for I don't know education
maybe a French French translator for
french class yes yes so i might just
type in translate into the search and I
get one called free speak and golden
dicked free speak is a front end for
translator engines so that one's not
going to do it so this one supports a
multitude of dictionaries and
translators and things like that so when
I when I do a search in ubuntu software
center i do things a little bit
differently because i'm not looking
specifically for Windows programs for
example like I'm not looking for
microsoft word I'm looking for an
alternative to words so if that was what
i was looking for i wouldn't type in
microsoft word i would go
let's say office suite let's see what
that brings up and you know there's a
bunch of books and things like that but
I might try you know word processor
right type comes up now that's now you
know that's a poor example because of
course my word processor already came
installed but just to give you an idea
as to how I might search in ubuntu
software center so here within the
system you can see that it's it's
working its way through GNU image
manipulation program it's downloading oh
now it's applying the changes and I can
continue to add more things to this
queue and they're going to install on
this system for me stellarium that's a
cool one huh Deb comp is running there
so you can see how easy it is to get the
applications that you want to move into
software center browsing your computer
is very similar to as you're used to in
Windows you click on the computer the
home folder icon there and then you can
start browsing around again things will
run a lot faster on your system I
guarantee you but we're virtualized here
yeah so my link question is the with
this is because the word like kind of
like the word and like um like the egg
it's not really excel but what's called
the hulk calc if I was a transfer like
let's say I was doing some math homework
at home and I go to my school which uses
Microsoft 2003 would I be able to still
open up that file at school yeah yeah
when you create so you create you edit
it at home hmm and when you go to save
it you would save as and make sure that
you select Microsoft Excel oh it has the
safe as yeah by default it's going to
save to its own format so you're right
that yeah most likely they won't be able
to open that if they don't have libre
office or OpenOffice installed so what
you do is when you've finished working
on the spreadsheet you go file save as
and you go to the formats down here and
my screen is a little
monkeyed up here but let's see if I can
get that up for you here we go okay
Microsoft Excel 2003 XML 2007 XML 2000
XP 2003 xls old file format so you see
all those formats are available to you
by default it's going to save it in the
open office format but you can select
easily to go to this would be the one
you want microsoft excel xls awesome
that actually great be able to to open
that on the other end mmhmm yeah that's
my main concern cuz compatibility yeah
so when you realize that what the
compatibility is really is there at this
point and you can make that switch
fairly seamlessly without a very big
learning curve once you get into it so
cool so I'm going to let I'm going to
let the windows thing just kind of go
any other questions about Ubuntu about
the way that ubuntu works linux in
general as i say you can install this on
your Windows computer to give it a test
but you can also if you've decided let's
say you've made the decision which I
hope you have I want to switch entirely
you know annex I i think i probably will
yeah a couple of days definitely we'll
get to it excellent if that's the case
and i'm going to do this right within
Google into here if you're if you're
ready to switch get back to the Ubuntu
website okay and what you what you can
do is you can download the actual CD the
real full-fledged ubuntu CD so go to
ubuntu com and once we're there go up to
download again but this time we're not
going to download the the windows
installer we're going to download the
regular download for the ubuntu desktop
and you'll see 32-bit is recommended but
if you know beyond a shadow of a doubt
that your computer supports 64 bit you
can select 64-bit and you're going to
get a little bit more speed a lot more
capability
as far as being able to add more RAM and
things like that if you want to go above
four gigs of ram and then you can start
the download that's going to give you
what's called an iso file and an iso
file is 0 is basically it's an image
we've talked about images before it's an
exact duplicate of the real ubuntu CD so
then you buy like a CDR I have lots of
those who lots of cd-rs and you you know
on your Windows 7 computer you double
click on this ISO and it will ask you to
burn it and you burn it to your to your
CDR then you reboot from that CD and
your you've got a full-fledged
downloaded CD a physical CD and now you
can install it and you can wipe out
windows if you like and during the
installation process which I'm sure you
can you know you won't have any trouble
doing it gives you the option of
installing alongside of your windows
system as well in which case when you
boot up your computer it'll ask you do
you want to run Windows or do you want
to want a run ubuntu which allows you to
revert back to windows if you need to
during that learning curve time so
that's really cool how that we have the
option mm-hmm uh what we have from chip
it it says Robichaux or comp compass I'm
not sure I you say hey composition like
when I do cool effects and stuff like
that like i don't i don't have a whole
lot set up on here because as i said i
am virtualized and i'm not sure what is
you know what's available to you comp is
is is a compositing system let's let's
really make it simple it gives you cool
visual effects on your computer so you
know windows has traditionally been
pretty flat when it comes to effects not
a lot to it with comp is on the other
hand and i'll use my my host system as a
as an example instead I can do you know
things like that
you know move around my system in unique
ways I don't know what else can I show
you with regards to comp is you can set
up cool I don't know if I have effect
set up on this system right now when my
window comes in no but you can do some
really cool things for example when i
click on a window it deems in or it
fades in or it flies in like a paper
airplane what we call those allows you
to do all that so if i showed that to my
dad would keep them busy for hours Chris
Reich is wondering if compass is
incompatible with you into the end
actually UND is a comp is plugin so you
have to have comp is running for the
full unity experience but as far as some
of the plugins go they may be
incompatible for sure so but yeah bhuntu
and and linux in general is an exciting
operating system and when you realize
that you can install it on your computer
it's it's really freeing to realize that
hey I've got a free operating system
that I don't have to worry about a lot
of the same stuff it does all the same
things that I need to be able to do surf
the web get my email print stuff connect
a printer and it just works I don't need
to find discs I don't need to install
things in the traditional sense find
driver disks and stuff like that and oh
no this disc is for windows XP but this
is windows seven so I can't get it to
work I've got to go on the web I had
this happen with the lexmark printer
recently and literally we had to go
through so many hoops to get this
printer to work on windows 7 and ended
up having to find a windows vista driver
totally like end users just it would
just drive you batty ubuntu you plug in
the printer it works there's no
questions involved you plug it in it
works done that's the way computing
should be if you ask me right
oh yeah like from what i read like
that's how it seemed just very simple no
you know you have to read all these
instructions and learn what you're
trying to do and then I don't know I
just found that like I would
accidentally click something and then
like just completely mess it up like it
wouldn't even run properly in no yeah I
don't know I find them with windows
vista before Windows 7 so yeah that was
an accident I I was in the fair it
definitely wasn't I hope that you had
the pleasure of skipping over windows
vista sounds like you had some
experience with it but I do you know
I've had every wedding goes you know
I've been through the whole 11 point 0 4
and 11 point 10 of a boon to and so I
think lots of in the lots of operating
systems can have their Vista moments but
then you know hopefully they come out of
it and I think with a boon to 12 point
oh four they've really started to get to
wear a distribution where an operating
system needs to be for the end user so
and it works really great my wife Becka
is running it on her computer and she's
upgraded from 10.4 so she had a version
that was from 2010 so a fairly old
version of ubuntu and upgraded to 12 24
which is the new fandangled and all the
newest stuff different interface and
everything and she's adapted to it very
well and really enjoying using it the
kids especially loved it so maybe your
kids will really take to unity as well
it just seems to make sense to them and
just does what they needed to do so we
haven't even delved into any of the
advanced kind of specs and features of
ubuntu tonight but just to give us an
impression from a from an end user
standpoint a new user I wanted to give
you that opportunity to and hopefully
you'll want to give it a try well I
definitely will so when you're here next
are you going to have installed ubuntu
at that point oh definitely shares like
you know i def i actually just wasn't
aware of this alternative
like its Windows or Mac yeah that's the
like I knew about like Lennox like I I
know its new about that other company
like you know when I was younger but I
just I never it was aware of it never
even knew anything about it until
literally this year and I kind of feel
like I was left in the dark a bit but I
was always the only thing I ever knew
was windows because we never had mac
computers right so true true and I think
that Linux up until I don't know about
five years ago maybe even when Ward he
came out like there was a transitional
phase when Linux became not so much a
hacker operating system and by hacker I
don't mean people breaking the lie mean
people who you know traditionally eat a
lot of pizza and drink a lot of beer if
you know what I mean like it you there
was windows and there was Mac and Linux
was this other thing but it was so
complex and so out there unix-like and
just a black screen with green text on
it and that was the impression up until
a certain point and then the desktop
linux really started to kick in and
ubuntu has been right there and has been
progressively pushing Linux along and
here we are it's 2012 and we've got a
distribution that as far as I'm
concerned is ahead of you know they're
they're doing in ubuntu 11.04 they're
transitioning towards something that
Windows 8 is just starting to do with
the change in the the desktop para not a
paradigm and it's not even out yet and
here we are we've got a boon to 12 point
oh four and it's ready to go and it's up
and running so with a five year update
cycle and just the fact that it's free
like you know it's really just it's just
for me like I was like oh I don't have
to be worried about getting windows 8
now yeah you know
having to constantly updated yeah I hate
to say did I mention you you don't you
don't really have to buy a virus scanner
every year I don't really deal with the
whole virus scanners but I know that I
get in trouble all the time for my dad
that like he's like all you were
searching up this music and you know we
have a hundred and viruses he gets so
mad surgeon for justin bieber on my
computer no that's fortunate mmm i have
actually never once listen to a song um
you know looking it up and searching it
you know I've had to listen to it in
stores yeah but not a fan sorry I can
really i can really i would much rather
listen to spice girls still a and i
don't have him on my ipod I'm just
saying dear me but I heard that in the
chat there was a statement earlier that
um in the school systems you know they
they teach children how to use Microsoft
and you know it's the truth like I
remember being in grade 2 and they
introduced us floppy discs they cause
exactly how to use it but only Microsoft
computers and you know it's 2012 and we
still have 2003 in our school systems
the office suite office yep and and keep
up how can you keep up when it costs
tens of thousands of dollars all of our
programs like corel draw the photoshop
10 years old 10 years old for everything
i use premier that's a three year old
it's three years old but still like I
just find that like everything that i
use i can't really compare to a lot of
like i don't know i would say the
private schools are people who actually
doing this on their own systems like if
i'm entering a video from a contest that
is from my school's computer it's not
the same so it makes me think of you
know exchange versus zimbra and the way
that microsoft exchange is so expensive
to license
and you've got to pay per mailbox and
you've got to have antivirus on that
system that's covering all those
mailboxes and thing and then you get the
open source alternative that runs on
linux and it's free and it does all the
same stuff so cost of deployment and
cost of maintenance and ongoing
licensing fees has gone from here to
like next to nil you're just basically
offsetting to you know maybe it's
training a support guy to be able to
administer it for you or something like
that so but when you think of a school
it's atrociously expensive to stay on
top of the latest software and that's
why you're learning old software in the
educational system it is even when we
use the portable microphones like our
love years like they they barely pick up
sound like a it I just I really wish
that we had some more funding in the
technology or these were face to an open
source platform for all of their
software and save that you know ten
twenty thousand dollars a year or
whatever it is and put it toward new
lapels yeah like that'd be such a good
idea and like we have some of these like
even with the GIMP software like just
using that instead of paying for
photoshop absolutely like they paid
times and money for this I'm like and
people look at me and wonder why I don't
have a smartphone or whatever else and
it's like I'm the kind of person who
I'll go into a store and I'll try you
know I'll look at the ingredients of
something but i'll try the cheaper one
if the ingredients are still fair right
and comparing this you know it's an
analogy of software to software right if
it does the same thing if it tastes the
same then why spend two dollars more if
the software zimbra for example or linux
does the same as their counterparts
exchange or windows or mac OS where you
pay the mac tax on the hardware why
would you go that route when you can
save tons of money do all the same stuff
and it's an easy breezy
give it a try give Linux a try give a
boon to a dr xubuntu calm and post your
questions here category 5 TV let us know
what you think of the the operating
system the distribution and certainly if
you've been watching tonight and you are
a fan of a different linux distribution
just know that we are we're talking
about ubuntu we know that it's linux
it's a linux distribution it's a flavor
of linux if you will we don't want to
overcomplicate things because there are
a lot of different versions of linux
that are out there yeah that's what i
was getting thrown at me in the chat
room and ya know a lot of let's pick one
and just say okay give this one a try
don't need to overcomplicate because a
novice user doesn't need to try 30
different distros they might try ubuntu
to start and then they might try meant
because they've fallen in love with
linux and they want to learn what kind
of different desktops are out there for
example they might try Lubuntu so but
let's give them a chance to give
something a try without it being too
overcomplicated garvey recommending
gentoo yeah that's a great starter
distrel you install it for them thanks
everybody and the chat room goes wild
hey I had fun nice to nice to see you
tonight great hell yeah Erica I'm glad
to be back and you know what we got
everything on top well you did got the
show going resolved yeah I've been talk
maybe in the chat room after the show or
whatever else but hope everybody has a
fantastic week and we'll see you again
soon check out cat5 TV / calendar
whenever you want to know who is going
to be on as far as co-host CO and you'll
see Erica on that calendar as well so
thanks for being here awesome is nice
being here and good night guys have a
great week everyone will see you next
week
Oh
