[Music]
welcome back this is category five
technology TV now Sasha over the past
couple of weeks I've been looking for a
Linux distribution to help me migrate my
laptop over to Linux right I need to be
able to do video editing though that's
like crucial to me with my Linux yeah
but you also still want to do yes and so
now we looked at lmde yes and I loved it
I'm actually quite impressed with it
it's Debian based but I couldn't quite
get my video editor to work on it so
then I thought okay maybe I could try
Linux Mint the actual Linux Mint 19
because it's based on Ubuntu and I know
that it probably has more current
proprietary drivers for Nvidia and those
kinds of things are a lot easier to take
care of on Linux Mint than they are on
LMDE 3 freights
for examples so I was able to get Linux
Mint installed and I got DaVinci Resolve
installed but I was horribly
disappointed in not Linux Mint not Linux
but in DaVinci Resolve
that it says your hardware is not good
enough for this stuff Robbie oh and I
said who cares about my screen
resolution I get in there and I start
doing video editing and it says you're
at a memory your your GPU can't keep up
and all this kind of stuff and then I
start thinking I do video editing on
here on Microsoft Windows 10 all the
time mm-hm
link PowerDirector 14 is what I'm
currently using I'll probably upgrade
because we do sometimes do some 360
stuff but it works flawlessly mm-hmm so
why can't DaVinci Resolve handle editing
on my same computer and so it's not a
Linux vs. Windows thing it's a CyberLink
PowerDirector versus DaVinci Resolve
thing and I really love the idea of
DaVinci Resolve but it seems to me like
I'd have to upgrade and upgrade an
upgrade buy a better laptop it's getting
aged I had man
we've had this one for many years here
at the studio but it still does the job
on Windows for editing with CyberLink
mm-hmm so do you take that approach of
investing money into the thing and
buying new one and now why don't I just
buy a Mac if I have that mindset right
but and that's the second time in this
show that we've dissed Mac and that's
what this show is about folks so if
you're here for the first time I don't
want to take that approach because it
already works I don't like to replace
things that I already have right I'm not
that mindset right you want to be able
to use what you have but for the purpose
that suits you best right right and I
dream of being able to go 100% exclusive
Linux doing all my video editing doing
everything else everything else I only
do on Linux web surfing email everything
else I do documents everything is Linux
programming especially I hate doing it
on Windows it sucks but on Linux is
fantastic so I have to take the approach
and say okay what what else can I do
what can I do here and then I thought
Sasha what if what if I took away that
dependency and said okay it's telling me
my laptop ain't good enough well I know
it's good enough right it ain't good
enough to run DaVinci Resolve 15 but I
know it's good enough for CyberLink
PowerDirector 14 right and happy with it
it's fantastic so what if I do a boot it
what if I take the approach of saying
let's just find a really nice Linux for
me to use in my day to day and when I
have to do video editing I can reboot
into Windows 10 right do my video
editing in CyberLink PowerDirector which
performs great and then when I'm done I
switch back into Linux oh yeah now I've
done away with that need to depend on
hey I have to be able to do to Vinci
result I got it up and going folks so if
you've got a dreamy computer check out
my blog bald nerd comm do a quick search
for DaVinci Resolve I actually outlined
kind of what I went through in order to
get it up and going
including the packages that you need to
install because it's a bit onerous so
but it's working as you could see there
it's just complain that I change
my resolution because as you know I did
that for you so but I'm really impressed
with Linux Mint ok so let's take away
the need to go with DaVinci Resolve and
say alright let's and I see I was
working on new every day therefore the
week's show and and that's when I ran
out of video memory and everything Linux
Mint is is really quite sleek and this
looks exactly like hell MDE I got to
admit it does look strikingly similar
cinnamon is the menu system it works
really well
I love certain aspects of both LMDE and
Linux Mint for one I really like the the
navigation I really like the way that it
operates it's just it flows with my kind
of mindset of how the operating system
in the file system should flow like when
I plug in a device it gives me access to
it the way I think I should have access
to it and it just seems to work really
really well I don't really need to go
through the menu and navigation it's all
very much the same as what you've
already seen the difference here is that
I have things like driver manager and
when I bring that up this is what really
makes Linux Mint stand out against LMDE
is because it's based on Ubuntu it has
features like this and they come from a
boon to so this is like hey if you if
you love boomed whose capabilities but
not boo boom two's interface
well Linux Mint really kind of strikes
it for you so you can see like my Nvidia
card was detected and it just installed
and worked I detected my Broadcom chip
and installed and worked so makes things
a lot easier so there are differences
but they're subtle and they're really
user friendly experience kind of things
so I mentioned last week if you're new
to Linux go with Linux Mint as opposed
to lmde because I kind of feel like lmde
is a bit more power user ish because of
the fact that it's not based on your
boon - it's based on Debian you do need
to get your hands it's kind of a little
more dirty with that right so I'm kind
of thinking hey I really like this whole
thing that the Linux Mint is doing check
out more at Linux Mint com see what you
think and if you've got
distro that you really love let me know
and and let me know kind of what you
think of the idea that maybe we should
remove that DaVinci Resolve necessity
from that from that decision and instead
just find a distro that I really like
right
I mean who knows you might find a
district really like that does run da
Vinci know it says my heart it depends
no because it's not oh it's not Linux oh
right it's actually DaVinci right all
good Sam
[Applause]
