welcome to category five technology TV
tonight we've got some great products
we're gonna be looking at first of all
I'm so smooth so I want a really good
night's sleep tonight I'm gonna do it
with a really cool mask that is going to
help me sleep get rid of all tinnitus
symptoms by giving me a audio invite
home stereo oh you just got to see it
it's cheap it's affordable it's great
and we've got an Android TV stick
yes it's gonna replace our amazon firetv
stick and even our Raspberry Pi 3
connected to the terminal music and our
Roku stick they they do make yeah you
have one of those yeah it's gonna
replace that yeah nice we're gonna be
looking at an Android device that you
plug into your TV
it's got exceptional Wi-Fi it plays
YouTube videos seamlessly in Full HD and
even up to 4k you don't want to miss
this sticker rack this is category 5
technology TV
[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 TV slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash iai be welcome to the show
hey everybody I'm Robby
I'm Sasha and I'm Jeff how have you guys
been so good are you ready for this yes
it's Wednesday our time now you might be
watching this on Saturday Sunday Tuesday
some a year from now there may be
they've added an eighth day to the
calendar because you're watching this
157 thousand years in the future right
whoo cat 5 day that would be music but
for us this is this is the middle of the
week for us in the studio live and I
look forward to this moment every week
as do I this week's gonna be fun too
it should be a lot of great stuff to
look at it should be fun yeah I don't
think we've ever not had fun agreed so
read it would be really sad after 559
episodes to blow that streak 559
episodes whoa Jeff I know Robbie and I
did have like a five episode streak
where every time we tried to do
something I pretty much brackets I think
that was like the technical difficulty
month where you know blame it on the
positioning of the moon or something
like something yeah but we're not having
any of that we broke that streak and now
we're on to awesome shows oh yeah now
we're in the streak of awesome nice so
you are here just in the nick of time
for the streak of awesome shows let's
get some housekeeping out of the way
yeah first of all category 5 TV apparel
is available at camp 5 dot TV slash
shirts and thank you to everybody who
has picked up a category-5 t-shirt or a
new everyday t-shirt even we've got the
new kid on the block change we joked
about and it's actually a thing and get
it a cap five TV slash shirts it's a
really cool way to support the category
five dot TV network what we do here is
we create family-friendly broadcasts
that are available to you your family
your friends everywhere in the world
absolutely free that's what we do in
order to do that we have to be able to
fund the thing and it costs a lot of
money so you're able to support that by
buying t-shirts by buying products that
we show on the show by using our links
and by using our partner links off of
our website things like that and of
course you can become a patron and there
are a variety of ways that you can
support us more information is on our
website category five dot TV nice we
also do have some editions of ded effect
to VR left to give away
not very many a limited number of data
factors like this and it's like Downton
like that means many of you are winners
already if you find yourself not in that
position you are not yet a winner here
is how you become one you email category
five TV or to the interwebs will find
its way to us contest at category five
TV that sounds more realist ats but
that's a real address oh yes know who
you are where you're watching from what
you're watching on questions comments
thoughts concerns and will enter you
into the draw to win one of our very few
remaining copies that affect who we are
wonderful
mmm-hmm and if you don't feel like
hanging on the VR world you can check us
out on google play music that's right we
are on there so you want to go to
category five TV slash subscribe now
lots of good stuff there yeah you can
subscribe to any of our shows as a
matter of fact so yeah we're category
five technology TV Jeff and Lawrence is
new every day we've got a couple of
other shows there incidentally we're
going to be looking at a product tonight
to help you to sleep and nature sounds
are a great way to do that we have a
name
sure sounds program that's right
immersive nature sounds you can actually
tune in to not just the video but the
audio and it's immersive so it's
recorded in binaural 3d audio if you
wear headphones or what we're gonna show
you tonight you can hear everything
around you so really what it's about is
we're hooking you up to completely
disconnect from the real world
audio-visual at the VR who needs people
I mean people Jeff I am people yeah
these are our friends that we're hanging
out with right now I know through
digital means yes yes no terms that's
right
did you know your morgue okay so last
week we cover the PT or a couple weeks
ago people we camera yes yes so we have
an update on it about an adapter yeah do
you remember we I showed what I soldered
myself so we got this p OE adapter that
means power over ethernet so we've got
this great PTZ camera all these short
forms right great tech show all these
short forms PTZ is pan tilt zoom so you
think about a camera that can pan left
and right tilt up and down and zoom so
in and out so PTZ camera that's what it
represents it means you can digitally
through an app or through a program on
your computer a web browser you can
control the positioning in the zoom of
our camera it's great but one of the
things with it is that you've got to
have not only Ethernet or Wi-Fi network
connectivity but you also have to have
power to it right and so that means this
wall wart that's got to be plugged in
and then plugged into the camera well I
came up with this with this little
dongle that would convert power over
ethernet from a from a surveillance
camera of all things okay to work with
the PTZ camera we were reviewing which
you can find out more about and actually
get the the device cat5 dot TV slash PTZ
but then one of my friends brett he
found a device on Amazon which we've now
added to that link so you can pick it up
directly because not everybody has the
mad soldering skills of Robbie you know
and I'm Sam
you've seen my soldering skills loose
definition you have okay I mean mad like
you know Mad Hatter okay no I saw in a
matter of seven days you like it proved
by like a hundred percent she's the
kindest person in the world you started
from the bottom now you're here started
from the bottom now here so Brett found
an adapter on Amazon that is exactly
what I created but it's like two bucks
the one I made cost 6 bucks and the one
I made is this like 3-inch dong 4 inch
dongle this one is just like a little
tip that you just plug on to the adapter
wah
so here you go it exists but if you if
you do like size to price ratio it's a
better value for you know how many
dollars per end of the adapter so this
thing is is going to allow you to use
power over ethernet on the PTZ camera
that we reviewed right and it's like
it's all pre fin dangled so you don't
have to be a master soldering guru so
sarcastic watch that episode check it
out how many episodes have I messed up
soldering on ya know if you do have that
PTZ camera maybe you're monitoring it
through your enterprise server and you
need some software to help you with that
I've heard that there's a great version
of Nemzek do you know anything about
that like to tell if the camera is up
and running well just anything to
monitor your server do I know anything I
know any conversion 1.4 perhaps how well
names 1.4 is gaming it's like on the
threshold of release I've been loving
the updates oh if you don't follow me on
Twitter you've got who at Robbie
Ferguson and names 1.4 so this is a
enterprise monitoring server for the
Raspberry Pi so with a Raspberry Pi
microcomputer you can monitor all your
devices and find out what's up what's
down with having problems yeah if hard
drive space is low it'll warn me of that
kind of stuff it's fantastic but it's
really evolved over the years there's
been so much community support it's been
a lot of fun to do but now is 1.4 I'm so
excited about a Jeff
okay I'm Ashley you need this at your
office yes I do think about this
it's a Raspberry Pi yes that will tell
you if your chiropractic software hasn't
run its every scan Tara scan since May
30th okay yeah could you imagine it'll
warn you before it happens it's
happening so you get emails and you know
that this is happening that something is
going wrong before it actually goes
wrong it becomes critical I do need that
two drives in a raid one one of them has
failed and you may not know and maybe
you're not monitoring it on a regular
basis so it will alert you that one of
those drives has failed those kinds of
things see I I look at my network at
home and I go I haven't had a need for
NEMS because all of our devices are used
and then I got into crypto currency and
I've been mining turquoi with my know
that your minor is that that's correct
it's completely headless and so every
once while login I'm like oh how am i
aspirated zero what
oh no I've been down and I have no clue
for how long right so I'm being able to
monitor your hash rates on the miner yep
and be able to keep track yeah I mean
what we did who did you and I we already
are I know what happened wait you know
we fell out last week that's why he
wasn't here it's true yeah we're working
like the middle child I was born to be
what why are you guys middle our best
friends and where am I because numbs you
you are the Nexus together okay
sustained
check out names linux.com but why I'm so
excited about this is because with
version 1.4 Sacha best friend Sasha yes
yeah the the product has evolved so much
and I call it a product because it
really is a commercial application but
it's free is free
change that's how we two things and
that's why we have so much trouble
paying the bills we do awesome things
and give it away but MEMS 1.4 is coming
and it's like we've got the attention of
Nagios we've got them writing about it
we've got people talking about it that
are in the industry and at min magazine
has actually published a full like eight
page color article about it well talk
and like this is all happening as I'm
just kind of like doing this in my spare
time when you know tinker time not now
category 5 &amp; M's that's and family time
like this is my spare time so with 1.4 I
did something crazy Jeff okay nems was
always based on naggy oh and Nagios pie
right okay so this is a raspberry pie
distro of Nagios so it was based on that
and then I built it up over the years
and it's been getting better and better
right name's 1.4 I blasted everything
that's ever been done wiped it
completely started from scratch and
built it compiled it from the ground up
so if you're familiar with Nagios this
is like version 4.3 point for this is
the the best web based responsive
interface for nagios that you've ever
seen and the capability of doing all
your administration through a GUI and
you don't have to deal with Nagios
scripting right it's a beautiful it's
amazing so that's what Nemus 1.4
represents we've got backers like logic
supply this is a computer manufacturer
that is providing hardware so that we
can bring nems to their hardware so that
we can bring it to you as an appliance
we've got people like the manufacturers
of fit lit to check them out the it's
all one word fit let - it's a fully
integrated no moving parts completely
solid-state computer and this little
itty bitty thing it's like a million
times better than a Raspberry Pi as far
as its actual power goes and it's being
MEMS is being ported to that this thing
that I built and gave away for free
they're putting it on that and
selling these devices that's cool that
is so cool there's so much exciting
things coming from Nagios enterprise
monitoring server and I'm excited that
we're gonna be showing it on the show
pretty soon as well this is coming it's
coming updates have made me very like
anticipatory it's been neat seeing it
evolve because Nagios has traditionally
been very onerous - yeah maintain and to
get up and going and it can be a
nightmare for a sysadmin to create an
audio server and get it up and going
create the scripts get monitoring five
minutes you're done they can live white
for everyone and it's all based on a GUI
and a web user interface with responsive
layouts that works on your mobile phone
or your tablet yep what you definitely
need to check it out folks and e/m n an
EMS Linux com
ok ready to get into the show yes that
was like just housekeeping but I get
excited about really cool projects that
we've got going on I mean Plex pies
another one where we started talking on
the show of them putting Plex on a
Raspberry Pi and so then I imaged it and
gave it out yeah now there's like
hundreds of people that are using my
image of Plex
on a Raspberry Pi that's how it's
evolved yeah that's how we use it at
home and actually I've got some friends
who live in Malawi Africa they go they
have our guest access so they're
constantly checking out the stuff on my
network Wow
through a Raspberry Pi it's beautiful
nice so flex pay is another example so
that's kind of what's neat about this
show so we'll show you something this is
so you know some of the things we're
showing you tonight you got to buy if
you want to get your hands on it but a
lot of the things we're gonna show you
how to do things and then we're gonna
take what we did and package it up and
give it to you as a download and it's
free and you know you can get it and how
cool is that very I can't think of too
many TV shows that that do that kind of
stuff
maybe there's lots coming up one yeah
just ours oh that's just our eating job
hmm all right so we've got a couple of
things we're looking at today what are
we looking at first well we're gonna get
to the product that we're looking at
right because these things have been
sent to us to review we've got to do it
it's like an obligation but they're cool
things that we want to show you but
before we get into it
Sasha yes have you ever been on Facebook
in the past I have been on Facebook or
email often on email and has anyone like
your husband or someone said what's the
password to this or what's the what's
your credit card number any of this kind
of information that you would never send
over face just add this today on the way
here my wife called me and what is she
saying she's like I need to know that
password and what did have you ever had
that happen I think so maybe we can't
pinpoint an exact moment in time Jeff
can tell because it's tomorrow asking me
but like I can't think of a time that's
but today so she said what's the
password to that thing yeah and the best
part is I'm going try this try this try
this try this you're giving her all this
we had 16 different options and none of
them worked none of them worked okay but
now you've given out as many of your
passwords as you can think of yes so who
knows what those passwords are for and
there's this thing called a
man-in-the-middle attack and what that
means is okay so I'm the man in the
middle Sasha yes could you tell Jeff
your password oh my password is password
yeah password one two three can you hear
that password 1 2 3 yeah I heard that
too because I'm the man in the middle
right and so if I go into a public Wi-Fi
hotspot right so I'm sitting at a coffee
shop I've got my phone and I'm doing
what I think is a private conversation
well I'm actually who's the man in the
middle well the coffee shop or anyone
who's on that same Wi-Fi network because
now remember as soon as you connect to
the same network Jeff you're on the same
local area network as I am right so you
have a local IP address and you're able
to monitor traffic that is happening
from my device
correct ok so man in the middle says I
can hear what you're saying
so you just shared your 16 passwords and
I can hear it because I'm the man in the
middle
well what if there was a service that's
absolutely free that kind of helps with
that by saying okay only one person can
hear this and when Jeff here's your
password I'm gonna destroy all records
of what you said right okay
that would be wonderful do you remember
Maxwell Smart yes the shoe phone yeah
and what was it like the exploding hears
everything
yeah here's here's the path here's the
secret message or even you know what was
it tuned to there's a cartoon get you
next time gadget Inspector Gadget yes
I'll get you next time gadget he was the
same in so this message will
self-destruct and chief Quimby and
employees got burned exactly right so
there's a service that you can bring up
just strictly through your web browser
and how cool would it be if you could
have a one time message that you said
and if it if it was called a one time
message wouldn't it be right that it
would be one time in your browser so the
number one T Y dot M e so you head on
over there and I say okay well my
password Jeff is password 1 2 3 and then
I generate the link and now it's going
to allow me to send that link so I can
copy that link and I can now email that
to my friend Jeff or send it to him by
text send it to him by Facebook or
however I want to do it now Jeff
receives that link and he clicks on it
and it says this message will
self-destruct now notice I'm connected
over a secure connection so everything
that I typed their password 1 2 3 was
encrypted going to the server and
because of the nature of their service
we make that very valid assumption that
they're encrypting it on their end as
well right but the communication that's
happening here is completely encrypted
so if we jump back to Jeff's note that
he is open now we can view that note and
there's the note that I just sent Jeff
my password is password 1 2 3 but
wait some man in the middle has access
to that URL that I just sent Jeff and so
they click on it and it says hey hold up
the note you're trying to view was
already accessed notes may only be
viewed once and then they all destroyed
one T Y dot m e one time just like that
one time one time I had the whole time
not even less I'm just song great
service
check it out Jeff what have we got
coming up after the break ok so coming
up after the break we are going to take
a look at an Android TV stick it has
significantly significantly better Wi-Fi
than the newest Raspberry Pi Oh better
frame rates on the video platforms like
YouTube and just straight-up cool nice
awesome stick around
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cap five
dot TV slash shirts welcome back this is
category five technology TV y'all ready
yep we're gonna get into an Android TV
stick now I've got my Amazon fire TV
stick okay and to be honest we haven't
been Buber impressed with it right first
of all something that is incredibly
lacking from the Amazon fire TV stick
there it is
do you notice it okay there's a power
Inlet but where is the USB where's the
capability to to plug in a keyboard or a
mouse or a receiver of any sort yeah how
do you you don't Jeff you don't
oh okay it has it has bluetooth so you
can do things with compatible Bluetooth
devices but all in all I mean it's an OK
device but for the price I think it
would be nicer to have a more robust
Android powered solution and this is
Android power the Amazon fire TV stick
but it's like branded Amazon is
proprietary in a lot of ways and the
fact that the hardware is so locked down
is pretty poor to me now the other thing
about the fire TV stick like the
Raspberry Pi of all generations that
include Wi-Fi doesn't have very good
Wi-Fi okay and my Wi-Fi in the house is
not the greatest but it's pretty good
and I would
that it should work on the TV that's you
know only about 30 feet away one floor
above right but it doesn't work that
great
that's unfortunate so it's a little
disappointing in the Raspberry Pi same
thing so we set out to find a device
that had better Wi-Fi and just Android
something that we can bring up YouTube
and the kids can watch their shows and
stuff because to connect a Windows
computer like a set-top windows system
or something like that now I've got to
get antivirus for it which I'm not
opposed to but I have to worry about the
kids accidentally clicking on something
that is now malware because you know my
my seven year old he just searches I
wanted him to look up a video on YouTube
the other day and I told him what to
search for and he started searching for
it in the address bar rather than on
youtube.com so he's seven years old I'm
trying to teach him that hey that's not
the way you do it son but when he does
and he clicks on the wrong link of the
10,000 results in Google it's going to
take you to something less your computer
is infected with a virus you've probably
seen you know all these things and then
oh well ok so click click click and all
of a sudden now you're really infected
with a virus because you said ok to the
wrong question so Android kind of
protects the skenes that kind of thing
because it's Android and it's gonna keep
us a little bit safer so this device
from oh and you might want to actually
see I was doing this like Danah kind of
style waving and you didn't even get to
see my hand gestures
Kim tacks is a hardware creator and
seller who has sent us this to review
and we're just gonna get a quick look at
what this device gives us so there we go
it's a little bigger we can see right
out the gate then let's get it over the
packing here so this becomes an unboxing
video folks how do you like that little
bigger than the amazon firetv stick for
sure let's get the cable off of there
there we go there's the difference this
one looks more like a USB flash drive
this one looks more like a little itty
bitty computer kind of thing first
things we notice okay first of all it
has a HDMI connection right there so
that's gonna plug right into your TV or
a little extension core
which I presume is gonna be in the box
we'll take a look but it does have SD
card reader that's lacking on the the
amazon firetv stick that card reader
will only go up to 32 gigs though
according to the specifications which
little disappointing to be honest with
you we've got a power Inlet and then
we've got two USB ports so we've got USB
3 right here this big one the full-size
is USB 3 and then we've got a USB to
micro which is going to allow us to
plug-in peripherals so the side one is
just for providing 5 volts power to the
device now what's this red thing on the
side I mentioned about my desire to have
better Wi-Fi and this one includes a
little bit of a signal boosting antenna
that's gonna hang off the back of our TV
there and give us better Wi-Fi so let's
look at the specifications here just a
little bit first of all the CPU is a
rockchip rk3288 so that's a 4 quart quad
core
yep that's the cortex a53 and it goes up
to 1.5 3 gigahertz so for the form
factor it's pretty good I think that's
pretty pretty impressive and we'll see
if it generates any Heat I haven't
notice any in my preliminary test GPU so
the video output of this is with a
Mallee 450 MP 2 and that has OpenGL
it's got 4k video output up to 60 frames
per second so right there blast the
Raspberry Pi over the water okay so
we've got pretty good video output at 60
frames a second in 4k 2k 1080p 720p I
presume
but you plug this into your TV and boom
you've got instant access at up to 4k
resolutions right 2 gigs of RAM inbuilt
16 gigabytes of storage there's also an
8 gigabyte version as well so that's
like for your apps that you install but
remember we've got a 32 gig SD card slot
so I can increase that by up to 32 gigs
again I hear manufacturers saying hey
it'll support up to 32 gigs and then I
stick a 128 in it and it works so so the
specifications say 32 maybe yeah
try something bigger 32 is pretty low
for today's absolutely specked so I kind
of when I read that in the
specifications it was like so kin tax we
want to up that a little bit now could
that just simply be because if you have
a say you put a 128 in there it's yeah
full of data that it bogs down the
processing of it good though I don't see
how because it's storage right right so
it's the storage system of the like a
file system so basically the device is a
Linux device that sees that as a second
storage medium that you can save photos
to save apps to save app data to but
then again with something like this do
you really need more than that you're
not going to be downloading huge
applications I mean that because it's
not a computer third it's a TV set-top
box that allows you to watch YouTube and
streaming video platforms presumably
category-five technology TV exactly
otherwise out the window and so you
don't really I don't think need an
astronomical amount of space now do keep
in mind though USB 3 so if I wanted to
you could plug in an external hard drive
right power it with external power to
they don't want to power it off of this
and you're gonna have full speed access
to that hard drive that's cool that's at
times really good times Jeff really good
times Wi-Fi I mentioned okay so it's got
2.4 gigahertz you know to 11 which is
BGN and it has 5 gigahertz Wi-Fi as well
so you've got the BGN AC and Bluetooth
4.1 so it's not Bluetooth 5 but
bluetooth 4.1 so if you wanted to use
wireless earbuds from jeebies right if
you want to use your wireless headphones
from House of Marley then you're able to
do that with this device and listen to
your music listen to your shows
wirelessly which is kind of a bonus I
definitely like that but also the other
advantage to having inbuilt bluetooth is
a lot of keyboards like you get
something like what we use for our
teleprompter here this is a Bluetooth
keyboard so with this I simply turn it
on sync it to this and boom we pair it
to this and now I've got a keyboard and
you can get a full-size Bluetooth
keyboard and mouse and get a combo unit
and you're good to go
and it operates a lot more like a
computer we're gonna plug it in and see
how much like a computer in just a
couple moments time one kind of final
thing I'll say because this is portable
and you think hey this is something that
I could take with me when I travel right
yes and you could because it's HDMI you
can plug it into the hotel TV and now
you've got because they provide Wi-Fi
and I've got YouTube Netflix whatever
else the USB port supports a dongle from
your ISP so cool like a cellular dongle
now with a like the that with this stick
here and then the like I don't know if
they call it like a rocket hub or
whatever from your ISP like a cellular
internet that you plug into this now it
provides its own internet so just
awesome you don't even need Wi-Fi at
that point perfect for the cottage all
right so let's let's actually let's get
finally into the box and see what else
we've got here because I want to plug it
in for you while there's still time okay
yeah okay well what do we got what do we
got okay let's get that aside we've got
USB cable presumably for power we've got
a little oh look at that USB micro -
full sized USB - so that's going to
allow us to plug in standard sized
peripherals to the micro port on the
device that's good we've got a power
adapter this is a 2 amp 5 volt adapter
USB micro and we've got that little HDMI
extension cord which makes it simply
easier for us to plug into the back of
our TV because maybe maybe maybe that's
not gonna yeah if it's too close or
whatever it may not plug directly into
the TV or maybe there's other
peripherals around so this gives you a
cable that you can kind of hang it or
you know double-sided tape it to the
back of your TV it's that kind of thing
should we plug this in and see how she
works all right so it's unanimous well
technically I didn't know what I was
gonna say no just to be smart oh come on
if we looked at it but we're not gonna
actually look at it you're gonna see now
how how complicated it is to set this up
right right cuz that's okay so two
cables okay so now down here I've got
I'm gonna grab an HDMI cable here I've
got an HDMI jack that I can use here we
go you guys talk amongst yourselves
yeah this is gonna this looks like
something I could do well I got an HDMI
cable going out to my TV which is pretty
standard yeah and now an HDMI cable to
your device and the only reason I have
that cable is because hey we're kind of
far away from you watching in California
right there we go it's plugged in all
right all right so let's switch over to
that screen and let's plug that in and
see what happens there's some juice
give it some instant all right let's see
what comes up now I've got a Oh tea
that's some good processing power right
there not bad good performance good
performance so far I brought this with
me and it's got a USB dongle for a
wireless keyboard so I'm simply gonna
plug this directly into the device I
know you can't see but you can visualize
yeah okay I'm gonna turn on that
keyboard switch back to the screen for
you and oh in Stan taneous access boom
chrome came with it what oh yeah
somebody's been testing this bad boy so
performance wise I notice that things
are pretty zippy to open up and that's
that nice Rockchip processor things
don't display absolutely perfectly on my
website but not bad not bad
oh you know what maybe it was just still
loading it does look pretty darn good
scroll down a little bit here the one
thing I don't like about these kinds of
devices is you've got to remember that
this is Android it's built for a tablet
it's built for a phone so you notice
there's no scroll bar I can't grab it
like a computer and just oh man I'm
flicking with my finger so that means
clicking the mouse is scrolling clicking
yeah now scrolling so it's a little bit
of a different experience you got to get
used to
that but it's not that bad and certainly
performance wise seems pretty good so
I'm clicking on a video here and I click
and pull up and click and pull not not
the best UX but that's not that's
android yeah okay I'm gonna hit play and
load times they're all those quick nice
quick and nice shirt I'm wearing I know
right so one of the things that is
important to me because this is going to
be a set-top device is you know full
screen video is there is it good is the
framerate good and it looks fantastic
that's some pretty clean video I'm
pretty impressed by that so this is just
off of our website category five dot TV
via YouTube that kind of stuff
it looks pretty good and it's flying out
of the box now keep in mind I did plug
it in I went to two websites I tried a
couple of different things but I didn't
I didn't install any drivers or anything
like that let's head on over directly to
YouTube which because I've got my my
stuff like my account in it wanted to
log me in first right and you notice I
used to work with Ellie I before they
went out of business and so they wanted
me to log in as them sad day sad day
okay so this is YouTube it looks pretty
darn good
mmm-hmm so again you've got to get used
to this kind of clicking and scrolling
action looks like I kind of got a all I
got to use the keyboard to maneuver now
I will get that sometimes doesn't matter
what you're using I mean our Android box
at home yeah same deal I mean we have I
think the same remote oh yeah so the
quality the clarity is brilliant I don't
know how to turn it off so that I can
not breach copyright but there you go I
mean so that's working really a treat a
couple of the features that we want to
look at okay if I go into all apps
I did try installing game but I couldn't
get it working I'm not too sure what's
going on there but I did notice that
we've got things pre-built in like Wi-Fi
display and I did a quick pair
to my smartphone and instantaneously I
had access to my phone really yeah I
wanted to show you this because
sometimes Web Apps maybe maybe I can't
get Netflix working on there because
it's a Chinese device and Netflix is
pretty particular about the the
geolocation of their viewers kind of
thing so maybe I want to bring up
Netflix on here just as an example right
or maybe I want to bring up I watch the
countdown every New Year's on my phone
and that gives me a chance to now cast
it to the device so let's actually do
that I'm just I brought up miracast on
my computer on my phone here and I'm
gonna click on my phone which it already
detected impaired and hit okay and oh
it's already connecting and there we go
Wow so now I'm actually in my phone so
if I bring up like I guess YouTube on my
phone now what's that look like so there
we go Wow right so now if I turn my
phone sideways I'm physically turning it
sideways there it's all just it adjusts
it itself and this is done now keep in
mind this is done completely wirelessly
so what I'm seeing on the screen here is
being cast to the device through my
Wi-Fi network I didn't have to sinful
didn't even have to set anything up it
was so super simple so I think there's
some really good value in that on its
own and so then if I click on my vlog
from today for example for patrons
there's a there's some latency there for
sure that maybe my network I don't know
but still the point is it's kind of it
was warming up yeah it's kind of you
know how you tube will kind of crap down
the quality if if your bandwidth is not
very good right so but it works it works
great there you go so well done okay so
now I'm stuck I can't bring you back so
I've got to actually turn off miracast
in order to get back there we go okay
now I'm back there I can escape back
right and there's our menu a couple of
other quick things here we've got the
Play Store obviously our KMC looks a
like you know like XBMC or Kodi that
kind of thing yeah so that comes pre
built in you can add your channels and
to get out of that it's the power button
over here so definitely worth checking
out
if you're looking for a set-top box this
is obviously like a little tiny thing
the Wi-Fi on it is spectacular is really
really good Wi-Fi at my house no latency
no problem running YouTube so watching
YouTube videos that's really all we need
it for right and it works perfectly it
doesn't have an accelerometer like your
phone does so if games require that you
be able to turn the phone like this
obviously it's not going to work but
games I presume like Angry Birds that
kind of stuff rattle or house driven you
can you can do that so yeah check that
out it's cat five dot TV slash r33
because that's the Kintex r33 Android TV
stick checks today good times all right
well uh well uh well gonna take a break
I think we probably should better take a
break yeah responses well you got to pay
the bills
maybe watch this short what's kind of
Jeff so coming up we're gonna help you
sleep with a sleeping mask it's got a
twist did you know what that twist is I
have a feeling we're gonna find out
that's it that's right it's got built-in
audio don't go anywhere
[Applause]
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial up audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category-five TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching welcome back
we are about to put you to sleep and
make it quite enjoyable ah that's gonna
be one of those shows a where we put
them to sleep
exactly yeah no we are going to be
reviewing a sleeping mask with some
audio components to it okay
so I guess the first question I have to
ask is why would you want audio
components of sleeping masks if you're
going to be sleeping this is what I
normally wear when I'm sleep and Jeff
really yeah well and I was going to say
if you ask my wife she'd say it's
because I snore do you have tinnitus I
do ah oh my gosh so bad so you hear the
ringing all the time and it's like my
wife doesn't understand that the fan is
not because it's hot out it's because I
need the noise so it's true I I sleep
with these in my ear Jeff okay Sasha
I've found a brand of earbuds that are
flat so that I can lay on my side and it
doesn't hurt my ears right right but
they break yeah I buy them in bulk you
can buy bags of them on Amazon for
twenty to twenty bucks for twenty a year
buds but they break all the time and I
you know I feel bad to scrap them I cut
the cables off and I recycle them and
everything else not ideal right why do I
do that
I listen I learn I sleep better because
I have audio that's you
maybe it's nature sounds sometimes it's
nature's hands for me sometimes it's
podcasts maybe it's an audiobook what do
you do you ever listen to things at
night
believe it or not most of it is music if
I ever music is it like gentle yes
simply stuff no words yeah it's usually
like some sort of this stuff you hear
when you have like massage so it's like
it's a meditation thing like I'll call
that like solitudes or maybe like I
guess technically they call it like
new-age music when you know not
technically it doesn't have to be New
Age but you sometimes hear that kind of
stuff with with like ambient birds and
things like that yeah I love nature
sounds I actually have a show called
immersive nature sounds where you can
you can listen to nature in binaural 3d
surround sound with just a standard pair
of headphones and to sleep with that
like a thunderstorm for example you've
got a 12 hour thunderstorm on on that
show where you can listen for 12 hours
it's just perfect for sleeping with or
studying with that would be 12 hours of
stress for my dog but it helps me to
sleep it helps me to get my mind off
things as the main thing because I'm a
very go-go-go guy I'm always programming
I'm always coming up with inventions and
so when I go to bed it's like I need my
mind to declutter right so see things
that's true
okay so earbuds are not perfect what do
you use your but yeah yeah same thing
same kind of deal and this seems like
it's new to you like you well I have a
white noise generator that sits beside
my bed okay
similar kind of thing yeah if your
husband hears that well yeah it's for
him okay
so maybe if there so when I was single
back before before I was married so many
many years ago I had a speaker that was
under my pillow and that would help me
because that was under my pillow and I
could hear it but now being married for
as many years I can't do that because my
wife would go nuts for a while I knew
any wife yeah what we first like I
always fell asleep to music when we
first got married like if if a crick
passes gas my wife wakes up the fact
that I would normally sleep with music
she was just like so of course she wins
out so listening to a reenactment of The
Hobbit was not in the cards no
definitely not so I had to learn to fall
asleep with right that's when the ear
ringing tinnitus comes in yeah it's
thoughts start going so earbuds are not
perfect never liked them they're a
little uncomfortable then along comes
cat5 TV slash mask you ready for this
Jeff yes cuz I feel like we're we're
like one with this right now I stash
this like that's weird yeah this is
something that I need it's not
completely weird I want it's not
completely weird it's it's so sweet
alright so first of all this is cap 5 TV
slash mask and it comes in a nice case
it does look a lot like a doobies case
but it's not actually it's not a
charging case this is just a holding
case Sasha you're doing some traveling
coming up so yes Dave and I are going
back to Newfoundland to usually sleep
with a mask when you're on a plane well
this is what would work for me I don't
need I don't need a sleep mask and I
don't need audio or anything in my home
my home is my cocoon but when I'm in
public and needing some sleep yeah this
is what I would and it's hard to sleep
on a plane I'd imagine so I've never
been a long enough flight but if ever
going from like Canada to rail yeah and
that was a long flight 107 half just the
one jaunt over the ocean and it was
painful overnight because you got the oh
yeah the parents yelling at their kids I
could use this to Newfoundland it's a
sleeping mask okay just a sleeping mask
right nice this side uh-huh uh-huh just
hold it on Jeff don't get ahead of
yourself so first of all the thing that
I got to point out is that it is a
special type of velcro so if you feel
this it's not the kind that's gonna get
caught on oh yeah yeah
it's pretty that's very cool it's not
gonna get caught or damaged but here we
go so I'm gonna put that on like that
and now you see me so you know it's a
sleeping mask right right with a twist
so this particular one let's get back
here for un no that's that's wrong
that's a beautiful little Android device
look at the back of here so we've got
stereo headphones built into the
sleeping mask and here's the the inlet
right here so in the case is a one and a
half meter cable I like that this is
detached Jeff to be honest with you
because I always you know I damaged the
cables because you roll over and you you
damaged it so I've had this actually get
pulled out a couple times and it still
works just fine it's easy to eject which
is a good thing because if I roll over
it's not gonna get damaged right and it
works quite well so there you go so it's
stereo audio built into a sleeping mask
okay hold on
well no no before you do that I'm plug
it in you're gonna plug it in oh you got
some like dubstep beats that you're
hugging in okay so what what's gonna
play it's an audio book an audio book
okay okay
make it happen Jeff I'm waiting for it
Jeff I just hit play okay turn it up
okay yeah I can hear it turn it down a
bit
it's blaring it's blaring he has a very
nice voice but it's David super fine
yeah yeah too quiet you've muted it yes
there a little more
I'll go for it turn it up yeah pump up
the jam yeah okay okay perfect alright
you wanna try that on okay that's just
gonna try that on there you go so there
is a Bluetooth model but I decided to go
with the hardwired because I like that
it does not use batteries and have to
worry about it like running out of
battery life while I'm sleeping what do
you think sash yeah it's David Suchet
that guy's got an amazing voice here's a
couple of things that I've noticed in
using this mask over the past couple of
days sorry that I borrowed your
tested it here's the thing it's
comfortable yeah okay yes is it it is
confidence comfort about its padded
feels good here Jeff you gotta try it
because you're the guy who who needs one
of these it is comfortable
yeah and I have a smaller head and it
was nice on me I also think if I wanted
to get into crime fighting career it
would work for that just drill a hole
through those holes in that music yeah
you could have your own sounds and and
everything like soundtrack
I think dubstep beats all of them cat5
dot TV slash mask you know it's a simple
thing it's cheap it's it's affordable
but it's well built it works well and
comfortable to it is quite comfortable I
imagine you know we're all we're various
shapes and sizes here and it seems to
fit all of us I don't know if you'd ever
have any trouble with that fitting even
if you had a really big noggin there's
there's I wonder if you had a huge head
if the earphones would maybe be too far
for example possibly but I feel like the
majority of head girth would be this not
between the eyes and the ears maybe well
it's pretty standard depth yeah and I
mean those are big ear pieces so I mean
even if your ears were back and forth
you've probably got like inch
inch-and-a-half play at least so it's
pretty good there you go very cool check
it out cat 5 TV slash mask the show cost
me money Ravi oh do you like that yeah
but the show also informs that's right
yes yes so what's going on in the news
room do you know I don't have a clue
that's that's the real truth of the
matter all right here are the stories
were covering this week in the category
5 TV newsroom Microsoft is
acquiring github the FBI is advising
users of consumer grade router routers
and network attached storage devices to
reboot them as soon as possible to
counter Russian engineered malware that
has infected hundreds of thousands of
Services devices how's the contacts
tonight's ash just asking I just want to
know can we increase the font size Apple
I'm okay previewed a variety of security
and privacy features it plans to add to
me to Mac OS and iOS operating systems
including encrypted FaceTime group calls
password management tools and camera and
microphone protections asus has staged
its annual Computex keynotes and shown
off a laptop with dual screens but it's
not at all what you're imagining these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere
Jeff Westen Java
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website what
are you alright you're terrible actor
what this whereat thing comes into play
you're supposed to act okay are you
building a really cool website are you
building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash DreamHost to sign up for unlimited
web hosting for your website with
unlimited email accounts MySQL databases
the latest version of PHP WordPress and
more and even a free domain name
registration it's less than six dollars
per month so sign up today cat five dot
TV slash dream host this is the category
five dot TV newsroom covering the week's
top tech stories with a slight linux
glass i'm satiric menon here the top
stories were following this week
Microsoft is this aquire in github after
reports emerged that the software giant
was in talks to acquire github Microsoft
is making it official on Monday github
was last valued at 2 billion dollars
back in 2015 and Microsoft is paying 7.5
billion in stock for the company in a
deal that should close later this year
github is a large code repository that
has become very popular with the
developers and companies hosting entire
projects documentation and code Apple
Amazon Google and many other big tech
tech companies use github there are 85
million repositories hosted on github
github and 28 million developers
contribute to them github will now be
led by CEO and nod Freedman who will
report to Microsoft cloud and all and
chief Scott Guthrie github CEO and
co-founder Chris Warren Warren therethe
will now become a technical fellow at
Microsoft also reporting to Guthrie it's
easy to imagine why Microsoft would want
to acquire github Microsoft killed its
own github competitor codeplex in
December and is now the top contributor
to github Microsoft now has more than
1,000 employees actively pushing code to
github repositories Microsoft has
struggle
old with the developer love for years
and it's a big part of the reasons when
those failed and its univer windows
phone failed and it's Universal windows
apps platform hasn't taken off the
question around this acquisition will be
what Windows does with github github in
the future Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella
says we are committed to being stewards
of the github community which will
retain its developer first a toast
operate independently and remain an open
platform we will always listen to
developer feedback and invest in both
fundamentals and new capabilities this
was an interesting story did not see
that coming no what no I mean when when
it was first announced I was like really
of all the people to buy it
Microsoft because Microsoft I mean
granted I'm not a huge Microsoft fan but
they're known for taking things and
absorbing them and killing the life out
of it any do you have an example just
everything just no but I mean anytime
Microsoft has acquired stuff I feel like
there's always been a community support
around whatever it might have been a I'm
blanking on things right now but then
Microsoft takes over and you get that
major corporate feel but have they taken
a more open source approach as of late
like the past say three years that have
we kind of got that impression that I
don't think so
no no I mean when I switched over to
Windows 10 on my home PC
I don't feel who knows well not with
their not with their software but with
their approach to the developer channels
and things like that I guess a little
bit but I mean this is completely open
so I mean that's a great thing about
github is is it's totally open source
right and so the idea that attribute
their own code seems so positive
Microsoft's gonna win it I really oh hey
how can you how can you ruin something
that's so big though to see your job but
as long as they don't change it did the
fundamental underlying and they say that
they're keeping that open
at those of how it works how it operates
and the the underlying mindset of of
github because if if you create a piece
of software and publish it to github now
I can say oh I really wish that software
would do this this and this so I can sit
in my computer and I can make it do this
this and this and then I submit it
what's called a pull request to your
code right so now you can absorb that
change into your own software and that's
what makes it great it's a it's a
community it's a cloud platform that
allows developers to help each other
better open source right I guess yeah so
are they trying to shift then well I
don't know we don't know yet what are
they trying to do obviously now they own
like the place leanness Torvalds from
Linux the developer who created the
Linux kernel develops it and publishes
via github so you know should we watch
his channel
watch his page and see if he changes his
mind maybe he would say you know because
I imagine he's watching this very
closely and he's gonna say ok well let's
let's see let's back up he's now putting
his entire system in Microsoft hands
essentially yeah but with that comes
their capability of aggregating all the
code of the universe that is on github
ok that was gonna be my next point is
you are now handing over and the fact
that he's reporting to the cloud I mean
it's not like it's just a server
somewhere I mean Microsoft is gonna
access this from all over just like sure
can't we get up but there are they going
to somewhere in there user agreement
have some sort of weirdly worded legal
thing that basically says you're giving
this to us to host for you therefore we
own it right or we are it's licensed
under GPL under various open-source
licenses ok that may be the case but if
you have some amazing block of code
within your program yeah who's to say
that Microsoft with their new AI that
they're working on isn't gonna go oh
that's great code we're gonna take that
component put it into our Microsoft
software and you don't get a penny but
don't they have the right to do that
anyways I guess but I mean it but if
they
on the platform does that not add some
more but them owning the platform does
not mean that they own the code they
can't make it their own and say it's
ours now no because if it's licensed
under GPL now the product that they've
absorbed it into has to in turn be
licensed under GPL that's the agreement
behind that license
I still wonder if there's going to be
some legal loophole because you're
hosting it on their server I don't know
time will tell Jeff time will tell and
they're skeptical but you mention AI and
I think about the aggregation of the
code and we think about the fact that
the CEO of their AI division is now
becoming the head of this so hey maybe
there's something in that that's true
mm-hmm the FBI is invite is advising
users of consumer grade routers and
network attached storage devices to
has infected hundreds and thousands of
thousands of devices researchers from
Cisco's talo security team first
disclosed the existence of the malware
last month the detailed report said that
the malware infected more than 500,000
devices made by Linksys mikrotik night
Netgear QNAP and tp-link known as VPN
filter filter the malware allowed
attackers malware allowed tackers to
collect communications launched launch
attacks on others and permanently
destroy the devices with a single
command the report said that the malware
was developed by trackers working for an
advanced nation possibly Russia and
advised users of affected router models
to perform a factory reset or at minimum
to reboot the US Department of Homeland
Security has also issued a statement
advising that also home outter owners
power cycle or reboot their devices to
temporarily disrupt the malware
as noted in the statements rebooting
serves the objective of first
temporarily preventing of infected
devices from running the stages that
collect data and other advanced attacks
and secondly helping FBI officials to
track who was infected the statement
said that the FBI is working with the
nonprofit shadow foundation to
disseminate the IP addresses of the
infected devices to ISPs and foreign
authorizations to notify end-users
authorities and researchers still don't
know for certain how compromised devices
are initially infected they suspect that
the attackers exploited known
vulnerabilities and default passwords
that users had yet to patch or change
the advice to reboot update changed
default passwords and disable remote
administration is sound and in most
cases requires no more than 15 minutes
of course a more effective measure is to
follow the advice cisco gave user gave
to users of effective effective devices
and perform a full factory reset which
will permanently remove all of the
malware including the first stage of the
malware thanks i feel like this story
happens often this is a particularly
large one in that a lot of manufacturers
devices are affected right I mean it
don't know a whole lot about the the
cause like what's the root underlying
cause here and so they can say passwords
and remote administration built into the
devices so is it that somebody's written
a really good bot maybe using machine
learning for example and attacking many
different routers and detecting oh this
one's a Netgear that I'm attacking right
now so let's iterate through all the
default passwords for Netgear devices oh
look they've got remote administration
turned on on the router boom I'm in boom
I'm Vince I've installed my malware
right and we don't know yet who who
started this and what they're accusing
Russia they are but I hate to think that
they would ever do something like that
without knowing that there's some tie to
Russia or any other culture
so there must be some kind of evidence
geolocation or something there must be
not one thing but yeah I I wonder okay
so if you reboot your router that's
great or you just our cycling looked at
last week where Internet comes down
restart the router exactly but in this
particular case without this news story
coming out I wouldn't know that my
router would need to be rebooted or
anything should I just be on a schedule
of doing that or what yeah just factory
reset every once in a while what can I
do like I feel like how would you know
your router had malware yeah I think
that's a weird one because and I think
sometimes it comes down to to not
necessarily just using the devices that
are provided by your ISP because they're
usually the most susceptible they're
getting the bottom dollar on the most
amount of devices that they can buy for
cheap so that they can install them on
and all their sites and they're not
always the most secure devices and
they're not always patched and
up-to-date and everything else and they
have default passwords and by default we
don't tend to hey ISP came in set up our
Wi-Fi and we use the password they gave
us well I mean how many people when they
get it from their ISP there's a sticker
on the back yeah sure that says this is
your password and then the technician
writes it on there you change you can
change it yeah yeah but I think it
predominantly has to do with not
necessarily the Wi-Fi passwords so much
as because then someone's got to be
sitting in the car within two kilometers
of your house in order to do it
which is still an access its remote
access through the internet because
remember this device is connected to the
WAM the internet yeah and if it has a
default login password that you would
use you ask the question can you change
your Wi-Fi password yes you can by
logging into your router going to the
wireless setup and changing your
password and what if you didn't change
the password to login to your router
that's the problem a lot of times it's
like admin password so if that's what it
is and somebody somebody's bought has
found my router and can get into my
router with admin password then they
have access to my network so I said you
know maybe don't just trust and I said
just like don't just fall back on this
device that the ISP gives you maybe we
need to supplement with an internal
firewall that's between my network and
the Internet that's in addition to what
the ISP is giving me right and that
would help protect because here's the
fierce Asha as soon as someone can get
into that router a lot of them are
powered by Linux for example yes they
may be able to open up SSH connections
so that they can now connect into it and
access any of the computers on my
network if it's not Linux based if it's
not SSH compatible or have that
capability they can easily get in and
open ports in my network port forwarding
and they can set up for example they can
see every computer's IP address on my
network because it those IP addresses
are being dished out by the router right
if I had a supplemental device that was
dishing out those IP addresses the
router would never know what they are
that's great that's where it would help
so if they can see all the IP addresses
on my network so they see your desktop
computer your laptop your phone they're
gonna look at that desktop computer and
figure hey most likely that's Windows so
let's open port 3389 - just to test
let's see if Samba is open and turned on
like file sharing if networks file
sharing is connected and turned on so
that you can access your files on your
desktop from your laptop well they can
now open that up to their own computer
they can access your hard drive and
guess what your C Drive has shared under
a hidden share and they've got full
access to your computer so there's a lot
of fear there with what they can be
capable of by compromising that one
device so we can reset it to knock them
off of it if they're on we can factory
reset it to remove what they've done but
then we've got to reset up everything if
you do that please don't reuse the same
passwords yeah we can wipe it all and do
all that and then supplement with a good
firewall and maybe that's the best way
to do it
thank you it's still scary nonetheless
it can be if you have questions if
you're not sure anything that I just
said please send them in go to our
website category 5 TV make sure when you
go to contact us that you select that
you are sending in a question for the
show otherwise it may go to the wrong
inbox and never get answered so make
sure you're selecting but it's to go to
the show Apple on Monday previewed a
variety of security and privacy features
it plans to add to Mac OS and iOS
operating systems including encrypted
FaceTime group calls password management
tools and camera and microphone
protections apple also released a beta
version of the upcoming iOS 12 that
apparently kills off two iphone
unlocking tools used by law enforcement
around the world to access phones
without knowing the unlock code the
feature known as USB restricted mode
requires that users unlock their iPhone
with a password when connecting to it to
a USB device it requires a password each
time a phone that hasn't been unlocked
in the past hour tries to connect to a
device using a lightning connection the
password requirements tart largely
neutralizes iphone unlocking tools
provided by companies called cellebrite
and grey shift which use USB
connectivity to bypass iOS restrictions
on the number of incorrect pin guesses
that can be entered into an iPhone with
those limitations removed police can
make an unlimited number of pin guesses
when attempting to unlock a confiscated
iPhone often aided by robotic
unlocking system previously iOS betas
had USB restrictions that required the
entering of a password when it hadn't
been unlocked for seven days those us be
restricted modes were later removed
before Apple issued final versions of
the iOS the restrictions this time
around are much more stringent because
police would have no more than 60
minutes between the time that they
obtain an iPhone and connect it to an
unlocking tool we should remember that
though though at
Apple has previously removed USB
restricted mode before releasing final
versions and may do so again with iOS 12
the new beta also features end-to-end
encryption built-in password management
and several privacy enhancements so
sounds great let's switch to Apple well
how do I get that but without having to
get Apple like how can I get that
without an iPhone good question
chatroom this is one for you folks if
you can I well I've never heard of that
USB locking mechanism in an Android
phone okay heard of that that doesn't
mean it doesn't exist
I want a pretty phone like I'm not a
phone guy I want my private room yeah I
think that's a great idea because this
is one of the things is that there
unlock they're making it so that the
because you know you guess the password
ten times and all of a sudden of locks
you only kind of think but if they're
using a tool over USB it makes sense
that hey if we disable the USB
connection until you enter the password
now they can't do that I like it I like
that feature a lot I want it I just
don't want an iPhone I know no there's
like a software that's been developed
that you can download through you know
in an Android store or something well
you know what I I don't know that it
would be supplemental it's gonna be a
core OS feature right but I could
imagine that if it doesn't exist in
Android it wasn't you know yeah the the
the idea behind it is is non-proprietary
I mean you can't
how can you patent something like that
right so yeah that's true I'm sure that
someone will make something similar on
Android part of the Android OS but will
it be you know what if your phone can't
be updated to version 9 of Android right
exam out well I mean and that will be
part of it is that it won't be entirely
backwards compatible but like I haven't
I have a samsung phone mm-hmm and there
is the Samsung App Store device that
comes with my phone so I can see Samsung
themselves
developing an app that becomes part of
the okay turtle that goes hey do you
want this you can download it and then
that's part of the core of your phone
whoo why are you no different than if
you had you know like an algae or
something that they could maybe develop
their own version of it that you could
download from okay you know I could see
something like that happening the foo
has a phone that uses NFC and a UB key
in order to to enforce two-factor
authentication okay and I just wonder
the foo if if that would prevent the
capability of plugging in a USB cable
and adding these backdoor patches that
remove those restrictions like could it
could I don't know what the government
has as far as capabilities know and so
[Laughter]
factor authentication is a good idea I
think also that simply you know for
myself like I don't keep anything
private on my phone no I would just have
to change my google it just account i
password and things you just feel like
you want your stuff to stay private
though like the things you've chosen to
be private she want them to stay private
you know so if I'm giving my phone over
say at the border say they'd do a thing
where they just want to check your phone
at the order I I don't want them to
you're a person now a national security
threat
I hear Canada yep really yep yeah two
weeks ago really a much better story
just for the record we are benign we're
so please forgive us for anything we
have done because that's the Canadian
way we're so sorry sorry
a CSIS staged its annual Computex
keynote and shown off laptops with dual
screens but it's not at all what you're
imagining the Zenbook pro 15 is a 15
inch notebook packin up to a hex core
core I 9 with 16 gigs of RAM GTX 1050 TI
graphics and a one terabyte solid-state
drive
I know it has a main 15.6 inch screen
capable of 4k Ultra HD and it has a
second screen which is different from
anything we've ever seen
it's a Full HD multi-touch screen in
place of the laptops usual touchpad Asus
has called this the screen pad and has
designed apps including a calculator and
custom controls for Microsoft Office and
YouTube to run in it the laptop goes on
sale next month for $2,300 us oh I love
the idea AHA I really like it I love
where this world is going when do I get
one think of this right
come on manufacturers this should have
been around forever this is smart it's
it's a beautiful idea but however this
is Jeff but no but how many times do
people go I drop my laptop like so you
get it no no but now an otterbox doesn't
get for a laptop really maybe okay like
if I was to drop this don't it's mine I
know but if I was to drop it chances are
I'm not gonna be damaging the keyboard
but now if you've got a screen and you
have a glass plane that is your keyboard
you drop that sucker you've doubled the
chances I feel like for the
accident-prone not a smart purchase okay
raining on this parade for the record
mr. butterfingers over here
PSA don't drop your laptop especially if
it's $2,300 I really want to just get my
hands on it and like I want to see what
it feels like I feel like I'll feel like
I'm in like Minority Report or something
I don't know I think to me it reminds me
of what I thought the switch should have
been like with the touchscreen and
everything interacting with the TA and
maybe it is for some games but but I
like that idea that it's got hot keys my
Wacom tablet for for drawing which I'm
not an artist but my daughter is has a
lot of hot keys and stuff around that
you talk
with the pen and it does certain actions
and things and I love the fact that this
touchpad now becomes an action center
that can be you know maybe app
developers can create apps that will
supplement your application now as
somebody who codes all the time how
would that change in physical dexterity
impact the way that you type because I
mean I'm sure you could be looking at
your screen and just say it what if you
have your hand scanned on it and then it
automatically mised you guys know
nothing about this no it has a real
physical keyboard just like your normal
laptop but your touch pad the touch pad
that you use your mouse has been
replaced with a touchscreen okay then I
misunderstood the news story I thought I
was talking about I thought it's a whole
keyboard no we're talking the touch pad
is a multi-touch touchscreen I know it's
hard to understand she has bad vision
don't make fun of her it's because the
letters were white and shredding them
green now does it make sense it does I'm
picturing like two planes of glass big
touchscreen cuz it's gonna have a
calculator it's good now do we get the
news now do we understand what's cool I
think it's even better than what you
were thinking is what you were thinking
thinking was nonsense no it made no
sense
who would ever make that Jeff I just
thought it was neat I'm like that's cool
when Sasha said it is not like anything
you've you're thinking she didn't mean
it that way
like that the presenter would completely
not understand what it is that it is
that they're making
thanks to marsh man Roy W Nash and our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
subscribe here for all your tech news
with a slight linux - for more from the
category 5 TV newsroom visit our website
category 5 dog TV thank you for watching
I'm Robbie Ferguson
I'm Sasha Rickman and I'm Jeff Weston
thank you good night
hey I hope you had fun did you have fun
I had fun it's always an adventure from
blurry vision to a teleprompter that
simply has a battery low indicator
fullscreen over top of the lens of our
camera we always get through yes exactly
and I hope that you've enjoyed yourself
again this week Jeff finds away you have
a good time yeah I'm gonna put on my
face mask so that I can't see anything
these just meditate eyes yeah to answer
your question the foo tonight has been a
longer show yes yes you'll pale the
paper have a great week everybody we'll
see you next week bye
