hi hi and welcome to new every day I'm
Jen and I'm Carrie and on today's show
we're going to talk about being made new
you've got mad skills now hone them
learn new skills or improve your
existing ones with online video
tutorials and training from Linda calm
through our special link at cat five dot
TV / Linda learn software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today to help you achieve your
professional goals join today and start
learning will give you this chance to
try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat5 dot TV / linda
alright welcome back thanks for tuning
in again last week gen came back she was
away all summer helping lead a Christian
camp and so we heard about her
experience and this week we are we're
going to keep going talking about that
but also one of the themes well the
theme of the summer for you was being
made new in Christ right yes so what
were some of the things that you talked
about under that theme right kids so
every day we have a different theme sort
of to get across the point that we are
made new the theme verse was second
Corinthians 5 17 therefore if anyone is
in Christ the new creation has come the
old has gone and the new is here mmm
don't you know Bibles make that sound
mm-hmm mmm second Corinthians 5 17
what's that the seven yo oh my goodness
yes cc7 yeah and so one of the themes
was that we are given a new way to see
and actually what I would do is I would
I know you're like she's moving on the
set she's moving on the set what is she
doing when she never does this before
well aren't you don't even notice if
dice pintuck but this isn't going to
talk about this but every day on the way
to see ooh I put on these glasses okay
isn't that cool yeah now many campers
those are the wee ones they're like five
to seven SAR like pastor Chen those are
3d glasses I like very good funny story
senior boys that's ages 12 to 16 day 3
or 4 i'm wearing these because it's
super heroes for supper so I'm Clark
Kent that night effect glasses I have my
I have my black hoodie with Superman
underneath so I can be like oh and they
I'm in line with the boys and they're
like whoa those aren't real no oh it's
really
he really there's no lenses in them they
say 3d on the side I'm like either just
I are totally out of lunch during chapel
or so intent that they just didn't clue
ants what it was the content with so
riveting oh my goodness in amazed 3d one
sec there's nothing wrong with my eyes
so you put on this back so I put on the
specs and I say you know what why do
people wear glasses Terry why do people
who are losses well because I kept
squinting like this and I couldn't see
very clearly in ever the edges were all
blurry and driving was slightly
dangerous right so there's something
physically wrong with your eyes that
caused you to need an adjustment it's
not all in my head well they're in my
head you know what I mean it's not
psychosomatic no it's like and so I
would say to them well what would happen
if I traded glasses with someone ah wow
this is amazing everything's in 3d haha
and I'm like oh you look good on you
Thanks okay look hmm but I would be like
whoa these are dirty well yeah so it's
caused me it feels really weird on my
face like there's something there that's
caused me not to see I said these do not
help me something physical doesn't
really help me and my eyesight I said if
something if Kari takes these off she
cannot see and I said so often we we put
things on to adjust to adjust our site
but Jesus gives us a new way to see he
actually comes in and changes the way we
look at people because our he makes us
new so I'm just going to trade these
back because I feel really weird my yes
and so one one of the things that I
would often do is
I would take a drumstick and I would had
a ping-pong ball on that side and I put
through and so I was like I having a sty
in my eye huh and I try to get close to
them and they'd be like oh I'm gonna
like it away I'm like what's wrong
they're like you're gonna hurt me I'm
like why what's wrong there's nothing
wrong and they're like there's something
in your eye and the Bible talks about
this concept of judging in Matthew 7 it
says do not judge others or you will be
judged you will be judged in the same
way you judge others and the amount you
give to others will be given to you why
do you notice the little piece of dust
in your friends eyes but you do not
notice the big piece of wood in your own
eye how can you say to your friend let
me take that piece little piece of dust
out of your eye look at yourself you
still have that big piece of wood in
your own eye you hypocrite first take
the wood out of your own eye then you
will see clearly to take the dust out of
your friends I and I was like I said why
is that important why is that important
that you take that thing out of your eye
so our answer well one of them says well
so you can see clearly so you don't
judge so you don't make poor judgments I
said well then what what should be the
first priority then when we actually are
in relationship with people and they
said you gotta look at yourself first is
there something wrong on the inside that
causes us to see people differently
because there's a physical change on the
inside of my eyes that makes me not see
clearly yes and so is there a spiritual
issue that causes us not to see people
clearly is their pride is there a way
that we were raised like maybe we were
raised actually to show unkindness to a
certain group of people to judge one sin
is worse than another so we yeah that
popular
asian we cannot yes treat them a certain
way yeah so it was very interesting to
have those those conversations with them
to talk about the fact that how does
Jesus give us a new way to see and the
Bible story that went along with it
because I believe this was the teaching
aspect so the Bible story that went
along with it was we talked about the
woman at the well okay we also talked
about Zacchaeus so Zacchaeus was a man a
tax collector and nobody wanted to be
around that keas and woman at the well
she was ostracized by everyone she had
been married five times was not living
with man so they both had social issues
that when their disciples or the
teachers of the law saw Jesus uh
interacting with the woman at the well
in Zacchaeus they went whoa what are you
doing what are you doing and Jesus
simply he said to Zach yes I'm going to
hang out your house and he says to the
woman at the well would you give me a
drink of water he hittin but he invites
himself into fellowship with people that
we would see as unworthy and Jesus looks
past that First Samuel 16-7 says the
Lord does not look at the things that
people look at people look at the
outward appearance but the Lord looks at
the heart and Jesus sees past Zacchaeus
and his what sin because he was sinning
he was stealing from people he was
basically working for the Roman
government so nobody liked him and yet
there he is he runs ahead and he
positions himself and a place to see
Jesus and Jesus turned someone calls him
by name and it was the presence and love
of Jesus that brought repentance in his
life yes it wasn't Jesus sang Zacchaeus
like I've seen you what you're doing get
down here come on it's time to repent
yeah it was the love of Christ it was
the love coming yes I've calm salvation
has come to your house today yes and
Zakia is totally repented yeah
like he's he had the actions in keeping
with repentance he's like if I've stolen
anything I'm gonna replace old and yeah
so Jesus saw past the outward appearance
and saw the heart just like the woman at
the well when Jesus is he knew all about
her and he still asked her for a cup of
water can I have a drink of water and
she's like if you knew who I was like
who I was or she said that and because
she's like why you asked why me why
asking me like cuz she knew that if he
knew who she was there was no way
because he was a man he was a Jewish man
he was a teacher and like that was a big
no-no all three of those for him to be
associating with her a Samaritan woman
and yet there's Jesus saying yeah but if
you knew who I was right and Jesus once
again did the exact same thing it was
his love and warmth and an acceptance of
her that drew her to repentance because
doesn't she go running off and say come
come and see the man who knew everything
about me come and see him I'm thinking
if I had her background I would not want
to be inviting people to come and meet
the person who knows everything about me
yeah so what was it then about Jesus
that caused disgrace yes he embodied and
in John chapter 1 says Jesus came full
of grace and truth and both of those
work together perfectly in him because
he's God yeah that he was able to say
truthfully you've had five husbands and
the man you now with is not your husband
yeah and yet there was that grace there
yes and you know it's cool in both
stories never ones just Jesus say are
you sorry for your sins are you going to
repent in either sorry there's none of
that that's true actually they are
immediately repentant because of his
love right which is so cool there is no
like okay let's let's pray let's say
we're sorry for our sins and and there's
a time and a place for that I have no
problem but i just find it very
interesting that in both situation
when Jesus reached out and love and
actually reached out in fellowship right
it's that meal thing there's something
about meals with Jesus where people just
come come to him when we eat invite
people over share the love of Jesus but
the woman at the well the water
Zacchaeus the meal Jesus invited himself
to them and they responded which is like
it changes the way that we need to see
people that is not it's not about who
they are or their actions or their sins
or anything like that it really is about
what does Jesus see in their heart and
the fact is the Bible says that God
created every person man and woman he
created them in His image why to have a
relationship with them and then in
second Peter says the Lord is not slow
right because he wants all people to be
saved he wants all people to have a
relationship with him so when he looks
at people what we would say are that
Zacchaeus is or the moment the well we
say oh that you know and Jesus like no
that's the one I died for yes yeah he
gives us new eyes to see them yes which
is just a very powerful tool that we as
believers have that we are when we are
made new when we are in Christ the old
way of God the old ways gone the new has
come that old way of seeing things can
be gone we can ask Jesus change the way
I see these people right that he does it
and he does change the way I look at my
husband changed the way I look at my
sister change the way that I look at my
my students or my friends god I need you
to change the way i look at them so that
when I look at them I see you I see what
you want me to see not what I see
because the thing is we have human eyes
just like the passage in Matthew 7 says
we have styes like we have these stick
sticks in our eyes that prevent us from
seeing clearly and Jesus like you got to
get rid of those and they're the only
way
those planks those sticks can be removed
it's through the power of the cross in
saying we're coming before Jesus is
saying oh Lord I look I I do not look at
people the way that I should whatever it
is that's inside of me that causes me
whether it's pride insecurity fear of
rejection fear in general whatever it is
it causes me to look at this person in
this way would you please forgive me
root it out of me I want to be changed
by your power I want to be made new in
the way I look at people help me right
and the cool thing is he does yep he
does so and you know God's guts love and
transforming power in her life doesn't
just end no you know we're being made
new and head to His image day after day
with being renewed in the image of our
Creator yes and he's going to carry on
the good work he started until the day
of Christ Jesus amen and you know I have
a friend of mine who growing up her
father was not kind to her and she
became a Christian after she was an
adult and God so changed her heart
towards her dad but didn't realize it
until she had to go and see him he
wasn't well and she she was just acting
in obedience because she knew she needed
to go see this man and when she saw him
the love of Christ filled her amen she
was able to not on her own volition yes
she said I it wasn't me but God allowed
her to see him differently to see him as
one who for whom Christ has died and one
who needs to accept his love yes and
forgiveness
yes because of that that hurt Jesus
washed it away yeah he can give us when
will you surrender that to him he comes
in through the power of the Holy Spirit
changes the way we see and just like
it's not as if we know it sometimes it's
not so we're presented with that person
again that we go whoa yes you
differently just so cool yeah so and
maybe you're watching this or listening
to this and thinking yeah Carrie and Jen
but you don't know my husband you don't
know you don't know what's going on you
don't know my friend and hurt that that
she's caused or you don't know my wife
whatever it may be mm-hmm but maybe it
just takes asking the Lord to help you
see them differently men not to stay in
a relationship that's causing damage
right oh but God can give you a new way
of seeing them I know he he can he has
in my own life of watch how he's
transformed relationships in my own life
wyd changing the way that I look at
people and by taking the sky or the
plank out of my own I because sometimes
we don't even realize it's there and
then by his power he comes and he deals
with he heals us as we then can look at
people differently because we are made
new embraced I think that happens in
relationship with him rate like as we
spend more time getting to know who we
are in christ that he has made us new
and forgiven us already of those sins
yeah then that affords us the
opportunity gives us the ability that's
the other people amen that's good news
eh that's good news well let's pray all
right Lord we are so thankful for your
good news we're so thankful God that you
made a way for us to come to you through
Jesus Christ and they've given us new
life and hope through him and a new way
of seeing people and Lord no matter what
our week has been we just give it over
to you lord please forgive us for
looking at people in the way that we
shouldn't maybe judging that because of
their looks or how much money they have
or things they've said or their past or
lifestyle choices but God those are
people whom you love and for whom you've
died so help us to lay our lives down
for them in the sense that we will love
them love them Jesus your love cost you
everything so would you equip us to see
people in a new way and to love them as
you've called us to live that we might
represent you Jesus to the world so we
pray this in your powerful name Jesus
amen amen amen all right we want to say
a special thanks to our partners so if
you go to our website new everyday TV
and click on partners you can see a
variety of people who are involved in
making this show happen one of them is
amazon com another is Lynn little
company the logo comfort little company
you can have them design a logo mmm-hmm
because sometimes that's one of the
hardest things to do when you're trying
to you know brand something you need the
right logo so check them out also on our
website is a link to family christian
stores as well so go to the website have
a look and see who's sponsoring us or in
partnership with us and check them out
as well and have a wonderful week and
have a wonderful chairs they are done
cheers
you
