welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Rob
Ferguson episode number 252 of category
5 technology TV oh happy birthday hell
happy birthday to you Willie work
thursday birthday party here is special
hey it's july seventeenth 2012 the day
of my birth and how lucky are you that
you are celebrating with us unreal
you're invited to the party people
welcome thanks for coming to my party
drinks and party hats will be handed out
after the show worldwide on John yes on
drop that's hilarious yeah there's
always cake always cake a chat room nice
to see ya semi hex yes in 1965 John a
Jameson 55 79 and GW g I can see you on
my screen how are you candidacy hey
what's going on with you have you been
oh no keeping it real yeah mr. do my
thang almost another year older another
year Boulder two more days you know and
Hillary celebrates the year the day of
her birth sure say Thursday so this is
literally the partay it is in fact when
Eric was here on his birthday I said
okay well you've got to wear one of
these so I got you a birthday girl yeah
which matches red perfectly i know and i
figured you know i got to be a good team
player too so oh thank you i'm gonna put
this on
that's terrific there we are okay love
it all right and we're gonna have a
little bit of a race tonight grace well
to see who is going to be the champion
of the episode oh my gosh now of course
I had to call fire insurance and just
make sure we were covered okay look good
well I'm real nervous come on come on
come on come on come on there's flames
there's sparks mine won't light I'm
winning okay and I step together go go
go go it burns fellow misspelled words I
think my pad just lit on fire I think
wines winning for the champion of the
show the birthday person extrav
straordinario me flavors what every
reputable I'm a little concerned if
something happens they say on the
package do not use in course we the cow
good try and fair when some you lose
some that's all you got to say about to
throw this in my paper waste bin maybe
I'll just kind of hold on to them for a
second so hey oh yeah that was in
graduations you're the champion of the
show thank you so far thank you and as
such i would like to announce the event
of the show and what will be happening
gaga today we will be learning a little
bit about managing our passwords how to
use a software to use them you have a
software to use i'm keeping it hush-hush
what it is you how to wait and see but
basically it's going to help you keep
track of your various passwords and keep
them encrypted so no creepers can get
them whoa important also today is the
day in honor of Robbie's birth he is
giving a gift and that gift is the magic
jack the magic Channel
are giving away a special special prize
to one lucky viewer who has sent in
their postcard which is gonna be awesome
or phone call or that's right fires by
right well so lots outfitting yes
because of the magicjack via magic jack
we got phone calls that's gonna be sweet
stick around for that because it could
be you and also in addition answering
all your questions we will be talking a
little something something about a
portable media speaker perfect for this
time of year barbecue season patio
season stick around because that's gonna
happen and you know what else is gonna
happen the news done news coming up in
the newsroom a hack revealed over the
weekend allows iPhone and iPad users to
make an in-app purchase without paying
yes I mean that's called stealing oh not
good Jenny research in motion just lost
147 million dollar court case for
infringing on patents onian that's kick
in the pants I'd say nail in the coffin
Marlon thanks to yahoo over 400,000
email passwords have been compromised
affecting users of Yahoo Gmail AOL and
more what a deuce and lastly Ouya open
source gaming console is in the works
and can be pre-ordered for only
ninety-nine dollars so stick around
because these stories are coming up
later in the show thanks hill and you
can visit our mobile website MCAT five
dot TV if you've got one of those mobile
kind of smartphone kind of devices or if
you're using a tablet device great way
to watch the show is m dot cat five dot
TV also don't forget we love to receive
your postcards you can send those into
us at category 5 technology TV p.o box
to 9009 Barrie Ontario Canada l4 n7w 7
love receiving your postcards from all
over the world please do send those in
mm-hmm and of course as hillary was
saying tonight we are going to be giving
away a magicjack now we did receive some
phone calls but yeah we have a tons of
postcards there
cool so we'll see who comes out on top
but lots of postcards that we're gonna
be drawing from hmm I'm excited mm-hmm I
love free stuff we love giving stuff to
you always it's the least we can do
right on my birthday I give to you I'd
give to you my babies stick around we're
gonna take a really really quick break
but we're gonna be right back and
Hillary's got your viewer questions as
well you can get those into us in the
chat room category 5 on freenode or of
course by email live at category 5 TV i
gotta say those sparklers stink i know i
keep getting off of this whatever sulfur
or whatever yeah wafting so while we
vacuum out the air will give you this
and we'll be right back at eco alkalines
we believe you should be able to trust
your batteries not just here but here
here and here but with one exception you
should also be able to trust your
batteries here Eco alkalines of the
world's first and only certified carbon
neutral battery manufactured to the
highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco outlines provide performance
the rivals leading national alkaline
battery brands at a comparable price
find out more about the Eco alkalines
difference eco alkalines calm you are
watching category 5 TV and we're a
member of the tech podcast network if
it's tech it's here and we're also a
member of the International Association
of Internet broadcasters
category five tonight is brought to you
in part by Netflix you can get your free
one month trial of netflix service cat5
TV / netflix did i mention it is free
oooh cat five dot TV / netflix sounds
good to me well you got viewer questions
like crazy this week lots to cover for
you and we love receiving your questions
live at category 5 TV is the way to get
those into us true say hmm let's kick it
into gear people Don tada Robert
Kazinsky rights to us Melbourne
Australia hi Robbie hello robert in
regards to my question about the people
counting system from episode 2 50 ah yes
i did not mention that it was a hardware
device using the Arduino Oh as mentioned
i program in the IP address gateway
netmask time server etc what i want to
do is be able to simulate the customers
network by putting the IP gateway
netmask etc that we get from a customer
i want to be able to do this with an
hour network thank you for the info
about printers under linux that he asked
last time that question from last time
given the great work from robert i like
that he said oh by the way I forgot to
mention that it was a hardware device
that way I can blame my inability to
help you on the fact that we were
lacking information Robert you've got to
give us the whole picture here may need
the deets totally I was picturing
computers and here he's talking about
he's in hardware so I wasn't sure what
to do with that let's see now I I
believe he sent me a picture personally
or after the fact that fortunately don't
have that handy but it looked like a
little box that they were using for this
device has a counter so not knowing the
ins and outs of that device and not
really understanding what it is that
you're doing exactly Robert I would say
if you
yeah I'd love to know a little bit about
if you have general networking knowledge
because i would say that what you want
to do could probably be done just by
creating the IP addresses of your your
customers network or the external
network that you want to replicate if
the problem is is that by doing that
you're then creating another subnet or
creating another IP block within your
internal network of course you're going
to lose access to it from your other
computers but again it's a simulation so
that shouldn't be a problem if you do
require access to those though you can
use a more advanced routing system such
as mono wall for example something that
would allow you to have two IP networks
that the communicate together or with
some advanced DNS stuff you'd be able to
pull it off as well but that gets a
little complex but I mean if you have
enough of the devices you should be able
to if I follow you correctly and I know
next week you're going to email us again
and say well actually it's not just a
hardware device but this and this and
this but but I don't know that I can be
of too much help other than maybe
helping you with general networking
stuff but I think if you if you've got
an idea of what your what your network
is meant to look like the IP addresses
and everything you should be able to
recreate those you may have to recreate
them in a isolated network on its own
say switch or something like that get a
little residential switch and hook up
the devices to that if you want to go
that far and and give it a go hope I
follow you Robert hope that that helps
to some degree let us know alright you
thank you thanks for that thanks for
your question thanks for the follow up
pretty good glad that the printer issue
or the printer answer that I gave was
helpful for you hmm you're able to
rectify that problem that is super
alright got me another question here
from Ron Smith hey Ron Oh two questions
this is the first one tackle one at a
time napa so 251 asked a question about
which linux version is more laptop
friendly so i tried Zorin OS six point 0
ultimate when i try doing the install i
only got a white screen with a flashing
cursor oh no oh and uh
left corner after clicking on install
even after letting it sit for 15 minutes
so i tried Zorin OS six-point okur
lubuntu 12.4 and Linux Mint 13 they all
that the same white flashing cursor
screen going on I'm assuming it's a
video issue so then I tried wn6 point 0
point 5 amd64 i386 and it installed so
here is my question if all of the above
versions of Linux are based on debian
why did debian install the others
wouldn't I thought they were all the
same behind the screens and just look
different yeah kinda but with Debbie and
it's it's like you're looking at Zoran
core right think of it as taking it way
way further to the whole core model
debian is the base of all things that
are based on debian obviously so Lubuntu
Linux Mint Zorin OS and just a slew of
other distros that are based on debian
so debian may install really well with
the exception of some hardware issues
because it's it's very very I don't know
if lightweight is the term but at very
core as far as what everything has its
meant so you can install it and then you
can build upon it with different
packages you you add things to customize
it and really build your own OS and
that's why it makes a great base for for
ubuntu and for linux mint and for Zoran
because it it allows them to add
packages and basically make it their own
so what happens then is that you've got
a boon to kind of at the forefront
Canonical's distribution that takes
debian adds a whole bunch of stuff to it
and makes it better and better is a
relative term but better as in more
streamlined for the desktop with
built-in connect the automatic sensing
of hardware and things like that the
perhaps might not be there for just in
debian the the base install so then
you've got mint and Zoren that are
possibly based on some of the things
that we wound to have done to the to the
operating system and so then you
going to run into some issues but the
other thing is that lubuntu as the
examples Oren all those are built for
end-user desktops they're built to be
more graphically pleasing they've got
nice visual effects and visual things
going on so in your case it sounds like
what may be happening is that you've got
an incompatible video driver or
something like that maybe the video card
and you're in your laptop is not being
detected correctly or there's something
up with that so during the install
process you could possibly change your
like to a safe video mode or vesa video
mode before you install and then
manually install your drivers depending
on what those maybe that can be a little
bit tough for a novice user i'm not sure
where you're at as far as that goes but
what because you've got debian installed
you should be able to now add packages
to debian to make it feel closer to what
those other distros are too but you may
just try to get it because it's
happening because he's saying that it's
happening to all these different distros
that our desktop distros i kind of get
the impression that there's something up
there with your hardware that you might
want to try to figure that out rather
than installing i love debbie and i used
in at work but i'm also a bit of a power
user so right give it a whirl good luck
see what happen for like a safe install
mo safe video mode usually you can get
that by loading the options of the grub
menu or something like that oh hey ron
smith joining ron and i would say but he
says in the chatroom that he's a novice
linux user so i would suggest that you I
i guess i would suggest that you play
around don't be don't be in a rush and
just kind of learn how things work but
the fact that all three of those distros
are giving you a white screen that tells
me that there's something it's not like
Soren is not working on your system it's
that there's something about your system
that is not being liked by by a Linux or
by maybe the video drivers so maybe get
into Google you'd get your video chipset
and do some googling
googling and yes I said that and see you
see what you come up with see if there's
some forms of people with the same
chipset that are having a similar kind
of difficult yeah do it or I'll very
hardware-specific I think mm-hmm okay
good luck though run well that's part
one of his computer dilemma oh there's a
second question his wireless card is not
working on the laptop with debian say
the debian six installed the wireless
card is an intel centrino wireless and
130 so he lists his kernel and he
googled the card and he got like a
website okay and then was sent another
website and then downloaded Intel Linux
wireless org mm-hmm again very
hardware-specific and i can tell
wireless to test with if if there's
support on that website maybe go through
the Weeki maybe go through that again
you're going through had quite a few
hoops just to get wireless you you might
try to get through that initial issue
that you're having with the other
distros because they may work better out
of the box with some of your hardware
maybe especially that Wi-Fi hardware
Wi-Fi is notorious that that's one of
the things that companies like canonical
really set out to do was to make Wi-Fi
detect very easily you can use something
like n dis rapper to install the windows
drivers essentially into linux and that
usually works if as a fail-safe you can
probably do that in debian but it's
going to be a lot of trial and error and
i hope you enjoy doing that and I don't
ever want you to get discouraged and I
don't want people who are viewing to get
the impression that Linux is difficult
on certain hardware and I don't know how
old your laptop is or anything it's a
centrino it's very specific what that
system is meant to support and it
it can be on a hardware to hardware
basis because I've had laptops where I
can pop linux on it and it just is
amazing everything works and it usually
works better than on other platforms but
then you do get these the oddball ones
where you got to work at it a little bit
because there's something about the
hardware that for some reason it's it
could be that it's loading a module that
is crashing during boot so you need to
find out which module that is you can
read some of the the logs do a tail on
the the error logs for example messages
stuff like that good idea it's tough
thing something tricky but yeah the
answer is out there troubleshooting
exactly which unfortunately I can't
really do over on a one-sided
conversation like this run Santa's your
staff yeah with it well I think forums
are the best thing for you just as
you're learning and I can you know I can
certainly show you some things but when
it's hardware-specific it's tough it
helps to find other people that have
that same hardware have been through it
or are currently working through it and
maybe you can work together to to figure
it out but have fun with the process and
don't stop looking at different
distributions as well I would go back to
some of the you know like kubuntu is it
is usually a very good one for getting
in with a boon to you can also get the
alternate install CD which may be
helpful for you on their website ubuntu
com when you go to the download just
look for the alternate install that uses
text mode installation so it will get
the system up and running whether or not
it'll work it depends on what that
problem was but at least you're gonna
get through the the install process
certainly worth a shot yeah give it a
whirl give it a whirl dollar Stan good
luck good luck to you okay question from
Jim hey Jim hi i have a boon to 11 point
10 desktop on my computer is there any
way to set up a server on it to act like
an exchange server i needed to push
email calendar and contact singing to my
iphone and other computers
mac and mac book pro I know the iphone
works with exchange protocol lubuntu
evolution works with mapi whatever that
is and imax ical and address book works
with exchange protocol also thanks for
recommendations great show okay well
Matt nappy is essentially Microsoft's
protocol for basically modern email
being able to include attachments and
send email back and forth to exchange so
really when you say what's what is that
it is the same as exchange right if you
have the ability to use mapi you have
the ability to connect to exchange so
there is open exchange is one option
that's a piece of software that you can
get for linux the one that I why am I
losing my voice the human at me just a
hot humid day he really really hot day
here and bury ya talk about the weather
while I clear my throat now in our past
life here in category sorry he wouldn't
even let me go there um I just got the
horn no that was just a cover up my car
oh I thought it's cuz you were gonna
what I was gonna say in our past life
you would never let us talk about the
weather here on the show do you remember
well they're worse there have been some
who will talk incessantly about the
weather so I thought it was funny we
love you Kristy anyway onward and upward
um mapi and something else sinking staff
exchange exchange yes exchange is like a
server end by Microsoft which is
dreadful by the way it but it's good in
corporations it allows you to share
calendars it allows you to get email
into a server and then check it from the
server so you're certainly can be
receiving the email and then when I
check my email from within the network
I'm getting it from the internal server
rather than having to download the
attachments through the web and use up
our land there are 1 bandwidth at the
office that's something to consider so
as I was saying there's there's open
exchange which will just you know we can
quickly head over to Google and open
exchange I think it's just yes x
just felt with an X open cash exchange
and I haven't used it in quite a while
and the reason that I haven't you can go
through the information about it but the
reason that I haven't really looked at
this in in quite some time is because I
really got interested in and really got
using zimbra which was you know
originally an independent project it got
bought by yahoo and yahoo then of course
sold it to vmware vmware wanted to make
it into more of a cloud-based
collaboration suite which is great
that's that's the direction of the
internet and the way email is going and
everything so so that would be the the
next option that I would look at than
Jim was Jim that was asking the question
yeah zimbra calm what's nice about
zimbra is there is a free version that's
available for for community use zimbra
open source i've just scroll down to the
very bottom here I think that's where ya
see I can get it right there download
now zimbra is not just a kind of a
drop-in replacement for microsoft
exchange with the shared calendar in
with the shared like with the mailboxes
and everything that would expect from an
exchange server but it also you can get
the commercial version does have like a
connector for Microsoft Outlook if you
want to make it act just like exchange
you can use map you can use ical you can
use imap for the email end of it for
example so there it's very versatile
it's very good very solid rock solid but
also it has an excellent web front-end
so where Microsoft Exchange has outlook
web access zimbra has the zimbra
collaboration suite which is a web log
in Ajax system much more modern than owa
and
it has everything at your fingertips
just as if you were sitting in outlook
but then some additional things that
well they're not Microsoft so they can
throw in some right yeah yeah or to it
so cool I would check that out zimbra
collaboration server open source edition
it's from zimbra com what I'll do for
both of those products that i mentioned
tonight jim is i'll post links in the
show notes for episode number 252 those
links you can just click on them and
they will take you to those product
pages you can make the comparisons
yourself and and decide what you'd like
to do I'm gonna also suggest you take a
look at episode number 170 of category 5
technology TV and hillary was on the
show that night kind of Christmas see
yeah it was and we actually had a look
at the zimbra desktop mm-hmm okay and
then also episode number 128 I believe
that is yeah we were talking to Jim
Morris row he was the vice president and
general manager from zimbra so I would
suggest that you look at episode number
128 to get an idea of what zimbra is and
then look at episode number what did I
say 140 you know 170 172 get familiar
with the with the client and the reason
I would suggest that you look at the
client is because then you're going to
kind of what the what zimbra looks like
to the end user unless you're using
outlook or evolution or something to
connect to it then of course you're
using the evolution interface but if
you're using zimbra interface which you
can and you can do it through the web
through your browser from anywhere right
so then you don't have to install
software and it's just connected
directly to the server so it's pretty
brilliant so episodes number 128 and
episode number 170 of category 5
technology TV you'll find those on our
website at category 5 TV
excellent yeah have you looked at the
new website recently I've been in some
remote places I have to talk about that
haven't had the best internet so i can't
say i have one of the things that has
always been difficult for viewers and i
understand this and we do hear your
cries we hear you do our best one of the
things is it's tough sometimes to find
old episodes so we created what's called
the episode matrix so on watch or on the
show made a short night I used to say
watch the show but we were just getting
so big that we needed to shorten episode
matrix want the episode matrix and you
can actually scroll down through all the
episodes how cool is that so looking for
128 for example it's now really really
simple that is assigned easy and you can
see that it's the zimbra collaborative
group where and in fact you can just
click on it and it will take you right
there and start the show I won't let us
start because it's gonna it would just
be crazy watching ourselves we're
watching ourselves be like a loop
amazing so that's okay Howard and of
course the new website there are bound
to be little issues here in their little
bugs and I know that our service
provider has been working on some of the
content management distribution and
improving our networking within our
colocation facility and that's all to
facilitate the ability to host many many
more viewers we have tons and tons of
viewers that join us every every single
week and looking at our viewer location
map which you'll see yeah crazy huh
watching from Toronto look at ya so
these oh and I should use I'll use the
proper zune facility here so these are
the people that are watching right now
whoa
and we're live from Barrie Ontario so as
you can see our viewership is is in fact
here's I'll show you where Barry is so
this is where we are broadcasting from
there's probably me and there are a few
people that are watching locally nice to
see you nice to have you watching from
Owen Sound and Collingwood Midland and
everywhere in between innisfil for
dennisville yeah keswick even as well
here's somebody in Bradford as well so
you can see from our viewer location map
which if you are a registered viewer you
can get that on the members menu or if
you're not you can go to map cat5 TV so
we need to be able to host all these
people so there are bound to be
difficulties here and there and I
appreciate I have received your emails
this week a couple people did email and
say site was running slow or something
was going on or I tried to send in a
question and it failed we know and and
we're working on everything and I do
have a great team of people that are
working at our colocation facility on
our behalf we just you know we co locate
our server and they've been so good to
do their best to improve their network
so that thing's run better when we get
hit with lots and lots of traffic so we
appreciate your your feedback and your
patience as we work through all that
stuff but I think it's coming together
it's really really growing and the new
website is is a huge improvement for for
us from a technical standpoint for sure
just there's so much to it that saves us
time and and and also does things better
than the old website much faster as well
so well we love being on the up-and-up
we appreciate your feedback and I know
there are some features missing too
there is no ability right now to send in
a viewer testimonial but we do
appreciate your email as well and
another way you can say thanks or just
let us know that we're appreciated if
you like is to visit the donation page
as well and we appreciate every donation
that comes in as we work toward our move
into a new studio which I've seen to
hillary's before the show very very
excited about that it's it's going to be
a big change i can't believe as I
think about it we have always been in
the studio we've improved things we've
put in new backdrops we put a new
lighting we've put in new cameras we've
been growing and growing over the past
five years but we've always been in this
room yeah so it's really weird it's a
really strange thought to think that
we're you know in one month time we're
going to be broadcasting from a
different location so we appreciate
everybody's support totally and we ask
that you also support our our
advertisers go to Netflix cat5 TV /
Netflix and sign up for the free trial
no harm done you can cancel it at the
end of the month if you want but I don't
think you'll want to because it's
amazing there's also the magicjack cat5
TV / magicjack you can get a free trial
of that for 30 days cool no obligation
send it back if you're not happy with it
and we're working with a lot of
companies that are interested in doing
that kind of thing for you because they
believe that they've got great products
I believe that they've got great promise
there and so we'd love to give you that
chance to try it out and if you're not
not entirely satisfied I think it's fair
enough that you'd be able to send it
back so sounds good to me I'm good
sounds great well so it also sounds
great as the news it's subtitles it is
that time my friends
a Russian hacker has revealed details of
a method that allows iPhone and iPad
users to obtain in-app goods for free
aka stealing it works by serving a
specifically crafted server which the
hacker hosts itself or himself rather
change to an I devices dns settings then
redirects all in-app purchases to the
bogus server that then tricks the device
into believing that the payment has
already been processed as a normal
transaction proxying no old a sack in
the book unbelievable unbelievable a
user does not need a hack or jailbreak
their device for the system to work
experts suggests that the loophole can
only be closed via the release of a
complete iOS update apple will also have
to alter the way in which developers
validate I ap a time-consuming process
fool ya wolf a federal jury in San
Francisco has found Research In Motion
liable for 147 million dollars ouch 95
million pounds in damages for infringing
on patents held by the u.s. software
company further costs could lie head if
information technologies seeks a royalty
on future uses of the technology which
covers wireless management of devices so
corporate customers can remotely upgrade
software change passwords or wipe data
from stolen phones rim said it may
appeal the blackberry maker has been
relying on its corporate client base to
keep up revenues as it is as it tries to
regroup and recover from two quarters of
losses and a dwindling market share
among us consumers analysts wonder
whether it will run out of cash before
it can complete a turnaround Todd
Abdullah delattre informations chief
executive declined to say whether his
company would go after the other
companies that in court incorporate
similar technologies and their devices
notably Apple whose iphone and ipad have
a similar remote access and white
facility oh wow hmm interesting so this
gets even bigger than rim so take out
rim and then talk to the Apple Wow yikes
yahoo has confirmed it is investigating
a breach of its system which may have
exposed 540,000 user ID
the u.s. security firm conducting the
investigation said the attack appeared
to originated from service connected to
Yahoo voices the user-generated section
of the sites in a statement yahoo said
we confirmed that an older file from
yahoo contributor network containing
approximately 450 thousand yahoo and
other companies user names and their
passwords was compromised the
compromised passwords were associated
with a variety of email addresses
including those from yahoo gmail and AOL
the security firm said in its blog that
the most alarming part of the entire
story is the fact that the passwords
were stored entirely unencrypted wow
that's unreal crazy and while the world
waits for new game consoles from sony
microsoft and nintendo a newcomer plans
to take them on with a 100 almost 100
others $99 android-based set-top call or
set-top box called Ouya oh yeah yeah
husband leah has specs that are on par
with high-end Android phones and tablets
including a quad-core NVIDIA Tegra 3
processor one gigabyte of RAM and eight
gigabytes of storage it outputs 1080p
video through an HDMI slot uses
Bluetooth 4.0 and USB 2.4 connecting
external devices oh and includes a
wireless controller very cool to raise
money for March thirteenth launch ooh
yeah has turned to crowd fund raising
site Kickstarter where the company is
taking pre-orders and other donations
louia has hopes to raise nine hundred
and fifty thousand dollars through the
site but is already surpassed several
million dollars in kickstarter funds
anyone who donates at least ninety nine
dollars will receive julia console with
at least one controller when they launch
wonder what that says to the big gaming
platforms these guys literally said oh
like less than a million dollars was
their goal and this would put them into
the market and they have raised millions
of dollars Casey
given his people wanted people wanted
imagine what an open console could do
well it's my mind there's no limits
there you go awesome so if you want to
get the rest of these deets on this
story and more you can get it at our
website category 5 TV / newsroom and the
category 5 TV news room is researched by
Rory w Nash with contributions from our
awesome community viewers if you have a
new store you think's worthy of honor
mention send us an email at newsroom at
category 5 TV from the newsroom on the
news girl Hillary rubble thank you
tonight show is brought to you in part
by quarter eee electric the official
electrical company of category 5
technology TV find out more information
how to contact them at quarter eee
electric com also from garden gate farms
com you can get certified organic
broccoli sprout and wheatgrass juice
visit their website garden gate farms
com this is category 5 technology TV
great to see ya hey chat room everybody
who's watching through YouTube and mural
internet TV iTunes wherever you watch
him from however you watching if you're
syndicating this through our assess or
watching this at geek for geek or
wherever you're watching us nice to have
you here great to have you as a part of
our show and Jim had called up just
before the show I think was Jim Clark
calling from Newfoundland and that was a
shout out to Jim from Newfoundland here
in Canada and a it's great to have
viewers from all over the place he was
mentioning though he's not too sure how
we can participate in the show because
the new website doesn't yet here's one
of the features of this message doesn't
yet have registration ability well Jim
and for everybody else who is wondering
how you can participate in the show you
can actually go to our website category
5 TV and on the interact menu you do not
have to be registered in order to
participate okay so you can watch live
you can participate in the chat room you
can give us call you can do whatever you
like to participate in the show now as a
registered viewer once that opens back
up or if you contact me by email and say
hey I really want to be a registered
viewer hooked me up then you do get
access to some bonus features like our
current photo gallery which gives you
us too goofy behind-the-scenes shots and
things like that there are lots of great
pictures of Hillary oh my lanta oh boy
I'd love to bring one up just to both
embarrass you in this entry don't even
know same time thing is you just don't
even know what is out there and yes I'm
notorious for doing ridiculous stunts
and never goofy gags you don't even know
but as a member you get access to all
these kind of bonus features let's see
if we can find anything that potentially
mortifying maybe well potentially no
it's all fun it's just so fun well
there's a winner winner chicken dinner
look at that running on the spot well
stay guys yeah that was when you were
giving me the stink eye I think I was
reading in the camera was on me and
Hillary decide that's during a live show
folks that's what happens when the
cameras on one or the other I get jelly
other makes faces blows foghorns things
like that in my ear me yeah yeah so as a
member of the site Jim you you get
access to certain features that are not
available coupon codes that give you
discounts on on products for example all
that stuff is given to you free of
charge as a member as a registered
viewer but of course that does not
restrict in any way your ability to
watch the show your ability to
participate in the community all of that
stuff is always open and available to
everybody without you without even
having a register viewercount so take a
load that clarifies click on interact on
the menu of that category 5 TV nice to
hear from you Jim totally and quite a
few people left voicemail and everything
and we've got I think it was when I
count 26 postcard hey cool I'm sent us a
postcard and you you are looking quite a
bit more tan than I by the way they had
one in Cuba keeping it real hanging with
the Cuban
you know she says I don't even know
where I was it's just the plane went
down it was hot and I was in the middle
of nowhere it was like two hours from
the nearest airport yeah like rough I
hear that there's a video involved wow
you're just gonna have to stick around
is that the show yeah you're gonna play
that on the shoulder shirt me some of my
adventures misadventures sounds like
we've got a special coming up recorded
live in Cuba broadcast right here on
category also don't miss a single
episode that was a just business or
pleasure you're just there pleasure yeah
yes nice I just love the world I was in
Barry year old cuz it was warm here too
it's been piping hot here let me tell
you like 400 degrees honestly yeah on
brain heat warning and severe
thunderstorm watches and good times yeah
thankfully the studio has AC or else I'd
be dead right when haven't any other way
and that's why we've been in this studio
for five years something keeping us here
for the AC or else would be melting been
amazing gotta say wow why are you
Jamison shout note to ac/dc well that's
haha great reference but it yeah we had
while Hilary and I have been talking a
little bit before the show and Hilary
mentioned that we're gonna be looking at
how to protect and lock down your
passwords and also to keep them stored
one of the things well I don't know at
what your methodology on passwords is
online here's the problem that we fall
into as as a human individual we tend to
fall into use the same password
everywhere or variations of the same
password yeah are you guilty of that the
problem with that and this happens all
the time you get these little startup
companies all around the web and they
get you know and it just happens but you
go and you sign up for this new website
some fandangled website and it sounds
like a cool thing to sign up for and so
you do and you use that same password or
variation thereof and you enter your
email address and this
that and then what you don't realize is
oh well these guys didn't program their
site very well and they've put my
password in their database unencrypted
for the record when you register on
category 5 I salt your password I hash
it and I encrypted well scrambled and
the decryption algorithm is salted hmm
there is no deal with decryption there
is no decryption without your password
itself plus the salt there is no way to
obtain the password Casey so like I take
that stuff seriously but there are sites
out there as we learned that yahoo was
storing your passwords unencrypted
that's crazy not yeah huge sad face not
even a smiley face now so yeah and
you're welcome Dennis Kelly I mean I
take your privacy seriously we've got a
privacy policy right on our site that
says we take it seriously even you know
we've got the viewer location map and
some people have said well how much
information does that reveal about me
absolutely none we do not even store
anything except your city name longitude
and latitude anonymously there is no
identifying stuff there whatsoever so we
can see yeah there's somebody watching
from Darian prick there's somebody
watching from iqaluit that's definitely
no yeah there's no cross reference to
your user account or anything like that
so we take it seriously but why do other
companies is not so much it's weird
shocked at that news about Yahoo tonight
that's that's just crazy to me I mean
they're too big to be making that kind
of a mistake but then we had Microsoft
just last year it did something similar
with one of their third parties that had
unencrypted passwords in their database
and then okay so you had a yahoo account
you used your gmail email address to
sign up your yahoo password is now the
same as your gmail passion yeah it's
also the same as your twitter password
so now whoever it was that obtained all
those passwords now has your password
your email address your name all that
stuff so what's the first thing that
they do they log into your gmail hmm and
they say okay I'm in I'm going to go
over to Twitter and I'm going to see if
I can figure it away and oh well note
the password on Twitter is different
good going I'll just go forgot password
because I've already got access to their
email
right I'm going to go through the
process forgot password while I'm at it
let's change the password on gmail so
that the real person can't login let's
mass mail hmm your contacts and try to
sell them viagra whatever it happens
yeah annoying so it's a big big problem
so tonight I want to look at a way that
we can establish a new password ok that
is 200 bit and use that across the web
in such a way that it actually works
that you don't have to remember these
great big long nasty passwords and of
course you know Hilary logging in with
the password Hilary one is not the way
to go prolly change you should probably
change that hmm so because it's it's too
easy to get yeah and of course if you
use it across multiple sites you can
understand how everything connects and
the these hackers if you will or you
know malicious users they don't go out
and go to Twitter and type in your
username and password and hope that it
works they use yes yeah programs that go
through this list of 450,000 email
addresses and passwords that it just got
from yahoo and uses a script to mass try
to login to thousands of different
services it'll try myspace it'll try
facebook it'll try Twitter and all in
the same millisecond crazy hi so you
have no idea that is even going on and
all of a sudden you've lost access to
your account and they've done all kinds
of militia stuff or gotten your credit
card information they'll try paypal sure
your online banking no problem hope you
don't use the same password okay creepy
I'm trying to scare you but it's scared
I want you to be scared stuff it's like
your data backups it's like I will tell
you the worst case scenario because I
want you to be scared of what could
happen yeah because I want you to be
serious about your your data and the
safety and the you know the security of
protecting your own data so I'm going to
install a program here on my linux
system which is available for Windows
Mac and Linux I'm going to grab it from
synaptic package manager just because
that's really really easy and I know
synaptic is a little bit behind the
times as far as this application goes
but for me that's okay
you can install it from source or from
package on their website if you like I'm
going to go key pass X its key which is
really you know key but then pass for
password X is the name of the program so
then I'm going to click and go mark for
installation and apply so that's going
to install that piece of software on my
linux system so if you're running ubuntu
or debian or whatever else it'll
probably have repositories and yum or
the actual installer give it a go do a
search for key k ee pass PA SS x and i
will give you this software absolutely
free and this is going to be awesome for
you what this does this is a replacement
for you know using a spreadsheet that is
easily compromised you know and what
happens with that and it becomes a real
problem if if you get to the point where
you've got 3,000 passwords yeah what you
really should because if you've got
3,000 services that you're subscribed to
none of them should have the same
password this will ensure that so its
installed how will it ensure that well i
will show you i would love to know
applications accessories keepass x bring
it up for the first time there we go
it's ready to go alright so first thing
that I want to do I'm going to go extras
settings watch this show system tray
icon minimize to tray instead of the
taskbar minimize to tray when clicking
the main windows close button again turn
that on start minimize start locked I
definitely want those on so that all the
time I can have this boot up with my
computer if I want cool and it's always
going to be locked ok general do you
want to delete backup entries that are
older than 14 days I would automatically
save the database and exit on exit and
work plate workspace locking I would say
yes to that appearance who cares you can
change it if you want language you can
set your own security show plaintext
passwords in absolutely nothing
Lock workplace when minimizing the main
window absolutely if I minimize this I
want it to be locked so that nobody can
obtain my passwords lock the database
automatically after inactivity for 30
seconds definitely hmm ok so if I walk
away from my computer this is going to
automatically lock so those settings
give me a great peace of mind so now if
I close this there it is up there that
little lock and key guy there the green
thing so now if I click on it I'm gonna
exit and I'm gonna reload it because I
think it needs to get those settings
mm-hmm perhaps not let's see apply did I
not apply you pushed ok that should work
anyway well I don't know I've never
installed it on Zoran yeah but that
should do oh I don't have a data base
loaded of course we haven't created the
database oh no my fence that's our next
step that step 2 ok so next up click
that little icon up there for new and
set your master password I'm going to
set my password to demo 1 2 3 don't let
me forget that told it ok now enter your
password again demo 1 2 3 make sure ok
here's something important make sure
that password is really really strong
demo one seriously does not do it that's
the password tech that give you access
to your passwords for everything it
should be really strong how can we make
sure it is go to safe pas swd calm ok go
over there what do you want your
password to be something that's easy to
remember and is you know 10 12 13
characters long hit new password and it
has given me one dot onslaught 6 with
some capitalization and nice and easy
for me to remember ok
there it is so that could be my password
and I could set up it's locking after 30
seconds did he notice that now it's
prompting me to lock so let's cancel
that ok so now I've done that I'm gonna
save my database I'm going to put it in
I'll throw it on my desktop for today
but you put it somewhere safe somewhere
that gets backed up my passwords not
sure if spaces are a problem or not so
I'm just going to go without save ok so
now if I close that now you see keepass
is locked yeah ok if i click on it it
asks me first and foremost for my
password demo one two three there we go
yeah ok so my internet passwords so I'm
going to create a new password by
right-clicking in here and adding it or
clicking on this key up here for add a
new entry ok and I can create any number
of passwords here which are going to be
included in this file the database file
which is encrypted which I can back up
its password protected with that strong
password that i created from safe
password com password to spell pas swd
ok so let's say for example let's go
over to a website here I'll go to I'll
use category five dot TV as the example
okay I'm gonna log out
ok and now i'm going to actually create
an entry for category 5 TV which will be
my login and password so here's the
login form ok so now I'm going to bring
up keepass i'm going to create a new
entry i can call this category 5 TV my
username which for my own protection i'm
just going to go like this URL is HTTP
colon ww category 5 TV my password which
i'm going to repeat and then hit ok so
now i have an entry there for category 5
TV ok so now i can bring up category 5
TV and again just for my own security
i'm gonna do this once through first
very very cool you saw i was like that
mesmerize is amazing cool it doesn't
really matter i have access to the
database i can change everything look at
this ok so i brought up the login form
i've clicked on the username now over in
keepass which is minimized itself
because I've been more than 30 seconds
all right right I'm 0 1 2 3 okay i'm
going to right click and go perform auto
type and it's gonna automatically fill
all that in and done then I'm in welcome
back so even the password keeper of
sorts keeps the password a secret yes
cuz it was starred notice yes and then
it automatically locked itself now I'm
locked out again I have to enter my
password
okay you can also copy to your clipboard
copy password to clipboard copy your
username to clipboard open the URL
automatically and then do perform auto
type all that kind of stuff and because
of the settings that i set up it
automatically saves my database so i
don't need to save it i can set up email
i can set up any amount of things i can
also create new groups new subgroups so
i can create a group you know for
whatever and add an icon it's pretty
versatile pretty amazing that is keepass
x and we'll have links in the show notes
for episode number 252 but i would
recommend that you get into you know
create that database will have links to
their website so you can get the most
current version of the software if you
like but as i said even though the
version that's in the repository seems
to be obsolete it is actually fully
functional works really great so do
check that out okay and and then back up
your database file keep it as a part of
your backup set that's your you're good
to go there we go it's already gone in
its workplace their workspace is okay
yeah very cool was that sweet speaking
of cool stuff yeah what do you got oh
well I'll show ya I wanted to do a name
drop first no okay category five that's
us hey Hillary's getting ahead of us
with I'm just so excited boy and I will
be the birthday girls two days yeah
you're pretty much there Elmo's so much
there yay for my birthday I got
something really cool that i want to
show you show us a nice to show us and i
would say it's cool but there are
certain devices that I think hey that's
really kind of neat and it's affordable
and it's it's cheap and it gets the job
done yeah and you mentioned barbecue
season I love I know you love you gotta
admit new place has a hot tub whoo now
don't think that I went and spent a
whole bunch of money because they threw
that into the deal all right they said
they don't want to move it how much of a
bonus was that we don't want to move our
hot tub would you like it you're like
hello so sitting out at the hunt
send out of the hot tub where we have
for music we need I don't know what do
you need we need a sound logic portable
media speaker ooh check this out cool
let's do the unbox sorry let's do it
let's do this okay oh look at that there
it is sweet yeah okay this comes with
the lithium-ion rechargeable battery
okay we're gonna pop that in here let's
do this on camera get this done we like
to get to show this lift yeah okay
here's the back you can see how simple
this is ok there's the battery it's in
entirely wireless what do you see we've
got well come on camera guy a power
switch audio input power input DC 5 volt
USB USB connector for a flash card and
then SD card reader cool okay so what
we're going to do I'm going to grab my
SD card here and simply pop it in there
take it out to the BBQ and say all right
guys let's turn on some music and see
how it goes
check this out you ready I know you
can't hear at home how's that for sound
pretty good clear
it's got good sound yeah I'm really
impressed so again the back here
that's all just playing right from the
SD card you can load it up with music
out the wazoo you know these days you
get an SD card and their use yeah yeah
Master huge and this is a one gigabyte
card which you get for like 8 bucks yeah
yeah yeah and you can have how many CDs
on that 100 CDs or something out done so
just mp3 first file compatibility and
stuff goes I'm not too sure I rip
everything to mp3 just as a backup and
because I listened on every device yeah
but this here is as you can see entirely
wireless very cool and it just recharges
itself when you plug it into USB ah the
USB input of course again can be you can
plug in your USB flash drive full of
music or whatever you can plug in an
ipod or any kind of device through the
aux input which is just straight OMG
yeah just a like a headphone jack to
headphone jack kind of connector one of
the things that as i was unboxing this
that surprised me is that it also has a
full foot roll for human controlling
your music now there's no LED display
you can't really tell what song is
playing or anything other than audibly
so that would be the only you know maybe
some people inside it's kind of like the
ipod shuffle idea where you you push
play and then just let it play it play
music but it for what it what you're
going to use this kind of thing for
taking it to the cottage and putting it
on the the the patio yeah totally on the
what I'm a picnic table yeah that's what
I'm thinking about that's sweet I like
that so I'm gonna post links for you in
the show notes what's cool is there
there only about sixty seventy dollars
but I found a store in Canada if you're
in Canada that carries them right now
for about thirty-five dollars hey check
that out ya gotta go shopping so you
wanna check that out fairies one of
those cool things thanks for sharing
your birthday present with us no prob
hey happy birthday hell thank you and
you as well and I'll celebrating a
birthday it's gonna be someone's lucky
day someone's getting a present today
even if it isn't their birthday yeah you
ready
we have done the draw Hillary and I
before the show get up our draw we
coupled in Jim's phone message and
everybody else that called in and it was
in fact oh well we used a random number
from random.org mm-hmm generated a
random number and the winner was a
postcard and i will let Hillary do the
honors of reading the postcard oh this
is coming to us from Los Angeles
California wishing called oh this is a
christmas postcard coming to all around
dave tach and this postcard he actually
made awesome your day turn we have won a
year of phone service all-you-can-eat
long distance for Canada and the US care
of cat five dot TV / magic jack very
cool so pop us an email live at category
5 TV with your full mailing address I
don't see it on the card so we'll need
to get your shipping address probably
good to send us your phone number as
well so that we can give you a call and
congratulate you hmm all right Dave tech
congratulations everybody too great to
have you here thanks for being here
he'll great to see you station taking
time out of your summer it's my pleasure
yeah that's a clear everybody by beulah
have a great week yeah
Oh
