hi welcome to new every day I'm James
this is Shelly and Jen hi and welcome to
new every day today we're shooting in
Greensville park i'm james i'm shelly
and my name is jen so hold still because
we're going to talk to you about how you
can plan something and then maybe how
God has a different plan so stay tuned
you
so as you can see things are a little
bit different this morning you're
wondering hmm to carry well that was a
great question I thought she was working
today and that it turns out that she
wasn't so she's hanging out with her
family but I decided to go on an
adventure and found with my good friends
James and Shelly were available to hang
out with me and so we headed down to
Hamilton to someplace called Spencer's
gorgeous Webster's Falls and toes Falls
or useful these are from the area if you
from the area it's tues Falls but what's
interesting is this week is march break
in canada and i'm not sure where you're
viewing in from around the world but in
Canada across an entire country we take
a whole week off in the middle of March
sort of well the kids do and then the
parents join and you know if I want to
say business is slow yeah I could take
it to the most part you take a few days
off to so that's what we have done and
I've done and so I said well I'd like to
adventure one of those days and actually
I started coming up with plans I'm like
oh maybe I'll go around the Great Lakes
oh maybe i'll go up to killarney park oh
maybe i'll head into toronto i don't
know and i totally gave those three days
I three days off I gave them to the Lord
I said okay Lord whatever it is that you
want to have me do on those days would
be great and to be honest I had planned
on spending most of that time by myself
and then as it turns out Shelly actually
came down here last weekend and posted
some photos you want to tell us a little
bit about your adventure from last
weekend because it was interesting I was
off adventuring by myself and Shelly
messaged me saying hey you're only like
an hour or so away from me and I'm like
where are you and so want to tell us
about how you got here last weekend I
because she's really the inspiration for
this trip yeah i just woke up and
thought i needed to go on an adventure
and I thought hey where's a good place
to go and so I ended up here just kind
of drill down by myself and spent the
day yes and then afterwards were like oh
yeah
James lives there yeah right about that
whole piece text gel and I'm like thanks
for the invite I've had pictures on so
but I'd already left at that point so it
was so I was busy all day anyway so no
harm no foul so when I i looked at
Shelley's pictures and went oh well that
would be a good trip for today and then
I message James to say hey are you
available to do this and he said yeah
and then I said can Shelly come he's
like I don't see why not and what is
interesting is that the Bible talks
about how a man can plan his ways but it
is the Lord who gives or who orders his
path or gives the journey or makes it
happen and I've been thinking about that
locks I'm a planner I don't know about
you guys would you can try to plan yeah
I also go with the flow quite a bit yeah
never hurts you guys are both slower
come on who's gonna pay a bit of leeway
that is so true I'm like okay we need to
do this this this and this and then okay
shot you're gonna meet me here in Chains
where you're going to meet me at it and
they're just like with time slots yeah
an itinerary cars fit and they're just
like whatever happens and then but this
is the cool part if if I and I said this
to them as we were down there if I had
gone on this trip by myself I would have
followed the path because I'm a rule
follower Oh see James I've known James
for since 2006
x probably before that maybe 585 organ
earlier maybe I don't know it's been a
while so we've known each other for a
long time we've done camp together we
work together and when I was leave
pastor in a church James was part of my
team helping out when he worked at a
camp and so we've known each other for a
long time been a lot of adventures and
this is what I've learned about both
Shelly and James is that they love to
adventure and so if I had gone by myself
I I was saying to them I would have
stayed on the path yeah yeah and so this
is what Shelly said to me she's like are
you ready to hop a fence and I'm like to
think about it for a few moments I wrote
with the answer lies I don't like isn't
that wrong are you sure we should do the
bell to clarify let's just clarify for a
second the portion where we actually
climbed over the fence there was a
warning for self-preservation it did not
say not to hop the fence the place where
we got back hey the sign was facing the
other way so that's a minor detail oh
and you can interpret that as much as
you'd like we were going up the safest
route on the way back we're coming down
the not so safe route on the way down
and there's gonna be pictures yeah we're
gonna be showing us pictures of good
stuff yeah so we went down hill we had
to actually do some rappelling tight
like there's a rope there and we had to
like rope ourselves down and I blamed
james at one point because I fell cuz he
was holding the rope I'm like James
you're supposed to look after me it was
not my fault I was just very slippery
and there's a lot of branches uprooted
juries and as it's spring you know
things are thawing and it's gettin
slippery though the frost is coming out
of the ground so it's a makes things a
little bit more exciting definitely
excited oh it's exciting down the hill
close to the waterfall we had to shimmy
across shemagh to get back there's a
picture of that too yeah yes I trube
done open it
I have a boy do I and I just saw there
we go like back away don't touch me
don't touch me so what what's really
interesting is James lives in this area
and he has been how many times have you
hiked around here told probably a dozen
times it's been it's not uncommon right
and so he's like do you want to go up
and around to the point or do you want
to you know go down and and we pause
because we were like weighing it out and
I'm like let's go down yeah if I had
known what the down was oh I would have
been like listen but this is pause for a
commercial we're right back hi I'm
Robbie Ferguson and I love being a vimeo
pro member as a web broadcaster i need
an affordable video hosting platform
thats as flexible as me a pro membership
lets you upload up to 20 gigabytes of HD
video each and every week with no
additional bandwidth restrictions that
means if you produce a show that uses
even up to 20 gigabytes of storage your
limit resets itself the following week
so you can do another 20 gigabytes and
keep doing that week after week now
category 5 with all of our shows use
roughly 10 gigabytes per week from there
vimeo automatically generates all the
files that you need to provision your
RSS feeds roku channel website media
player or even video downloads in
multiple bit rates with no limits on
your bandwidth usage or how many people
can access your files what's best the
price is astonishingly affordable and
for a limited time friends of the
category five dot TV network will
receive a whopping twenty-five percent
off the annual price all you have to do
is go through our link cat five dot TV /
vimeo and sign up today for your twenty
five percent discount to top it off you
get 30 days to try it risk-free if
you're not happy with vimeo pro you pay
nothing the deal is only for a very
limited time go to cat five dot TV /
vimeo and with that i knew every day
with james and shelley and jen we want
to take a moment to thank our partners
for supporting us and if you want to
support us please go to our website new
everyday TV and click on our partners
page and Chuck through there to see if
there's any way that you could support
let's go to Amazon through our web page
and do your shopping there so today
we're talking about going on an
adventure and how we can have plans laid
out in our minds but really it's the
Lord who orchestrates all of the details
and I am a planner and what the cool if
I had done this trip I would have missed
out on so much but James was guiding us
because he's from this area and I said
to Shelly on the way back up I said it
was so much easier with James leading us
even though it was a difficult path
because I didn't have to worry about
like where to go like it was just so
much easier when I couldn't find him and
he'd be off some routes then a couple
times I'm like um I don't know where to
go is this safe and what I'm reminded it
totally remind me that when we choose to
follow Jesus that even though the path
might be difficult he really does guide
and direct our paths so I've asked James
and Shelley if they have a time when
they remember that they totally had to
rely on God to direct them so James well
actually funny you should ask it's
actually just this week I guess last
weekend Arnold the weekend before last I
was approached by a friend of mine and
they ran a march break camp out of
evangel church in Brantford and it's a
through creation force ministries and
they do a Marx break camp for the
underprivileged kids in the Brantford
area and all the churches come together
and they just kind of you night over
this one thing and they do everything
they do they have like a prayer tunnel
and everything for the kids and then
like and it's cheap for the kids counts
like $45 for the week for the kids to
come so ke parents who uses can't do
this very good and so parents you
usually can't send their kids to camp
can send them to Marsh break camp now
I've never done march break camp before
I've done lots of camp before not a lots
of camp and is actually kind of funny to
see some of these people who have only
done from march break camp get burned
out by wednesday look at these kids you
staffer like burned out there like you
know i need patience the patients i'm
like you need to ask Jesus for patients
like it's Wednesday and where you see
out doing eight or nine weeks ago in a
straight run with maybe 24 hours off in
a in a week yeah so anyways I come into
this week and I was kind of so it was
very last minute that i was at it wasn't
last minute that i was asked to do it
was last minute that i decided to do it
since the planning the position right so
then me and another guy delano we we
headed this up and we got together and
we brainstormed for a couple of days and
planned and prepared and we came up with
a really good kind of curriculum and and
what we want to teach these kids and
we're like yeah we're going to do this
we're going to really pour this into
them and this is what we're you know
we're going to focus on this and where
we get there and we realize that our
campers are about six years younger than
we anticipated so this is day one and we
just find out though that our campers
are in the six to nine year old range
that we were aiming for like you know 12
to 14 or something like a boy right so
that totally all of a sudden we just
look at each other and we're like we're
gonna have to change things seriously
like big time things are changing now so
you know with a lot of prayer a lot of
trusting and God we kind of walked into
this like we weren't I mean I'm to be
honest we weren't really prepared to
begin with yeah and then we were really
not prepared so then in a situation like
that you really have to trust God to
work it through and by the end of the
week I mean we made shields and swords
and the kids would have like we kind of
the goal was the epic battle on Thursday
your epic that epic battle tank with
foam swords and shields that we made so
they made their own swords they made
their own shields and we made Trevi
shades and we had water balloon
trebuchet switch is like a giant siege
weapon ours were only like three feet
high but they're like flinging water
balloons like I don't know 120 feet like
it was let's go so the kids loved it and
and we got to really pour into some of
the kids and and it's we're talking like
we're not talking like you know the best
behaved kids these are the kids that you
know are probably going to be the ones
that need the most attention for the
most part but we taught them you know
the importance of it was the whole
premise was medieval times that was kind
of the camp theme for this week and one
of our big thing was chivalry so we
wanted these boys we wanted to honor and
prefer we wanted to use our manners we
wanted to you know help each other out
cheering and helping and all that stuff
this is M camp what we did is we said to
the new beginning of the week we said at
the end of the week one person from each
team gets to be knighted but you guys
are going to have to choose who gets
knighted within your group wow so it
promoted good behavior and it actually
worked surprising enough so you went
into this camp thinking one way no
absalom but it totally turned around
went another way and like you said like
with a lot of prayer it's wholly turned
out yeah it worked out really well and a
lot of the kids you know they're very
thankful they came up gave us safe side
hugs and really protect yep and low
fives and all that stuff and they just
they actually really loved it and at the
end we went to a like an indoor carnival
thing and one of the boys I got kind of
put with it what one on one per say he
wasn't feeling good and I said to him I
said hey do you want to go see the
animals or something he's like I don't
want to do anything so he was just
didn't want to be there I said well why
don't we go see the animals does the guy
don't want to I said give
five good reasons that's my thing I'm
like five good reasons anybody can think
of one or two yeah but nobody can think
of five good reasons and if they can
think of 5 i'll leave him alone but I'm
like give me five good reasons he's like
oh they stink I'm like okay that's one
good reason and then he couldn't come up
with any more so he's like fine we'll go
look at the animals so we went over the
animals and I mean I think we spent like
good half hour there just with these
petting zoo animals and I showed him
like you don't have to buy feed like
kids are dropping it everywhere he's
picking up off the floor and feed them
right I'm Scottish but anyways so so
he's picking the feet up off the floor
and feeding these animals and it ended
up he didn't want to go any of the rides
at the beginning but I'm like hey let's
just do a walk around and turn that he
ended up going on a couple different
rise and at the end of the day when we
got back to the church she comes up to
me and gives me a hug and he says you
know what thank you thank you so much
that's so cool because I forced him to
do this you know it but he appreciate it
because I knew it was going to be funny
but he didn't know it was going to be
fun mmm but it worked out and your heart
is full it is full it is overflowing
yesterday was hanging out with some
friends we were waiting we're actually
chali night we're planning on going
seeing a movie and so another friend was
joining us and it's windy out here hair
enough and so I taught the girl that I
was waiting with how to play Crazy
Eights and she had never played before
and I taught her how to play and and I
honestly not planned and neither was
because we missed the first show so it
was like an hour half wait and so I
didn't plan that and yet that was
probably the highest highlight of the
day was just sharing that time because
we were like yelling and screaming and
throwing cards and it was wonderful and
it was just like it's those unplanned
moments like we had planned out the day
like we did go to see the movie then we
hung out afterwards we were shopping
which was actually pretty good too but
it's those unplanned moments like we can
plan and plan and plan
and but I think sometimes we can plan
the fun out of things or we don't make
space for God to actually move and now
Shelly do you have a time where you have
sort of planned something and it totally
turned out differently my new God that
was yeah loads of times like throughout
my day and I kind of I try to live like
that not try to take too much of a
steering wheel but if I can't plan
something I totally would yesterday was
a good example like yesterday I wasn't
feeling that well in the morning and so
my whole plan was to kind of take it
easy that day and just kind of go home
and relax and because i knew the weekend
might we might have plans during the
weekend going adventure look here we are
yeah so I was like I'll take it easy
today because it's gonna be a full
weekend and then we ended up hanging out
and seeing a movie and hanging out with
tea and so that was good yeah yeah so
just different things throughout the day
no we went shopping after just enjoying
time with good people i think is
something i always want to keep my
schedule open for and because you never
know what's going to happen never i just
love that I love that you can plan all
you want for your day but if you leave
your schedule open to people that you
want to intentionally build a
relationship with then not if they text
you up or call you then you're free you
know not even if you're free but you
will make time for them well I don't
that's been jenjen texted me yesterday
she's like I'm thinking of coming down
do you have time for lunch and I said
actually a lot of still marked break
camp and we're just heading off to the
to the carnival there so I'm like
actually I don't have time today where
you know heading up to Toronto for the
day with the kids she's like well what
about tomorrow I'm like sure yeah I
guess okay I'll flip my days yeah and
and both Shelley and James know me like
I am plans like moment by moment plan
plan plan plan plan and so when I think
about like I said these three days I
could not have planned these three days
and I would wake up in the morning I'm
like okay Lord this is your day like
bring to me the people you want me to
deal with keep away all distractions and
protect you from the evil one and and i
think you know that's something that I
am challenged or that I need to release
my time to the Lord and say okay Lord
this is the day
you have me you have made it like you
bring the stuff to me that you want me
to deal with you you know he's given us
a mind we are to use it weird to be wise
but he also says don't hold your plans
too tightly like let me have some space
in there and we want to encourage you
today if you're one of those type a
behavior people like myself or if you
always need to be in control and need to
know what's happening and when it's
happening we encourage you to ask the
Lord about that and ask them you know is
this a galley perspective on things or
am I afraid to let you control my time
because I think that sometimes a lot of
the problems we're so afraid of what
what is God going to have me do and so
we were going to pray and we're going to
ask the Lord to help us release our time
to him so let's pray Heavenly Father we
thank you so much for today we thank you
for your goodness we thank you for how
you really are the best adventure ever
and I thank you for this time that we've
had and Lord God I ask that you would
help us to release our time to you that
yes you've given us a mind to plan but
we would hold the plans loosely and
allow you to guide and direct them
bringing us the things that we need to
deal with we thank you so much for all
of our viewers would you watch over them
lead them and guide them today thank you
for James and Shelley and their
availability or good friendship thank
you Lord in your name Amen and then so
thanks for tuning in to this on the road
version with Jen and James and Shelley
and we'll see you back here next week
have a great week
