here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom an
airplane flying nearly half a kilometer
in the air was hit by a drone in Canada
it's easy to hack subaru door locks
using a Raspberry Pi Windows 10 is under
fire by the Dutch Data Protection
Authority the Android ransomware double
Locker encrypts data and changes pins
and in security news
wpa2 has been cracked and you need to
hear about this if you use Wi-Fi these
stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere Jeff Weston Gellin
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website what are you you're a terrible
actor
what does where acting comes into play
you're supposed to building a really
cool website are you building a really
cool website just because Jeff is
confused doesn't mean you have to be
visit cap 5 dot TV / dream host
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat5 dot TV / dream host
this is the category 5 TV newsroom
covering the week's top tech stories
with a slight linux bytes
I'm Sacha Rickman and here the top
stories were following this week
Canada's Transport Minister has told
drone operators to stay away from
airports after remotely piloted craft
bunked a passenger plane during its
final approach to Jean Lesage
International Airport in Quebec City
Minister Marc Garneau hasn't revealed
the model of the drone but we do know
that it hit a plane operated by Sky Jet
Aviation a charter outfit that despite
its name only operates turboprop
aircraft the three types it operates the
king air 100 and 200 plus the Beechcraft
1900 seat 610 and 19 passengers apiece
whichever type was struck it came away
with what gar notice
scribed as minor damage and landed
safely there's also no news on where the
plane where of where on the plane the
drone struck as the craft landed without
incident we can assume it wasn't chopped
up by the plane's propellers local media
suggests that the plane was struck about
300 or 3000 metres from the runway a
while at an alt altitude of 450 meters
all concerned are therefore reminding
Canadian drone operators of their
obligation to fly below 90 meters and at
least five and a half kilometers away
from airports or face a 25 thousand
dollar fine authorities hope to identify
the drone pilot to remind them of those
rules in strong language a drone
striking a propeller or being sucked
into a jet engine has the potential to
cause a very serious incident
Wow that is very scary
yeah well I mean the fact that left body
damage I mean wasn't significant but I
mean that's so are there like are there
drones that are smaller that are allowed
to fly closer or is it just all drones
across we're talking this is three 3,000
meters from the airport which I did the
quick math in my head that's three
kilometers folks yeah and the minimum is
five point five so they're already not
only are they flying well above the
height limit but they're also flying
very very close to an airport yeah so
drones can't fly that high up like they
absolutely yeah this wasn't clearly
wasn't a teeny drone or something like
that hey you know we're talking oh no no
this is we're talking about yea big
drone to give you just some perspective
there was a guy on YouTube who recently
posted a video which was promptly taken
down of him flying his phantom two to
three point five kilometres into the air
Wow
now keep in mind that regulations say
we're only allowed to fly up to 90
meters in the air just a little bit over
that I think he went right
3,400 Wow where he was at so because
these things have first-person view you
know he might be have a screen or
goggles and be able to see what the
drone is seeing and so it is safe from
that perspective it's not like he's
gonna lose sight of it and not be able
to find it right but it's highly illegal
so then the actual law the rule where
you can't fly within like five and a
half kilometers to the airport that
$25,000 fine is that if there's an
incident or is that if you're caught
flying if you're caught flying as a
consumer flyer like if I or Jeff we're
flying our drones and we were caught
breaking the rules so these are rules
that are designed to protect aircraft
and other people so it doesn't just have
to do with aircraft or airports if
you're flying too close to a crowd it
falls under the same regulations so
define for that to be caught so nobody
gets hurt
nobody's nothing's damaged is up to
three thousand dollars Canadian right so
that's about four dollars for you
American viewers or point zero zero zero
zero Bitcoin it's binary nothing chances
are the twenty five thousand dollars
would be for like a serious and it's
incident where maybe a plane actually
did crash people that they have to crash
the regulation states that it's up to
twenty five thousand dollars if you have
endangered an aircraft or another person
right I would hope that if somebody
flying a drone that crashed into a plane
that then crashed and killed people that
drone flyer I would hope goes to jail
like I would hope that it's just not
twenty five thousand dollars oh that's
like I would really that's an extreme
case it's never happened as far as I'm
aware so keep it low people Dutch
electronics engineer reckons Japanese
automaker Subaru isn't acting on a key
fob cloning vulnerability he discovered
Tom women hope claims to have discovered
that Subarus electronic keys don't use a
random number the rolling the rolling
code instead merely increments codes
wimba hope says he's built a cloning
device which is made
available on github and use it for a
2009 Subaru Forester he believes it
would also work on a 2006 Baja forester
Forester models from 2005 to 2010
Impreza models from 2004 to 2011 the
legacy sedans 2005 to 2010 models and
the Outback from 2005 to 2010 his test
rig only cost around twenty five dollars
using a Raspberry Pi for much of the
functionality because the key fob simply
increment the rolling code exchange
between the car and the key all on
attacker needs is to be able to be close
enough to capture the code use when the
owner locks the car incrementing that
code lets the attacker unlock the
vehicle Wow I Drive a sube why wouldn't
you I've done that well it could be that
they don't think it's a massive
vulnerability I mean exactly like we're
talking about some vehicles was a 2009
yeah it's far back at this point I don't
think they care I mean like if it was
one of the 2005 s they're looking at
going it's been like 13 years because
it's always like you know in 2004 the
2005 s would come out so you know it's
it's been 13 years or some of them most
of those vehicles would be off the road
it's not like it was the newer vehicle
so my guess is from a liability
standpoint the cost factor of patching
it doing a warranty recall switching out
keys because you'd have to replace the
keys or reprogram them Plus you'd have
to reprogram the vehicles the cost
probably just wasn't significant enough
or was too so then can you just sell
something like that on github what is
well github is a coding base so what
what it means when he's posted it on
github is that is freely available so
anyone who wants to build this thing can
download this the instructions to do it
right and the code to do it too much
about Subaru not having a statement from
them but knowing that you know as you
know ethical hackers bring out these
kinds of hey we've discovered this
there's a lot of that because people are
trying to get the cash prize for right
hey there are you know ethical hacker
prizes and so there comes a point when
you know companies will certainly say
you know we're not doing any Microsoft
comes to mind recently when it with the
compromise on Internet Explorer yes
where they simply said you know we're
not worrying about the older operating
systems and there was another one in the
kernel itself where they said we're not
gonna patch any of them yeah it's too
far into the kernel we're not going to
touch it we don't believe it's such a
security risk as you're making it out to
sound now others may may say otherwise
but I think it's that they may perceive
this is a maybe cuz I don't know I
haven't spoken with them but they may
perceive as a company that it takes a
certain level of knowledge in order to
do this type of compromise and so they
don't feel as vulnerable because it's
like wouldn't happen to me mentality
there's such a small minority of smart
people in the world there's no problem
of people minority who would create a
key fob hacking device out of a
raspberry pie I'm just picturing a movie
gone in 60 seconds picturing Nicolas
Cage walking around with a Raspberry Pi
just like picking up Shelby Mustangs
just got a whole bunch of super okay the
Dutch Data Protection Authority has
concluded that Microsoft Microsoft's
Windows 10 operating system breaches
local privacy law on account of its
collection of telemetry metadata
personal data being harvested by default
by Microsoft can include the URL of
every website visited if the Windows 10
user is browsing the web with
Microsoft's edge browser and has not
opted out a full telemetry as well as
data about usage of all installed apps
and on their device including frequency
of use how often the apps are active and
the amount of seconds of usage of a
keyboard mouse pen or touchscreen
microsoft says it gathers and processes
Windows 10 users data in order to fix
errors keep devices up-to-date and
secure and improve its own products and
services of course but if users have not
opted out it also uses data from both a
basic and full telemetry level to show
personalized
advertisements in windows and edge
including all apps for sale in the
Windows Store and also for showing
personalized advertisements in other
apps according to the local DPA there
are more than 4 million active devices
using Windows 10 home and pro in the
Netherlands after investigating several
versions of the OS including Windows 10
homeland Pro the Dutch DPA said Friday
it has identified multiple breaches of
the data protection law
Microsoft has compiled a point-by-point
rebuttal on these points of
disagreements Wow what is telemetry
telemetry meta data tree that's two
words Wow yeah that's it that's all
that's all he's going to give you
essentially I mean this is basically
information that is gathered on your
Windows 10 system or other systems as
well as now on Windows 7 and 8 and
everything else but so they are tracking
your movements this is how they are able
to provide targeted advertising to you
know it's under the veil of improving
the operating system because they might
notice that hey you know people running
this particular processor having
problems opening this application so
let's manipulate something in the code
so it's under the guise of fixing things
helping improve things but it is really
collecting personal information about
your usage spying on you
great so is there ever like so when they
say they're using it to help mm-hmm is
that actually at all that ok like that
well that's just the guise of its kind
of like prove the user but that's not
that's never the truth like you could
disable it there's always other we know
why Facebook gives you free accounts we
know why you know that's exactly how
this is leading to if there's basic
telemetry and then there is full yeah
which like wedding ok would it be
helpful to just do basic or should you
even at all
you can even opt out
but I think with some of the windows
updates you got to keep an eye on it
because it'll reactivate itself because
your give us a okay with you know
certain I accept a license agreement and
oh that License Agreement also turned
back on full telemetry so the difference
essentially you know the basic dilemma
tree is the the essentials the bare
minimum that they need in order to kind
of keep track of your system and how
you're using it then full telemetry is
everything like this is something that a
technician could use to actually come in
and diagnose problems on your computer
yeah everything about your computer and
how you use it right I'd add a visual
you were saying that of that useless box
like you turn it off it turns itself
back exactly like pretty much yeah in
fact before we move on the windows club
actually posted a very good tutorial for
you to help you so that you can disable
or reduce the amount of telemetry
metadata that is shared with Microsoft
object that can be found on their
website at the windows Club comm /
windows - ten - telemetry and that's
going to give you that information
go check it out right crooks have come
up with a strain of Android ransomware
that both encrypts user data and locks
victims out of compromised devices by
changing pins lucas thefn code the
malware researcher at security for ESET
who discovered double/double Locker said
its payload can change the devices pin
preventing the victim from accessing
their device and encrypts the victims
data such a combination has hasn't been
seen yet in the Android ecosystem he
goes on to explain double Locker misuses
Android accessibility services which is
a popular trick among cyber criminals
the nasty is based on a banking Trojan
which means that account compromising
functionality might easily be added the
Android malware spreads in the very same
way as its PC parent as a fake Adobe
Flash Player update that's pushed via
compromised websites once launched the
app requests activation of the malware's
accessibility service named Google Play
service
after the malware obtains these
accessibility permissions it uses them
to activate device administrator rights
and set itself as the default home
application in both cases without the
users consent double Locker once planted
on a compromised device creates two
reasons for the victim to pay first it
changes the devices pin affected
effectively blocking the victim from
using it second double Locker encrypts
all files from the from the device's
primary storage directory using the AES
encryption algorithm the ransom has been
set at a relatively modest 0.013 Bitcoin
which is approximately $54 the only
valuable option to clean a non rooted
device of double Locker ransomware is
via a factory reset a way around the pin
lock on the rooted devices is possible
if not exactly straightforward encrypted
files cannot be easily recovered Wow
very scary because now it's kind of it
really hits home it's real folks really
real so you've got to be careful of what
you click on because this is a typical
social engineering tactic of you know
you've installed an app that you think
is legitimate and it has tricked you
into giving access to certain things
that probably shouldn't have given it
access to right it's it is just social
engineering tactics used by malicious
coders and you need to really really be
careful of what you install where you
get it from if you have a rooted device
you need to be mindful the Cydia is
probably going to be distributing things
that are not approved by Google and the
Google Play Store so be very very
careful and if you're not sure what that
means if you're not sure what rooted
device means well it probably doesn't
affect you but you do need to beware
that malicious coders do place things in
the Google Play Store to trick you into
installing an app that sounds great it's
free and it's you know it's got this
this and this but why exactly does this
chat application need access to all of
my files and that's the big tip-off now
it doesn't mean every one of those apps
that asks for access to everything is a
bad app yeah but usually yeah you
usually seem you know a couple options
for whatever you're looking for and
there's once I go we know only
access to your camera then you've got
others it's everything like permission
for fatigue or something like I just
sometimes don't read but also if they've
locked me out of my phone how am I
supposed to pay them well it'll show it
on the screen yeah you've got to pay pay
wall on your phone that says hey oh yeah
oh and given the fact that it's only was
a $54 well that's it it's not like it's
hey give us five million dollars yeah
most people gets fifty four bucks is
just not worth going yeah oh my kids
photos around here yeah and if they were
gonna go to like a Tech Center to get
their phone service they're gonna say
well it's 100 hundred fifty bucks people
yeah it's cheaper than the service I'll
just pay it to get it unlocked mmm right
out of time can we really quickly talk
about the WPA hack that just occurred
yes this is something that happened on
Monday so Sasha absolutely researchers
have disclosed a serious weakness in the
wpa2 protocol that allows attackers
within a range of vulnerable device
within a range of vulnerable device or
access points to intercept passwords
emails and other data presumed to be
encrypted and in some cases to inject
ransomware or other malicious content
into a website a client is visiting the
proof-of-concept
exploit is called crack short for key
reinstallation attacks the research has
been a closely guarded secret for weeks
ahead of a coordinated disclosure that
was scheduled for 8:00 a.m. Monday East
Coast time a website disclosing the
vulnerability said it affects the core
wpa2 protocol itself and is very
effective against any device including
those running the Android Linux Mac OS
Windows and OpenBSD operating systems
the vulnerabilities are scheduled to be
formally presented in a talk scheduled
for November 1st in Dallas the vast
majority of existing access points
aren't likely to be patched quickly and
some may know but may not be patched at
all ok so that is a scary fact so some
people are thinking what is all this
technobabble
what is wpa2 what is crack what is this
exploit and what does it mean to me if
you have a phone in your pocket that
when you go home it connects to your
home Wi-Fi or you have it set up to
connect to your office Wi-Fi
you're at you're vulnerable yes now the
scary thing is you are also vulnerable
if you connect to the local coffee shops
Wi-Fi but here's the fact you have no
way of knowing if the local coffee shop
is clever enough to patch their device
right if they do that's fantastic how
will you ever know I don't feel safe
anymore going to a private to a public
hotspot right it's simple yeah so what
does it mean when I connect to Wi-Fi
usually that is an encrypted connection
I am connected to their Wi-Fi hotspot in
anything that I do between there between
my device and their hotspot is encrypted
including passwords and things like that
now throw all that away now anyone
sitting in that same coffee shop can
also see those things that you're doing
so it's very serious it is I mean we're
not seeing this in the wild so I should
say it's not something that is actively
being exploited because the ethical
hackers who discovered this revealed it
very ethically yes what that means is is
that they let hardware manufacturers
they let Google they let everyone know
that is in the industry before they
actually announced it publicly that
means the day that they announced it
7:00 a.m. that day mikrotik already had
a patch for all their routers that's the
kind of results that we've seen from
this so now we're starting to see Google
is starting to work on some patches for
their systems we're seeing that a lot of
hardware manufacturers are already
releasing firmware updates but you have
to install them mikrotik is a great
example of a company that does it right
because I can just log into the router
click on update get the latest version
and it's done yep but if you have a
Linksys or something even dd-wrt things
like that you may need to reflash you
may need to download a driver on your
computer a firmware on your computer put
it on a USB stick take it over to your
router do it that way or maybe through
the the LAN you have to do it otherwise
your Wi-Fi is susceptible you also need
to delete all the Wi-Fi hotspots that
you've got on your phone and only start
adding ones that you know have patched
against crack
smart thanks Robbie I'm going home and
going to update my firmware update your
firmware it suspect those for your
phone's your computers as well if you do
an app update and then an apt upgrade on
Linux you're gonna get a WPA patch
already so make sure you make that so
nems has already got the patch it's
Ottery automatically rolled out to all
of the NEMS appliances perfect so get it
doing update their computers folks ready
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of yours for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our web site from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman
[Music]
[Applause]
you
