hi everyone and welcome to new every day
my name is Kari and my name is Jen and
on stay show it's actually not about you
we'd be right back
[Music]
hi everyone and welcome back to the show
new everyday thank you for tuning in and
Jen what do you mean it's not about me
it's not about you Carrie and the reason
I say that is for the past few weeks
I've really been thinking about what is
some are all about and I know at this
point we're probably towards the end of
the summer by the time that we're airing
this but so often when summer comes up
you're like yeah I'm gonna go to the
cottage I'm gonna get on the boat I'm
gonna go for a hike I'm gonna have some
vacation okay my family owns like months
in advance because it's the time when
you actually have time do what you want
exactly and I got thinking why that just
seemed so selfish like did we actually
and this it so this is where it came
this idea came from was the thought that
we think that it's oh it's my time
summer is my time but from September to
June that's the Lord's time but like our
ministry right or life in general
right like or give ourselves into the
routines we'll do whatever but as soon
as summer comes that sunshine comes in
the blue sky then that's my time and it
really challenged me to think what
actually constitutes what would make up
like the best life ever because like
that isn't that what people like best
summer best yeah but I find people are
actually asking those questions they
want a good life they want a happy life
they want to content life and I'm
thinking well then it's not about it's
not about going to the cottage it's not
about going for a class because those
are all like fleeting yeah things
especially when you put me in front of
it well this is my time this is my time
away this and now I have nothing against
time away that's not what I'm saying but
are we willing actually to surrender our
time to the Lord because he's the one
that has given it to us anyways and
what's interesting is I was just reading
in in Leviticus today and Leviticus is
probably my favorite book in the Bible
which
it seems so strange to so many people it
does I did not know that because there's
so many cool passages in Leviticus and
he talks about the year of Jubilee okay
which is like at the end of every six
years they were toast to take a year of
rest for the land and so that the the
land could sort of take a breath and
they were to eat whatever it produced
but they weren't to go and reap it and
produce it themselves and work at it
yeah so if they lay if the tree produced
apples they could eat them but they
weren't supposed to care the forest
cultivated yes and so but what is
interesting is after seven seven times
seven years so forty-nine so they would
have a year and then the fiftieth year
was the year of Jubilee so if you ever
wonder why when people are married for
50 years or like the Queen celebrated
her DubLi anniversary that's where that
comes from that's where it comes from
the 50 years the year of Jubilee okay
and so for two years they were to go
without planting for two years two years
you're 49 okay and then you're 50
because and what's interesting is the
passage says that the Lord would cause
the land in those years to produce three
years worth of food which is amazing cuz
he can do that which is amazing but it
comes down to and we're gonna trust him
first and so me you know we stand at the
cusp of summer and it's like I have it
all it's just waiting for me and we
think okay I have you know 31 days and
in July of 31 days in August and so how
do I everything in there yes but what if
we actually surrendered that to the Lord
and say Lord your kingdom come your will
be done and that's sort of where it came
from like life is not all about me and
what I can get out of it and it really
is about the Lord and surrendering it to
him and and that took me to the passage
in in mark 8 where Jesus actually is
predicting his death this is Mark 831
and he says he then began to teach them
that the Son of man must suffer many
things and be rejected by the elders
chief priests teachers of the law and
that he must be killed and after three
days rise again he spoke plainly about
this and Peter took him aside and began
to rebuke him but Jesus but when Jesus
turned and looked at his disciples he
rebuked Peter get behind me Satan he
said you do not have in mind the things
of God but the things of men then he
called the crowd to him along with his
disciples and said if anyone would come
after me he must deny himself and take
up his cross and follow me and this is
where this is the clincher this is what
drew me to this passage for whoever
wants to save his life will lose it but
whoever loses his life for me and the
gospel will save it what good is it for
a man to gain the whole world and left
and yet forfeit his soul or what can a
man give in exchange for his soul if
anyone is ashamed of me and my words in
this adulterous and sinful generation
the Son of Man will be ashamed of him
when he comes in his father's glory with
his hole with the holy angels and is
that line that says whoever wants to
save his life will lose it and whoever
loses his life will save it and I'm like
that's the life Christ is calling us to
but we have to be willing to surrender
all of our own wants and thoughts and
desires so that we we can truly get the
good life that he's actually promised to
us and and so that really got me
thinking about the concept of
selfishness hmm because what does when
Jesus says I've come that you may have
life in life to the full his full life
would poured out for other people yes
and it's interesting I was I heard a
quote just the other night by Daniel
Yankelovich and he was a he's a social
scientist and I'm sorry I don't know the
the years when he was doing this
research but basically conducts social
research right okay so he said the
injunction that defined oneself one must
lose oneself contains a truth any seeker
of self-fulfillment needs to grasp
and he's non-christian Wow so
essentially saying you feel most
fulfilled yeah when you are giving to
other people you use your life for the
sake of others yes and that's where you
get that the greatest sense of
fulfillment you should have just read
the gospel John I know it's all in there
all that money in research but it is
very interesting that this is a
universal truth yes when you that when
you give you feel that you feel that
it's right yes that's right to not live
for yourself and yet our our tendency
our natural proclivity fool es down that
path of self-serving but the end result
of having that inward focus well in I
believe it's James yeah James chapter
James chapter four first one what is
causing the quarrels and fights among
you don't they come from the evil
desires that war within you you want
what you don't have
so you scheme and kill to get it you are
jealous of what others have but you
can't get it so you fight and wage war
to take it away from them you don't have
what you want because you don't ask God
for it when you ask you don't get it
because your motives are all wrong you
want only what will give you pleasure
and do I have a story to tell you right
after this
Jeff Weston Gela you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what
aren't you you're terrible actor what
this where acting comes into play I
don't know you're supposed to act
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website you
need hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
that's true how much harddrive space do
you have how many email accounts how
many domains can point to it well we've
got an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are gonna get
unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name root so your own com
dice to put that amazing website that
you've been working on on there if you
run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine
sign up cat5 dot TV slash DreamHost just
don't put that on the papers on just
don't do it but hey it's a great deal
folks best deal you're gonna find five
dollars and change per month go to cap
five dot TV / dream host hey everyone
welcome back we are still on new every
day
I'm still carrying she's still done and
we just want to thank our partners who
help make this show possible
so if you go to our website new every
day dot TV click our partners page you
can see all the businesses organizations
that helped make this possible including
audible you can go to patreon if you
want to support us using patreon and how
I support the show as well so every time
a show is aired there's an automatic
withdrawal from my account that goes
towards supporting the show cool hmm so
I left you with a little bit of a
cliffhanger of like do I had a story for
you Tommy and well Carrie is a part of
this story because as soon as she
started reading the chapter 4 of James
what causes fights and quarrels among
you don't they come from your desires
and the number of times and Carrie and I
don't argue a whole lot but when we do
it often comes it always comes from a
place of selfishness where I am thinking
one thing like why
doesn't she look at it this way which is
my perceptive my Prashad why isn't she
seeing it from my side and I never
stopped to think well what is caring
side of things which is the selfishness
or I I've often thought well not even
stopping to think well what's Jen's side
of things okay I feel like I already
know your side and I don't think it's
right right right and so and that comes
back to what is what is the motives are
we seeking to understand and I'm
currently listening to a book from
audible and the husband and wife are
sitting down and she confesses she's
like I know I'm hard to live with and he
says and I know my creativity doesn't
come when you need it to come or when I
need it to end and yet he wants her to
change and she wants Hamlin's to change
and yet they both like the arrangement
but they don't like the angst I would
say that's the best way that that causes
the problems in their marriage and I was
like yes I feel like I can be very hard
to live with because of the way I think
and how I will put my selfish desires
first cuz and and so it's just very
interesting like last week Carrie had to
get up and go to work and I had to do
laundry and so in my mind I'm like while
she said she was getting up at 7:00 but
I find it very hard to get up when I say
I'm gonna get up it's just a real
struggle and Jen is like up ready to go
showered had breakfast so in my mind I'm
like okay she's gonna get up at 7:00
she's gonna put her laundry in and then
I can I can get my laundry in there and
get it finished because I have a full
day right and did you hear all the I's
I'm going to do this I'm going to this
she's gonna do this because it fits into
my schedule and then when we actually
had the conversation she looked at me
and said I had no idea that that's what
you wanted to do because I thought you
did laundry the night before but that
also comes down to
how clear are we when when we have
conversations with people and is it
selfish that we assume that they should
know what we're talking about or what
I'm thinking like I even feel like
that's a level of selfishness sometimes
yes
well isn't it obvious to you like we've
been friends now for this long like
shouldn't don't you know don't you know
and sometimes in my selfishness
I'm not truly listening to what your
plans are because like I'm gonna get up
and like you know I have to be out of
the door at this time so whatever
happens before then yeah doesn't matter
if it affects you but I say the same
thing to I'm like to see not know that
this is this is my schedule and this is
thought but this these passages really
challenged my heart because we started
talking about the why behind it why are
these things happening and we firmly
believe and we had this conversation on
Sunday morning that it's the enemy who
comes in and he whispers in our ear
saying she didn't really listen to you
or you deserve better or doesn't she
know that you have to do this and and
he's the one that whispers to all of
these thoughts into our ears and it's us
that needs to rise up with the help of
the Holy Spirit to say in the name of
Jesus I rebuke every selfish thought in
my mind right and the way I feel like a
newly mention of this gentleman in our
conversation that that the devil wants
to skew our perception of our identity
mm-hmm so oh yeah you you always do that
yes you never do this yes you feel bad
about yourself oh you always you always
put yourself first yeah so even though
there might have been like a little
piece of pride that made that selfish
thought come then the enemy after he has
stimulated that thought will turn it
around and make you feel sucky about it
I know and looks like oh yeah that's
really who you are but I feel like to
combat that you have to combat it with
truth thing you know I was made for love
yes and now
my purpose I have a beautiful friend
who's working in a clinic in Mozambique
and she had shared that she was
struggling with like well what does God
really want from me and just yesterday I
got an email from her that said I was
praying about this and I got the answer
yeah right right look at what does God
want for me everybody wants to know
what's got will for my life yeah or me
and she read a devotional that
essentially said it's when you pour
yourself out in love that is God's
purpose for you to love God and love
others yes and love your neighbor as
yourself and and she said that is so
freeing even though intellectually she
knows it because she's she's spent a lot
of time with the Lord but that's what
she needs to hear at that time and it's
about loving and then there's freedom in
that because you don't have to be in a
certain place to do that it's a way of
being because it's who you are
once you've received grace exactly it's
just who you are once you've received
Christ and with the help of the Holy
Spirit then he he's the one that helps
us do that and that's where we have to
realize we don't do it on our own like
he has given us the gift of the Holy
Spirit to help us become more like
Christ and so we're actually going to
talk about on the next show so we want
you to come on back next week and in the
process
think about where am i I have some
selfish thoughts so why don't we pray
sure Oh Lord we are so thankful that you
reveal things to us and not for the
purpose of making us feel bad but for
the purpose of fulfilling our purpose
and so Lord we commit this conversation
to you and we ask that it would land
wherever you want it so and that your
word would not return void you pray this
in the mighty name of Jesus through the
power of the Holy Spirit
thank you so much for tuning in and I'm
really looking forward to our next show
Jen I know I just feel like we have so
much more to share in fact this this
show was stimulating from conversations
that we had we were like need to do a
show on this just cause we've got so
much to say so tune in next week same
time same place and we're going to
continue this conversation have a
wonderful week
see you later
you
