hello welcome back to another episode of
new everyday my name is Carrie and I'm
Jen and on today's show we're going to
talk about fear what people think of us
you
well welcome back I just wanted to thank
you for tuning in whether you're on our
website new everyday TV whether you're
following us on YouTube or maybe you're
listening in on stitcher stitcher is an
app that you can download so that you
can listen to your favorite podcast
anywhere you don't have to be connected
to Wi-Fi I I think it's a really amazing
app because I commute back and forth to
work and it's great to be able to listen
to your podcasts without having to
require Wi-Fi connection so you can
listen on stitcher as well I also want
to thank you co-op lines from powering
the electrical stuff in the room like
our camera and our microphones and what
type of battery are they carbon neutral
environmentally friendly and thank you
also to category 5 for hosting our show
and Robbie Ferguson for editing
directing and producing so today we're
kind of shifting gears a little bit from
we would have been talking about
missions trips for the last couple of
weeks and we're shifting gears to talk
about something else 10 well we're going
to talk about the fear of man or the
fear of people and it came up this week
because I was having a conversation with
a lady that I pray with every week we
pray come together we pray and she had
just finished reading a book and I
believe it's called like the love idol
um but basically it is how we um are too
concerned with the way other people
think about us and so we live our lives
out based on the thoughts of other
people or our perceived thoughts or even
not a perceived thoughts like we know
exactly what they're thinking at us cuz
they told us and it really challenged me
because she said she's a teacher at one
of the the local high schools here and
she said you know I heard some when I
interact with students am I interacting
with the students in a real and genuine
way of this is who I really am or am i
laughing at that Joker my being this way
in order to make myself more pleasing to
them to build that connect
and yet it always feels fake to us like
whenever we sort of act in a certain way
to get somebody else's checkmark seal of
approval it always feels kind of fake so
we were talking about why do we do the
things we do when really we need to find
and put our hope and trust in God and to
behave or live our lives out in the ways
that He is calling us to right and this
has actually been something that I have
struggled with my entire life is a fear
of man really and and so I would always
say words I thought the other people
wanted to hear or I would hang out with
people that I thought I should be
hanging out with because I didn't want
them to be upset with me mm-hmm um even
up to my parents like I would behave in
a certain way around my parents or do
things you know that would would please
my parents but I wasn't necessarily
happy you know in doing any of those
things but what I found happiness is
well I made them happy and if they're
happy then they're not upset with me and
then because I was so concerned with
whether or not people liked which is so
fleeting and can change from day to day
today and it wasn't until I did a
year-long discipleship school at a
ministry called a la ministry sins at
pierpont in England and we talked about
fear one day and so we were I can still
remember we're in a big circle and
somebody read Jeremiah 17 oh really so
and this is what it says says this is
what the Lord says this is jeremiah 17 5
this is what the Lord says occurs is
placed on those who trust other people
who depend on humans for strength who
have stopped trusting the Lord they are
like a bush in the desert that grows in
a land where no one lives a hot and dry
land with bad soil they don't know about
the good things God can give but the
person who trust the Lord will be
blessed the Lord will show
him that he can be trusted he'll be
strong like a tree planted near water
that sets its roots by a stream it is
not afraid when the days are hot Italy
its leaves are always green it does not
worry in a year but no rain comes it
always produces fruit and it's the
little note that i have written cited as
we do not need to worry when we trust in
the lord because he will always provide
for us and when we trust in people we
miss out on the good things that God can
give because I'm putting my faith in my
hope in people and you said something
really interesting when we were getting
ready for this show and I was reading
you that verse um that they don't know
about the good things God can't give so
it's like they didn't trust him more
because they didn't know his character
mm-hmm or his love for them that he
would provide yeah yeah and something
that I do quite often is remind myself
of God's character who is God so I'll
just I'll go through the alphabet okay
so do you mean so maybe we'll play a
little game so you can serve understand
um so and name off a characteristic of
God okay so I'll start so i have a so
awesome so you would have a healthy so I
could say beautiful see caring devoted
that's good thanks e um the word that
goes Ryan is expressions that he uses
expressions to relate to people okay f
would be faithful nice friendly gracious
H haha holy hmm indescribable j-jesus
that's the right answer this is sunday
school can you put that but it really
helps me and as I go through it whenever
I'm really struggling with
is God because this says it says they
don't know about the good things God can
get but I think it's because we forget
who God is so when we forget who God is
then that fear of man creeps increase in
and so it's like I have to remind myself
of who God is and I actually went
through the Bible when you're I had a a
chart in the back of my devotion book
yeah and I had the letters A through Z
written down every time i came across a
word that described God or Jesus the
Holy Spirit I would write it down that's
a great idea so in you have a long list
my page was full anything of just names
of who God was I remember I I would read
a feeling he is my comfort yes he is my
provider yes he is my protector why am I
getting sucked in to being afraid of
people men proverbs 29 25 says being
afraid of people can get you into
trouble but if you trust the Lord will
be safe and what just occurred to me is
often peer pressure is the fear of man
yeah we do things because we're afraid
of our friends and oh well if are one of
my friends want to think about me yeah
you know if if I say no yeah to this
we're actually more afraid of our
friends then the Lord where as being
confident in god i think is sometimes it
enables people to feel okay about
themselves if you locate it there they
can be loved and accepted but you know I
I have in the past lift into that
because you knows that at one workplace
they you know no I was a Christian and
kind of hood call me like a goody two
shoes and that kind of things I they
were talking about um alcohol and they
were different dreams and I think jokes
came up and and I made a joke about
drinking as
I had had that type of drink right so
and you know I don't really drink but
and because I want to be part of the
joke but and then I realized I was just
doing that so that they didn't think I
was overly conservative and I could
still hang out with them and be cool and
I was like what am i doing you know I
was embarrassed of myself they didn't
think anything of it but I knew that I
was not being true you know yeah I
remember being teased in public school
and in homeschool you date boys I don't
you go out yes and and so I've been
going up this boy and I didn't kiss him
I didn't feel like I should be kissing
it like I had no desire to kiss him and
then we broke up and cuz its public
school but the pressure I got called
square which basically me like square
means it oh you're so prudish I guess
it's really hard word to translate um
like what's wrong with you that you went
to kiss someone and I'm I struggled with
that Mike is like I want to be except
about my friends maybe I should have
just kissed him and I really got me
thinking about how often we get sucked
in too I that peer pressure which really
is fear of man I'm afraid of what my
friends are going to say and a friend of
mine message me the sweet saying that
her her daughter was feeling pressured
to get into some games um that weren't
games pushing her to God like they
wanted her to play with a Ouija board oh
why do you know what she should say you
know how does she respond to her friends
and not wanting to feel like the goody
two shoes or you know I was at a party
and my friends her freshman easily be
born yeah yeah and she really struggled
she's like how do I teach my 13 year old
daughter how to honor God in this
situation and yet have you witnessed to
the friends as well like it is cuz i
will be a
honest I have come under other people's
like fear where I want him to like me
yeah and and there's a story in the
Bible saw King Saul yeah and he was
chosen by God like God said Samuel go
and anoint salt and so Samuel goes and
anoint saw this is in in my chapter
what's First Samuel probably around
chapter 6 on my bed Rob equal do his
thing um so but go wasn't in whites saw
ya to be king yeah on coronation day
they go to a set Saul apart as king yeah
and it can't find him we love me he's
hiding with the luggage bitch I just
feels so crazy but he was afraid to come
out he was afraid to step out he was
afraid I was afraid to take on that
responsibility or afraid that people
would now look at him totally
differently but he was afraid to come
out but then later on it talks about and
I wrote this down in First Samuel 1524
so I'm just going to turn to that for
Samuel 15 verse 15 24 and it says
because this is one of the places where
while it is the place that Saul is
rejected as king because he was making
um he was taking things into his own
hands things that were set aside for the
priest only to do right he was doing
himself yeah and um and it goes on like
Sam is Sam Sam whoops ha so basically
saw was told to destroy the Amalekites
and Saul did not destroy the Amalekites
and he goes on to Samuels are Saul says
starting for a nice all set but I did
obey the Lord I did with the Lord told
me to do I destroyed all the Amalekites
and I
brought back a gag their king the
soldiers took the best sheep and cattle
to sacrifice to the Lord your God at
Gilgal and it's like yeah that was not
what God asked if it is not god I asked
you to do and then Samuel answered what
pleases the Lord more burnt offerings
and sacrifices or obedience to his voice
it is better to obey than to sacrifice
it is better to listen to God than to
offer a fan of sheep disobedience is as
bad as the sin of sorcery pride is as
bad as a scent of worshipping idols you
have rejected the Lord's command now he
rejects you as king then Saul said to
Samuel I have sinned I didn't obey the
Lord's command and your words I was
afraid of the people and I did what they
said as a result of being afraid of the
people the kingdom was taken away from
him I'm like wow ft price to pay yeah
because he chose not to fear the Lord
and we're told in Proverbs the fear of
the earth the beginning of wisdom and
that go right back to the Jeremiah
passage where you say they don't know
who God is and so because we don't know
who God is we come into the fear of man
which actually draws us away from what
God is called a su and that's why Samuel
says what does the Lord really want he
wants your obedience he wants you to
listen to him and yet here we are you
know struggling with or what does that
put to other people think of me if I you
know we might get dressed and put
something on and oh if I wear this but
will they say and that's the struggle
late and that's just one little thing or
you know if I if I hang out with these
people and not these people well that
what are these people want to say yeah
we even sent in church sometimes but I
think I'd that I thank God that he
offers us freedom from that and there's
a verse it says where the Spirit of the
Lord is there is freedom he whom the son
sets free is free indeed yes and you
know what I think about the times when I
have
you know done things with friends that I
regret I celebrate the fact that I am
learning about who God is and how much
he loves me yes in spite of that because
when he looks at me now he sees his son
because i've put off my old self and i'm
putting on the Lord Jesus Christ yes so
yay God because his mercy is new every
day yeah and now I'm learning about him
i'm learning about the truth of god and
i can say confidently with Romans 1 16
but i am not ashamed of the gospel of
Christ for it is the power of God
salvation for everyone who believes for
the Jew first and also for the Greek
it's the power pod that we share the
gospel he works through it um and so I'm
trying now with this help that when I
feel that fear come in I can say that's
my old self that's not me anymore thank
God that I am being renewed in His image
you know and I think part of
understanding the character of God is
it's like two parts right we fear Him
because I think it's in Luke sticks
right where he says um don't fear man
what can world man do to you hear him
who has the power to destroy both the
physical body but also through a your
soul into help yes no Luke says it but
so does Matthew and so the difference
between the Gospels is just who they're
writing to write usually and so that's
why sometimes you find the same thing in
different different books but it might
have a different twist to it depending
on who their audiences so the one I had
written down is the matthew 10 Matthew
1028 which says
I'm like its I say every but I was
reading come to me all you who retired
Noveck I'm like oh that's chapter 11
also also good first about God's care
could talk to him but essentially it's
saying it says don't be afraid of people
who can kill the body yeah I cannot kill
the soul right the only way you should
fear is when you can destroy your soul
and the body in hell huh and like okay
God is holy and awesome but he is also
so loving and so amazing and we have the
opportunity and the great joy of
becoming children of God because of what
Christ has done so this past week I
became an aunt again to a little baby
named ava and I was saying to Jen that
it's just so crazy how I look at this
baby and I don't even know her and I
already loved her and yet and I think
about okay let's turn that to God who he
made us he knows us and he wants us and
this it was so weird cuz I'm like how
can I love this thing so much this
person so much you don't even know her
yet she I know she's wonderful and she
hasn't done anything wrong I still love
her and God knows the things we've done
wrong and yet he loves us while we were
yet sinners Christ died for us yes I
think knowing that our new identity in
Christ you know the Bible says that
perfect love casts out fear the only
access love comes from God found in the
person of Jesus Christ and one and we
see God's perfect love displayed through
that hmm and I don't know Jen when I
talk about this I feel confident i'll
just call it some God fidence about it
that it's real yes sometimes at work
when I worked a long shift and I've seen
a lot of bad things happen and your
friends talking and I start to get low
that's when I need to remind myself with
the truth of Scripture this is I don't
need to be afraid of in this is this is
the truth you know yes
and sometimes being in church circles
hmm as a pastor you know i'll i'll hear
something that the kids are saying or
somebody is saying or becoming a part
over and i don't want to step in because
I'm like oh I'm gonna sound like the
pastor who's setting no oh it will she's
faster so she has set but I actually
feel convicted like if they continue
down this road they're going to make
this in this in this noise so how do I
it's the truth you know I feel you know
okay Holy Spirit are you prompting me to
say something to this person could you
please thank you I don't want to always
be perceived as a while the pastor
you're expected to say that when it
genuinely is needed to be sad because I
think sometimes we can get caught up in
that like truth needs to be said yeah
but we're so concerned of how we're
going to be perceived or how even that
person is going to receive it that's so
true and actually I can share a story
but that a friend of mine was dating
this guy and she was a Christian and he
was not and they were living together
and he just was not good for her and it
was not a good situation and I did care
for her but she seems so happy and they
were now planning their wedding and and
I was like I need to say something she
was and she was very excited about you
know get marrying the sky and life was
gonna be good in it then they were going
to get a house and a psycho is it really
my place it why am I just supposed to
love her and not say anything and I
thought she's not going to want to be my
friend after and then I'll lose the
opportunity to be her friend and blah
blah blah and she ended breaking up with
a guy cuz he ended up being you know bad
news and I met with her for lunch after
and she said and I mentioned something
like yeah you know what was not a good
situation she said Kerry you were my
friend and why didn't you tell me why
didn't you say something to me even
though I seemed happy but you knew the
truth of what was really going
I was like wow you were right and I'm
sorry I did not step up to the plate I
was more afraid of what you ever think
of me then in love sharing what I need
to be true yeah yeah so I kind of
learned from that one I feel like we're
just scratching the surface I know I
know scratch scratch scratch so what
we're going to do is we're going to push
pause for today's show and I think we'll
just pick it up again for next week's
show sure um cuz they're still lost that
we this is a huge topic look for me this
has been a major thing in my life that
I've had to hand over the Lord to have
him read it out okay so we're just gonna
close in prayer and pick up next week
pick up next week sounds good okay Lord
for the Spirit of the Lord is there is
freedom and you did not give us a spirit
that makes us afraid but one of power of
love and a sound mind so you said be
strong courageous to not be terrified do
not be discouraged the Lord your God is
with us forever we go so father help us
have a deeper understanding of who you
are their provision for our life and the
fact that you really will look after us
when you surrender everything to you
forgive us for coming under the fear of
man would you break the power of it in
our life would you show us the root
causes of it would you help us to live
faithfully following you I ask this in
the name of Jesus for the power of the
Holy Spirit amen thanks so much for
watching or listening on stitcher can we
hope
speak on you every day new every day
last I again cheers
