[Music]
in the studio Jeff back in the radio
days yeah one of the things that we had
were really great speakers it's like key
to a radio station is having great
speakers so that when you're working
late you can crank it and it sounds good
it's like your own personal my favorite
part about doing oh yeah oh yeah and one
of the things about studio speakers and
working in now I'm a recording artist in
the past I was a recording artist I
should say now I'm a dad I've worked in
a lot of recording studios and at that
time there's there's a style two
speakers that it just there's a look to
them there's a sound to them yes and
that's kind of what we're looking for
when we're looking for good speakers to
this day I still am drawn to speakers
first by the look then the sound true
you need two four speakers you want the
sound but it's that look that draws me
in but if they can be really
good-looking aesthetically pleasing a
little bit on the geeky side like tech
centric as far as the look goes like
that studio look plus sound great plus
here's here's the one that usually
doesn't fit into the mix plus affordable
cuz usually if I'm going to spend a
hundred bucks on a pair of speakers and
they're gonna sound like we are not
allowed to say it on this
family-friendly show they're not gonna
sound very good right now Edifier has
taken it and blown that away with
there's these speakers that I you know
I'm just gonna jump right over there
sure can I can I do this no you're not
allowed K we're not reviewing them I'm
gonna I'm gonna head on over to our
review table and let's let's switch over
there here you go
all right I love these unboxings if
Sasha was here could you imagine two
unboxings at once so these the Edifier
r128 0t oh it's still sealed like this
is legit unboxing Oh Jeff
what kind of unboxing video would be pre
opened
I'm sure you could do it to make sure
that everything's there but this is like
well if it's not don't you want to know
that on the unboxing video true that if
they you know if something was damaged
or something like that wouldn't you want
to know that yes okay there we go okay
nothing's gonna be damaged here you can
see they're very well packaged
absolutely individually here we go okay
so those are the speakers
we've got instructions remote control
just fell out there this is just very
simple it's got mute and volume up and
down that's kind of nice
what do we got in the bag let's move
this box out of the way that way I can
be in focus okay speaker wire from days
of old hey is that that's actual speaker
wire it's not like that is like 12 gauge
speaker wire my friend
so for plugging into a sound system no
this is to connect the two speakers
together and we're going to see okay
we've got an RCA cable and now you look
at that you think oh that's all it's
cool everything's low HDMI no well what
if you want to plug these into a
turntable what if we want to put these
into a record player and get retro with
it right cool then we've got another RCA
cable but this one has a headphone kind
of plug on it so that we can plug it
into a laptop the other thing Jeff is
you can plug this into your TV and now
these become a set of you know enhanced
speakers for your television or what
else can you plug that into say a
computer yep
desktop computer with these on your desk
alright let's get into these shouldn't
be too hard to get into now you do not
have to buy an amplifier with these
because these are powered speakers these
are not passive yes sorry for the wobble
there you are look at that nice and
sleek I like the wood look again these
are the Edifier r128
0t now I'm gonna pull the grill off
because we want to get in here and see
what
these actually look like the quality I
can just feel the build quality as I'm
trying to pull this off is not what
you'd expect from a hundred dollar set
of speakers see that right there is very
attractive beautiful I'm gonna use those
without the grill for sure so we've got
a four inch base driver and of course
this this hole here this is for base
reflex and that's like a little two-inch
kind of looking thing we've also got a
13 millimeter silk dome tweeter so that
brings out the highs if you're not
familiar with speakers what we've got
this is like a mid-range bass speaker
and it takes care of the the middle of
the spectrum then you've got the tweeter
which enhances those highs so you get
those really nice crisp high tones as
well from your music if you've only got
one or the other you're not gonna have
full spectrum sound these accommodate
these will these will have great sound
so whether you want to plug these into
your TV or other devices they do promise
that you're going to get great sound no
matter what surface that you've got
these set on okay specifications as far
as the output goes we've got 42 watts
RMS combined total so what you see here
is so basically 21 watts of speaker pull
those off there we go and I love the
look so we're gonna take a really quick
break Jeff and then we're gonna plug
these in we're gonna set these up on our
main studio and we're gonna put them in
the binaural mode so that you can hear
how these sounds stick around
Jeff Weston Jemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what
aren't you okay you're terrible actor
what this we're acting comes into play I
don't know you're supposed to act okay
are you building a really cool website
just because Jeff is confused doesn't
mean you have to be visit cap five dot
TV slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host welcome
back this is category five technology TV
we've got the Edda fires plugged in
ready to go excited now first thing I
notice okay so you asked about the
speaker cable so I've run a speaker cord
this speaker cable between the two
speakers that's it so this one is
passive this one is aggressive this
one's got the amp built in okay you can
see that there aren't a lot of controls
on there but on the side here we've got
basic controls to enhance the sound what
does it say on here so we've got treble
bass and volume that's all you need
folks that's all you need so treble and
bass you can control with the actual
tactile knobs volume and mute if you'd
like you can use the wireless controller
okay are we ready to fire these up I'm
ready now we have a very unique scenario
here tonight because here at category
five TV we actually have a binaural
recording system so that dummy head that
you see there is recording in binaural
3d sound so if you put on a good quality
pair of headphones you're going to hear
essentially I mean with the limitation
of the microphones in the binaural dummy
head you're gonna hear essentially what
it sounds like here to us okay so are we
ready I'm ready
oh goodness Wow the Edifier r12 ATT's
those are exceptional I can't believe
they're a hundred bucks that's it that's
it folks you gotta check them out cap v
dot TV slash speakers
[Applause]
