take ball a you can like what you can do
is you can pick it up you can see if
they're real or not by sticking around
for real you go there real then then you
got a good so this is the real this
stock girl okay so there now it's your
your shot okay and it's real simple we
say anything if you work out get in
there I thought a little that but is you
totally as a purple then approval for
yes alright they needed are a query you
its oh no like yeah you got to do that
okay you have a proper you where are and
then somebody plays a lot of cool we
have this exact table I work seriously
well oh this is the that's the real ball
doesn't look like the present mmm-ah
goodness are you guys here soon yeah
like I think like play your buddies like
yeah like rasca the Royal table yeah go
matter that like astronaut I think it's
going to the wall right yeah
[Music]
[Applause]
you
