it Tuesday October 28 2014 and here are
the stories were covering this week a
customer was denied warranty for a
desktop computer in a major computer
store in the UK because he had deleted
the pre installed Windows operating
system and had linux on it what uh-huh a
US federal district court has locked
down the assets of one of the phone
scammers claiming to view Microsoft
Linux knowledge is fast becoming a top
recruitment priority for hiring managers
know linux you might have a competitive
edge against other applicants and google
has blacklisted delicious and it could
hurt your search engine if your stick
your search engine standings if you link
to it these stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere this is the story of
Operation Christmas Child
it may just be a shoebox but two million
is the start of the greatest journeys
traveling the world sent with prayer
shoe box gets fill the hearts of
children from over 100 different
countries with hope faith and love I'm
Sasha dramatis and here are the top
stories from the category 5 TV news room
most linux linux users these days
wouldn't give a second thought to
installing linux on their new computers
they know that times have changed and
the operating system is ignored for
warranty procedures especially for
hardware failures and it would seem
ridiculous to think otherwise why would
a store care what operating system you
installed on your computer or laptop
especially if it's broken who would make
such a rule and why it seemed that there
is at least one major retail computer
store that still practices this and it's
in the UK the store in question is none
other than currys pc world a business
that has more than 350 stores in the UK
and ireland and it's been around for
more than a hundred years it's difficult
to find alternatives or to avoid it when
you really need something the problem is
that besides size the store also comes
up with some made-up rules that can be
set despite there being in contradiction
with European law can I just interject
yes as someone who is personally almost
a hundred years old that is infuriating
I agree how dare you tell me I can't
install Linux I want Linux I know
especially now that everybody's starting
to recognize Linux which we will hear
about in the third story Roy chechu it
who sounds like a relative of yours
today is a tech journalist who focuses
on open source and Linux following a
recent experience at currys he wrote on
his blog that once you install gnu/linux
even if it's dual boot with windows no
damage to hardware would be covered by
the warranty
I can't believe that if you are ever
denied warranty just because you have
linux on your device you need to know
that it's not legal make sure you ask
beforehand when you buy a PC or a laptop
if linux will affect your warranty it
might influence your decision to do
business in that store a US federal
district court has ordered the shutdown
of a tech support operation said to have
deceptively earned 2.5 million dollars
from consumers a new york federal court
on friday ordered the shutdown of
telemarketing firm incorporated in the
state's accused by the Federal Trade
Commission of selling bogus software and
support under false claims that
consumers pcs were loaded with viruses
spyware and system errors the injunction
was granted in the absence of the
accused company and its chief operators
ahead of edits youth operators ahead of
a trial to be decided by the court at a
later date the court on Friday also
ordered a freeze on the defendants
assets to ensure restitution funds are
available in the event the FTC wins its
case according to the FTC's complaint
the company had made nearly 2.5 million
dollars since 2012 by cold calling
targets and selling bogus warranty and
software programs at a cost of 149 to
249 dollars though some targets were
charged up to six hundred dollars
Jessica rich director of the FTC's
Bureau of Consumer production said in a
statement that the company targeted
seniors and other vulnerable populations
preying on their lack of computer
knowledge to sell security software and
programs that no had no value at all
despicable
unbelievable okay aighty it's changing
organizations across the globe impacting
enterprises government and wider
public's and the wider public sector
open source in particular is a driver
and innovation giving organizations a
competitive edge and an ability to scale
and adapt to changing market demands
according to the 2014 Linux job report
demand for Linux expertise continues to
grow with hiring managers across a
number of industries citing Linux
talents as one of the top recruitment
priorities this year unsurprisingly with
more government IT transformation
projects underway in asia-pacific the
need to reinvest in government employees
skills is also on the rise this may be
due to legacy systems often built on
proprietary platforms and supported by
IT teams with skill sets limited by the
technologies they had to maintain the
demand for Linux expertise is so high
that salaries are being driven above
industry norms in turn causing these
Linux professionals to identify Linux
knowledge as a career advancing tool
president of technology for professional
website dice shravan goalie explained
that enterprises are increasingly
describing Linux as core to the business
he said hiring managers are turning up
the dial on incentives offered to
technology talent with Linux skills
these are professional these
professionals are working on projects
tightly aligned with a future vision of
what Enterprise looks like what great
news
in a move that caught many publishers
off guard Google blacklisted bit ly
several days ago we started seeing
spotting reports of delicious being
blacklisted over the weekend and it has
now gone full-blown with all delicious
links apparently being blacklisted by
chrome as hosting malware delicious has
changed hands several times over the
years and recently was resold earlier
this year to science inc the site gets
more traffic than bit ly according to
alexa so the impact of this may be wider
than bit lies blacklisting over the
weekend bit ly has been removed from
google safebrowsing lists which is the
list that google maintains of known
malicious websites that engage in
malware distribution and fishing
according to google safebrowsing page on
delicious of the three hundred and
seventy pages google tested 69 pages
resulted in malicious software being
downloaded and installed without user
consent it goes to say that over the
90-day testing period the top-level
domain ishes appeared to function as an
intermediary for the infection of bit ly
which suggests that the blacklisting of
delicious is related to that of the dot
lie if you have a website that links to
these services it's important to
understand it even if you disagree with
google's assessment of delicious if the
site remains blacklisted linking to it
may in fact harm your search ranking for
all your tech news are the slight linux
bias because the category 5 TV news room
at you
room category 5 TV to the category 5 got
TV news room I sapta creative
