welcome to category 5 technology TV
episode number 409 Tuesday the 21st of
July 2015 so great to see you welcome
everybody nice to have you here I'm
Kelsey I'm Robbie tonight we have got an
unboxing for you we're looking at the
James donkey double-oh-seven you've seen
it on the show before but it's finally a
real thing not just photos and digital
renders we've got an actual James donkey
double-oh-seven gaming mouse this is the
modular gaming mouse you want stick
around this is some high tech stuff whoo
over to the newsroom Sasha how are you I
am great here's what's coming up in the
category 5 TV news room it is now
illegal in the UK again to copy cds or
dvds you've bought to put into your mp3
player your computer or other devices
it's being called the tech divorce of
the decade paypal has parted ways from
ebay to hackers have been awarded free
flights after discovering and reporting
a security issue with united airlines
website IBM plans to take on the linux
server market with IBM power systems and
several large retailers have shut down
their online photo printing websites
following a possible data breach at a
third party photo service stick around
the full details are coming up later in
the show this is category 5 technology
TV
starring Sasha dramatis
Hillary rumble
christo wells
air kid
and your host Ravi Ferguson
this is category 5 technology TV on your
host Robbie Ferguson and have your
co-host cosa Jessup nice okay well we
got this far and we've got an exciting
show in store for you tonight also we've
got a ton of viewer questions I suppose
it'll become the mailbag very many and
if we've you know helped you out in any
way over any episode just maybe consider
dropping a little donation to the tip
jar we would really appreciate that and
thanks to those who have thus far I'm
really excited about patreon page crowns
a really cool platform we're a little
late to the patreon game I recognize
that and I think that it's it's a bit of
a slow process to get that snowball
rolling but those of you who are right
there out the gate supporting us with
patreon we really greatly appreciate
that if you haven't already checked it
out go to patreon.com/scishow yes please
do that and of course category 5 is a
member of the tech podcast network if
it's tech it's here cat5 TV / tpn and
the international association of
internet broadcasters cat5 TV / IA I be
doing our best to keep up with the chat
room tonight nice to see so many
friendly faces lots of people lots of
people from all over the world I see
whiskey 0 there as well as Taylor Korres
cations and torques and there is too
many of you to make mention of everybody
what we got Dennis Kelly joining us
tonight Dave may do congratulations my
friend DJ quad and we've got gwg joining
us and Leland back for another round of
category 5 yes we got cool dude you're
pretty cool dude JW MP I see you there
and a life of pi of course always a
pleasure nua join us in the chat room
joe/rob Shan sparkly balls I know that I
can't I can't go through them all folks
but welcome and if you are not already
in the chat room get on over to category
5 on freenode and that's one way that
you can enter
act with us live I was saying to Sasha
before the show how cool is it that we
can interact with you in real time live
some of you are watching this on youtube
some of you were watching this on demand
or on your Roku after the fact but truly
being able to communicate in real time
with people that are broadcasting from
Barrie Ontario to the world it's really
fun a cool thing yeah really exciting
speaking of exciting we've got an
exciting unboxing for you tonight can we
get some unboxing music please okay the
James donkey double-oh-seven has arrived
in shrink pretty good soup office you
know what we do with boxes around here
we open them yeah that's how the
internet works right okay so let's see
here nothing daddy got a nice little
holders I think there's samandar a nerd
well these are these are made by a small
group of folks James donkey there they
are and they are just passionate gamers
passionate about creating hardware that
allows you to play the game in in a fun
way and they really focus on just
literally having fun I like that I mean
so many companies get so caught up in
just trying to yeah create the next best
thing they've done it but they've done
it in such a way that they're just
they're gamers just wanting to create
something that's the best that it can
possibly be so we're ready for this yes
let's do it let's do it this is the
James donkey double-oh-seven you
remember oh okay well that was
anticlimactic climatic climatic whatever
you call it all right well it's piece of
paper oh yeah no okay well we've got
that and that we took a look at this
Sasha actually brought up the double oh
seven on her show the category five dot
TV news room I'm working at it episode
number 393 if you didn't see it you're
ready for it oh there is an exceptional
piece of equipment right there the James
donkey double-oh-seven is a modular
mouse so
that means that you can actually create
up to 54 different configurations to
suit whatever kind of gameplay that
you're doing well that's impressive yeah
cool so we're gonna put together sleep
back here you wanna put it together yeah
there it is that's what it looks like
folks one of the first 500 ever created
all right that's so fancy yeah okay so
how do we do this okay I get it out like
that okay there's really other than that
sheets there's not a lot of a lot to it
you see that the back here it's got a
nice little stand and you're dropping if
it does not magnetically hold the things
in however I suppose maybe a design flaw
on the packaging it could just keep it
level if I wasn't holding it up so
ridiculously ya rabi why'd you do that
for me I don't know okay here you help
me get this stuff I've got a single
piece of tape back here take all that it
well no it has to go through the thing
yeah I well I know but let's let's look
at this as we go okay Adam can we can we
get in nice and tight on that that is
nice this is a good quality well don't
freak out well I'm saying you can I
don't know if you can see the the detail
of that at home but that's a fully woman
outer casing on the cord and it's tight
like it you can feel that you see laying
about it it's much better quality than
yes it's one Mouse fairly fancy whoo
I'll be a little excited so if you
haven't seen it yet go over to cat five
dot TV / double-oh-seven that's 007 and
you folks were a big part of making this
possible because sasha brought this up
on our show the category 5 TV news room
and it was thanks to contributions from
people like yourself that were able to
make the plausible fundraiser take place
they were hoping to raise about eight
thousand dollars to make this thing
happen and actually more than doubled
that so pretty more than enough to get
it on the market you'll see here there's
a actually an indicator and I'm going to
we're going to get Adam to plug this in
for us so that we can actually get a
good look at it lit up but the DPI is
adjustable and you can adjust the DPI
all the way up to eighty four hundred
per inch know what does that matter what
does that mean well it's the resolution
of the mouse so it's an act it's
actually a laser mouse very precise very
high quality so if you're doing gaming
for example you can get really really
fast movement because even the slightest
little movement can be a whole spin for
graphic design for example you want
something that can be very very precise
and adjustable so that you can get in
really really close and edit around the
sides of images and things like that so
it actually lets you do that as well
it's adjustable up to 80 400 dpi and I'm
assuming that's really good it's very
good yeah where do we start okay so this
is our left wing here so with the
packaging it's all laid out left wing is
our thumb this is a right-handed only
Mouse at this point no word yet if so I
learned to be a left-handed version out
yeah as it is it's a right-handed mouse
so left wing is basically where your
thumb is going to go and you'll see that
each of the wings actually has a
different configuration not only as far
as the look and the shape goes for
comfort but it also has different button
options so this one for example has a
nice little button right on my thumb
whereas this one here has a button that
I guess I would push with kind of the
ball of my thumb which would be good for
maybe a flight sim or something like
that so so let's start with that with
this guy here and if you've got you know
everybody's got different shape and
sized hands and so this really makes it
kind of customizable and modifiable so
check this out well feel that that's not
coming out anytime soon not that not a
lot of effort to put it together right
no fairly light at this moment to
actually think that this one was more
the ball of your thumb yeah yeah it's
kind of like the inner part of you yeah
that way it's a right wing again really
makes it adjustable we've got a hook
attachment so that we can you know great
for you know what that's good for let's
stick it on there and see if you can
guess
you're playing games are doing graphic
editing and what's one of the things
that you quite often have to do when you
hit the edge of your mouse pad or your
surface oh you have to bring it back ya
gotta back it back and so you lift up
your mouse right yes so you get this
hook feature how hard how much easier
does that make it ya see that so this is
just one of the accessories that's
interchangeable so you just pull it
right off and it snaps on with magnets
high-powered magnets and that's pretty
he's gonna hold your mouse just with
your your pinky so that's cool and then
of course we all have different sized
hands and how we're going to hold the
mouse is going to vary based on how big
our hands are so we've got the different
sized palms as well so these I don't
think any of those have buttons they're
just literally just for different sized
hands yeah makes it a little bit more
comfortable and you can see that they
just everything just snaps in it doesn't
even snap it just it pulls itself in
just like that cool cool could we could
we plug this in Adam and see see what it
looks like lit up up yours it is he
works his way over we go I think that
I'll reach hopefully thanks man oh the
moment of truth oh did not yes oh yeah
okay so we've got some LEDs around the
the base here this is our unboxing so
this is happening in real life I've
never I've never seen it so put some
LEDs around the bottom and we've got the
indicator here that shows hall if you
can see that
can we see in here you guys make that
out at home what's it doing it's kind of
doing this sci-tech waving back and
forth waiting for me to set my DPI let's
see did you I think it happened once or
twice there that you could see it at
home suppose we should probably like
look at the instructions at this point
yes oh I'm moving that around Robby's
having fun that looks nice okay so let's
take a quick boot here just ok DPI is in
the middle here so we've got two buttons
here let me see it oh yeah here we go so
adjusting our DPI you guys see the funky
LED effects that are going on here oh
yeah I see it there we go we just got to
get the right angle because it's just
the way the cameras work look at that so
i'm at about half the resolution of the
mouse and that feels pretty speedy very
very nice you can feel that too just
don't click anything because we're on
the lives you plugged into the live
servers that all of a sudden read feels
pretty good and yeah it's not too bad
got a little bass here I don't know what
this one does does it say on the
instructions um or is it just for
setting it down and now there's more to
it than that so basically I mean it is
it's fully modular you've got the
ability to change the design and the
usability of the mouse itself I think
you could chair we go autumn of it
change the bottom shape oh yeah oh look
at that there we got ones like a more of
a metallic metallic surface so good for
now this is a laser mouse so it's not
like your typical optical mouse that is
going to have trouble on certain
surfaces this is going to work
absolutely beautifully pretty much any
surface you can put it on it doesn't
have a light shooting at the bottom like
an optical mouse and you can see here's
what we just changed I don't know if you
could see but it's completely
customizable
it is programmable as well so there are
four different programs that you can set
up in the mouse itself so if you want to
set up different profiles for different
games different programs that you're
using you can actually do that in the
James donkey double-oh-seven as well
check out that particular product go to
cap five dot TV / double-oh-seven to
learn more about it what else can we
tell you about the double oh seven it
let's get into some tech technobabble
stuff it's it's really high-end
spectacular top-of-the-line features
it's got a nice chipset it's got the a
vago a 9800 chip that's the step up from
the now you remember the older chips
they had some problems with some of the
resolution this is the fixed chip so
this is the good one it's got imran 20
million sensitivity switches so the
buttons are you've got nice sensitivity
on those we've got up to 30 g
acceleration is that so if you're
playing games and you crank up the DPI
you're going to get a really nice
acceleration on that Mouse perfect for
gaming perfect for graphic design
caching you've got a question I well I
have just a comment to make got this
awesome mouse okay so you might be a
gamer and you'd want this you might be a
graphic designer and want this no might
be come on okay but you could also work
at your computer every day all day and
want a super cool mouse right like
sometimes if i'm doing a mundane job i
want something absolutely fabulous to
get me through that is a stellar piece
of art if you put that on your desk yeah
if you're using microsoft word and this
is your mouse though that would probably
be it does make me think Sasha I I get
clickers cramp i call it quite a bit and
I wonder if just the interchangeability
of parts being able to go like this and
say okay you know what that one's
hurting me right now because I'm not the
computer all the time and being able to
swap it out for another piece oh did you
hear that no did it make a cool
does it vibrate it vibrated it has
vibration features did you see that
anywhere on it a feature that we didn't
even know about look at that that's
sister that's pretty awesome for gaming
so vibration feedback as you get your
head shots nomas is that okay what else
have we got um I mentioned the the
programmability of it it's got six
different modes as well you can see the
just the the build quality is actually
really really good these components
appear to be a good solid plastic yeah
they're not they don't seem flimsy in
any sensor they're not metal they look
metallic yes they are nodding is just a
paint though yeah but they look feel
great it's a nice shiny glossy it's
finish the pieces are replaceable of
course so something gets broken easy to
get that replaced and because there's
three other ones typically well that's
the thing too and if we can see here
well if you can get in there each of
these parts has not just the magnetic
component but also the digital component
to tell the mouse what features you're
going to be utilizing so you see these
pins here are actually probably what's
telling it to hey this one's got a
vibration system built into it so when I
put that on there there we go it's just
vibrated in my hand so clue any of these
have this one also has a digital
interface see what that one does if if
it does anything that I can tell you
right away doesn't do anything that I
can feel it show what the different
butts do well I don't know about the bus
but it's going to be experimental to
learn all the different features of it
how cool is that yeah Ruby okay well
there it is it's the James donkey
double-oh-seven up to 54 different
configurations I think you're honestly
going to have a lot of fun just messing
with it and clicking in different parts
and how it works and
and it feels like a really good quality
mouse as well like I say the guys at
James donkey everybody over James donkey
have worked really hard to bring this to
us so that you know you've got a mouse
that is smoking that's I just love being
able to change the DPI on the fly I know
you guys can't see on the screen but I'm
changing how quickly my cursor moves
with just a little bit of a movement I
think that will also from an ergonomic
standpoint being able to increase your
dpi so that just a little nudge will
make it so that it moves halfway across
your screen I'm gonna make a big
difference this will make it on too many
many Christmas lists absolutely lots of
wish we're playing already i'm sure i've
already has it on his yeah i hope you've
got it on yours cat five dot TV / 007 it
doesn't go in down no it's got a well
it's kind of thing cuz on the front yeah
it's got like a more of it oh yeah
different shades that at this one yeah
okay so you're clicking on stuff what
did you click on oh no we're
broadcasting something else oh I think
we're good closes the broadcast sorry
for the premature end of the show well
there you have it as I mentioned the URL
cat5 TV / double-oh-seven 007 and we are
going to modify that link as this mouse
becomes publicly available so right now
this is a kind of a pre-release so that
we could show it to you and oh seriously
seriously you're making me nervous bunch
of stuff just happened on the computer
like a great idea what made them these
buttons no okay Oh carefully when this
comes out to the public market we're
going to make sure that that link cat5
TV / double-oh-seven is going to take
you somewhere that you can actually pick
up one of those James donkey
double-oh-seven that is sweet this sweet
i'm honestly I was terrified I was gonna
break something just then not break that
but clicking on the wrong thing
or even that like have a I don't really
have anywhere else to plug it into we
could plug it into your laptop you can
use it for the rest of the show you want
to do that sure Allen shall we it's
gonna zoom out first dad doesn't let the
back to the nice music there we go
thanks man now if she breaks anything
its are we completed just raining the
side Oh inside out oh ok I will you can
move mountainous I'd maybe I'll have my
revenge and i'll lick it a few times
well well don't do that what alright
we're back yeah feels good I yeah all
right mmm we've got lots of viewer
questions too nice so let's get right
into it okay so first really into like a
little thing about patreon I know we
talked about them a little but yeah um
so this is from whiskey zero he says
thanks with patreon shout out last night
was surprised to hear my real name
instead of my neck that's ok no problem
just surprised we watching the patreon
sign ups and sad to see so few patreon
so patrons so far sure hope you get a
whole bunch more I thought the bonus
viewer points was a good incentive great
idea I recently added a server on my
home I'll land-based freebsd for a pot
chez i think so i pronounce it might
imagine apache ftp and MTP services
where's great rock solid stable and
wasn't too hard of learning of a
learning curve for to make the install
BSC is it a whole lot different from
linux good exercise for my senior
citizen brain I'm sure not that old I
have you heard of a program discussion
about system ports and how to test to
see if any internet-facing ports are
open to the world could be an
interesting security top hmm yeah
definitely uh as well first of all yeah
cool to play around with different
flavors of you know unix derivs VST
being an alternative to linux linux
being an alternative to everything else
kind of
yeah yeah lots of fun Apache just to
bring that up apache is a web server
software so that you can have websites
hosted on your your own personal server
so that's what a lot of the internet is
based on is running on so when you go to
a website you're quite likely looking at
something that's hosted on an Apache
server as far as ports go whiskey 0 on
linux on freebsd it's it's not really
any different until you open up a port
it's really not vulnerable Linux has a
different approach than some other
operating systems that shall remain
nameless in that until you install
software that opens a port it's just the
the port doesn't exist kind of idea so
if I for example I'm worried about port
21 ftp well if I don't have an ftp
server service running on my server port
21 is not there it's not receiving
connections is not replying to those
connections similarly your Apache for
example port 80 port 443 if you're using
SSL those ports are not open until you
configure a virtual host on those ports
so it's kind of cool that way that said
there are times when it's very necessary
to have ports open and also protect
yourself against hack attacks and things
like that brute force attacks and and
stuff because there's a fly fly in the
studio everybody we have the windows the
doors open earlier so so there's a
program called CSF / lfd CSF / lfd it's
something that I would definitely
recommend that you get a look at let's
just get into their website so that I
can bring it up for you duh dang how's
your new mouse it's nice yeah it's fancy
I like that you can change the size of
it by changing parts I used to have this
mouse the thermaltake mouse on the
co-host computer yeah and people had
trouble with it because I guess I've got
bigger hands and yes people that one's
more adjustable yeah so how cool okay
config server dot
calm / CP / CS f dot HTML or just go to
config server calm and you'll find it
this is a program that you can install
on your server and it's basically a
firewall on stairwell on steroids I'll
say it's the dream firewall because what
happens is that it monitors all traffic
that's going through your computer on
all ports that you configure it to
monitor so port 21 port 80 port 443
whatever it is and as things happen you
can control through scripts what happens
if people hit those ports if it's a
legitimate port port 80 is Apache for
standard web hosting for example and
somebody's whacking away at it and
you've got a whole bunch of 404 errors
you might say well maybe I messed up in
my code but seriously oh good at least
it's over to you now is this good luck
Adams not even looking it was on my nose
where was I that was distracted as i hit
my keyboard and shut everything else
down he likes me anyways it could have
been worse oh we hit it did you yeah oh
great we're gonna never see the end of
this memories of Obama with CSF lfd you
can say okay if somebody's lacking way
to port with a port scan if people are
finding I was going to use the 404 error
that's a good example of somebody who's
trying to find scripts on your website
say FS fck editor and trying to brute
for trying to find ways to to exploit
your server so 404s or one way that you
can detect those kind of attacks port
scans brute force attacks DDoS attacks
it can intercept those stop them and
then it will monitor and say okay this
person is still lacking away at that
port and it will actually block their IP
address completely so hey if you
offended CSF lfd all of a sudden you can
no longer access
port 80 port 443 port 21 doesn't matter
you have no access left so it's a great
tool for your server learning curve
isn't so bad I don't think from a to get
started you install it it's got some
defaults already pre-configured look
into your ear / ET c / CSF folder and
you'll see the CSF comp file and you'll
be able to configure the script and it's
all well commented beyond that
cloudflare is a cool product cloudflare
offers a free version of their service
at CloudFlare calm and what it does is
it works on the DNS level so it doesn't
if you're giving out your IP address it
doesn't block anything from that but if
you've got a dot-com for example that
routes to apache on your server it will
intercept that comm traffic and it will
cross-reference it cross-check it
against blacklist and it will say hey
this guy is known for spamming so if
you've got to configure to block
spammers it will stop them in their
tracks if they are known to be a hacker
or a brute force attack or DDoS attack
you will stop them dead in their tracks
at the DNS level so it never actually
hits your server it doesn't get there so
that's another cool way to be able to
stop abuse on your server as well yeah
that's pretty good I think before we get
into more questions Sasha term anus is
over there in the newsroom I oh you got
I do I just have one little quick
comment about the mouse because Leyland
had said a while back he had sent in a
news story about the vibrating pen for
Parkinson's users yes so if there is a
Parkinson's feedback sort of ability in
that mouse if they can modify it in a
way it really would open up
functionality or Parkinson's users as
well which is awesome wonder how that
could work because the pen does the pen
not vibrate in order to counteract like
in a counter active movement
yeah the vibration of the person's hand
right so if you were to change the
sensitivity of the mouse because you can
yeah right and then maybe had a fight I
don't know how it works as far as
Parkinson's patients go but I would
think that that would require an
accelerometer as well because it would
have to sense your movement but a mouse
doesn't have an accelerometer but it
does have the laser optics we could
dress often said that that that thing
into that idea into James doll can say
hey what they say you could add this to
one of your mouse I think of ice things
I think the idea behind the vibration
feedback is when you're gaming and stuff
like that and something hits yet or you
know you're doing something in a game
then you get that responsive kind of
tactile feel whether or not it could be
used to assist making it easier for
Parkinson's users that would remain to
be seen good thought though interesting
you ready for it Sasha I'm ready all
right all right it's tuesday july 21st
2015 and here are the stories were
covering this week it is once again
illegal to make personal copies of music
or movies in the UK paypal shares rise
following their split from ebay US
airline airline United has rewarded to
hackers who spotted security holes in
its website with a million free flight
miles each I BM is going after the linux
server market in full force and due to a
data breach walmart costco sam's club
and more have taken their online photo
printing sites offline these stories are
coming right up don't go anywhere you've
got mad skills now hone them learn new
skills or improve your existing ones
with online video tutorials and training
from Linda calm through our special link
at cat five dot TV / Linda learn
software technology creative and
business skills you can use today to
help you achieve your professional goals
join today and start learning will give
you this chance to try it absolutely
free with unlimited access to all of the
courses sign up now for free cat5 TV
/ Linda I'm Sasha der Madison here the
top stories from the category 5 TV news
room it's now illegal in the UK again to
buy or to copy cds or dvds that you've
bought to put onto your mp3 player your
computer or other devices the government
had introduced the new law in october
last year meeting it was legal to
transfer your music on to your home
library but that law has been overturned
in the high court it's after a legal
challenge from baska the Musicians Union
and industry representatives UK music
it's unclear how the change will be
enforced court action was rare under the
previous law and the industry often
turned a blind eye to people copying
data for personal use the new ruling
which overturns the copyright and writes
performance law which permitted personal
copies for private use effects CDs mp3s
DVDs blu-ray and ebooks it means
consumers can't technically copy a CD
that they own and use one version in
their car and the other in their home
the law brought in the law brought in
October made it legal to make backups
for personal use but it also remains an
offence to share those copies with
friends and family or to sell that music
or data the change in the law also had
implications for teachers who use
copyright materials on interactive
whiteboards and writers who quote from
sort other sources so that means if you
were really if you wanted a CD for your
home you couldn't put it on it your
phone even or your mp3 player bring it
into your car and listen to it on your
stereo there that's not you would have
to buy it twice the same elbow that's
not but thighs iTunes it has a feature
thankies iTunes us for Apple users
Kelsey no offense some of us have I
don't have an iDevice to the data side
non-proprietary being able to buy a CD
okay here's an example for my birthday I
got because it was my birthday by the
way and there's still time to send
things
I got a magic CD from from Becca because
I wanted it because I've heard them on
the radio and I like them and so I'm
still old-fashioned that way I like to
get a CD what's the first thing I do
because I don't have a CD player put it
on your phone put on my mp3 player I'm
old-school that way too yeah i don't i
don't have itunes and all that fancy
fandangled stuff because i like to have
control over my library so it goes into
an mp3 file on my mp3 player and I can
push play when I want where I want okay
what doesn't matter what the people who
use itunes you will know that there's
there's a feature where you plug it we
put in your CD into your computer I am
oh are you putting your CD too that's
illegal computer in the UK but they have
a feature that's that says like you do
this teachers apples selling says that
hey our mat imax have cd-rw so that you
can drive so that you can actually burn
your own copies now you're not allowed I
excited I find it interesting that they
would make this an illegal act with no
way to properly enforce it because
truthfully if I buy something and I put
it on to my phone or my mp3 player how
are they going to track that unless they
pull me over check and then asked to see
licensing certificates it's ludicrous it
there's no way to to like what do you
think I think I should have the right if
I buy a CD or get a CD for my birthday
then I should be able to put it on any
of my devices and listen to it for
personal use that makes sense to me yeah
that really makes sense because I own it
and I should be able to show that you
know if somebody ever gives me a hard
time over I have the CD at home it's on
my mp3 player here's the CD people be
crazy yeah paypal holding shares have
jumped as much as eleven percent in
their highly anticipated return to the
Nasdaq after more than a decade owned by
ebay valuing the digital payment
processor at about fifty two billion
dollars
paypal is a giant in the market it
helped create it processed four billion
payments totaling about 235 billion
dollars in 2014 but the online payments
landscape has changed drastically since
the company was snapped up snapped up by
ebay in 2002 freed from ebay last week
paypal is now expected to partner with
other ecommerce sites and try to seize
market shares from startups such as
stripe square and apple which unveiled
at the own mobile payment service last
year for eBay the separation allows the
company to focus on its struggling
ecommerce marketplace paypal shares
soared to $42 and 55 cents in early
trading ebay stocks fell as much as
four-point-seven percent valuing the
company at about 32 billion dollars so
in the split really paypal comes up on
top but ebay is still worth 32 billion
dollars so in the divorce i would say
it's pretty it's pretty fair i like to
see i would like to see where paypal
goes with this yeah great ones going
this way the other ones going this way
which one will it be truth be told I've
always been an Amazon fan rather than an
ebay fan I've never actually shopped on
ebay and I is true and yet I find it
annoying that I can I pay with paypal
and you on Amazon yeah yeah I use my
amazon I do use my paypal mastercard me
but does it have actual paypal
processing I would assume so it will now
it can it carry it's free to see other
websites now competitive yeah I like it
congratulations US airline United
operates a bug bounty scheme that
rewards hackers for privately disclosing
security flaws rather than sharing them
online it has given the maximum reward
of a million flight miles worth to over
thousands of trips to two people wow
those lucky two people one security
expert said the scheme was a big step
forward for online security security
consultant dr. Jessica Barker said
schemes like this reward ha
gers for finding and disclosing problems
in the right way that makes the Internet
safer for all of us bug bounties are
common in tech companies is they tend to
understand online security a bit more
but other industries are catching up
that's a really good industry the
airline industry for catching up like
this because we've had previous stories
where there have been security flaws I
think it's really smart what they're
doing because firstly they get to find
out their own security flaws sure like
and secondly they're gonna get for free
willed not really for free air miles get
a degree and you're giving it was like
well poop starting good hacker has
gotten a bad name for itself Yeah right
hacker as a term or a label has gotten a
bad name but there's ethical hacking
where you're you're doing just that
you're finding flaws and systems and
reporting them mm-hmm and so to get a
reward for that I think is yeah I do
actually picture hackers wearing white
hats when they're doing things like that
you think so yeah well there's the white
hat hackers there's a good guy yeah oh
is that your the good happen picturing
this as a cartoon so now there are some
critics some critics of bug bounties say
that they can discourage companies from
hiring professional security staff
because it's cheaper to offer hackers
cash for disclosing bugs yeah that's
true too but I still like the bug bounty
if I could find a bug in a system and
get a reward for it it's a win-win all
around although it is it a bit of a
catch-22 situation if that point is true
if I as a as a company develop a website
for example and something in my code is
exploitable and I'm relying on people
from the outside to find those exploits
and report them isn't it possible then
that I could be releasing code releasing
a website for example that is
exploitable from a different angle that
those people may not find because it's
there seen the public facing side well
then a virus gets in and does something
else
I remember there was a news story we did
a little while ago where there I think
it was YouTube had a flaw was it YouTube
where you could put it up yeah hoe and
del video I believe every video on
YouTube starting with justin bieber and
they pretty just pretty much just shook
his hand and said hey thanks dude they
didn't give him a millionaire mile I
think it was a pathetic amount of
cashola like it was like they gave him
like a hundred like a thousand bucks or
something like that or some crazy low
amount for what he had discovered and
disclosed responsibly right should have
been he should have been set for life
yes as I'm concerned about giving him a
job Oh surely at least the minimum yeah
mmhmm yeah I like it I like the way it
goes bug bounties are the bomb iBM is in
the midst of a major transformation in
its systems business as it moves away
from x86 part of that transformation
involves refocusing the company's Linux
strategy to be centered on IBM's power
systems an effort that Doug Balague
general manager of IBM power systems is
helping to lead blog said the power is
still aiming to grab share from Intel
itanium-based and Oracle spark based
systems but that it's that's but that's
not where the largest opportunity
currently exists in a recent interview
he said the real focus is the roughly 20
billion dollar linux server server
market which is where we're focused for
growth volokh said that the conversation
IBM is having with organizations is
about finding the data workloads that
today are having challenges with
ingesting information or business
insights with analytics IBM is also very
focused on making sure that power is the
best place to run linux actively putting
code into the upstream to make sure it's
optimized on the power platform there
you go a little piece of linux news to
chew on where has IBM bin they're
developing these super duper fast chips
that you mentioned the other week and
now really trying to tackle the Linux
data center that's cool mm-hmm
third-party photo service walmart canada
costco and sam's club are some of the
retailers that use staples owned pni
digital media to run their photo
printing services vancouver-based P&amp;I is
investigating a possible credit card
data security issue staples said in a
statement issued last week a message
posted on Walmart Canada's photo center
website says the photo printing service
has been disabled as a precaution while
the investigation continues the retailer
also suggests that the photo sent your
customers monitor their credit card
transactions closely a message posted on
costco canada suspended photo page says
its customers credit card data is not at
risk because the third party vendor
doesn't process user payments many
details retailers in the states
including CVS health and Rite Aid have
also taken their online photo services
offline in connection with the pni
investigation the security issue at the
third party service isn't affecting each
retailers other websites only the photo
printing ones but again that's a scary
sort of situation i don't know i mean
it's credit card information so it's not
personal images but just a breach like
that is really telling us everything
though are they know okay well if
they're not processing payment
information and it was only credit card
data that was stolen then why does it
matter and why do we shut down our site
there's got to be more here not being
told and just to be clear this is not
just canada we're based in Canada so our
reporting tends to be from Canada but
this is also in the United States as
well that was affected by this what is
it that was really compromised that is
forcing all these big retailers to shut
down the service entirely are the
pictures compromised private photos that
have been sent in for photo finishing
now like that coming up on a soon to
happen I'm sure episode of tribe I it I
will be showing a printer that I mean
really would take this out of the mix
right right if you're using a
third-party photo printing so you're
sending your images out online and
printing them on to pay
I guess picking them up later why not
just print from home right why not save
yourself the trouble yeah but it's so
complicated to do that Sasha yeah and
the cost is astronomical yeah yeah she
said that subscribe to try it by it try
it by it dot TV that's right yeah a big
thanks this week to write W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us if you found a new story
you'd like to send email to newsroom at
category 5 TV for all your tech news
with a slight linux bias visit the
category 5 TV news room at newsroom
category 5 TV for the category 5 TV news
room I'm Sasha dramatis Thank You Sasha
this is category 5 technology TV welcome
to the show if you're new here
especially welcome to you yes we do have
a couple of names here people who are
just newly freshly registered on our
website we've got grumpy pc and trojan
spike my three ke I think it's mike mike
scatterbrain sindhura red you got e-2d
and Topher also available in 3d yes
welcome and hey if you'd like to
register on our website it's absolutely
free category five dot TV you'll be able
to participate in some cool stuff it was
mentioned earlier on that one of the
cool things that whiskey zero found on
our patreon profile is that you will win
viewer points for supporting the show
and that's a cool way to be able to work
your way up the ladder as far as our top
ten viewers and be able to get some
extra coupons and some fun things
category five TV you got to be part of
me got to be registered in order to
participate as far as fewer points go
yes well how do you like my shirt it's
very blue very blue very plain have you
ever thought hey if only I had the
ability to put really cool sayings I've
got so many great sangs in my head I
come up with new ones every day and I
think I should have a shirt for them
what do you think of that I would love
to do that well then go to cat five dot
TV / shirt that's all you gotta do OK
and we will get you that shirt printed
for you
you got a great slogan absolutely no
minimum so if you only want to print one
I guess you do I guess that absolute
minimum is one yeah because otherwise
there is a shirt we can't do 0.5 shirts
although tank tops are available but
check it out cat5 TV / shirt if you've
got a cool thing that you want to say on
a shirt you can do one if you've got a
sports team and you want to get shirts
for everybody you can do 20 if you've
got something going on with an
organization that you're working with
print out 20 shirts and take them with
you great way to ya get it cool stuff
great prices really fast shipping free
shipping is available in a lot of cases
why do you support the show you do sport
category 5 TV cat five dot TV / shirt
and get a printed yeah plain and boring
like mine or mine viewer questions let's
jump into it I saw Leland in the chat
room asking some stuff there send me a
PM and I posted that over to Kelsey as
well ah will you take it so we got some
Leland asked when I move your viewer
support vendor purchase links to my
books bookmark store to toolbar sorry
then still give that cat give cat5 TV
the advertising credits for example ebay
amazon and all the other great stores
that i use daily anyway but i don't have
time to go through your site each visit
yeah i hear ya ok that's cool great idea
and i don't i don't mean to take part of
the show and be all about hey contribute
to category 5 because we're not doing a
fundraiser today but this is a question
from leland i appreciate it I do
appreciate that you want to support the
show in this really kind of funky way by
buying stuff its stores that you're
going to buy for them anyway we talked
about Amazon and how many times did we
buy something on amazon you might as
well throw a percentage of that sail
toward category 5 doesn't cost you any
more but it helps support the show so
let's jump over to our website category
5 TV go to support us and affiliate
links and yeah buddy here's what you do
okay so we're here in Canada so I can
take amazon.ca and I can drag it up
there now I've got this cool little
amazon.ca link that actually if you
notice it on my mouse over it has our
code see that cat
TV so if I click that it's actually
going to take me to amazon.ca and it's
going to give us the margin if you're in
the UK you can grab the co uk link and
there you go now it's got our it's a
different tag for each region but we're
basically everywhere so ebay amazon all
over the world we've also got some other
ones like B&amp;H photo video tube tape
we've got Roku devices probably not
something you dragged onto there but hey
amazon great suggestion there you go
amazon ebay and now having dragged those
there when you click on it it's going to
actually give us that support nice and
easy how cool is that thank you for the
suggestion Leland that's a that's a
great idea yeah cheers um the next one
comes from voodoo Sandman yeah you
voodoo Sandman he asks whatever became
of the forum what ever became of the
forum oh that was it yeah okay well we
used to have a form a community forum
and it it was closed down with one of
our website updates a long time ago
because it's just so much to maintain
and we have to always have people
watching it and moderating it and we
loved having that community aspect but
now we focus specifically on the chat
room we've got facebook as well if you
want to go to cat five dot TV / facebook
you can get in there and it's a way that
you can communicate back and forth with
the the team here at category 5 we're on
Google+ cat five dot TV / g plus all
these links are on our website and
Twitter same thing I mean twitter.com /
category 5 TV fact is when we started up
there were none of these services they
didn't exist right nowadays it's more
social to be social and to participate
in services that are already out there
and available for us it's so much better
to be able to follow us on Twitter for
example and get the show update hey
we're going live in 10 minutes hope you
can join us here's what the show is
going to be about then to have to log
into a forum that is specific to us it's
like branching out and becoming part of
something that's a lot bigger than we
are
so that's why we use social media now
instead of our own personal locked in
kind of forum I love the idea of a forum
it's just not practical for us but but
thank you very much for the question I
hope that is cool with you and they do
they did continue on to say that they
would like to link up with other viewers
that share an interest in our do we know
arduino or do we know yeah Oh microphone
so we're gonna put your is this person
email address in the show notes so that
if you want you can about this everybody
who's interested in Arduino pop us an
email live category 5 TV and just say
hey let's communicate with with voodoo
Sandman and and we'll get you guys in
touch with one another and that way you
know we can still have that community
aspect but get into our chat room budu
Sandman it's open 24 7 it's on our
website category 5 TV you don't have to
install any programs to run it you can
just do it right through our website you
can install a program and just connect
to it on irc.freenode.net its category 5
on freenode and then you can participate
at any time and and people will be there
that want to talk or do we know with you
something thanks so much this next one
comes from Bill triple seven hey Bill
they say I see the point Linux
three-point oh is out and is it as good
as the last version as good as that's a
toughy point linux i love what Peter
does with it and it's a fantastic distro
that's what I'm running on my computer
debian-based it's fantastic yeah point
Linux three though is based on a newer
version of mate or matei and the problem
with the newer version of mate is this
done support comp is so if by better
than you're hoping for comp is what's
comp is what it is compiz lets me do
this Oh comp is lets me do this that's
so fancy it's fancy but it's also
productive and if you're like me who
let's say you run a TV show we're quite
often we have to zoom in
things I use that zoom like crazy so I
can't go with version 3 because i need
that comp is to be able to get that zoom
so that you can see what i'm talking
about when you're looking at it on your
phone yeah so it's a tough call I mean
it's going to be more robust it's going
to have newer packages but it's lacking
compass so if you don't care about
compiz and a lot of people don't I do it
it would be quite good for you I also
you know I look at some of the other
distros that are out there too as far as
the arc branch goes I've really been
enjoying and tear goes it's a neat arc
derivative basically arc with a really
easy installer so if you can think about
arc but easy to install and some added
bonus features and things like that but
it's pretty bleeding edge so you get a
lot of the the latest and greatest stuff
as would be the case with with our
clinics so but yet point Linux still
love what they're doing unfortunately
it's gone of its progressed in a
direction that is not where we had hoped
for it to go in that vein because we're
so reliant on comp is yeah but it's a
dead project comp is is dead and I have
to face that at some point poor Robbi I
know I really like being able to zoom in
on stuff Oh Baby why I like it a lot I
know I like being able to do fancy stuff
I like being able to take my chat window
and drag it to over here it's just
productive now moving along before I
break out and try yeah don't do that Oh
garbe thinks Whelan's gonna be so much
better than comp is well I have yet to
see what's weightless Wayland is like a
different window manager completely
replaces X and everything but I have yet
to see them introduce a zoom feature
that's anywhere comparable doesn't do
the same thing no it does better things
and more modern things and works on
better more modern hardware but it
doesn't do the same stuff so we'll see
where that goes let me know when Whalen
has a zoom
okay and good zoom I want good zoom I
don't want none of this highlight where
my mouse is pointed I want to be able to
zoom in responsively next question for
next question comes from Thor nay o
thorny oh one of those how can I get
category 5 on my new Cody XBMC install I
have most of the other shows I'd like to
watch but yours as I said no my Roku
stopped working and I had had an old pc
here so just started using that to watch
all my shows yes it does have linux
installed nice running linux mint debian
edition okay doing how similar is the
interface on Cody to XBMC all i have is
XBMC can i show you on there because i
think it's probably going to still
operate pretty much the same let's jump
over to XBMC here this is going to
confuse you if you're watching me on
XBMC right now because it's going to be
trippin okay it's actually pretty easy
to do but XBMC or cody never really made
it intuitive that's all so let's take a
look videos files you you would
typically add your files like this right
so you go files and then add videos and
you would browse to a video once you
recognize of course if you go to our
website category 5 TV go to the RSS
feeds you'll see all the links for our
SS feeds but once you realize that RSS
cat5 TV / whatever quality you want stld
or HD or mp3 dot RSS those are our feeds
right so if you want high definition
video it's HD RSS you want low
definition video very very tiny there
pixelated but very fast and low
bandwidth usage LD low def so with that
knowledge in mind when I click to browse
for my file i'm not going to browse for
local file I'm instead going to go RSS
colon slash slash RSS dot cat5 TV what
do we want SD standard definition SD RSS
so that's where you would change this to
LD HD SD ok and it looks exactly like
that then when i hit enter you'll see
that it's automatically detected
category 5 technology TV and I can hit
OK and then when I click on it you see
all the most recent videos so i can
click on that here it goes loan it up
probably milking all our bandwidth for
all it's worth but it does work there
you have it so that's all there is to it
it's just using an RSS feed that's how
you add an RSS feed to and there there
goes there there's two of me um that's
all there is to it adding it to 2x emc
your cody and hopefully i would expect
that one day we'll actually introduced
in XBMC kodi
plug in this one that'd be cool Thanks
the question that's all the time that we
have if you can believe though flies by
it's been fun this is category 5
technology TV once again our website is
triple w category five dot TV thank you
so much for joining us tonight and
a lot of fun weeks ahead for you get on
to our patreon profile you'll see some
of the things that we're trying to
achieve in some of the goals that we
have one of the things you'll be happy
to know we're finally going to get you
in the intro video got contributors who
have supported us enough to make that
happen so that's going to be cool we're
going to revamp our intro also we're
working toward doing more awesome
product reviews these things cost money
and we want to be able to do it for you
so keep those patreon contributions
coming we're going to make sure that we
review some really cool stuff will to
take your suggestions and if we can
we're going to do some amazing reviews
for you over the next little while so
thanks everybody for your support have a
wonderful week and I hope you enjoyed
the show see you next Tuesday bye we
hope you enjoyed the show category 5 TV
broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven p.m.
eastern if you're watching this on
demand or through cable TV check out the
local show times in your area at
category 5 TV and find out when you can
watch live and interact in the community
chat room category 5 is a production of
prodigy digital solutions and is
licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada will see you next
time thanks for tuning in
