welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live and category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Rob a
Ferguson welcome to episode number 213
of category 5 technology TV it's Tuesday
October the 18th 2011 I'm Robbie
Ferguson and I'm Rachel shoe how are you
doing I'm good how are you I'm fantastic
and I thought that she sneezed on me but
no that is her last name how was it
honest bad we all we started with funds
tonight and it's all downhill from here
okay well you've got some stuff coming
up that you want to so let me tell you
what's coming up in the newsroom
researchers have demonstrated of device
which lets electronic equipment receive
power from a living body powered by
glucose and oxygen that should be
interesting and we have HTC lost another
legal battle against apple and the
reinvention of the train may prove too
also reinvent personal travel as we know
it and research in motion of the apps as
for last week's three days service
outage is it still good enough stick
around these stories are coming up in
under 30 minutes awesome just
experiencing some issues there on the
feet I'm just giving everybody a second
just to buffer and is everybody good
fantastic all right gang we've got so
much fun stuff happening tonight it's
nice to have Rachel here for the first
time we had a little couple of hiccups
there off the bat but it looks like
everything's good now i want to you know
get it fixed right off the bat but hey
these things do happen yeah welcome
everybody in the chatroom nice to see
you
and if you're not in the chat room
triple w category five dot TV is the
place to head on over to or if you're on
freenode you can also go to category 5
as the room hey John Dave may do a
gamoto JVS CC and Greg and Texas Smitty
Smith joining us in the chat room so
it's shoo shoo yeah I guess our zoo
whatever is easier to pronounce which
one do we do I either but so it's you
because it's going to be a zoo tonight
should we go with that Oh see there's a
pun there's a pun for both getting worse
it's terrible I'm terrible I'm so sorry
speaking of horrible things to do though
head on over to our website category 5
TV and at you'll see that we have the
about us and the category 5 tvteam
Rachel's bio is there and there there's
some interesting facts about you and and
I guess viewers can post their questions
in the in a chat room category five dot
TV and get their questions in with
regards to rachel and and what it is
that she does but something that that
has stood out to a lot of people was
this whole thing about how you dressed
up as a cow and ended up in the
newspaper um well I'm sorry for all of
you who just heard this story a couple
weeks ago what see wait it's a new
season so no I was singing in a school
play and of all the people they got a
photo of me and put in the paper of me
singing dressed up as a cow I know I
know you think that it's redundant but
in fact we were able to get a hold of
this photograph so I was very pleased to
be able to put this on the air tonight
oh wow you managed to take that up
ditching it was it was tough to track
that down people oh yes I really dug
through the archives Oh Oh dear me oh
now you know where I was going we have
started to receive some postcards in the
mail box which is awesome go to our
website category five dot TV and at the
bottom of the website you will see that
our address is there for our postal box
and we would love to receive your
postcard tonight we have one here from
Lottie it's an elec ET la ET la lah ti
na people can Lottie is it Lottie people
can correct me in the chat room this one
comes to us from it looks like Matty ma
TTI I believe please correct me if I'm
wrong because I want to get you some
viewer points the postcard comes to us
from Finland and says hi Robbie and crew
thanks for putting out a great show
every week category 5 is a fun and easy
way for a non geek to learn Linux best
regards and again I believe it's from
Maddie ma TTI if that's from you and
I've got that wrong just let me know
because i'll throw some viewer points
your way for sure what linux linux yeah
just for that I'm gonna teach you all
about it another postcard came in from
it looks like Shone's in Shem nits I i
have trouble you know pronouncing this
stuff of course well let's see sorry
there it is very cool we love to receive
your postcards and learn where you are
from and watching from this one says hey
Robbie hey cat five gang you want a
snail mail so here it comes with all the
best wishes for the next for the next
year's from andreas alexandrov there it
is and thank you very much for the
postcard andreas as well as Maddie cool
stuff so we're going to put these
together in the studio and we'll have
like a little wall with two postcards to
start but we we would love to receive
your postcards we're going to send 100
viewer points your way
and so there we there we have it cool
nice to receive some postcards and it
seems that everybody well so far I mean
there's two but kind of is seriously all
you've got city this is this is it so
far so I thought I mean it takes this
one was sent on July tenth so it takes
some time to get here you know so you
know what can you do that's the postal
system for it's not email Rachel you'll
have to start sending yourself some old
postcards to fill the hole on Berry Oh
another one from Barry look at that I
will call around to different countries
and actually order postcards to just
print a bunch of photos off of Google
and make them look like postcards there
you go tonight actually we're going to
have an epic battle between free
open-source software and then we're
gonna have a wild battle beyond measure
between Photoshop and the GIMP as Rachel
shows us how to do texturing on
Photoshop and I combat her it's no
battle by doing the same in the GIMP
which is free software just so you know
very cool yeah rachel is going to show
us shot how to do tons of awesome stuff
also we've got tons of your questions
the mobile site is up and is working
live for viewers who are using iPhones
ipod touches it seems to be working for
some users with the ipad both both first
and second gen but definitely the ipod
touches and the iphones are working well
and we're working on developing that
into something that is going to work
with with more platforms as well of
course we want to get it working on
android and and other tablet devices
that are out there blackberry would be
good as well so if you have a QR reader
scan that code there it's going to
launch the category five mobile site and
yeah alright so nice to have you here I
guess we've got viewer questions to jump
into and everything will hit that in in
just a second I think I've got some
tweets as a matter of fact that I've
coming I decided to include a in our
tweets of the week this week if you're
on Twitter it's at Robbie Ferguson to
follow me
or of course at category 5 TV to follow
the show and I this one went out too
it's from me but it went out to very
residents using the berry hashtag and a
little tongue-in-cheek but basically
saying hey Twitter users in berry wise
up quit clicking on phishing scams I've
got so many of these from you and if you
follow that link tdot CEO / capital y
what i'll do i'll copy that and post it
into the show notes for this episode
number 213 basically it's really been
rampant on Twitter the past couple of
weeks and and I'm seeing it huge and
berry and that's why i use the berry
hashtag that this tweet is coming that's
direct message that says well there's
this nasty blog entry about you click
here for information what happens then
is that it brings up what looks exactly
like the twitter login page you wouldn't
be able to tell the difference and in
fact the URL is like twit tiller calm so
it even looks at first glance to look a
lot like twitter and it has the username
and password at the top so people then
login what they don't realize is this is
actually a robot kind of site that grabs
your username and password logs into you
and then mass males all of your users
that that that you follow and that are
following you and the scary thing is is
that it could hijack your account as
well so you want to stay away from that
kind of stuff and that's why I'm saying
hey wise up quit clicking on phishing
scams picture of my son also went out on
Twitter this week working on the green
screen just to say hey what could we be
up to we had a fun time earlier this
week getting him in the green screen
studio lauren elizabeth AKA lauren is a
lefty underscore says girls fall in love
with what they hear boys fall in love
with what they see that's why girls wear
makeup and boys lie a little fact from
lauren this was really cool creative
commons this is at creative commons on
twitter they have over four hundred and
thirty three thousand followers and they
tweeted it Creative Commons licensing
means viewers don't need to worry about
their rights why category-five TV chose
creative commons attribution and they
posted a link that actually leads
directly to our site
and for one day made it very hard to
keep up with Internet traffic very cool
that that they tweeted that on our
behalf and Hillary rumble at Hillary
rumble is working on a fundraiser right
now again I'm going to post these links
for you but there it is Hillary
supporting the Aviva community fund
they're raising some funds for the the
Deaf camp that she works at so I'd
encourage people to check out that link
and again there will be a link to that
in the show notes for episode number 213
if you'd like to get our attention on
Twitter just say at Robbie Ferguson and
that will that will go straight to me or
you can go at category 5 TV and that
will go to to the group of us the show
cool so we have some viewer questions
here and this one is from voodoo Sandman
or Leyland on his question is this
question is for the whole category 5
team do you know why mail and go postal
because they have to deal with the phone
company too sorry I totally ruined it
out okay why do male men go postal I
don't know Rachel why because they have
to deal with the phone company too sorry
there buddy great show you're on at 4pm
here in California I work for a bell
telephone oh I'll watch your program
instead of working due to our delay i
get lots of overtime just kidding nobody
works in a California they garden so
Leland dude I had no idea that you
worked for bail that is awesome most
likely in response to my blog entry with
regards to the service that we received
from bell which I don't want to get into
but let's just say that we were with
them for two weeks and I'm sorry and I
realize now that you are supposed to be
working my friend and everyone else in
your office that is supposed to be
working supposed to be taking those
support calls now I understand yeah no
wonder you there's probably routing to
your office when I was like why are we
getting buffering issues when we're
trying to broadcast category 5 and I
couldn't get through to anybody because
they were too busy watching and going
wire
getting buffering issues was all your
fault now it all makes sense thanks
Leland hey we've got to take a quick
commercial break we will be right back
after this visit our website category
five dot TV they're hitting the road or
the dusty trails liquid image Canada
captures the action with a true point of
view HD video camera directly into a
high quality MX goggle it records every
bit of the excitement exactly how you
see it if my octane isn't your thing
take a relaxing underwater adventure and
capture it forever in high definition
video with a high quality underwater
camera mask from liquid image Canada
perfect for the enthusiast snorkeler or
the deep sea diver check out the entire
line of camera masks for every sport
liquid image canada.com this is category
5 technology TV you'll find us online
triple w category 5 TV nice to have you
here alright so I heard that nerds like
to unboxings nerds true I brought a
little something to unbox oh robin kind
of technology oh and then at 360 oh yes
360 well we don't have one of those
spinny things to put it on and we don't
we don't even have like a close-up how
could we like unboxing video of
doughnuts Tim Hortons is gonna have to
pay him a million bucks now I'm thinking
I now that I they shown their logo on
the show that summit is our free coffee
for a year yeah so do you want to Dion
boxers of the unboxing oh do they
seriously put a spider in it or is this
just like the way that it goes is that
like that's just Canadian donuts stores
you sometimes get a spider that's okay
understand holy cow you got like a
thousand hey donuts here as you can see
spider and Hull Rob's not gonna go
hungry during the show is the best
unboxing video I've ever been a part of
I will let you jump over the viewer
questions I'm sure we've got one yep we
I'm not here for everybody actually if
you come on over mm-hmm this is from um
chai rotman um hi Robbie I was the one
that asked the question right at the end
of the show we stayed up at stayed up
till two and as I recall you so worried
we have no time oh whoa I'm cuz he's
from Israel so I followed this guy to
try gnome 3 but I don't like it and I
want to go to get back to unity
everything I tried got me nowhere so he
has this link here is the lengthening
yeah he's really great to install it
anyway I know like the problem with with
doing unity on or doing gnome 3 on 11
point oh four is that it's ubuntu to
base uh what am I saying gnome to pardon
me i'm still like getting the donut out
of my teeth so it's it's distracting I'm
like I hope they don't nervous but I'm
going like this you better get these
away from me well the problem is is that
it's known to right so if as soon as you
put it on three on it it kind of it kind
of stops working right so how do you
revert back you'd have to go back to
Nome to before you can get unity working
as far as I could you know as far as I
could guess never really a good good
situation to install gnome 3 on ubuntu
11.04 if you think that you're going to
be hoping to revert and in fact you can
have major problems trying to get home
three working on 11 point oh four
anyways just because its dependency on
on number two so I i think if you've got
a good backup honestly the amount of
work that it's going to be to try to get
everything back up and running with
gnome 2 and unity you're probably best
you know all the dependencies all the
stuff that you've already upgraded to
gnome 3 versions this can be really hard
to regress back I would I would honestly
just go with a fresh install probably be
the best way to go and you know it's a
it's a pain to do that but that's part
of experimenting and anytime you're
experimenting like that with following
tutorials to step things up to to
something that's not supported that can
cause problem so I'm sure you understood
that when you were doing it but easy way
out is do a reinstall I think at this
point
so who did that I didn't read the email
did that cover everything um he just
said I'm about to just reinstall Evan
right point 0 far but I'd really like
well there you go yeah that's I know
you'd like to avoid it but you can
understand you've upgraded to gnome 3
and unity on eleven point 0 4 is is
dependent on gnome 2 pretty heavily
right and he says that he tried apt-get
install install unity and I'm missing
the system's menu and the window
controls and Nautilus is all messed up I
guess where it gets confusing is that
people thing well let's unity it's
another desktop environment kind of like
gnome versus xfce or gnome vs kdv right
it's not unity is in fact a compiz
fusion plugin for known on 11 point 0
for its gnome 2 on 11 point 10 it's it's
gnome 3 so in your case I think easy way
out is not the pleasant one but it's you
know you've got a good backup so the
nice thing is is the Linux is really
easy to reinstall I know you wanted to
hear about linux so keep those Linux
questions coming friends I just love
Linux you just have not experienced the
joy of Linux mm-hmm well I guess I can't
say anything I still use windows XP I
think you're gonna have to upgrade
pretty soon or is it windows vista now I
don't know it's not very good either so
oh boy it's like gone get out the show
yeah no way you can you you're dissing
linux and meanwhile you're unhappy with
windows and it's like that's the place
that you want to be when i try linux I
tried linux and windows XP is just this
much better cuz if the Knicks doesn't
want everything I like oh ah yes anyway
we have a question here will teach her
about virtualization yet friends it'll
be Bing and everything alright so we'll
have work sent in a message about
Robbie's opinions on starch
back hmm um just out I have none Star
Trek yes he doesn't like Star Trek at
all hello alright so just I would have
been curious type okay like the
enterprise series I also other than the
original series i'm a big fan of the
show and what about the theme a lot of
Star Trek fans don't like it how about
you me it is one of my favorite songs of
all time one other quick question of the
original series what is your favorite
episode minus city on the edge of
forever quest starring o death starring
Joan Collins I say trouble with tribbles
is the best Star Trek hey you know I'd
have to say that's that was fun but it
was more fun when they recreated it on
enterprise second time around that was
cool they were like gremlins are some no
on enterprise they actually I don't know
how we got on this thank you very much
my friend webworks you're sneaky no on
enterprise they took it and the green
screen and they put themselves however
they did it it was so realistic the
colorization was awesome basically put
the enterprise from the future into that
episode I think it was trouble with
tribbles anyways I wasn't a TOS fan
sorry about that i was at eng fan and an
enterprise surprised me just like ds9
did and even voyager voyager i thought i
would like ds9 and enterprise I thought
it would not like but both of those I
ended up after getting into the
characters ds9 more so enterprise I
found yeah it was pretty it was pretty
good it got cut off too soon though it
ripped us off I think as far as the fans
go but I didn't like the theme because
Star Trek traditionally uses what
orchestral music when all those sudden
this rocker comes in Becca would agree
with me jot guaranteed I also feel a
kinship to John Luke Picard old guy jim
says that deep space nine reprised the
tribbles was a ds9 you may be right I
get them all mixed up because I watched
them all set
for TOS anyways that's that alright so
we have another little spark up
conversations in the chat room anyway
about Star Trek brilliant um gert-jan
Prince um hi guys while watching the
show of the eleventh of October so
Robbie and Eric were the hosts and
therefore the guys the guys um got two
questions regarding jun hwa joomla is
that how you say it joomla you can say
gen la joomla it sounds more Klingon
good luck is the gym our content
management system ok did you uh got my
introduction to your great show and
searching on YouTube for some
introductory videos on the subject ok
for the contacts once had a good looking
website running on php-nuke but because
of wavering interest in public content I
pulled it down years ago looking to get
back into it and since php-nuke seems to
be on his last legs I was looking for a
good replacement and came across joomla
and your video on it I'm having some
troubles regarding the templating stuff
basically my time as always is limited
and therefore browsed around for a good
match to my idea my idea regarding the
colors and layout but there seems to be
something like T 393 and alternate
frameworks try to TC gantry one and
couldn't do it gantry framework for the
for the templating system ok and just
continue reading I'll make sense of it
in a minute for those of you who don't
know what gantry is and like me good
luck no clue ok and one in it I couldn't
be installed because of the master
status since I was messing around in
virtualbox this isn't a problem but on
my server i would like to get it right
without messing up too much and
therefore would love an overview of
templates and specifically focused on
the framework aspect hmm so he has two
questions but that's his first one okay
well basically joomla is a content
management system which witch powers our
website content management system allows
you to easily and quickly deploy
websites modify them at
10 for us the reason we went with a
content management system is so that
because every week I've got to add a lot
of content to the site right I don't
want to have to be maintaining tons and
tons of files so instead it uses a
database uses a weiss a wig editor which
I in fact use in text mode so I'm still
coding HTML anyways but it saves it to a
database so but templates can be tricky
if you are not creating them yourself if
you're using if you're trying to take a
template like gantry gantries a whole
other can of worms and that takes no one
a little bit about someone quite a bit
about CSS and hexadecimal color values
and things like that gantry allows you
to create colorize ations for an
existing template that is powered by the
gantry framework and it allows you to
change color schemes it allows you to
customize it to your own liking and in
that way you're able to customize the
template so it looks like the way that
you want to look but it's still a
template right if you're going to get
into it's hard to say like if you if
you're going to be using a template
that's a stock template it's going to
look like what they created right
there's things like afterburner from
rockettheme that are you know meant to
be zippy you can use the quite often
what you'll do is you'll use bees eeeasy
from the joomla installation and
customize that make it your own add your
own designs and I add your own content
it's really really easy to manipulate
the bees template because it's its
standards it uses flat CSS files and
really really easy to manipulate but i
think the the depth of that exceeds what
i could show you in a video because
that's that then you're getting into you
know that's a whole series on
understanding how CSS interacts with the
files watch our web dev series of cat5
TV / web dev but those templates are
loaded by joomla to make your site you
know basically populates that template
with with the content but customizing it
is you're going to need to go into your
FTP or whatever in the templates folder
go in and edit the files would probably
be the best way to do it if you know
HTML and CSS
but beyond that I think looking at the
joomla forums is a good place to start
I'll post links for you in the show
notes of episode number 213 but
definitely to tap into the resource of
the joomla community because of the fact
that it is it is an open source product
right so that that's part of what makes
it so great if you head over to forum
joomla org you'll see you know there's
there's whole threads about templating
for for joomla so just you know make
sure you post in the right place and
hopefully they'll be able to provide you
with with higher level support than I
could I understand it to work with it
but how we could actually show you that
kind of stuff on the air is next to
impossible I think so mm-hmm well he
does have a second question alright says
perhaps it's more interesting to guys
bilingual on joomla is it possible I'm
Dutch and would like my front end to be
both Dutch and English perhaps even
French in the future I'm guessing this
isn't a problem in itself but how about
articles written in multiple languages
publishing some technical content and
Dutch might see be interesting for a
Dutch only people but with a rewrite to
English it might be of help to more
people around the world okay here's the
thing that you have to ask yourself when
you're going to do a bilingual or
multilingual site there the first thing
that you have to ask and every cut every
customer who says I want to have French
on my website too this is the question
that I asked while there's two questions
first question do you have somebody
who's fluent in that language and can
translate for you and to do they have
the time to take every single article
that you post on your website and turn
it into that language because if I
create a file I'm saying a file to a
page that's called about us and I
created in English but then the person
switches over to Dutch and the content
hasn't been translated is just going to
say this content has not been translated
which is very useless for your users so
if that's you if you're the if you're in
a situation where yeah I'd like to
provide multilingual support but I don't
have time to translate I don't have this
after translate I don't have the ability
to translate every single thing that I
post it's everything if you post a blog
you've got to translate it if you post
any content if you make a change if you
change a phone number you have to
remember to change English French Dutch
right every single instance so it
basically doubles your workload or
triples your workload so there's two
things two options the first option is
to use Google Translate which you can do
on the fly there are modules for joomla
you'll find them in the extensions
directory that will allow you to tap
into google translate with that it will
utilize the google translate engine the
api to convert your english written text
or your dutch written text to any of the
languages that google supports that said
if you do have the resources to to go
about translating the site manually
you'll look at a product called Jim fish
just like it sounds j 00 m fi SH and
again it's in extensions directory which
is extensions dot joomla org extensions
joomla org
okay so from there Here I am at the
joomla extensions directory let's try
google translate just doing a quick
search and I'm sure that will find see
this lots and lots and lots I don't have
one to recommend look at the reviews
okay read the reviews find out which
ones are going to work for you okay not
all of them are accurate results here's
an AJAX google translator here's what I
see ajax google translator means it will
do it on the fly it's for 1.5 joomla and
it's got four and a half out of five
stars so that's the first one i would
click on and i would say okay well that
looks pretty good let's read some of the
reviews find out what it is i also look
if it's commercial or non-commercial
okay this one's free noncommercial so
that might be the one for you okay
similarly if we do a search for june
fish just like that jom fi SH this is
the one that allows you it's a it's a
component okay some of the now see these
are elements for Jim fish but here is
the actual oh now look at this June fish
google translator will do it
automatically too so look through your
going to find all the resources that you
need everything that you need in the
extensions directory at extensions
joomla org use their search use the
menus of the left and i'm sure you'll be
able to find what you're looking for
okay thanks for the question um he's not
done oh my he said also he would like
your insight and views regarding
multiple topics on a single site in
joomla I'm diverse and would like to
write on different subjects but your
insights on how best to split the
subject so the general overview doesn't
suffer would be great alright so you're
looking at content categories you may
consider using something like k2 I won't
get into that but if you want to do
content categories that's going to help
you to organize your site in such a way
that it's perceivable as navigable by
the user you look at our site we have
i've got my blog it's it's separated
from the rest of the content it is
joomla i have the videos the episodes
that is part of joomla their articles in
Joomla it's a category called videos so
by using categories you're able to
organize things and then when you create
your menu think about how you want to
organize those so good luck it's a vast
product you really did you know if you
want to get into advanced joomla work
advanced web sites using a content
management system its vast it's huge as
if you're just starting out you're just
doing an install you might consider
going with a with something higher than
1.5 something like 1.6 or 1.7 look at
their feature sets 1.6 is going to
introduce better user management with a
hierarchal user levels that is very very
handy if you're going to be allowing
people to log in add their own content
but otherwise 1.5 has more support for
components so you'll find things that
are available for 1.5 that are not
available for 1.6 and beyond so alright
that's all the time we have for viewer
questions tonight thank you for your
questions and you can email us live a
category five dot TV if you have a
question for us or join us in the chat
room category five dot TV and I will
allow you to take it away with the news
okay
um plugging gadgets into a socket in the
wall or loading them with batteries or
maybe even unfurling a solar panel is
how most of us think of getting
electricity but what about plugging them
into your body it may sound far-fetched
but under the shadow of the Alps doctor
search Kazmir and his team at the joseph
fourier university of granola granola
grenoble it's another Klingon word crops
have built a device to do just that
their gadget called the bio fuel cell
uses glucose and oxygen concentrations
found in the body to generate
electricity they are the first group in
the world to demonstrate their device
working while implanted in a living
animal if all goes what if all goes to
plan within a decade or two bio fuel
cells may be used to power a range of
medical implants from sensors and drug
delivery devices to entire artificial
organs Wow all you need to do to power
them up is to eat a candy bar and or
drink a cola so maybe you can be their
first test subject rub there we go plug
it into my nose it does not have a
grounding prong but it is it's otherwise
going to power it just fine you hope
that's where it plugs in Taiwanese
smartphone maker HTC has been dealt a
big blow in its legal battle with Apple
involving patent infringement claims the
US International Trade Commission ITC
has ruled that Apple did not violate
paid patents as claimed by HTC in a
complaint lodged last year HTC has asked
the court to ban imports of several
Apple products into the u.s. citing
patent fringe mintz infringement HTC
shared it fell as much as six percent
after the ruling and now we have a
personal car that drives itself
automatically to your destination and
this may sound like science fiction but
new pods at his view Heathrow Airport in
London have achieved just that taking
passengers from car park to terminal
quickly easily and driven entirely on
autonomously the idea of personal Rapid
Transit as it is called is to make
public transport more personal allowing
on-demand journeys at the push of a
button all controlled by computers and
lasers rather than a human
the system has been heralded as a
solution to transport congestion in
years to come this is not the only
futuristic idea for public
transportation that has been developed
one blue sky idea is the arrow train a
plane like vehicle which travels at up
to 350 kilometers an hour or 220 miles
per hour just 10 centimeters above the
ground its speed relies on aerodynamics
similar to those used in a plane or a
hovercraft using here cushion to prevent
it from touching the floor well
currently in prototype developers at the
Tohoku University in Japan have already
demonstrated the idea and hope it can be
in public use by 2010 and what we want
key 2020 yeah well that the one that's
on the screen is actually real and in
use right now and does that not say
total alien or something it says Total
Recall to me like totally takes me back
to to that r emanator steps out yeah and
somebody was asking that chairman jb sec
is wondering if it if it has Star Trek
playing in and I think it would probably
definitely have Star Trek or total
recall on on repeat definitely that just
reminds me of when he took that giant
ball out of his nose the tracking device
just like that ok so we also have here a
faulty switch at a data center left
millions of blackberry users around the
world unable to use messaging and web
browsing services on their handsets
sorry two weeks for those of us who
don't use blackberry we were fine but
instead of offering a price reduction
for the service through the course of
the outage research in motion is
offering its users compensation for a
three-day outage by way of some legacy
games as well as personal productivity
tools and utilities and a statement
announcing the giveaway michael acid
written birthday blah blah chief of
blackberry owner Research In Motion
apologized again for the three day
service stoppage we are grateful to our
loyal blackberry customers for their
patience he said we are taking immediate
and aggressive steps to help prevent
something like this from ever happening
again and the programs which blackberry
claims are worth more than a hundred
dollars will be free until the 34th of
the 31st of December
11 business customers are being offered
a free month of technical support those
who already have a support contract will
be offered a month of blackberrys
enhanced support services so dear me to
get the full stories at category 5 TV /
newsroom the category 5 TV news room is
researched by roy w nash with
contributions by our community of
viewers if you have a new store you
think is worthy of honor mention email
newsroom at category 5 TV for the
category 5 TV news room I'm Rachel shoe
thank you I know it's you know I don't
want to spend too much time when I put
that whole blackberry kerfuffle I mean
now they're saying the new OS is coming
out and that's great and everybody's
looking forward to that it's like trying
to sweep it under the rug but 12 apps so
here you go have a legacy game have the
sims unreal anyways the category 5
technology TV tonight is brought to you
in part by pogoplug you'll find them cap
five dot TV / pogoplug fantastic device
which will extend extend the storage
capacity of your mobile device and give
you streaming services to to that device
very cool stuff cat5 TV / pogoplug and
of course we're also brought to you by
planet calypso you can download the free
online game at triple w cat 5 TV / clip
so this is category 5 technology TV i'm
your host Robbie ferguson and i'm rachel
shoe took her a moment to china it's my
first time sallgood sure every now and
then you are you ready to rumble you
ready now that we have been talking
about Arnold we are going to be like
let's like have an epic battle now
between Photoshop on one side and the
GIMP on the other and again no battle no
seriously I'm gonna bring up again
you're gonna bring up Photoshop we're
gonna do this right mm-hmm well what is
it that you're gonna be showing us
tonight I'm curious rachel is a
fantastic Photoshop artist and an actual
is it acrylic paint uh yeah I paint with
acrylics as well so she does some
fantastic artwork
and we're very privileged to have her
showing us some some tricks of the trade
in Photoshop but i do want to as Arnold
was saying earlier also compare if these
same things that you do in Photoshop
your commercial application are going to
work for somebody like myself who's
using the GIMP GNU image manipulation
program for free mmm-hmm so let's let's
see what what happens here so bring up
the GIMP so please it what's that bring
up the GIMP no I'm going I was saying to
them think you know I'm doing it in
photoshop what are you talking about
don't don't phase me like that okay so
I've got I've got access I believe I
should have access I'm going to need to
just grab your mouse here fine stuff
here we go we're just going to connect
Rachel's computer over to to our
broadcasts over here which with wire
cast from Telestream cat5 TV / Wirecast
is literally that quick it's done so
what is it that you're going to be
showing us today this is this is very
cool I just completed this picture i
called it the no meter speaking of noms
tonight and i'm just going to show you
how to put a texture in a picture it
doesn't have to be a drawing like if
you're not interested in art say you
have a photo and you want to spice it up
or make it look like it's from the 1800s
or something you can also use textures
to do that as well very cool so you've
got creature to dot PSD open in
photoshop cs4 now i don't have photoshop
because i'm on linux and i'm using the
GNU image manipulation program which is
available for Windows Linux or Mac so I
actually have that PSD file and you'll
see that if I double click on it it's
going to try to open it in the GIMP so
let's see what happens there it is okay
so easy breezy well I let you take over
alright so sorry if it's a bit washed
out on your computer i was having
monitored troubles but you can see it
looks great that's awesome you can see
here there's a i've just gotten a
texture off google you can make your own
text
is some whatever you want and you just
take this little arrow icon in the top
left corner and you click on it and you
drag it over onto your picture and just
Center it however you would like so
you're placing that on top so similarly
in the GIMP if I may I'm going to hit
well I can just go grab my move tool
over here grab that and drop does that
work no I'm going to go ctrl a ctrl C
and then over here control V and I'm
going to get the same effect right
that's the same effect that you're going
for yep and um then sorry that there it
is in the GIMP sorry I didn't realize
that so I did it in the GIMP so now
you've got this and sometimes the the
texture might not be the size you want
it and then you can go to edit transform
scale and then you can adjust it if you
think it's too big or too small and this
is really just a texture so it's not
it's not going to be lossy in any way
because it's it's really just going for
the like the the grain of it it's not
right yeah i'm just i'm adding a texture
to the creature itself because if you
can see here right now I think he's ok
but he's kind of so I just want to add a
bit of texture to his skin cuz here I'll
zoom up a bit he could use a bit of
spicing up a bit and oh look it's Eric
she's in the picture so I'd hear me then
we let me just zoom out a bit here you
take this turn it back on and you go to
multiply up here and that will make it
so you've changed the layer type to
multiply on the texture right yeah the
texture is now multiply ok so I'm going
to do the same again I'm going to try to
replicate the same process on the GIMP
i'm going to highlight that layer and
change the layer type to multiply so it
appears that I've got a very similar
effect they
in the GIMP as well which is free
software you and your know this is this
is cool to learn this for sure and then
I love it so from here normally I've got
a mouse i'm using here but normally
you'd want to use a tablet if you want
the best quality all right and because i
don't want a texture on the sky because
there's not really textures in sky you
would just take the eraser over here
looks just like an eraser and generally
for erasing i pick an airbrush because
it softens the edges it's not so harsh
and it just blends it in a bit better
and then you can just zoom up because
this can be a bit of a tedious part you
would take the eraser and just start
erasing anything you don't want
texturized and when i get to the edge i
get you don't have to be this picky but
that's just the way I'm you can go
really close getting right in there yeah
and it's pretty high res as far as what
you're working in so you can get right
in there yeah band so I'm not gonna make
you suffer through me erasing all that
so Apple super nice okay it'll look like
this so you see before that's just from
and after that's just adding a texture
all right before and after so now he
doesn't look so shiny he's got a bit
more life to him and then from here if
you want you can take the Dodge tool
that's this looks like a lollipop wicked
and then you can up Oh wrong layer while
you're chanting while you're changing
layers i'm just going to bring up the
gimp again and just see I've got the
eraser tool here I've got the brush tool
here to change to a feathered edge brush
just like you did on on Photoshop and
then I'll zoom in with the + key which
is shift + + and I'm going to do the
same thing in the gimp okay so i can do
that and then I've got my Dodge tool
over here so I've got it seems that I've
got all the same tools that you have in
Photoshop so this is good mm-hmm
it's a battle to the death to the death
we are back in photoshop cs4 all right
so then all I do with the Dodge tool is
I take areas that were here if I hide
this that were lighter before and maybe
I've just become a bit muted I would
take that on the texture layer and just
the highlights just brighten them up a
bit to make the old colors pop again and
after you've done everything you want to
lighten up in that area then you can go
to the burn tool which this is a
different version of Photoshop than I
have normally it's under the Dodge tool
the cs4 have it must have if you hold in
i think cs4 if you hold there we go
there we go here's the burn tool and
then the same thing on the shadows you
can just pick up a bit more and again
you would do the entire picture this way
and so I have it already done here a bit
and then from here you're almost done
but let's see you may want to alter the
colors a bit if you don't quite like how
it's turned out you can do this by going
to image adjustments up up on the wrong
layer again so image adjustments and you
could try hue and saturation but i don't
really like this method because you
don't have as much control over it and
you could just scroll left and right but
so is this still in the texture layer
which layer are we looking at right now
um yeah we're on the textured layered
still we're just altering the colors of
the texture if you wanted to change what
he looked like I don't like that as much
though so i would go to image
adjustments and color balance because
this gives you a lot more control you
can change the mid-tones highlights and
shadows and you could add some red and
yellow and green if you want to just or
you could go crazy and make them blue
just whatever you want to do and so here
i have the colors i chose and we'll just
let's see zoom out
it and there you can see the finished
texture and if you want to use more than
one texture in your picture like I have
a texture on the mushroom omelets you
best use different textures because
everything would have a different
texture in real life just so it doesn't
get too flat looking very cool so the
graininess is just going to give us that
it really gives that flesh kind of
almost what would you call like
blemishes yeah because very few things
have perfectly smooth skin so that's
that very few things these lights are
tough on it yeah that's cool and I'm
able to do it seems everything that
rachel has been showing me here I've got
in the GIMP I can change that dodge tool
to a burn tool by changing the type
we're on Photoshop she was holding n so
I'm able to you know do the same kind of
thing that she was doing there so that's
that's really cool an incredible artwork
as well awesome just yeah that's does
anybody have any questions for Rachel
and while we're talking about photoshop
and and how that's possible now what is
what is the photo licensed under I
suppose I can talk to you about this
after the fact but is there is there any
way we can put this on the website for
people to try and photoshop or the GIMP
pardon is there any way that we could we
could licensed under Creative Commons
and let people play with it under under
the GIMP yeah if you want to it's or
anything special all right very cool I
noticed as well that you've left some
layers here and again the GIMP is able
to show us each of the layers thing I
really see the face has I didn't really
like what I originally had she had these
blue didn't turn out well I didn't put
enough joints on them so that's very
cool it's me ask you cheryl says as well
make sure you do lots of layers with
anything I think there was a hundred
layers on that I combined by the end
just as if you make a mistake you can
delete a layer easily so you keep the
master files as well so the PSD files
got the original do you know in most
cases yeah with all their still awesome
thanks Rachel ikemoto says a hundred
layers john wants to know how long that
took for you to get to that point with
that phone that one probably took about
15 hours film that's it it's a bit of
tedious work but he's crazy we met use a
tablet yeah with a mouthful because if
you're working with like a pen it's
actually that's brilliant well done so I
know it was supposed to be an epic
battle but I think it's pretty much tied
I mean photoshop and the GIMP were both
fully capable of doing what was
demonstrated here tonight and I show you
that because I want you to know that
free libre open source software is some
some really impressive stuff and looking
at stuff like the GIMP GNU image
manipulation program I think you know if
the kids are starting school and they
want to be doing photo manipulations
that at that level to be able to get a
free piece of software give it a try and
you can see how easy it is to translate
from Photoshop to the GIMP so you can
follow tutorials that are made for
photoshop and i'm able to do it it's
awesome that's at gimp.org and of course
photoshop being commercial application
what kind of space does an image with a
hundred layers take up now you're
working with something that this is a
question from a komodo in the chat room
this is something that you're creating
in a reasonably high resolution yeah i
think it was around 60 megabytes 60 mex
yep so and it's not that I always delete
ones I don't need it's just like the
drool i did on a different layer if i
didn't like how some of it was looking I
would just remove it or if if I wanted
to try out something like a horn then if
I don't like it I can just delete the
layer and not have a problem so hmm
takimoto makes a good point that that's
not the final print copy because when
you're going to print it you're going to
output it to a ping for example yeah you
wouldn't it wouldn't be that large you
would combine the layers and right so
that's like smile that's you know having
every layer so that you can revert back
and change things nice to have that
master
I'll if you've ever worked with audio
production you know exactly what we're
talking about where you've got you know
the guitar track and the drum track and
everything is separate so that if you
ever decide oh well we want to redo the
we want to remix it and take out those
drums and put in a really cool then you
can do that yeah you beatbox Tanya I'm
not even gonna try that would just be
more than sound like I was choking on a
hairball or something if i have vm pnd
asking about 300 DPI for print you can
you can touch on that um yeah for sure
because otherwise it's going to look a
bit grainy and pixelated and it just
won't be as good quality if you wanted
to put it in a book or a frame it or
comic book or whatever 300 DPI and I
tend to work a little higher than that
sometimes but even when I'm creating for
a web i'm creating at 300 DPI even
though web once I rasterize it once i
render everything down it's gonna be 72
and the reason for that is because we
want to have the text and everything
crystal clear on logos and things so
working in a higher resolution you know
you don't have that loss eNOS it gives
you a lot more capabilities and we're
outputting the pain files as your print
file or whatever because it's it's going
to be much less lossy than you know it's
a lossless format so if you output to a
jpeg it's gonna it's going to kind of
degrade the quality of your ear photo
you know whatever it is so so can I use
that technique to like age somebody's
face like put textures on on a person
you could but there's much better ways
to do it yeah it's a bit time-consuming
if you get a picture of an old person
and lay the pieces on its strength it's
quite a complicated process but then you
can really make them look like a senior
but if you just want to age a photo like
make it look like you're from the 1800's
like oh yeah I guess you do that to you
can change the colors to like brown and
then put like old parchment paper over
top and if you reduce the transparency
if the texture is too bold on it reduce
the transparency and it'll be a bit more
muted in the photo
very cool JVS CC wonders if if Photoshop
is good enough to to actually put hair
on my head well I did this week well
they'll know about that next week you
have to wait how Rob looks well how do
you like that teams yeah agra moto
saying that most of the stuff they sent
out in college was at 600 DPI sure and
and may be higher for certain
applications the big difference between
the GIMP and photoshop is the photoshop
supports CMYK out of the box CMYK being
more common for print because it's it's
going to print I don't want to say
better but its more common for print so
with the GIMP it's it's it's RGB so
working with something like this that's
for screen it's perfect building
websites it's fine editing your photos
which are jpg which are RGB anyways
they're not CMYK you're you're you're
going to be just fine using the free
software CMYK is cyan yellow CM no cyan
magenta yellow black the K is black I
don't know why RGB is red green blue so
that's the way that the color spectrum
is is formed for the photo definitely an
afro demon a10 be fun yes Becca
commenting about my hair my hair yeah
brilliant hey we have only a couple of
minutes left everybody oh wow the hour
just flew flew by unbelievable I'm just
such great company mm-hmm everybody say
hi in the chat room post us an email
live at category 5 TV did you enjoy
yourself today I had a great time good
good yep excellent Dave may do think Sam
Mohawk would suit me very well maybe I'm
saying I'm actually wearing a bow honk
right now you just can't you can't see
it
it's like that would be good like a
comb-over that kind of comes together in
the middle I remember cute back in the
days when he had hair he decided he
would cut it himself and he came out
looking like Friar Tuck because he had
shaved my burns completely I now look at
me uh this time I punishing hair was
long so this will cut perfection
unbelievable you want to see something
cool that I picked up it was it was like
five bucks at the costume store but it
was something that I noticed about this
that was hilarious it's really quite
cool i mean DNN a phaser right but
what's hilarious I don't know if
everybody picks up on this or not look
at the enterprise you can't see that but
it actually you can probably see oh I'm
so gonna faze you the the enterprise
that has been flipped on the on the
packaging which is you can't see it it's
unfortunately you can't see that I
thought it was pretty hilarious from a
geek perspective I don't get ncc-1701 d
you see that ncc-1701 d this is some
poor photoshopping friends you can see
that yeah I can and it's the
enterprise-d for my geek friends and
what do you notice about the Star Trek
logo it's definitely a bad mirror image
akimoto it's backwards its inverted but
the logo is anybody in the chat room TOS
not TNG thank you Dave isn't that funny
but it's a pretty cool replica you gotta
say that mean for six bucks or something
like that awesome so when eric gets out
of line i've got some way to to put him
in his place that's why I've got it over
here jb sec thanks everybody for joining
us tonight still strangle you yes kool
Kat wheels hanging get them on amazon
and and I you know I didn't mention it
tonight but don't forget about our
costume store there is still time cat5
TV / costumes we're really down to the
wire now I mean we've got a
and just under two weeks before dress-up
day so cat5 TV / costumes able to pick
up stuff like that phaser how cool
awesome thanks everybody joining us in
the chat room joining us at home
watching us from euro internet TV or
itunes or however it is that you catch
the show pop us an email live at
category 5 TV we'd love to get your
viewer testimonials your postcards your
actual post post cards it's always a
pleasure to get some real mail and nice
thank you everybody for for sending that
in nice having you here mm-hmm is great
being here g else right so i can post
that picture i'm going to do that so i
watch the show notes for episode number
213 i'm going to post up the the PSD
file the original photoshop document the
one that you brought with you that way
you can see that it actually does work
in the gimp january much manipulation
program or if you're using photoshop
that will work as well awesome thanks
everybody is it still on yeah it's just
you I'm just gonna say if anyone does
use it though please just don't post it
on a website of your own or whatever
just or at least say bye yeah it's
creative commons attribution which means
you absolutely must provide attribution
which means it has to say that it is the
work is created by Rachel shoe which is
felt this X you you see it down there
and attribution to triple w category
five dot TV so that people know where it
came from cool have a fantastic week and
I will see you next Tuesday is going to
be a lot of fun as Rachel was kind of
hinting at we've got some really
exciting stuff for the Halloween special
so don't miss it it comes early this
year so talk to you next week have your
name see right
zombie
