here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom the
future of electric cars could look a lot
like slot car tracks Amazon claims it
doesn't eavesdrop on customers
conversations to target advertising at
them after it emerged that it had
patented voice sniffing tech a US
federal judge ruled on Monday that
Facebook must face a class-action
lawsuit alleging that the social network
unlawfully used a facial recognition
process on photos without users
permission and veteran game maker Sega
announces getting back into the hardware
game at the Sega FES 2018 event over the
weekend with a shrunken version of its
classic Mega Drive for genesis console
these stories are coming right up don't
go anywhere
Jeff Weston GEMA you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what
aren't you your terrible actor
what does where acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay I'm building
a really cool website are you building a
really cool website just because Jeff is
confused doesn't mean you have to be
visit cap five dot TV slash dream host
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
dream host this is the category five dot
TV news room covering the week's top
tech stories with a slight linux place
I'm Sacha Rickman and here the top
stories for following this week the
world's first electric road that
recharges the batteries of cars and
trucks driving on it has been opened in
Sweden about two kilometers or 2.1 miles
of electric rail has been embedded in a
public road near stockholm but the
government's Road agency has already
drafted a national map for future
expansion Sweden's target of achieving
independence from fossil fuels by 2030
requires a 70% reduction in the
transport sector the technology behind
the electrification of the road linking
Stockholm Arlanda Airport to a logistics
site outside the capital city aims to
solve the thorny problems of keeping
electric vehicles charged and the
manufacturer of their batteries
affordable energy is transferred from
two tracks of rail in the road via a
movable arm attached to the bottom of
the vehicle the design is not dissimilar
to that of a slot car track the
electrified Road is divided into 50
meter sections within an individual
section powered only when a vehicle is
above it when a vehicle stops the
current is disconnected the system is
able to calculate the vehicles energy
consumption which enables electricity
costs to be debited per vehicle and user
there is no electricity on the surface
there are just two tracks just like the
outlet in a wall five or six centimeters
down is where the electricity is
but if the road is flooded with salt
water they found that the electricity
level at the surface is only one volt so
you could walk on it barefoot the
dynamic charging as opposed to the use
of roadside charging posts means that
the vehicle's batteries can be smaller
along with their manufacturing costs
national grids are increasingly moving
away from coal and oil and battery
storage is seen as crucial to changing
the source of energy used for
transportation how interesting is that
amazing amazing in a place that doesn't
have snow though don't they know they do
do they do they know so it's like does
Sweden get snow cats come on most people
think of winter when they hear that's
the first no that's Sweden dot s e
nature because of the warm Gulf Stream
the climate here can be much milder than
you might expect spring summer fall and
winter each have their own unique
personalities however in the winter
months snow is rare near the southern
coast okay so they do have some snow yes
that's good okay cuz that would be my
one thing you know what's neat about it
though is because of the way this thing
attaches to the track we're not attached
as I guess touches the track to get its
power
it works like a snowplow on the track
itself so if it did have snow or ice
built up it is self maintaining
essentially it cleans itself
I wonder cuz I love this idea and I
would love to see it implemented like
internationally but how do they power
the actual road right is it solar that
they're using or are they using are they
using fossil fuels to actually create
the electricity well and I think this is
where Sweden is is kind of separating
themselves from the rest of the world if
you will in that they so it's powered by
the grid right so the electrical system
the the electrical power that's
available to the communities that that
it's a part of but their grid is
predominantly
like producing energy through renewable
resources so we're we're you know you
may think about you know the coal and
and fossil fuels being used to generate
electricity well they've got a lot of
well for one thing nuclear plants a few
of them but that generates a lot of
power and cleanly and also hydroelectric
so water power as well so so it comes
out of the grid so there it works
because it is clean energy coming out of
the grid because the grid is clean we're
here I would think that if they wanted
to install something like that they the
company installing it would also have to
create their own power sources if they
wanted to be green right a long time ago
I saw a video about solar roadways right
and I do did you see the same was the
tiles I have seen the video but I read
the story and I'm out mentioning it in
the news room right because I loved it
so much it was very well produced yeah
it pitched an idea that's implanted in
my brain if they had a solar roadway
even solar sidewalks or something then
it would it would not only power that
but then also it could keep a
temperature to the point where he
wouldn't need plows right Canada yeah
that could be amazing yeah you know but
they didn't have that solar roadway
didn't have a way of charging it did not
this was before these cars were invented
right yeah so it'll be interesting is it
very very well I mean from my
perspective it seems expensive to
implement right it's costing them about
a million euros per kilometer to lay
this track but it's saving the earth and
there is no good in that regard
but and I guess it's a little bit of an
experiment at this point like will this
work will it be adopted by car
manufacturers can cars be manipulated
and in fact one of the the vehicles that
they're using in the test process is an
old diesel truck converted to be able to
use this type of energy right so so
that's pretty neat well to be honest
they're doing this roadway close to an
airport right now and it actually does
make sense to me that they would do
roads like this close to places where a
car could be
sitting for a long time and perhaps
little charge right this is going to
charge you a lot of highways in swinging
to right so a lot of people are on the
go for long periods of time and if
that's the case then wouldn't it be good
to have it on those straight stretches
where the autonomous vehicle can line
you up lock you in charge your vehicle
and then move aside for the next guy
mm-hmm that to me makes a lot of sense
when you're sitting though like if
you're parked it in the airport you can
plug in right so maybe you could park
you could park on like key sensors you
know how you can use well you know you
you um you charge your phone isn't it
with qi when you put your phones oh yes
like like you know the old sense of the
term now it's qi spelling yes so if you
like parked your car and all of a sudden
it just connected and you would just
park on a charging spot I wonder how
much energy would be wasted by that type
of a technology because that would be
really neat would take that would be
really cool huh oh yes here that's right
love ideas love before I mute my
microphone still getting used to the
switching Amazon claims it does not
eavesdrop on customers conversations to
target advertising at them after it
emerged that it had patented voice
sniffing tech the patent describes
listening to conversations and building
a profile of customers likes and
dislikes reports speculated that Amazon
would deploy the technology and it's
voice-activated
echo speakers but Amazon said it did not
listen to customers conversations to
target advertising at them launched in
2014
Amazon's echo speakers can play music
set a timer or read the news when
addressed with the wake word Alexa
however the patent describes an
algorithm that can listen to entire
conversations using trigger words such
as like or love to build a profile of
customers the document states that the
system could then offer targeted
advertising and product recommendations
but Amazon said it did not use customers
voice recordings for targeted at
advertising in a statement it said we
take privacy seriously and of
built multiple layers of privacy into
our echo devices like many companies we
file a number of Ford looking patent
applications that explore the full
possibilities of new technology patents
take multiple years to receive and do
not necessarily reflect current
developments to products and services
okay so you buy a speaker you Analects a
device you put it into your house you
plug it in you turn it on and then you
don't want it to listen to you we we
live in an interesting world don't we
where people sign up for Facebook and
then complain that Facebook is selling
their information or otherwise
compromising privacy and you know you
buy an Alexa device and and then get
concerned that it's listening to you but
it is kind of inevitable and I know that
their job it's one job is to listen to
you it's Amazon okay so remember what
they are they sell you things I actually
love this I actually hope that they I'm
sorry I hope that they're spying on the
things that people like and don't like
because I want better recommendations
for things I like yeah right now what
happens is I search for something I like
it I buy it and then I get ads forever
about it I already bought it I have it
no no me the next thing you know what's
worse is I get a lot of emails for
things that I put away that I said no
I'm not gonna buy that because I cross
compare many different products before
choosing the one I want so when I bought
this particular Raspberry Pi case that
looks like a Nintendo Entertainment
System you know that I also clicked on
every other Raspberry Pi case so now I'm
getting all these recommendations for
Raspberry Pi cases but I already bought
the one I chose right or I'm getting
recommendations because I am an Amazon
partner category five is and so I I
don't we don't get any reports that show
us who bought what and where it's going
and who's it's not personally
identifiable to us at all but I am
interested to see what people buy right
so sometimes I'll see something that I'm
like what on earth is that that made us
$5
so I'll click on a vice-like oh that's
interesting so one of our viewers
purchased this odd thing and so now I'm
getting all these emails from Amazon
recommending these odd things and
related on fancy if they're doing if
they're making these algorithms and
things where all of a sudden they can
tell what I like and don't like and
they're making it sharper and more
specific to actually Who I am as a
person considering we all just shop on
Amazon through category 5s partner
lengths what I do
yeah I I just I can't see it being a bad
thing that if you've bought this Alexa
device if you bought an echo or whatever
its called
I don't have one clearly or also I would
know what it's called
how could you complain that it could
possibly be listening to you when you
bought it yeah still have this
underlying fear of the loss of privacy
and bigbrother of companies keeping
track of our personal information don't
do it don't buy it right we're gonna be
in a world where that's not an option
right well we are being monitored all
the time I unplug our we have a camera
we use to call Dave's dad because we do
video calls with them we unplug it when
we're done with it okay which makes
sense people put tape over the webcam on
their on their laptops right in case
just in case right so if you plug in a
speaker that's job is to listen to you
and then you keep it plugged in it's
going to listen yeah it's going to it's
gonna listen to the news and it's gonna
buy six dozen shortbread cookies in a
dollhouse nice as one final thought for
me I would think that what would be
really really interesting maybe this is
something that we could do as a show but
certainly I could see somebody doing
this is to set up a controlled
environment where we buy an Alexa device
we set it up on an account that has
never been set up before and we put it
in a control room where the only things
that are ever spoken about in that room
are controlled conversations I love ice
cream I love ice cream
I love dollhouses I would love to eat
ice cream that I've made I would love an
ice cream maker yeah so these kinds of
things and for those of you who
subscribe to Alexa and Google home I
apologize that we just ordered you an
ice cream maker however I think in that
controlled environment it would be
interesting to see what kind of
recommendations our account starts
getting right and prove once and for all
whether or not this is happening right I
was there denying it I would like to
make just a plea to you because I know
that you're denying it but you're
probably doing it can you just make it
better so that you're not selling me
things I already own guess what I have
it I looked for it I made a decision
now sell me something that works with it
something more batteries contact me in
six months and sell me the batteries hey
you just bought this guess what you're
gonna need this yes exactly hey you need
toothpaste exactly all right US federal
judge ruled on Monday that Facebook must
face a class-action lawsuit alleging
that the social network unlawfully used
a facial recognition process on photos
without user permission the ruling adds
to the privacy woes that have been
mounting against Facebook for weeks
since it was disclosed that the personal
information of millions of users was
harvested by the political consultancy
Cambridge analytic a US District Judge
James DiNardo ruled in San Francisco and
a San Francisco federal court that a
class action was the most efficient way
to resolve the dispute over facial
templates Facebook said that it was
reviewing the ruling stating we continue
to believe the case has no merit and
will defend ourselves vigorously the the
class will consist of Facebook users in
Illinois for whom Facebook created and
stirred facial recognition algorithms
after June 7th 2011 that is the date
when Facebook launched tag suggestions a
feature that suggests people to tag
after a Facebook user uploads a photo
you know and I like that feature I think
that's very very handy yeah again I
again this is a case where I get it
sure it's a feature and it's helpful
yeah but it could be used for malicious
purposes for sure and they write an
algorithm per person so if you look at
your your downloaded content from
Facebook once you've downloaded your
entire account you can see that they
have a facial recognition algorithm for
you right and it doesn't work in the
case of my sisters Beth and Colleen
because they're identical twins it's fun
because it tries to tag oh yes that's
weird though what on our set here at
category 5 TV we used to have a shelf
behind us and on that shelf was a Spock
bobblehead right I remember the guy I
uploaded a picture of us on the category
5 TV set not to Facebook but to Twitter
uh-huh and I don't know whether Twitter
still does this but they were obviously
experimenting at one point because
immediately it suggested that I tagged
Leonard Nimoy it made that recommended
recommendation I'm like yeah that's
astonishing remember last week we had a
new story and we had a comment about how
one of the one of our viewers was locked
out of their Facebook because they
didn't provide a picture of their face
right yes this is right this is the way
Facebook can tell your you right they do
this and they create a facial algorithm
of who you are and then and come to
think of it Robert Koenig was on the
show last week as well talking about
cryptocurrency and he even brought to
our attention that coinbase uses the
same kind of technology automated
identification great to take a photo and
identify us furthermore I have to say in
defense of Facebook which is funny
because I don't know I no longer have
Facebook but I will defend it I'm pretty
sure that users probably agreed to it in
their terms and so it's somewhere on
page 472 did you read it do you really
know this class-action lawsuits gonna
get thrown out
veteran game maker Sega announced it is
back getting back into the hardware game
at the Sega FES 2018 event over the
classic Mega Drive or Genesis console in
an announcement in no way connected to
the success of Nintendo's SNES mini Sega
might well have been inspired by the
tried and trusted formula of pre-loading
a bunch of elderly games into what could
well be an emulator running inside a
retro plastic shell of course we have no
insight into what software and hardware
will be used
Sega hopes to get the device on sale
this year in time for the 30th
anniversary of the Japanese launch of
the original console European resident
with long memories will remember the
frustration of having to wait the
additional two years until the Mega
Drive arrived on UK Shores hopefully
eager buyers will not face the same
delay around this this time around sega
followed up the announcement with a
tweet giving the device a starting start
we have this discussion just before the
show that we are gonna stumble on the
word startling ly startling that's a
difficult one try it three times fast
startlingly original and tentative name
of Mega Drive Mini there's no word yet
on the roster of games to be included
but we do expect to see at least one
Sonic the Hedgehog game we've yet to
learn the hardware specifications of the
device but it is a quarter of the size
of the original and we'll connect up to
a modern television great hey sounds a
lot like our retro pie and exactly like
a retro price sounds like yeah great
idea okay it's like an old Nintendo from
the 80s yeah it is a great idea it seems
a little bit late on the uptake it kind
of feels like they saw our show and saw
this and thought hey we should do that
with a Sega Genesis
or even to be a this is a Sega Genesis I
mean it's been done before play old
games on a big TV I get it I get it you
know what I think though what is that
companies do this they launch an
official rebirth of the console with the
games included so that they can rebirth
also the copyrights so that people like
me and you who have our retropie gaming
systems on raspberry PI's we are now in
breach of copyright rather than what we
are currently which is in the middle
using legacy software that's no longer
sold and so it's called abandoned we're
right it's available freely downloaded
on the internet on various sources and
that kind of thing so by bringing it
back now all of a sudden no no we
released that in 2018 so you are now in
violation of that to be using it on your
retropie that's just a theory on my part
I think that that's what the
manufacturers are up to that makes sense
to me actually that rings that rings
true again I mean they can sell it on
the 30th anniversary and it could make a
big deal years it's been 30 years and
I'm still playing the stuff and enjoying
it it's exciting and to tell you the
truth I do have a collection of
different consoles so I'm sure big
thanks to Roy W Nash and our community
of yours for submitting stories to us
this week thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our web site from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Sasha Rickman and I'm
Robbie Ferguson
[Music]
[Applause]
