welcome to category 5 technology TV
episode number 389 for tuesday the third
of march 2015 it's so nice to have you
here my name is Ravi Ferguson tonight
I'm going to be talking with Mitch
Wilkie who joins us from CDM Canada
we're going to be discussing their
unique use of 3d printing technology in
order to help children in developing
nations you want to stick around for
that interview that's coming up in just
a couple minutes time Sasha door made us
how are you I am fabulous thanks for
asking I would like to off the hawk say
that we have been having a little bit of
trouble in the teleprompter in the
newsroom so if I all of a sudden freeze
it's because my screen has but here is
what's coming up in the category 5 TV
news room HTC is to release a virtual
reality headset as part of a tie-up with
valve a leading pc video games publisher
the year twenty 38 is still more than
two decades away but software developers
should be thinking about that date now
particularly in the linux world ted talk
talk customers are being warned with
scammers who managed to steal account
numbers and names from the company's
computers Bill Gates has been declared
the richest man in the world for the
16th time by forbes magazine's annual
ranking of global billionaires ikea has
unveiled a range of furniture fitted
with wireless charging spots for mobile
devices a problem during a server update
left many samsung smart tvs looking dumb
this week stick around the full details
are coming up later in the show this is
category 5 technology TV
starring Sasha dramatis
Hillary rumble
Kristen wells
your kid
and your host Ravi Ferguson
this is category 5 technology TV thanks
for joining us tonight now as you know
category 5 TV is quite interested in any
use of technology that is going to
better the lives of the users of that
technology and our guest tonight is no
exception to that working with the
University of Toronto in order to
improve the lives of children in
developing nations using a very unique
use of 3d printing technology Mitch
Wilkie joins us from CBM Mitch it's
great to have you here thank you very
much thanks for joining us can you tell
us a little bit about your company and
or your organization i should say CBM
and how it is involved and became
involved with the University of Toronto
yes so CBM is probably the world's
largest disability and development
organization so we're helping the
poorest people in the least developed
countries around the world and again
it's focused on disability and primarily
children as well people may have noticed
in the past as Christian blind mission
but blindness is not the only disability
that we focus on we cover everything
from physical to mental disability so
what had happened to lead us into this
project is we always talked about
innovative things at CBM and CBM Canada
was aware of a problem that originated
with a report from the World Health
Organization back in 2003 and in that
report they talked about this huge gap
of not many prosthetic technicians being
available in the less developed world so
what they I said is there's a shortage
of forty thousand of these prosthetic
technicians and it would take another 50
years just to Train eighteen thousand
more it was a wow this is a terrible
problem with with having such a small
amount of technicians what what kind of
problem are we facing here when it comes
to the need in a developing nation such
as Uganda where your your
work is sure sure so let me give you
some context to this well the World
Health Organization estimates at about
ten percent of the global population
that's nearly six hundred and ninety
million people have a disability and
eighty percent implemented physic eighty
percent of those are in less developed
countries I see okay okay so this is all
disabilities it's not just people that
have suffered an amputation now if we
focus just on that in particular there's
all kinds of causes for amputation one
of the major reasons right now is
survivors of landmines there's probably
about a 300,000 people population of
land mine survivors 26,000 are added to
that number every year so that's
probably the greatest reason for
amputations now there's all kinds of
accidents that happen it could be
industrial and work-related accidents in
less developed countries as well even
car accidents like if you go to some of
these countries in Africa as an example
the driving in our context would be very
reckless people are on motorcycles you
know wear helmets and they do fall off
and of course get severe injuries
there's also terrorist attacks there's a
lot of civil strife in many of these
less developed countries they also have
what I would call are stressed public
health systems so there's people that
are adopting more Western diets there's
high incidence of diabetes we know that
leads to circulatory problems that will
lead to amputations someone might get an
injury and they can't get to a hospital
very quickly it might even take them a
week to get to a hospital then you can
get gangrene setting in that could lead
to osteomyelitis or bone infections and
that could result in amputations as well
so here we have doctors who are able to
perform say the amputations and
surgeries in order to basically save the
patient but what happens when it comes
to a child who has lost a limb and and
you know where do they go when there are
so few
technicians to be able to provide a
prosthetic limb the problem is in
addition to this gap prosthetic
technicians it takes a long time to get
a child or adult fitted with what we
call a prosthetic socket and the socket
is the customized piece that's like a
cop or a bucket that fits onto the
residual wimp limb pardon me the rest of
artificial leg would consist of a pylon
and a foot and easy to just standardized
parts that come from the International
Red Cross and Red Crescent Society so
how are these parts being flown in and
provided on mass or how do how do
individuals I would assume that these
are expensive pieces well a prosthetic
how do I come into that yeah prosthetic
leg in the less developed country is
very different than what you'd get in
Canada as an example in Canada time
isn't so much of an issue to get a good
fitting prosthetic leg and socket
there's different technology that's used
to achieve that and you could spend
anywhere from five to fifteen thousand
dollars to start to get fitted with a
prosthetic leg in Canada well in less
developed world we have to get that cost
down to about two hundred and fifty
dollars zillion dollars yes and um there
is a system or a methodology that was
developed by the International Red Cross
or Crescent Societies so they are
producing pylons which are essentially
the leg portion and then artificial feet
these pieces are cut to size and they're
bolted together and then they're
attached to this socket but now the
socket in a less developed world it
takes about six days to produce one so
if you imagine a residual limb patients
sit on a table and if we talk about it
below the knee amputation on that
residual limb they have to wrap plaster
of Paris bandages around this limb and
they're creating a negative cast on this
residual limb from that they make
markings on this task
old basically a mold this is taken off
there's more plaster that's poured
inside this negative cast and a steel
rod is placed in the center when this
dries it creates a positive cast and
this plaster cast has to dry for a
period of time and it's often just put
outside in the African Sun I got and
once it dries to a level of prosthetic
technician wants it they will then take
that and they will remove material by
filing they will add colored plaster to
the surface and all while feeling the
residual limb of the patient so it's
very much a craft in addition to their
theoretical knowledge they're feeling
for muscle mass cartilage tendons bone
protrusions all on this residual limb
and they have to best represent how this
positive will represent that limb once
he create this plaster positive the next
step is to create the socket and the
socket is made of polypropylene plastic
it comes in a sheet it's heated up in an
oven yeah and it's then wrapped around
this plaster positive and a vacuum is
applied to it so this polypropylene
plastic is sucked down against this
plaster model and from there it's welded
it's pulled apart it's ground and then
they do more fabrication and fitting to
attach it to the residual limb and also
the pylon and foot so the patient for
example if it's a child may have to come
from a very far distance to go to a
hospital sure it was not unusual for
them to travel days and would they
encounter a large waiting list in a
situation like that not necessarily we
would have workers that would typically
identify these patients in need that are
in the village areas but it may be Daisy
the one patient we were just in course
who hospital in Uganda in January and it
was 65 hours for this four-year-old girl
to come to the hospital to get fitted
and the fitting takes about a week as I
said so
you know looking at this problem there's
only 12 prosthetic technicians in Uganda
there's about two hundred thousand
twelve hundred technicians we're talking
12 verses well how many children that
are in need of prosthetics in Uganda
there's 250,000 children better in need
with some disability so for 12
prosthetic technicians to serve this
kind of population you can imagine
there's many that are not receiving a
prosthetic leg so so if you had not been
what the view person coming in sorry
skype makes it sometimes a little bit
difficult because we talk over each
other when we with a little bit of a
delay I'm thinking just before we move
on we've got 12 technicians in Uganda
who are servicing and serving 250,000
children who are in need of some form of
prosthetic limbs so that they can
continue to to play sports with their
friends and even just be mobile enough
to be able to help out with the family
tasks and everything so it sounds like a
massive undertaking for I mean it would
be a massive undertaking for that that
ratio anyways but it working in a
developing nation I would expect that
it's a huge undertaking for each of
those technicians it must be a stressful
job and to do your best to be helping
those children and and be so limited by
the the resources that are there for
them so so my question to you Mitch is
what is the solution that CBM and CBM
Canada and the work that you're doing
with the University of Toronto what have
you come up with to try to alleviate
some of the the I guess stress or
workload on those technicians but also
to help more children who are in need of
prosthetics yeah so first of all there's
this gap there's not enough technicians
and it takes too long for them to
produce a prosthetic socket so we're
looking at how could we expedite that
and we wanted to see if we could apply
3d printing technology to this so we
first put in a grant request to Grand
Challenges Canada we did receive funding
it started to provide the seed money for
us to explore this we then had to find a
principal investigator and that led us
to the University of Toronto and dr.
Matt rattle so dr. rattle heads up the
semaphore lab at the University of
Toronto they do a lot of experimentation
with modeling and 3d printing and we
discussed how could we perhaps resolve
this so this started about a year and a
half ago and in that time we were
looking at scanning technology for 3d
and there's been a lot of changes just
in the past 18 months the first scanning
we were looking at was photo gamma tree
where we're using a digital camera to
take many pictures of a residual limb
and then these would be knit together to
produce a 3d image then we started to
use the xbox gaming system the camera
from it from and now that particular
technology is in a handheld scanner by a
company called sense and December of
2013 Apple computer bought that
technology so I wouldn't be surprised in
a future iphone will have 3d scanners
hmm that's that's enough thing so when
you when you talk about 3d printing
technology now we think about you know
the trinkets that we see but it is
becoming more and more of a useful
technology I think about the space
station and how they kind of emailed a
tool to the space station cosmonauts so
that they could 3d print it so are we
are you talking about in installing 3d
printers in in nations where it's needed
or are you doing the 3d printing in
Canada and then shipping these
prosthetics at a cheaper price how does
that work well no so actually you know
it was getting the scanning at first to
produce a 3d image of a patient slim the
next step was well how do we create the
socket so we brought in autodesk
research and they've got software called
meshmixer so it just so happens that the
student the develop measure was at the
University of Toronto and ended up
getting his software bought by Autodesk
and he's now working for them in the
research but they part
with us and nave tweak this mesh mixer
software to work with the scanned image
wear a prosthetic technician can build a
model socket and much more accurately
than all this handcraft work that's done
with plaster of Paris and polypropylene
plastic so there's only a lot of the
work load off of the technician um well
right now we're testing it out so in
January we are at course new hospital in
Uganda we had all the technology there
the scanner the software that we're
using we're training them how to use it
we've got MakerBot 3d printers and we're
using a starch-based plastic filament to
create the socket yeah but in the past
18 months we did all the research behind
that to prepare the software to do the
stress load testing on the socket to
make sure it was acceptable but yes now
we can scan a patient's limb in about 45
seconds we can spend about three hours
where technician can build the socket on
a computer and then it could be sent to
a printer or the printer will create it
in about six hours unbelie-- so now we
but this process down to one day from
what would normally take six days and so
you can imagine a prosthetic technician
can have greater output now to keep that
in perspective 250,000 children so the
difference between like a one-sixth
ratio in in time that it takes to create
doesn't just mean faster turnaround it
also means more children who are helped
so what is the vision for your project
and where do you see this going on a
grand scale over time sure so our next
phase is to do clinical trial we're
going to do that with 35 patients at
course ooh hospital in Uganda that'll
probably take another six months we're
also starting to prepare for scaling up
my expectation is that CBM Canada will
set up a social enterprise because we
are not for profit charity right now so
social enterprise would be for profit
but the majority of the funds that are
raised would be plowed back into the
program to scale this concept up we're
not quite sure where we're going to go
with it and how we would roll it out we
still have research to do over
next year but this social enterprise may
have software as a service model as an
example where people would basically
prescribe to their subscribe to the
system they could download the software
for free they would be able to use
low-cost commodity items 3d printers
that maybe cost $3,000 a scanner that
cost five hundred dollars and use our
software and have access to training on
how to create prosthetic sockets and
this could be rolled out through cbms
channel we're already working in 68
countries around the world or supporting
a lot of hospitals with this kind of
work so we've got that framework in
place to roll this out very quickly
there's other people that are doing
similar kind of work that we're doing
but they're using much more expensive
equipment like even MIT University you
know they use a CT and miR as scanners
they're using printers that cost over a
million dollars you just can't apply
that into a less developed world
situation you know our products are very
inexpensive really under ten thousand
dollars for the whole package oh it's
it's just commodity 3d printers
commodity scatter and our software
bridges everything together so we're
looking at not only as the per-unit
prosthetic a lot cheaper but also the
startup for the hospitals and the
technicians themselves yes that's right
and you know we we don't want to
eliminate prosthetic technician jobs
like we're not trying to write D skill
them we were actually trying to add
skills to them so they can have a new
tool and do better output or and how has
the reception then by these technicians
oh absolutely they're on side we're also
working with the international society
of prosthetics and orthotics they're
keeping abreast of updates on our
technology and they're endorsing our
system as well we're good so are you
operational at this point in in a
developing nation yeah I could see that
we've proven the concept at this stage
right now we've fitted a couple of
patients at course ooh hospital but
we're looking at how
we can still improve the system as we do
the clinical trial Inc yeah you know the
technology is changing rapidly like when
we first started off we're using 39
thousand dollar printers and we went to
a better printer that cost about seven
thousand dollars because it had a larger
printing bed but then we were able to go
back to smaller printers we could print
a socket into smaller pieces and then
actually fuse them together Oh God so
the printer output was faster yeah so
there's a lot of things we can explore
here there's also what we call orthotics
instead of prosthetics prosthetics would
be helping someone that has a missing
limb an orthotic would be something that
might be a bracing there's a lot more
bracing that's required for this kind of
work in helping patients course who
hospital has already been experimenting
with 3d printing for maxillofacial
surgery there's people that come in with
a tumor on their jaw so they have to
rebuild the Jawbone's using bones from
the lake but the 3d printing modeling
can help set up almost like a miter box
for the jaw bones and they could save
three hours off the operation so there's
all kinds of applications that we can
explore through the social enterprise
that we'll be setting up I would expect
expect that the hospitals in these
developing nations the cost of the
prosthetics would be less than the
traditional method absolutely we've got
to get the costume down to 250 to 300
dollars because that's typically the
annual income for a family in uganda and
you know if you take a ten-year-old
child that lost their leg they're going
to need about 25 prosthetic devices over
their lifetime because every six to 12
months are going to centimeters so they
need a new socket as an adult they need
less but nonetheless they're still going
to need a lot over their lifetime it's
difficult for them to afford one never
mind 25 that's how you know a lot of
these families at subsistence living its
agricultural they're exchanging or
bartering goods they can't even raise a
cash to get to the hospital and buy this
prosthetic leg so are their charities
that are becoming involved with this
project in such a way that perhaps there
is some fundraising that goes toward
helping these children well that's
essentially what CBM is doing we're
fundraising through donors and we will
work with partners to deliver solutions
to people in need wonderful Mitch how
can we help how can you help you could
pay attention to the project we do have
a website it's triple w3d printability
dot org we will be doing regular updates
with that you know we're happy to
receive donations toward these efforts
and we've got a lot of needed belt there
so I would expect in a year year and a
half's time we'll be ready to start
rolling this out on a grander scale and
serve a lot of people in need wonderful
it's such an interesting and innovative
use of the 3d printing technology I love
to see technology being used to help
people that that really realistically
like you say two hundred fifty dollars
is potentially a full year's income for
someone in Uganda and when you think
about the the regular cost of a
prosthetic limb it's just it's so
astronomical that it's it would seem
impossible and absolutely unattainable
so to be able to bring it down to a
price that may be may be could be
achieved by contributions from viewers
and people around the world who want to
support a project like this so yeah yes
and we want to get these children
walking being able to play to help out
around their household to be able to go
to school you know to eventually be able
to earn their own livelihood and be
accepted as anybody else would be Mitch
thank you so much for being here with us
and wish you all the best with this
project and to you and your entire team
just keep up the great work well thank
you very much thanks Mitch this is
category 5 technology TV now we're off
to the newsroom here Sasha der made us
it's Tuesday March third 2015 and here
are the stories were covering this week
valve and HTC are bringing immersive
virtual-reality to users with the new
vive headset the Linux apocalypse is
looming talktalk is warning customers
about scammers who stole their personal
information Bill Gates is still the
richest man in the world setting your
phone down on the coffee table will
charge its battery thanks to some
innovative tech furniture from ikea and
samsung has had a rough few weeks what
with sharing voice data over unencrypted
connections and then some of their smart
TVs turning dumb these stories are
coming right up don't go anywhere if
you'd like to have a cool virtual set
just like Sasha door made us visit cat
five dot TV / green and currently there
is a sale on all your green screen needs
check it out cat five dot TV / green I'm
Sasha through madison here the top
stories from the category 5 TV news room
HTC is to release a virtual reality
headset part of a tie-up with valve a
leading pc video game publisher the HTC
vive will be paired with wireless
controllers and tracking technology to
let wearers explore computer-generated
environments by walking around their
rooms a test version of the kit will go
on sale to developers shortly followed
by a public edition later this year it
will compete with Facebook's oculus rift
and Sony's Morpheus VR headsets the
machines let wearers view computer
generated 3d environments to give them a
sense of being there the announcement
marks a change of strategy for HTC which
has focused on smartphones Wow so I
wonder you put the headset on and then
your whole room turns into a different
room is that how it works Robbie I like
that idea yeah I accept it i wonder if
men would you maybe trip over your
coffee table I don't think you're
actually supposed to run around Sasha I
think that would be a bad idea
roundabouts the opportunity to do I I
just feel like I'm very classy so we'll
see how that works alrighty the year
twenty 38 is still more than two decades
away but lwn net editor and longtime
Linux kernel chronicler John Corbett
believes software developers should be
thinking about that date now
particularly in the Linux world he
raised the issue at his annual Colonel
report talk at the Linux Foundation
collaboration summit in Santa Rosa
California this week time to start
worrying he said the issue is similar to
the dreaded y2k bug in that long
standing in that a long-standing
deficiency in the way some computers
would record time values sorry is due to
wreak havoc in all manner of software
this time in 2038 back in the early days
of unix one 2030 it was almost a century
away time codes were implemented in 32
bits now we're going to run out of bits
in which to tick off seconds
specifically that's going to happen at
exactly three 1407 on january nineteen
2038 so why worry now when we still have
decades to fix the problem corbett warns
systems are being built and deployed now
that will still be in service
twenty-three years from now linux-based
systems are being put into cars into
building control systems into power
plants and who knows how many other
places where they will just simply sit
there and do their job until time runs
out of bits and then they won't work
anymore well it's far from being too
late to address these issues each year
that developers produce software that
doesn't take 2038 into account only
compounds the problem time will tell how
seriously software engineers take this
problem but corbett says he doesn't see
a lot of firm planning going on gee
Robbie will that affect us in any way in
that many years I think
or where it really is a concern as you
think about machines that are created in
order to last they're built to last and
so they put linux on it and that makes
sense you've got Linux machines that are
still in operation from the 1960s 1970s
kind of thing not linux unix though but
the linux obviously didn't exist but
eunuchs which linux is kind of a based
based on has been around for a long time
and there are machines that are still
out there in operation which is crazy
because the technology has changed so
much but what happens if something that
is based on linux now still exists 30
years from now right what kind of
problems with that car y2k type problems
even worse oh it's likely worse talktalk
customers are being warned about
numbers and names from company's
computers an email sent to every
customer and in an email tent to every
customer talk talk's head scammers were
using stolen information to trick people
into handing over banking details
talktalk said it had sent the email to
every customer although only a few
thousand account numbers went astray it
is set up a dedicated phone line for
customers targeted by the scammers the
theft of data was on earth when talktalk
investigated a sudden rise in complaints
from customers about scam calls between
october and december 2014 this seems to
be a reoccurring story that happens week
by week where where companies have just
been infiltrated by scammers and their
staff just go well you know what like
anything I think they're looking for
ways to compromise your private
information and in this case
confidential financial information if I
can compromise your bank account well
then I can take your money so it doesn't
it seem legitimate when somebody calls
you up and says hello I'm Robbie I'm
calling from such-and-such company and
you're okay yeah I deal with that
copyright so your name
name a company right and do you still
live on such and such oh yeah this way
so they're able because they've got the
information to make it seem really
legitimate but but fact is I and I had a
phone a phone company called me just
recently and it turns out it was them
but they were trying to get information
for me I said how am I supposed to know
that you're really the phone company and
their will can i confirm your account do
you still live and i was no I'm not
answering that question but a lot of
people will fall for it we need to be
careful that you don't fall for that
ever even if they present legitimate
sounding information if you didn't make
the call how do you know that it's
really them and in this case like talk
talk they had the information they could
make it seem legitimate and get your
credit card information yes Gary style
yeah it happens a lot Bill Gates has
been declared the richest man in the
world for the 16th time by forbes
magazine's annual ranking of global
billionaires come on now yeah Microsoft
looks so happy about it look so happy
about it the 16th time he's probably
just you know it doesn't even phase him
now just think pours himself in other
coffees like yeah yeah no he's like Bill
Gates is like they're just man in the
world again no still still still
somebody once told me that if Bill Gates
saw a thousand dollars laying on the
side of the road it would not be worth
his time to actually stoop down and pick
it up in the because he makes more than
that like second by second like he just
makes I guess that's true honey not that
it's true that you know let's yeah you
would have why I guess you wanted but it
won't be worth his time to pick it up
the same way you might not pick up a
nickel I do I think though that he would
have to reach the point where there is
so much wealth that wealth means
absolutely nothing to the point like if
you had that kind of money it would be
like a penny on the sidewalk you just
it's it's so small that it this
have all that money after he's been
giving away so much he is the he has
doesn't he have something with his wife
where they're just giving away almost
Bill Gates Foundation yeah they do all
different kinds of good yeah and they
still have so much what a crazy problem
to have Microsoft founder once again
beat Mexican businessman Carlos Slim
said he did not be fair he didn't
actually beat him mr. gates net worth
rose by just over three billion dollars
this year to 79 billion dollars just 1
billion dollars shy Bill Gates you'll be
there at the 80 there are record 1826
billionaires in the world forbes said an
increase of 181 in the past 12 months
mr. gates has now been on the top of the
list for 16 of the last 21 years
legendary us investor Warren Buffett
regained third place in the list with a
net worth of 70 2.7 billion dollars
congratulations to both of you furniture
giant IKEA has unveiled a range of
furniture fitted with wireless charging
spots for mobile devices the home smart
range will initially include lamps
bedside tables and a coffee table as
well as individual charging pads for any
surface IKEA has used the wireless
charging standard Qi which is also
supported by Samsung and its latest
handset the s6 the Swedish furniture
firm will sell charging covers for
incompatible iPhones and Samsung models
environmental group Friends of the Earth
urge caution over the recyclability of
such products IKEA said in a statement
that it's wireless charging products are
easy to fraction at the end of life and
expands on that by pointing out by
adding wireless chargers to home and
office furniture we minimize the amount
of separate chargers needed which does
make sense except if your charger is
embedded into your safe side table and
your charger it gives pooched then all
of a sudden you need a whole new side
table instead of just all
you charge yeah I guess so if you're
really relying on it yeah I don't know I
I would be interested maybe in actually
buying one piece of furniture that would
charge my phone no I wouldn't outfit my
whole house or anything but but I I
don't know because I kind of feel like
if I was going to set down my phone to
charge it on my bedside table well
that's where the cable is and i plug it
in i leave it there so it doesn't make
any sense to me to have yeah but
everybody's but that everybody in the
family's phone could be on the table
then you don't need lots of course oh so
you don't have to have like the whole
Griswold family Christmas kind of rig of
electrical outlets exactly I actually I
really like the idea I want to be able
to charge everything like on the coffee
table which would be funny because you
come in and your coffee table would be
like stacked up in Capone's everywhere
there's no ikea would have been smarter
to have like a charging drawer and all
of its furniture so that everything just
is hidden away actually have to put it
away for once yeah a little charging or
a timeout for your phone it'd be good to
to get on a plane maybe I mean IKEA
doesn't make planes which is probably
the best but to get on a plane with your
daddy yes profit full this have aliens
Jeff yeah on a plane by ikea what's not
lay my goodness alright I like the
direction it's going we'll see a problem
during a server update left many samsung
smart tvs looking dumb this week
affected sets were unable to connect for
two days meaning owners could not use
their more advanced features the problem
is now fixed samsung said it follows a
series of issues for the firm in recent
weeks which admitted that it sets for
sharing users voice data before opening
investigation into why its TVs were
adding adverts to media played via
third-party apps in a statement released
on thursday samsung said that it
conducted its regular update of the
Smart Hub server last Tuesday during
this process
it was reported that some of our
customers in certain countries
encountered difficulties connecting
their smart TVs to the server the
difficulty was caused by errors and
matching the country code with the
relevant server and the issue has now
been resolved the company said research
analyst Paul o Donovan said these are
new and more advanced than what we've
had in the television market before they
take some time to settle down maybe
within the next year or so yeah I guess
I know see it when I first heard the
story I thought that I'd had the problem
that they had but it turns out that I
just have a very glitchy smart TV
because it doesn't always connect but it
did wasn't out for two whole days did
you speak to it i will tell it that you
want it to connect like it sweet well
listening it's listen it's listening
everybody's listening when I speak to it
wow what a paranoid schizophrenic must
think at this point the TV is listening
to me Oh knew it oh yeah Oh for all your
tech news with a slight Linux bias is
the category 5 TV news room at newsroom
category 5 TV for the category 5 TV news
room I'm Sasha der made us Thank You
Sasha this is category 5 technology TV
you'll find our website at triple w
category 5 TV thanks for tuning in
tonight my name is Robbie ferguson nine
Hilary Rumble thank you for watching and
we're so glad you are here just an FYI
category 5 TV is the member of the tech
podcast network if it's deck it's here
you can check that it a cat 5e v /t p n
and we're also a member of the
international association of internet
broadcasters and you can look that up a
cat5 TV / a5e thanks hell alright i just
saw notice there that your mic is a
little bit low so i'm just gonna fix
that bump that up there we go worries
how's that we're good to go I think yeah
pretty raucous she's she's pumped yo
come well hey we've got some viewer
questions to cover we've got just about
20 minutes left of the show so I think
we've got time to
fill you in on what's what's going on
and a couple other things so you got for
me all right well jumped you know what
when he says your mic is low he actually
means oh it's physically oh yeah yeah
like I just looked over and her mic is
actually pointing at the floor sorry
yeah that's what it would happen alright
God bad I must have she's whacked it was
looking her hair my heroine sorry world
technical issues continue but we resolve
them that's what we do here alright
beauty of live television I know he
right let's jump right into the mailbag
got a question comment coming to us from
kalka in regards to episode 3 87 about
YouTube viewer comments so in the first
part of episode you guys said we're
going through the comments on the
YouTube channel i guess and someone
commented saying that they'd like to see
the cat5 TV sign that's used to in our
past life reside behind us a pass yeah
yeah so it got Cal com thinking that
since we've already doing a green screen
for the newsroom and Sasha set why not
maybe have a little small green screen
on the brick background and that way you
could have got five dot TV logo behind
it or maybe try a buy it if we're doing
one of those episodes okay or whatever
logo maybe spice it up a bit um for
holidays or put putting people's um
viewer handles pop up on the screen yeah
come on set of thing so the so the our
viewers suggestion here Keith sending
this in it's a great idea it's a great
thought but I want to show you what
actually happens here so I'm just gonna
I'm just gonna stand up real briefly
here because I've got to reach over grab
a piece of green screen hunk of their
wheel okay here we go so this this is
for the sake of demonstrations I'll show
you why such a thing couldn't work okay
George you to assist you sure do you
want to hold that I can hold this okay
so we'll pretend that that's that's
behind us on signage so when it comes to
virtual space so we've got a news
room for example that looks like this
when you realize that that space
actually looks like this it's a it's
kind of mind-bending right so you've got
that's the real physical space and
there's the virtual space where Sasha
sits now Sasha of course is helping us
out with the camera tonight so she's
going to help us with the the
presentation so what happens when you
mix real-world objects such as ourselves
or anything else into the virtual space
so if this is the virtual space well
let's hop on over to Telestream Wirecast
I'm going to just load up a mouse so
that I can actually control this with a
mouse rather than touch screen there we
go so I'm going to bring out my wide
shot here okay and I am going to set up
chroma key on that shot well so now as
you can see the thing that's in
Hillary's hand is invisible is invisible
okay so if I now add something to the
shot below that so let's use that whoo
so I'm going to place kind of an outer
space animation on that campus okay so
now we've got this kind of cool thing
going on right so now observe the planet
that's there because remember that
planet is in virtual space we are in
physical space so Hilary nor move the
green screen a little bit and what do
you notice the planting the planet
planet does not move with the virtual
space because the virtual space is
static so now Sasha could you slowly
zoom in on me ok and now observe what's
gonna happen behind me here see see that
Oh what
ah so if we used a chroma key screen for
the logo now you can zoom back out again
you'll see what happens save because the
virtual space is statically set
interesting so while the the concept the
premise behind it would be fantastic you
would literally have to pull out the
entire background and never move the
camera right right interesting it works
on it on a newsroom set because sasha is
always in the same physical position
right she doesn't have to get up and
move around there's nothing moving in
the shot other than Sasha thank you very
much oh yeah we're doing that is really
cool blows my mind oh sandy ask if
Wirecast can they do a live motion
tracking the salsa we'll see that's
where post-production comes in as you
can do motion tracking which is as the
camera moves you have points where it's
actually able to move within a 3d space
in the virtual realm as well as the
physical realm gotcha what Wirecast
doesn't have motion tracking it has
amazing you can agree with me that
chroma key is spectacular we're live
tonight and we're able to do that so
cool like that yeah right so easy so it
is that it does very very good so what
it is built for but it does not have
motion tracking so unfortunately that is
not an option thanks so much for the the
interesting question I appreciate that
is interesting and actually I have
another comment here I believe that is
relating to this sign issue yeah um ok
sign is really this we need the logo we
need to know what I did have one
suggestion that came in that was to do
more lower third stuff like sometimes we
bring down kinds of things in and you
know we could do stuff like that and
then it's that could work really cool
yeah that's just another layer and
intelligent Wirecast as well sorry
that's okay this is from spice Jack hey
Spice John saying a way to display the
sign what to have
which be utilizing our suspended ceiling
and there's no lip so you can bring back
to the grid and then hang the sign down
with fishing line a lot of retailers do
that in coral posters and signs so he
offers um a link to a possible sample of
one of these cool so I think we're where
that to me would be problematic is only
the fact that I would expect it to kind
of wave right what's I Wendy fans we got
going on yeah and that's that's
something I actually that was raised
during our Google+ Hangout last week was
a similar suggestion to that and it was
suggested maybe we put something behind
it now so we'll see what what comes
about I have been in touch with a couple
of local sign companies including the
company that did our our vinyl which you
saw earlier the category 5 technology TV
logo on the on the blue wall in the
interview area so hopefully they'll come
up with something that's reasonably cool
and reasonably inexpensive yeah come up
with a good solution for us so that
would be great thank you all for your
comments I wanted to of course just make
quick mention of our bobble head here as
we pay respect to the passing it well
the past Leonard Nimoy and you know he's
had such an impact on so many lives over
the years especially us Trek fans and
funny story with with our bobble head a
couple of things that have happened with
him we had to actually remove him from
the set because our camera kept seeing
him as a real person for the autofocus
so it was behind us and the camera would
all of a sudden focus on the bobblehead
so do you remember the days when the
when the the wall behind us was in
perfect focus and we were out of focus
it was because of our bobblehead we
figured out so it was all Leonard Nimoy
fault right boy next story for you after
following one of our episodes of
category 5 technology
where we had the bobble head over our
shoulder on the shelf behind us I often
upload pictures to Twitter and this
happened to be around the time the
Twitter was experimenting with their
facial recognition system and all this
kind of stuff so I simply had uploaded a
photo to Twitter of us on the set is a
screenshot and as soon as it uploaded it
said with at the real nimoy recognized I
couldn't believe it blew my mind it kind
of creeped me out a little bit but it
actually thought that Leonard Nimoy was
here on the set with us of category 5 TV
and put it direct direct to his to his
mother be cool I would have been a side
uh yeah pretty flat was the closest I
have ever come to meeting the man Wow
yeah that's pretty cool but he did live
long and prosper some peace long life to
you all he will be missed yes for sure
alright so let's jump into do we have
some more question I do have another
question great we've got less 10 minutes
after the show so if you've got
questions for us in the chat room throw
them our way I see sashes over there
with her she's got her phone she's
watching the chat room in the same grant
given us some some stuff beauty okay
Dennis Kelly rights to us asking do you
know why I'm sorry I don't know I don't
know I just wreck it rock do you know
this no I don't don't know do you know
why I lose my USB support for my USB
mouse i'm using linux mint 17 on my
laptop and it's just a generic mouse
what's the deal well you have to try a
couple of different things first thing i
would try well the first thing i would
try is the obvious thing dude you unplug
and blog about unigram so simple i know
it sounds dumb i had so much trouble
when we moved into this space with our
flash drive because as you know we've
got fairly limited internet bandwidth
here so when we moved into studio d i
decided i would buy a really fast USB 3
flash drive and i would copy the file
after the show and take it home with me
and up
using my home internet because faster
yeah less expensive great idea but at
the beginning I had some real trouble
with it hmm and then I found out as I
was plugging it in one day that the port
of my USB port that i was using every
time it was the one on the front of the
computer made it was the easiest to
access was actually physically damaged I
don't know if maybe the kids when the
studio was back at the house if they
maybe put something in there or
something but there was actually
physical damage so then I I disconnected
that port because it was seemingly
causing some trouble with my USB and
plugged into the directly into the
motherboard and problem solved it
actually fixed the problem so so it
could be a defective USB port but it
could be as simple as another thing that
I would check is so from there you know
try a different USB port but also check
that you don't have too much stuff
plugged into USB because if you do and
those peripherals are powered by your
USB bus then it's possible that you're
overloading the USB there can only be so
much stuff plugged in and then it will
drain the the USB bus and you don't have
enough power to power the medicine it
will just disconnect for me not quite as
likely but in order to solve that you
can use an external powered hub and plug
in hydrating devices such as scanners
possibly printers if they have a USB
card reader things like that you know
I'm tablets if you're charging tablets
then is a full draw on your USB bus
there so you can just plug those into a
an AC adapter for example so those are
things other than that if it's actually
an OS related problem then I would
suggest go into your terminal become
superuser or use sudo and type LS USB
and it'll give you an output about your
USB devices and share that with us share
that with with the Linux Mint community
and see if they can be of any assistance
could be a module that's crashing I have
seen it where I had a server recently
where they had plugged in a USB dongle
for a wireless keyboard and mouse
because they thought Oh Robbie's coming
to serve
our server let's give him a wireless
keyboard and now so he can be at the
desk rather than standing at the server
nice gesture but it rebooted their
server interesting huh because there was
a prop there and I turned out when i
looked at the messages log there was a
crashed USB driver that had that it
happened there so check your logs I'm
check into that kind of stuff if if it
is a module then you might need to
basically blacklist a module in your
Colonel there's so many different things
that can be but lsusb will tell us a lot
more about your USB devices and and
maybe we can go from there so good luck
cool yeah how are we looking timewise I
was just looking at that we've got about
seven minutes left and the reason we're
kind of watching the clock tonight is
because we were a little lake it and
started so to us we're not real time is
it a little bit of a different schedule
but it's nice to see everybody in the
chatroom thank you for your patience
tonight as we got up and running and
then during the news segment my computer
crashed yeah and I had to reboot so you
didn't see that that's why there were no
graphics for the leader news stories but
we got up and running again so we're
good we're golden it happened live those
days well I think we have time for one
more kind of question great I think so
this comes to us from smart jacks or
spice chats that's smart Jack hey Jack
smart Jack no jack I'm almost delirious
today oh sheesh okay so this kind of
feeds into some of our technical
difficulty ago I think we got some
questions some comments happening um he
says he's noticed the sound problems
lately with the AC fan going on yeah we
got was a brushing of air he's just
wondering if there's an open mic or
maybe an ipod a phone or camera mic that
maybe he's picking up the sound as well
um someone else a viewer i had mentioned
that as well i'm not sure if we if we
touched on this email but it does ring a
bell Jack smart smart Jack's like stocks
ignore me but yeah you notice that I got
rid of the squeak so that's one
full squeeze working on kind of tweaking
things and audio is a is a big big issue
for you know it's it's really really
important to our studio we've been
working very hard to get the video
quality up with the new camera and and
all that kind of stuff what are you
laughing at the fact that you put me
behind the camera and you're trying to
work that you can see she's standing
right behind the camera because Adam
couldn't make it tonight and she's just
laughably yeah we need a camera that's
pointed your direction but the camera
looks great and is you know every every
week is getting better we're learning
kind of you know I'm learning that you
know blue probably works a lot better
than than some of the ships that I've
worn BM pops out of the screen a little
bit better and you know there's all
these different things that you have to
think about now when it comes to audio
of course we're in a rented space now so
when I don't know they have some kind of
crazy boilers I don't know how they eat
this place but there are big jet severe
that shoot out of the roof and I'll and
we have no control over it we don't even
have a thermostat so it's like we take
what we can so we were able to get the
squeak out and I think the fan noise is
reasonable now and that's just done
through compression and stuff so
hopefully things are looking pretty good
we're figuring it out yeah um he has
another comment another request actually
to have a regular segment or another
show on GUI based linux software may be
like try a buy it there's not much out
there showing the alternatives to
windows based software you do the best
demos I've ever seen on how to Robbie so
if linux is going to get any traction to
convert windows users you've got to show
them that the GUI AKA desktop linux is
as good as and in fact better than
microsoft windows nice first comment I
know we've read this email before I'm
sure of it because I've got severe deja
vu how do then when you done when you
got to the part where he said that I do
a really good job I was like I don't
care we're reading it that's really nice
so I'll take it um yeah we're expanding
into different shows and and as far as
you I Linux goes
the challenge for us is one staying on
top of the latest software so that we're
kind of ahead of the game and able to
show you but the problem is that and
I'll be straight up honest with you
straight up compiz is dead Oh compiz is
dead it's a really sad thing for people
who love compass and when I say compiz
is dead let's take a look at our demo
just look here okay that's strangely
cropped so let's try this one all right
so when I can do things like this and
when I can be doing a presentation for
you and say oh just click over here and
I can zoom in like that that is all
powered by compass so I'm able to do all
of these what you would normally call
effects but realistically if I'm able to
do that and show you on screen it is
able to you know you're able to see that
better and I'm able to point things out
to you better now because compiz is dead
it means there is no more of that
support so as we upgrade our software we
lose that even in the studio so we've
had to help hold back our software ray
in order to still keep that
functionality so I wonder if maybe
virtualization would be an answer if we
were to stay up to date with a virtual
machine or something like that and be
able to give you some newer tech reviews
we'd be certainly happy to evaluate you
know different products but in the
meantime if you have suggestions for
different items that you would like to
see reviewed on the show I'd be more
than willing to look at that looking at
a couple of games right now interesting
stuff that that we may want to show on
the show so you know we're in some IRC
chat rooms over the past little while
and talking about you know different
game developers and development and see
who we can get on the show so there are
you know some really neat linux-based
tutorials that are in the works and
interviews and reviews and
grow from there come on thanks for the
comment thanks for the question and
thank you chat room for being here it's
so great to see we've got viewers from
all over the place tonight very cool
yeah I see a pretty packed busy show a
chat room so so good to see you and we
are literally just about out of time but
in the meantime I'm going to see if we
can get up or your location map its map
dot cat five dot TV if you want to check
it out and when you go there this will
actually show you a pin for flowers for
checking out category biotechnology TV
tonight and I see it from all over the
world awesome thanks for tuning in
except Libya where are you algeria 0
northern algeria there yeah and so we've
got we've got you covered broadcasting
all around the world one thing that
always makes me smile is that we're you
can see and if you've been watching the
show for a while you know that we really
tried hard to get into mainland china
after we were blocked by the the great
firewall and so we got servers implanted
in mainland china and you see that our
viewership is growing or so welcome to
the show wherever you are and thanks for
tuning in all the time that we have you
believe it I'm slides we think Sasha wow
that the hours just fly by faster and
faster really know right Wow well thanks
everybody i hope you have a fantastic
week and we'll look forward to seeing
you again next tuesday night see ya
we hope you enjoyed the show category 5
TV broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven p.m.
eastern if you're watching this on
demand or through cable TV check out the
local show times in your area at
category 5 TV and find out when you can
watch live and interact in the community
chat room category 5 is a production of
prodigy digital solutions and is
licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada we'll see you
next time thanks for tuning in
