all right what do you picture when your
picture wireless earbuds these are the
ones I've been using for years okay
there's some that Wireless there
bluetooth oh yeah they connect to my
phone or my mp3 player right and when I
when I'm jogging cuz I jog right that's
what I do
obviously right what do they do in your
job they stay in the cable this thing
here it's got a little bit of a weight
to it and it will actually pull that out
of my ear and it's like ah it's
frustrating as you say it's not quite
Wireless they're great right these are
great but they're not quite wireless
tonight we're gonna be introducing you
to Joe visas new product line we've got
the shield we've got the beat winds I'm
going to show you the difference between
them they are the first the only the
best fully wireless earbuds I'm talking
over the moon about this think about
this wireless in your ears none of this
and wireless charging perfect let's take
a look here we go
ah this is the box for the shield this
is the box for the B twins now why have
we got both well they are there's a
little bit of a difference in price
we're going to talk a little bit about
that but essentially these are similar
devices they're ear buds right so if
you've got somebody who's an audiophile
fan of music on your Christmas list
these are what you want to be looking at
first of all we're gonna look at the
shield now both of these there there are
some real similarities between them okay
Sasha
both of these are truly wireless I'm
talking no wires you're gonna see how
that is accomplished in just a couple of
moments also both of them have been nano
coated do you know what that means no
that means that if you are using these
for workouts if you're jogging if you're
at the gym if you're doing your jumping
jacks or jump squats uh-huh if you're
sweating you're not gonna have to worry
about your earbuds basically you know I
don't think they would call them
waterproof but you don't have to worry
about sweat that's for sure so they are
absolutely sweat proof they're gonna
work for you you're not gonna have a
problem with that so both of these are
like that they're both wireless they're
both you know they're essentially
similar devices with a couple of
differences between them we're gonna
show ya so let's get into the shield and
this one goes for $79.99 now this week
for cyber week it's on sale for just
$59.99 so just a heads up for you and
there you go so that's what's in the box
so you see that we've got some kind of
behind the ear hanging things these are
going to help if you are really roughing
it if you're you know jogging through
the forest or something like that you're
doing something that you really want to
make sure that they're gonna stay on
your ear but these are entirely optional
now the earbuds themselves this is the
jeebies shield just see if I can get one
out here
there we go that's all there is to it oh
that's sharp
that's our left ear and let's get it out
here don't worry you only got to do this
once folks there get underneath and pop
it out there we are so there's our two
ears how do you like that now both sets
of these jobbies ear buds have just
simple touch controls and they do
support things that you know what you
would expect from a bluetooth earbud
these days like being able to make and
take calls being able to control your
phone let's make sure I've got the right
ear here do they have very nice you just
talked to me oh it did yeah we'll get
into the sizing in just a moment so
these ones this is the shield and I can
hear that it's kind of muted the sound
in here so that's what they look like on
me and that's just pushed into my ear
there's no behind the ear strap there's
nothing going behind my head there's
nothing hanging but beneath my chin
there you have it so how did they charge
that's the question you see these little
proprietary little ports they look like
and I said they're Wireless right I
promised you that let's take a look at
how this thing works this is one of
those innovations that I love from Jabez
now we saw something similar with the
last set of job easier buds that we
looked at and if you're hard-of-hearing
if you've got hearing problems you want
to check those ones out there called the
jeebies amp sound you can actually check
those ones out at cat5 dot TV slash amp
sound what they do differently is they
also act as hearing aids so we kind of
saw this technology but this is
the evolution of that without the
hearing aid component these are
specifically from use that can and calls
but let's get into the accessories all
right we've got a wire I told you it was
Wireless don't you worry I'll show you
how it works
now that's all that's in the box we've
got a little carrying case now we
remember Joby's is very innovative with
their carrying cases what do we notice
we've got a USB input on the case no USB
input on the earbuds themselves but when
you put the earbuds into the case which
is a nice hard shell protective case
right
they magnetically suck themselves into
the case into the right spot you push
the power button and those babies are
charging look put that away put it in
your pocket it's really really tiny
there you have it and then when you're
ready to use them there you go
so both sets of earbuds are going to
last for three hours if you're listening
to music for hours if you're making them
taking calls and standby is a whopping
50 hours okay so there you have it you
asked about sizing size yes all right no
problem there we've got two different
types of what do you call these like
in-ear adapt doors to make it fit you
more snugly we've got little itty bitty
tiny ones for the tiny ears and we've
got some larger kind of circular shape
ones these ones are more or oval like
and then we've got a couple other little
things here these are like sweat seals
and little pegs that you can plug in
where the behind the ear component which
we looked at over here
thanks guys here when we're not using
these we can actually put one of these
pegs into the hole so that it keeps any
water or moisture out of that there we
go so that's how I'd probably want to
use it okay oh I love that so that is
the jeebies shield again
$79.99 and they're on sale this week for
cyber week for 59.99 so let's get into
the be twins these are japaese be twins
now a little bit different here you can
see different presentation a little bit
of a step up in that regard let's
actually get right in there and get a
look at the B twins now they're clips
are in fact in the ear clips so these
actually go into the inside of your ear
they don't go around the back of your
ear a little bit different and what I
notice here that you may not notice at
home
as far as difference goes is that the
shield are made of plastic a nice
durable plastic with the coating however
these are aluminum they have a really
good you know the the whole design of
Jimmy's products are fantastic I love
these but there you go so how do these
fit in my ear let's just kind of get a
look here how do these differ from the
shield they lighter weight they look
like perhaps they are super lightweight
so I'm just pushing this little guy up
in here and it just kind of clips in you
feel that area of your ear it just goes
right in there these are definitely
manly ones right pink there you go so
that's what they look like this is the B
twins
so the B twins also have an upgraded
sound driver so the speaker themselves
are higher-end and again they are an
aluminum bodied ear but these also have
another unique feature Sasha again they
are completely wireless there is no wire
going between them and the B twins in
fact act as two separate Bluetooth
devices so your left and right ear are
in fact two different devices you can
mount those to a phone or an mp3 player
that has Bluetooth or any device with
Bluetooth a computer even and you can
listen to your music in full beautiful
stereo with deep lows and nice crystal
clear crisp treble but what that means
to you is that you can also put this one
away and just use one right then you can
actually use this one connected to a
different device if you would like
so there are use cases you might be able
to think of some places where
that would be you know a neat neat idea
right certainly if you want to share you
know if you want to use one and I'll use
one if you're going on the motorcycle
and you want to be able to talk with
Dave that's perfect there you go perfect
okay so again we know doobies we know
how they do things we know how their
chargers work this again comes with a
nice little carrying case this one is a
belt clip model and we've got a little
reveal here for the USB input to charge
the case can you imagine that you're
charging the case then when we open that
up take your earbud and just set it
right down in there done and just align
that with the with the magnet there
there we go
close it down and turn it on there you
go so now my earbuds are in fact
charging while they're not in use once
it's finished charging it'll stop
charging and then the next time I open
it up I pull out my earbuds they are
ready to go that's the jeebies beat wins
so these both of these devices are
absolutely exceptional so that we're
seeing the evolution of earbuds here
folks if you're a music fan like myself
I absolutely love constantly listening
to music I've always got music playing I
love I actually use my laptop a lot with
Bluetooth and the be twins so it's not
just for phones anymore so you can sync
it with your with your computer your
laptop your tablet your phone your mp3
player my son has an mp3 player that has
bluetooth so we use bluetooth on that
and there you have it so any other
points with the difference now oh the
question is coming in about the price of
the beat wins a little bit more regular
price is $99 again these are aluminum
they're a little bit higher end
certainly the drivers are upgraded so
the sound quality on these is going to
be probably I say probably I know this
is probably gonna be the best sounding
year buddy you've ever heard be it wired
or Wireless
that's a fact this is the jeebies your
be twins earbuds now at $99 that's a
steal but again cyber week this week if
you're shopping right now for Christmas
it's on sale for just $79.99 okay so
there you have it both come in multiple
different colors are there any points
that I've missed sash I think I I think
you got it all Wow first shot I
especially love because I ride my bike
right like a pedal bike a pedal bike
ride my bike in the spring summer and
fall to and from the studio and I have
like I had a like a bluetooth just like
earbud thing that I was using for fun
and music kind of a yeah and that
doesn't sound anything like these I like
the Google Maps just that tells me where
to okay right so just in case you get
lost on your way to the studio that
you've been to a thousand times but the
one that I was using and I mean it's
just the typical one you would use right
so it would always pop out and like
these looks secure absolutely
oh speaking of secure and you mentioned
about the size of your ears so Sasha's
got the little ears I got the bigger
ones let's get into the box here of the
B twins and see what else comes with it
here we go okay some instruction manuals
some information there then we've got
same thing we've got lots of different
sizes there you go there's two more
these ones all have the these ones have
that kind of flap that goes to hold it a
little more solidly in your ear so it
doesn't fall out when you're working out
and then we've got these ones do not so
if you prefer not to have that you've
got that option we've got a registration
card some information and a USB cable oh
and some more adapter things for the
ears and the USB cable again is so that
you can charge the case so you never
chart you're never having to actually
plug in the earbuds themselves you're
charging the case and then you've got a
case here that will actually give you
about nine
nine hours of charging so how do you
like that you can get these right now at
cat5 dot TV / headphones so make sure
you check those out I absolutely loved
what Jimmy's is doing with with not only
their ear buds but their entire product
line we've looked at some of their
products here on the show before but
definitely high-end quality absolutely
something that you want to pick up
easier Ricky cuz I didn't even know your
name they are nailing it the other point
with these is again I do need to
reiterate just in case the question
arises they are phone compatible so
you're able to make and take calls with
these you can control your phone you can
talk to Siri you can talk to Google
music called Google Google Voice Google
Play Google now a new assistant yeah
whatever the Google one is you know what
I mean it will work for you having other
colors they absolutely do both sets come
in various colors so check it out cat
five dot TV / headphones
[Music]
[Applause]
