you know the stories were covering this
week in the category-five TV newsroom a
nasty code execution bug in win war
threatened millions of users for 14
years
ready for another fright Spectre flaws
in today's computer chips can be
exploited to hide run stealthy malware a
pair of hewlett-packard enterprise
servers sent up to the International
Space Station in August 2017 as an
experiments have still not come back to
earth three months after their intended
return and microsoft's hololens - has
been announced for $3500 and is
available to pre-order now to ship out
later this year
these stories are coming right up don't
go anywhere this is the category 5 TV
newsroom covering the week's top
textiles
it's like Linux bias Jeff Westen
Jemma you're building a brand-new
beautiful website what
are you alright you're terrible actor
what this where acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay I'm building
a really cool website are you building a
really cool website just because Jeff is
confused doesn't mean you have to be
visit cap five dot TV slash DreamHost
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
DreamHost I'm Sasha Whitman and here are
the top stories were following this week
before I start the first story I will
tell you that I do have a speech
impediment with ours
so with this is a big important story
about win RAR with yes i am going to say
wrong at some point winrar is like an
old archiving tool that people still use
it exactly windows people who can say
their arse
so full disclosure a disclaimer exactly
i'm gonna do my very best american it
might be win lar it might be it might be
fine Renoir i super best bear with me
it's win RAR every time it sounds kind
of a nasty code execution bug in win
were are threatened millions of users
for 14 years if you're one of the five
hundred million win where our users now
would be a good time to patch win were a
windows file compression program with
five hundred million users worldwide
recently fixed a more than fourteen year
old vulnerability that made it possible
for attackers to execute malicious code
when targets opened a booby-trapped file
the vulnerability was the result of an
absolute patch transversal flaw that
resided in an ace version two dot dl l a
third-party code library that hasn't
been updated since 2005 the traversal
made it possible for archive files
to extract to a folder of the archive
creators choosing rather than the folder
chosen by the person using the program
because the third-party library doesn't
make use of the exploit mitigations such
as address space layout randomization
that there was little preventing
exploits the most obvious path is to
have an executable file extracted to the
windows startup folder where would run
on the next reboot it was easy to bypass
Windows permissions required to write to
that folder in release notes published
late last month WinRAR officials said
they patched the vulnerability they said
an ace version 2.2 ll had not been
updated since 2005 and we do not have
access to its source code so we decided
to drop a sark i've format supports to
protect security of WinRAR users the
code execution vulnerability in WinRAR
has existed the entire 14 years since
the unnies version 2 library was created
and possibly earlier that is crazy yeah
a couple of points that this brings up
for me one how many other tools out
there used on ace like ace is another
archival format right ok so you've got
zip you've got tar.gz you've got 7-zip
you've got all the rar yeah right so
WinRAR like 7-zip and other tools want
to be the you know they like everybody
install this and you can unzip on
archive everything till they include on
ace mm-hmm and 14 years it took them to
discover this yet it's such a common
practice I can't believe it
like tar.gz has for ages so if you try
to create a tar file and you include a
path that is that starts with a slash it
will say stripping away the leading
slash because it's protecting the
unarchive process from going into
folders that you have not allowed it to
traverse right obviously an ace did not
have that same level of protection for a
long time in years
Nina I wonder how much this was
exploited so if he is someone could put
this file like a file a malicious file
in that archive and have it extract to
anywhere mm-hmm anywhere the startup
folders just a great example but but it
could be yeah anything anywhere but how
many other tools are using that on ace I
mean it's an old product right but still
I mean you don't really need it
some people install WinRAR or winzip as
another example they'll install winds up
thinking that they need it in order to
unzip zip files no you haven't for a
long time rar is different because
that's their own format mm-hmm so you
have to have their tool or something on
Linux or something like that 7-zip is a
good one see 7-zip I can say that why
can't this story have been about 7-zip
you say now you made it through real
good I think's whoo thanks your patients
exploited to hide run stealthy malware
Spectre the security vulnerabilities in
modern CPUs speculative execution
engines it can be exploited to steal
sensitive data just won't die quietly in
the IT world
it's unwelcomed persistence isn't merely
a consequence of the long lead time
required to implement mitigations in
chip architecture it also sustained by
its ability to inspire novel attack
techniques the latest of these appeared
in a paper presented at the network and
distributed system security symposium in
San Diego California on Monday
co-authored by three computer science
researchers from the University of
Colorado the paper expector hiding
malware in speculative execution
describes a way to compile malicious
code into a seemingly innocuous payload
binary so it can be executed through
speculative execution without detection
speculative execution is a technique in
modern processors that's used to improve
performance alongside
out of order execution and branch
prediction CPUs will speculate about
future instructions that execute them
keeping the results and saving time if
they've guessed the program path
correctly and discarding them if not but
last year Spectre flaws showed that
sensitive transient data arising from
these forward-looking calculations can
be abused now it turns out that this
feature of the chip architecture can be
used to conceal malicious computation
the researchers have devised a way in
which a payload program and a trigger
program can interact to perform
concealed calculations the payload and
trigger program would be installed
through commonly used attack vectors as
such as a trojan or phishing scam when a
trigger program runs on the same machine
as is infected with the payload it
tricks the CPUs branch predictor causing
the payload program to specula
speculatively executes its malicious
bidding the result is stealth malware it
defies detection through current reverse
engineering techniques because it
executes in a transient environment not
accessible to static or dynamic analysis
used by most current security engines
even if the trigger program is detected
and removed the payload code will remain
operating the researchers have
reiterated what may have already been
stated these flaws need to be addressed
in the chips themselves until then they
expect malicious parties to create
variants of their proof-of-concept
malware technique that's very stuff I've
never even as you're telling the story
Sasha it's crossing my mind and it never
has how this type of technique could be
used to trick a I enjoy forming
malicious tasks like understand like the
the processors on your computer are
meant they're trying to make them fast
right so they add predictive technology
to make it think ahead what's coming
right oh I think you're going to ask for
this so I'm going to prepare it I'll get
it ready to do it and then if you don't
yeah yeah but if you do well it's
already ready
yeah it's already done I've got it
boom done yeah it seems fast so if we
can maliciously trick it into making
that a payload which is exactly what the
researchers have accomplished Wow
that's frightening now take that and put
it into artificial intelligence and say
okay we've got AI that is basically the
ultimate predictive technology it is
thinking for itself it is making
decisions for itself which is exactly
what machine learning is it's learning
for itself right it's creating its own
algorithms so if you can cause machine
learning to create its own algorithms
because that is its design mm-hmm then
what's to stop a malicious party from
tricking the artificial intelligence
into creating algorithms that are
malicious right I've never made that
connection before now and now I'm I just
want to find a dark place somewhere
they're saying chip manufacturers the
ones that have to actually it's a hard
yes but how do you stop it right I guess
you can't stop a point processor
backwards but you could exactly but it's
going forward you could have better
practice but then does that even slow
down the process or people wouldn't have
it oh well we'll go with the previous
generation cuz they're faster yeah right
oh no it's true it's so then we got to
get into new computational models new
and that's what they're pushing for
ultra comes down to the hardware
manufacturers it's unsettling yes it is
hmm yes an indeed is a pair of
hewlett-packard enterprise servers sent
up to the International Space Station in
August 2017 as an experiment have still
not come back to earth three months
after their intended return together
they make up the space born computer a
Linux system that has super computer
processing power they were sent up to
see how durable they would be in space
with minimal specialists treatment after
five hundred and thirty days they are
still working their return flight was
postponed after a Russian rocket failed
in October 2018
hpe senior content architects Adrienne
at Kaz Bergen said that they may return
in June 2019 if there is space on a
flight but right now they haven't got a
ticket the company is working with NASA
to be computer ready for the first
manned Mars flight estimated to take
place in about 2030
the company is also working with Elon
Musk's SpaceX currently the 20-year old
machines controlling the ISS returned
data to earth for processing this is
possible because it takes less than a
second to get the data back but on Mars
on a Mars mission the time taken for a
rack a data round-trip will grow to more
than 40 minutes as the planet is
millions of miles away that means that
the data processing will have to be done
on the spaceship itself the spaceborne
computer is currently embedded in the
ceiling of the ISS they were placed in
an airtight box with a radiator that is
hooked up to the ISS water cooling
system hot air from the computer is
guided through the radiator to cool down
and then circulated back but there have
been problems with the redundancy power
supply as well as some of the redundant
solid-state drives the devices will need
to be inspected back on earth to find
out what went wrong I love that they're
planning so much Mars missions so let's
test this make sure it's ready for a
Mars are you just getting ready for two
weeks if you get the reference I'll send
you a cookie yeah I'd get you a cookie
but what is cool about this is that
they're still working up there I mean
they're serious you know yeah what's
Linux it's awesome
yeah it's got redundant power supplies
and redundant SSDs and everything else
but I wonder what could cause them to
fail up there I mean radiation particles
zip zapping yeah but also the other
thing is that you know the you talked
about the Space Station's current
computers which are old and slow 20
years old they cost millions of dollars
to install those Yeah right like back in
the day 20 years ago right
now they can send something up
hewlett-packard send something up and it
just cost like thousands of dollars to
do that like well to manufacture the
hardware yeah
the cost has come down so far so to be
able to send up something that's the
power of a supercomputer and it and it
it can just be sent up into space and
they're wondering what's going on with
it like there are a couple of issues but
it's still operational it's still
sending data back and still working
so the first Linux computer on Mars
linic right well well I they're they're
they're SPARC servers up there there are
there are other Linux machines up there
yeah I don't know if there's any windows
on Mars right now I'd pass I doubt it
they'd crash there's definitely some
spark up there there's some power pcs up
there so and I guess they'd be running
like a form of Unix
okay it's kind of like a predecessor to
to Linux huh yeah there's lots of stuff
up there it's just getting the people
there now right see you know how how we
can communicate back and I wouldn't call
for help well you're looking for help on
Mars if you're living on Mars you're not
calling Earth for help send help if it
takes 40 minutes to get the transmission
right let alone the people please hold
your request is being held in priority
sequence has Elon Musk said it's a
one-way trip
that is correct yeah microsoft hololens
too has been announced for $3500 and is
later this year Comfort better visuals
and easier to use with your hands that's
the takeaway from hololens to
microsoft's follow-up to the space-age
goggles it announced four years ago the
technology behind the $3500 hololens 2
device which Microsoft calls mixed
reality overlays computer images on the
real world
imagine arrows directing you down the
street as you walk or repair
instructions floating over a machine as
you fix it
that's mixed realities promise according
to Microsoft the company was the pioneer
in augmented reality world when the tech
giant debuted its first headset in 2015
charging companies $5,000 apiece for the
gadget since then rival devices such as
the $2295 magic leap have come on the
scene at prices like that
our headsets are far more expensive than
the competing VR technology currently on
the market Facebook's oculus rift for
example is three hundred and forty nine
dollars HTC's five is four hundred and
ninety nine dollars and Sony's
PlayStation VR is two hundred and ninety
nine dollars you have to buy a computer
or a PlayStation 4 console to power
these VR devices but even then their
prices are at least half what Microsoft
or magically are asking that hasn't
deterred Microsoft from designing and
improved headset as part of its push
into the now far busier AR universe
the company says hololens still isn't
ready for you and me to use at home
though instead Microsoft is focused on
companies and the military but that has
stirred employee dissent as of yesterday
more than 250 employees have signed an
open letter denouncing the deal aside
from that caveat Microsoft has made some
welcome and welcome improvements to the
device which goes on pre-order Sunday
and will be shipping later this year so
does that mean I could order it and have
it that or you want to preorder it and
it's do it yeah you know I want to like
the best thing ever actually so virtual
reality being like you are immersed in a
virtual environment and everything that
you do and see is virtual right
augmented reality or or this particular
type of technology is like interacting
in your world with virtual things so
looking at it from a perspective of like
industry being able to like let's say
I'm manufacturing something and now with
my augmented reality I can overlay and
see how this is supposed to line up and
now I can actually line it up the way
that it's supposed to be because I can
actually see it I can see how I'm
supposed to do it in front of me with
and now with the hololens - and that's
all you need right and it it tracks your
hands and it tracks your movement in
such a way that it's like genius the way
that it's able to just it's a headset
and that's and I feel like it's it's
good for people who have like like even
safety issues like if I were going into
like a concert or a busy spot and I
wanted to know where the the exits are
they would be automatically like there
or or I could say how many people are in
this room like automatically it like cuz
it could sense and tell and counts
probably right so yeah directions you
never get lost again think about gaming
though right directions is cool or
knowing when something is done like cuts
it just can tell you that's ready
normalize do that too but it's kind of
interesting I think gaming like I mean
being able to play a game on your
tabletop able to take the pieces and
move them even though they are virtual
right no they're not physically there so
now all of a sudden it's it becomes your
one point of entertainment where you
don't need it's like the smartphone
right yeah
we don't need a calculator anymore we
don't need this and that and all these
are the camera and a video camera all
these devices that we used to have to
have a Walkman and now you've got a
phone in your pocket that does it all
great so now take the hololens and say
okay well with this technology i no
longer need a chessboard
I no longer need even a computer right
because I can just okay well I'll just
interact like Minority Report yeah and I
can see that screen in front of me if
you think about it like for things like
say for rehab for somebody who's had a
stroke say and they can't write any
longer but it can show you you know cuz
you can see with your eyes what your
hands should be doing right learning so
many things
we've done four they're too expensive
right now phone calls oh that's gonna
happen too right hey mom holographically
she's all of a sudden in the room you
gotta have your hololens on but it works
it that is bananas it's so cool stuff
love it
okay should we jump into our critical
reports a week just to take a really
quick look at how things are looking
from coin gecko this is what it looked
like as of 1800 hours Eastern Time on
Wednesday February 27th 2019 pretty much
everything has gone down a little bit so
you know we were like hey it was on its
way up and now this kind of demonstrates
how the market is constantly constantly
changing so you know when we say it's
volatile keep that in mind
Bitcoin went down a hundred and ninety
three dollars and 62 cents USD down to
$3,765.27 to 4406
etherium is at 130 dollars and 97 cents
Manero at 47 69 stellite is that one
point five one ten thousandth of a cent
oh it's so cute turtle coin is the one
gainer gaining a whopping zero point
seven no zero point zero seven ten
thousandth of a cent think about that
for a second but it grew a little if we
still had a penny right take a piece of
your hair right put it on that penny and
just measure it that the wick the width
of that hair that's how much turtle coin
gets like having a paw open palm and
just putting like one single grain of
salt
that's how much you got but growth is
growth you're the only go and steady
wins the race way to go turtle coin you
are the one fantastic
remember as I say the cryptocurrency
market is always volatile and it never
closes that's right big thanks to Roy W
Nash in our community of viewers for
submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category
TV newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our web
site from the category-five TV newsroom
i'm sasha Rickman I'm Robby Ferguson
thanks so much for being here again with
us this week looking forward to seeing
you again same time same place one week
from now see everybody
[Music]
[Applause]
