here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom the
FCC has approved SpaceX's plan to launch
nearly 4,500 broadband satellites set up
with face Facebook data slurping Firefox
has a cunning plan the patches Microsoft
released in ferment down in Windows 7
actually made the operating system less
secure and last year's Pokemon go fast
attendees got their tickets refunded but
that was not enough these stories are
coming right up
don't go anywhere Jeff Weston Jabba
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website what are you okay you're
terrible actor
what this where acting comes into play I
don't know you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash DreamHost to sign up for unlimited
web hosting for your website with
unlimited email accounts MySQL databases
the latest version of PHP WordPress and
more and even a free domain name
registration it's less than six dollars
per month so sign up today cat five TV
slash DreamHost this
is the category 5 TV newsroom covering
the week's top tech stories with slight
Linux buyers here are the top stories
were following this week the FCC has
approved SpaceX's plan to launch nearly
4,500 broadband satellite SpaceX has
received US approval to launch 4425
low-earth orbit satellites a key
milestone in its plan to offer broadband
with high speeds and low latency around
the world the Federal Communications
Commission issued an order approving
SpaceX's application with some
conditions
SpaceX intends to start launching
operational satellites as early as 2019
with the goal of reaching the full
capacity of 4425 satellites in 2024 the
FCC approval requires SpaceX to launch
50% of the satellites by March 2024 and
all of them by March 2027 SpaceX's
Network known as star link will need
separate approval from the International
Telecommunication unit Union the FCC
approval is contingent upon SpaceX
receiving this like other operators
SpaceX will have to comply with FCC
spectrum sharing requirements outside
the u.s. coexistence between SpaceX
operations and other company systems are
governed only by the ITU radio
regulations as well as the regulations
of the country where the earth station
is located according to the FCC SpaceX
and several other companies are planning
satellite broadband networks with much
higher speeds and much lower latencies
than existing satellite internet
services SpaceX has said that it will
offer speeds of up to a gigabit per
second with latencies between 25
milliseconds and 35 milliseconds oh yeah
those latencies would make SpaceX's
service comparable to cable and fiber
while existing satellite broadband
services have latencies of 600
milliseconds or more spacex states that
once fully deployed the spacex system
will provide full time coverage to
virtually the entire planet SpaceX is
applique
Chandru opposition from other satellite
operators who raised concerns about
interference with other systems and
debris as well the FCC dismissed some of
the complaints for example one Webb
wanted unreasonably large buffer zones
between its own satellites and SpaceX's
the FCC says that if operators fail to
agree on a coordination and a
coordination plan in the future the
Commission may intervene as appropriate
okay so story that's nuts I don't even
know how this is possible how can they
get 25 millisecond latency with
satellites because the speed of light to
a satellite and back to earth would not
even wouldn't it be longer than it it
may be its optical maybe it's lasers
well but I mean we're talking about
having all the satellites up there by
2024 at the very latest 2027 how much
has technology advanced in the last six
years well that's how it goes my friend
X and how much do you think it's gonna
advance even that much further in six to
nine years mm-hmm I mean it's very
possible you're gonna see technologies
on those satellites that we don't
currently have right now maybe you think
that's what it is they know something we
don't know it's possible what I think is
cool about this is the potential for
internet around the world sure the
entirety of the planet like that's
mind-boggling
forget about third world nations think
about our studio
that's exactly thinking about the studio
I mean yeah there's the obvious like
third world nations and disaster zones
and things but there are still places in
Canada that don't have internet what I'm
sorry but here's the interesting thing
to think about because this is satellite
and I used to install satellite internet
okay you have to have your dish sure so
it's you're gonna have to have SpaceX
trained dish technicians around the
globe talk about international job
security
like you get in as a dish tech at SpaceX
you're good for life you can go anywhere
in the world and with the advancements
we have I mean you've got those ear buds
for other languages you could literally
install around the world maybe they
could make those satellite dishes solar
panels and it could power itself and
they could create base stations that get
the connection and then distribute it
over or like network cable it's totally
a glowing story
sure lots of satellite is weather
impacts it that's as soon as you get
some bad weather it interferes with the
signal you're done so it'll be very
interesting to see if they found some
way to cut through weather this is it
though that I'm thinking 25 millisecond
latency Jeff that's impossible with
radio satellite they must be using
optical technology I don't know where
exaggeration or like regulatory approval
while they but would would something
else be able to get through or some
frequency be able to get through at a
faster bit rate and lower latency yeah
how low orbit satellite that's the other
thing is that there are companies that
are working on like drone based
operations and maybe they'll work as
intermediaries between the satellite
network and and drones in space that
would cut down the time that it's right
or if they put start putting proxies in
space mm-hmm sounds like a movie
properties from a security standpoint
though all it takes is one breach of
their security system if you have
internet around the globe that
everybody's on the same system you
breach that once and you have access to
everybody's information like they're
gonna have to have something wild secure
sure yeah the internet as a whole though
just the very nature of it is that it is
a
a distributed network yes so it depends
on so many hops and so many
interconnections but you're right as
soon as it's all coming from one central
service and one central service provider
so many people things I can't wait to
watch this develop over the years
absolutely yeah well speaking of
security fed up with Facebook data
slurping Firefox has a cunning plan
sensing an opportunity in facebook
squandering of public trust through its
previously unrestrained giveaway of
users data Mozilla
on Tuesday unveiled a defense against
the social ad biz and what was that
defense an add-on for Firefox called
Facebook container the Facebook add-on
as its name suggests works to contain
Facebook's tracking attempts in an
effort to provide a refuge from the
internet advertising panic Opticon among
similar lines Mozilla lass stuff I even
googled how to say that earlier ok along
similar lines Mozilla last week said
that it would stop advertising on
Facebook in an effort to encourage CEO
Mark Zuckerberg to improve Facebook
privacy settings it also said it plans
to implement a basic ad filter in
Firefox later this year
Mozilla began developing containers for
Firefox in 2016 and started deploying
them last year the technology provides a
way to create contexts tabs in which
browser based data can be sandboxed
Facebook container implements a
container specifically for Facebook to
restrain its informational reach
Facebook tries to track interactions on
third-party websites that have
implemented Facebook technology such as
the like button or the Facebook login
the add-on keeps Facebook in a separate
container to prevent it from following
your activity on other websites while
Facebook container may help a little it
does have its limitations for example
Facebook Ads employ links that pass
tracking IDs outside of the Facebook
container making it possible for
third-party ad firms to associate
Facebook authenticate
profiles with an external profile we've
had this discussion where you know they
say that they're collecting data
anonymously but they're doing so in such
a way that they could make those
connections exactly
connect the dots and say oh that's
actually Jeff Weston but they're
collecting it anonymously oh yeah the
data it's it straight it can be traced
what is sandboxing data mean well kind
of like what it sounds like when you
when you sandbox something you're
creating you're putting it in a box and
it's the the word sandboxing is
traditionally used by developers we
sandbox applications so that as we're
building them as we're modifying them
we're not affecting those who are
publicly using it so if I wanted to
sandbox my application I've created a
copy of it that I'm working on in the
backend and it's the same application
but then I can go live or just scrub the
sand like feng shui or whatever and and
just get rid of the changes so in this
case the sandbox is taking Facebook
putting it in its own container as the
word is putting it in a sandbox so that
it is completely separate from
everything else so that it can't
communicate outside of its own sandbox
right and then if you want that
information if you transfer back
traditionally a sandbox can be
transferred back in this case you would
just close it and it's gone kind of like
I guess what you would expect from
private browsing for example where
you're in a sandbox browser for example
so as soon as you close it everything's
gone right good job I can't help but
think you know great effort but is it
really gonna make a difference I mean
Facebook is such a large conglomerate
for collecting this data
sure I'm sure that somebody somewhere is
gonna go
here's a quick workaround and then it's
useless I don't know I the thing is is
that I I think and I hope that this
stuff happening is going to make
Zuckerberg and Facebook say maybe we
need to take a different approach maybe
we need to do something a little
different I look back a little people
have been trying this since
the inception of Facebook I mean when
Facebook first came out I remember
people are saying well hold on what do
you mean I I don't have to give you
permission to access everything that's
the way it was
hey you're using it for free my friend
right but I mean up until the point of
Facebook everything was your data is
private we won't share anything unless
you give us explicit permission and
Facebook goes let's turn that around
we're gonna share everything unless you
tell us not to write and so Facebook has
changed the way that everything is
worked and that's what they've always
done is broke the mold and said we're
gonna do it our way so it has I don't
see this is gonna make a difference as
the world changed and to the point where
now we are so technologically connected
that the world has changed we can blame
Facebook we can say it's a Facebook
problem but how many people are running
Windows 10 right but that's but I mean
just the mindset in society has accepted
this kind of information like in how
many people installed Windows 10 oh it's
free right no it's not no but I mean if
you even if you look at Facebook trends
right now the biggest growing trend is
50 plus for Facebook users demographic
wise demographics it's it's the older
generation that are going they don't
they haven't figured out how to delete
their account yeah that's right Facebook
has it's just like you look at say
coca-cola that owns so many food
companies yeah Facebook has got their
fingers and tackles and there's so many
other things like you're not gonna be
able to get away from it and I realize
this sounds almost defeatist in a
mentality but there's so many other ways
that they're gonna collect this
information one add-on for a browser is
it really gonna make that difference I
hope it does mm-hmm but I have to go
yeah we'll see I can't see the soccer
birds awake at night going oh my
goodness
Mozilla like you've just ruined my
business plans not happening yeah I
don't see it yeah I hear so good effort
though good effort on you there your
deleted your Facebook account that's a
good job
valiant effort you have done nothing you
have achieved nothing oh wow oh no I'm
so happy you're here hopes and dreams I
know all right
the patches Microsoft released for
meltdown in Windows 7 actually made the
operating system less secure you'll want
to install the March update right away
if you can avoid broken networking
Microsoft's January and February
security fixes for Intel's meltdown
processor vulnerability opened up an
even worse security hole on Windows 7
pcs and Server 2008 r2 boxes Microsoft's
early meltdown fixes for 64-bit Windows
7 and Server 2008 r2 left a crucial
kernel memory table readable and
writeable for normal user processes this
in turn means that any malware on those
vulnerable machines or any logged in
user can manipulate the operating
systems memory map gain administrator
level privileges and extract and modify
any information in RAM the problem boils
down to a single bit accidentally set by
the kernel in a CPU page table entry
this bit enabled readwrite user mode
access to the top level page table
itself on Windows 7 and Server 2008 that
PML 4 table is at a fixed address so it
can always be found and modified by
exploit code with that key permission
bit flipped from supervisor only to any
user the table allowed all processes to
modify the table and thus pull up and
write to memory addresses that they are
not supposed to reach Windows 8 and 10
are not affected the March 13 Patch
Tuesday updates contain a fix that
addresses this permission issue and a
subsequent emergency patch from
Microsoft should close up the issue in
short patch your Windows 7 and Server
2008 r2 machines with the latest
security updates to protect against this
OS flaw either way otherwise any
processes or users can tamper with and
steal data from physical RAM and give
themselves admin level control finger
crossed your system isn't among those
that will suffer networking was caused
by the March security patches Microsoft
security updates this morning
this month broke static IP addresses and
V NIC settings on select installations
knockin unlucky virtual machine servers
and clients offline whoops yeah so we've
got a patch that has made things worse
which we've patched and then that patch
didn't fix the the patch and then so
we've released another patch and you
need to patch this patch with that patch
that's Microsoft Update for you they do
it on purpose do they test these how do
you not know that's a great question
because I feel like when you're a
company like Microsoft that has been
doing this for so long your ability to
test should come first before you
release something that's broken alright
I think to be fair it would be
incredibly difficult for any company of
any size to test on every scenario so
just to be fair testing would be very
very difficult but it's an unfortunate
case of we updated we patched we patched
we patch the patch we patch the patch of
the patch and it's a mess if you never
update you're fine no yeah that's it's
scary that you really when you hit you
know I don't even know if you choose to
update on Microsoft let's just say you
got a update and when you think you're
done you're not done you're not done no
and then you think you're done and
you're not done you think you're done
and you're not done and that's when you
go to Linux exactly it works all right
last year's Pokemon go Fest was a
disaster for the games developers
Niantic the company has now settled a
class-action suit that was filed as a
result for more than 1.6 million dollars
the event was plagued with problems from
the outset with the game crashing
frequently and leaving most players
unable to use the app in the wake of the
underwhelming festivities Niantic issued
full refunds to the fest
attendees $100 worth of in-game pokey
coins and an issued an apology with a
spokesperson saying the staff were
horrified by the situation their efforts
to smooth things over proved to be
insufficient with the affected parties
demanding that their travel costs be
reimbursed to a lawsuit seeking expenses
was put together in July last year now
Niantic is settling the lawsuit with a 1
million seven hundred five hundred and
seventy five thousand dollar payout to
cover the cost of travel accommodation
car rental and other expenses incurred
by a large chunk of the twenty thousand
attendees according to documents from a
Chicago court pertaining to suit there
are a few caveats claimants will have to
have checked in through the of into the
event through the app and will need
receipts for expenses amounting to more
than 107 dollars any money left over
after the settlement will be donated to
charity speaking of companies that
should really better test their software
people playing Pokemon go and going to a
pokey thing would also have car expenses
hooked on this thing when it first came
out people died when it came out oh oh
just not worth it folks no Zowie
obviously you're gonna travel for these
kind of events but with I mean the story
is about how the app was crashing and
people couldn't use it sure but then you
had to have logged in in order to get
access to the money oh that's smart
that's a smart little like no there
sounds like we'll give you the cash but
we know you couldn't get in and you need
to get in to get the cash so sorry I
don't know because I'm sure that they
would have been able to check in at some
point even though the apps are crashing
and crashing and crashing you must have
been able to get maybe I hope no why why
do you think about you know oh well
let's have a party for this new software
we're not expecting that that happens to
Toronto mac and cheese festival people
just show up and run out of mac and
cheese did it was a travesty but here's
the thing
teach you've got more than 20,000 people
playing globally right but they're not
centralized on one node in one location
all in one place
connecting to the same tower but okay
but that's not a that's not a Niantic
issue if that self it is if you promise
that this is gonna be a wicked party for
20,000 people and it wasn't like maybe
I'm just having a hard time wrapping my
head around it but I mean if they said
hey we're gonna do an online pokey
gathering wherever you are we're gonna
deposit you know coins in your area that
would have been better to have more than
20,000 people playing but it would be
distributed over a larger checking into
the server so why is it that because
they were physically close that it
caused it to crash geolocation Oh geo
coordinated server allocation of CDN
assets that's just a guess so you take
that even make sense
absolutely Adam okay content
distribution networks CDN content
distribution networks oh when you go to
our website category five TV it finds a
server that's near you and gives you a
copy of the website from that server so
that it's nice and quick for you right
now when we do a broadcast every
Wednesday live we're sending this out to
a central server and then that server
sends it out to our other servers and
then it goes out to the viewers so when
we get hit with thousands of views
simultaneously they're not all coming to
us they're coming to our and endpoints
right okay so now flip that and say hey
everybody let's all get together in
Barrie Ontario during a live broadcast
here's our Wi-Fi access connect in and
let's watch the show and all now all
those thousands of people that normally
are distributed over all these different
nodes on one spot are in one spot
connecting to one central server and
that can't handle it so the
infrastructure wise it needs to be
distributed
if you centralize that many people
without being ready for it right you're
in big trouble you should have checked
out the mac and cheese festival in
Toronto and they would have known no how
many lawyers do you think went through
school saying you know I really want to
be part of a loss
where people couldn't catch a Pokemon
from 1.6 million dollars I bet it kind
of like 30% it's a drop in the bucket
though Pokemon go in its first three
months of being a thing made over six
hundred million dollars yeah so you
think about that now they pay 19 percent
of that to royalties to Nintendo right
they are still filthy stinking rich and
taking 1.6 1.7 million dollars of that
is like yeah right but at least it's
appeasing the masses
big thanks to Roy W Nash and our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I am Sasha
Rickman Thank You Sasha and I'm Robbie
Ferguson and I'm Geoff West
[Music]
[Applause]
