the technology has been there for a
while to have Bluetooth communicators
like we're talking Star Trek combadges
and then of course the original series
had the flipped style communicator but
tonight we're looking at first anyways
we're looking at the TNG version of the
bluetooth combat from cat5 TV slash Star
Trek and we're joined by my good friend
Nelson hyuna's who's standing by and we
can't actually hear you right now Nelson
so Nelson is on the screen he has his
bluetooth communicator on and what we're
in fact going to do tonight is something
that I haven't seen done yet we're going
to give you a call Nelson so make sure
you've got you can hear me okay okay so
you what you're hearing there is the
speaker on my laptop so I'm going to
mute that completely and that's what
just happened there I just muted your
your speaker so now if you speak
nobody's going to hear you so give it a
try
Nelson you can hear me okay yeah yeah
that's real so what we're going to now
we've got a smart phone plugged into the
mixing console here and we're going to
give Nelson a quick phone call
so Nelson if you are ready to go this is
a live demonstration of the real quality
of the Bluetooth Star Trek The Next
Generation communicator
now I haven't made any adjustments or
tweaks or anything like that to my phone
the cultic calls coming in okay now I'm
going to turn up my phone a little bit
because we're using the speaker output
hi Nelson can you hear all right can you
hear me I can hear you just fine
so this talking while we're talking over
the Star Trek next generation
communicator there you go so it sounds a
lot like like a Bluetooth headset to me
that's awesome yeah like if anytime I've
used say a jawbone or something like
that
yeah we've got that kind of a sound to
it so let's give this a little bit of a
test Nelson so how you been what's new
I've been great and great little
Thurston's late and looking forward to
spring and love love how I'm having this
um I got the first one as you know last
summer and it was one of those had to
have it moments and then when this one
came along it was the same thing just
had to have this because I've been Star
Trek fan since day one she
1966 1966 Wow so okay next generation
versus the original series the show with
your favorite death all hands down the
original of course yeah you think so
absolutely there's no there's no there's
no you know I'm just I'm just uh you
know a Star Trek real series big plan I
love I love next-gen but my preference
is the original we've just started my
wife and I just started watching Star
Trek The Next Generation but a couple
months ago with my daughter she's 11 and
they re-released it on blu-ray and when
they did that they redid all of the
episodes using the original master
copies so it's been completely redone it
looks beautiful Nelson they've done such
a good job so from from encounter at
Farpoint right through and we're you
know about halfway through the first
season now it's astonishing it looks
like something it could have been shot a
week ago with with the quality that
they've done wow that's pretty amazing I
I heard that they were trying to do
something with deep space in Space 9 to
turn that into HD no way there's a move
that there's a bottle of biography being
put together by a lot of the actors and
Leonard Nimoy son Adam Nimoy yep
released a movie about his father last
September is involved with a kind of way
cool that's awesome tekky I was just
talking about that just before the show
yeah I just started watching it I've got
about 75% of the way through and your
way through on Netflix yeah and it's
incredible now I want to watch actual
Star Trek I mean it turned me on Star
Trek right are you talking about the
movie Leonard Nimoy hundred Adam that's
correct yeah okay you pay close
attention to the credit okay this are
you in there yes I am are Dibakar in
there yeah you get a great job
that's amazing very very very very very
small backer how did you how did you
land that my man it was a Kickstarter
campaign that Adam Nimoy dear that was
two summers ago when he was trying to
raise money for for - to do the movies
really and melt enough I've never
thought of you as the kind of guy who
goes and blows a whole bunch of money on
Star Trek fandom I should not I did not
blow a lot okay hey that's awesome man
oh I'd love to see it and I did start
watching that so oK we've got the
next-generation Bluetooth communicator
so this is a real deal bluetooth
combadge it connects to your phone so
you're talking on a smart phone right
now yep and so I'm not certainly at so
you've been using this for how long a
couple months since it was usually yes
if it was really sorry I actually
pre-ordered got it and I've been playing
with it a little bit come on yeah so
it's been fun have you worn it in have
you worn it in the grocery store yet
yeah no no oh I I did discover one thing
for any of my geek fans out there who
are maybe a little bit self-conscious
about their geekdom such as myself I
figured it out what Nelson I've got a
solution I'm really big on you know so
far we've shown you how to improve the
magnet we did that on the show make sure
you go onto our website if you want to
learn about that now I've got a way the
uber geeks can still use the combadge I
figured it out ready for it okay yeah
what whoa high tech oh you're showing
off the magnet like that oh yeah it's
right there folks yeah I think you have
a cricket in your shirt yeah it has to
be done it had to be done Nelson you
can't see us just yet but you'll watch
it on the on-demand and you'll get it in
you laughs I hope you will see so you've
had this one for a bit and you've been
using it have you noticed the sound
quality difference or any any difference
between this and the original series
bluetooth communicator now that one do
you have it with you can you hold that
up for us sure
yes actually this is this is a this is
the original series one my elections to
answer your question I think the sound
is quality is really good on the next
gun yeah it's just a little it's just a
little bit low in volume I think I got
compared to this one and I went so yeah
we're going to I'm going to get a call
from that communicator in just a
moment's time I wonder if it's simply
the distance I mean you're wearing this
on your chest and I'm wearing mine as
well so you know you're going to
position it somewhere around here and
it's basically like a Bluetooth
speakerphone so we're you know about a
foot foot and a half from the microphone
itself whereas when you're holding your
your original series one it's right up
to your mouth so that may be the
difference all in and of itself I yeah I
would say so okay so that's our first
impressions of the next-generation
bluetooth combat what do you think
comment below I love I love it I love
everything else loves it I think it
looks amazing I think that there's no
reason why anybody shouldn't be proud to
walk around with it on yeah especially
like the original one like come on like
that if I saw somebody walking by with
that I just have some a director that
were again when when this one actually
came out there were a whole bunch of
piece of posting videos of reviews and
was one guy that was actually in a
Starbucks to Hennis his phone ringing
the answers on this in this video
this scares with people looking at it
you know where did you get this thing oh
yeah here we go haha I've actually taken
us with me believe it or not family
functions my family get mad at me going
to do it but I did and family are always
really supportive about that kind of
thing well I've got a lot of family that
are also circus trends but I'm talking
about going to weddings and things like
that and people do a little over who
know the original series and you know
all activist or the original series then
when the answer comes out of course they
are and I whip this thing out and like
it's just like oh my god I have to have
one of those where did you get it
ya know and everybody just says how that
is so cool yeah it's it's a cultural
icon
really when you think about it and so
and like I said at the top of the show
we have been waiting for this kind of
technology to just happen it should have
it's the natural evolution of Bluetooth
is to create these kinds of devices and
it's exciting to see them happening and
they're only going to get better and
better over time and I think that's
that's part of the excitement as well so
it's it's nice to be on the the cutting
edge of this technology finally seeing
the light of day and complements the two
companies that maybe they could have
actually even gone step further
they could have made this an actual cell
phones they want oh yeah oh man they
could have because they could have done
the same thing with us but their
thoughts closest was well everybody's
already got a phone so they're not going
to go up by really to the phone because
it's big and bulky right you can't do
all the things that you can do on a
smart phone so why would they be that
right what they cut us you know what
else I mean when you open that up for us
we can see that it's true to the
original prop it's it's like a replica
so it is worthless well there's there's
stories about that and actually I did a
lot of reading about that and I wanted
to know when I first found this thing
that was going to be sold I found it
about eight months before it was even
available yeah and there's a website
that talks about how what they did was
there were only ten of them originally
made the original Star Trek series
between 1966 and 59 and a lot of them
got lost but there were some that were
preserved one of them actually I believe
it was Paul Allen who bought it and put
it in a museum founded at auction
Microsoft was Paul Allen and they
actually six candles at one Wow Yates
this that's how legit it is that
investigate it is they want they wanted
it to be so perfect because they knew
that if it wasn't you can't not there
would be an every uproar diesel yes so
they took their time in creating the
most perfect replica because they wanted
it to be a hit and they knew that if it
wasn't just a phase they would have
gotten
that's on ass and and I think they were
right in doing so I'm not sure Marcus
because it had mean if you go on the
website where you can buy it all the
comments are you know just that it is a
huge if they've been waiting for fifty
years to have something yeah
and then the opposite happened with the
TNG badging in that when paramount
released all the prop replicas they were
not based on the show they were a glossy
metallic they they were very shiny gold
and silver and they were very very thin
and then when the next generation
Bluetooth communicator came out all of a
sudden people said oh that doesn't look
quite the same as the actual
communicator but if you look at the show
this is actually more accurate to the
show than those prop replicas that we
got it at Paramount in years gone by and
evilly one that I have and and they
didn't and those replicas really didn't
do anything the two devices are the very
first to the market that actually do
stuff bring us joy all all the rest not
only that but I mean all the rest of
those replicas with this voice we start
for these are actually working model we
prefer to say cosplay rather than toys
but you know I understand where you're
going with this I understand okay so
Nelson is is currently speaking on the
next generation Bluetooth communicator
that you see on the screen there that is
what we're hearing his voice through and
so what we're going to do we're going to
take a really quick break as Nelson
establishes a connection with the
original series Bluetooth communicator
and then when we come back we're going
to be speaking with him on that we're
going to see the call deference I'm not
going to change anything from our audio
standpoint so everything you hear is
going to be one for one an exact
comparison between the two Bluetooth
headset communicators so great and
you'll give me a call right before right
exactly yet we're going to reestablish a
call right after the break thanks Nelson
we're going to be right back with Nelson
Judas's we look at the Star Trek
bluetooth communicators from cat5 TV
slash Star Trek we'll be right back
after this now here's another great way
you can support the shows you love for
the category-five TV network by shopping
gearbest that's right Jeff cat5 dot TV
slash gearbest
it's an online store for the geek streak
in you or the loved ones of course I
mean especially your loved ones right
because cap v dve slash gear best quite
frankly has all of the greatest tech
gifts that you could ever hope for at
rock-bottom prices to that cellphones
you bet you cap 5 TV slash gear best has
a wide assortment of unlocked Android
cell phones and tablets global compute
consumer electronics those like a great
gift absolutely from high tech watches
to action cameras headphones even
virtual reality headsets cat5 dot TV
slash gearbest have you covered they
literally have it all Jeff literally
really it's like a superstore right from
the comfort of your own chair at your
computer through the interweb yeah I
there's no way they have it all true
it's just a bunch of random electronica
technique
what about clothes yep both men and
women fashionable apparel at rock-bottom
SuperDuper prices kinda like this well
look at this coat what do you think it's
a slimming mock leather jacket I love it
it's available for less than $30 plus
free shipping at camp five dot TV slash
gear best yeah alright you kinda got me
/ Wow
any other questions for me Jeff now that
the winter is past flying season do they
have any good deals and say to encompass
oh my goodness well check this out dude
they have everything check out over 500
various drums and not only that they're
available marked down by about 32 up to
63 percent off the regular price
love it what's left said again while
you're going to find gearbest on our
partners pages for any of your favorite
category 5 TV shows like new every day
category 5 technology TV the pixel
shadow but of course if you want to shop
absolutely right now and you want to go
straight to the site all you have to do
is visit cat5 dot TV slash gearbest so
that's easy catch five dot TV slash gear
back that's right
happy shopping welcome back this is
category five technology TV and tonight
we're speaking with nelson who is
helping us to demonstrate for you the
actual call quality of the Star Trek The
Next Generation and the original series
Bluetooth communicators from cat5 TV
slash Star Trek that's just a simple
quick link for you that helps you to be
able to find where you can purchase that
from Nelson hyouta is standing by we do
not have audio from you sir although I
really want to kind of hold my
microphone up to Skype just so that
people can hear the sound effects that
are coming off of this device now you
heard my combat it sounds just like a
next generation combat that's awesome
Nelson I'm going to just I'm going to
just kind of jump in here down to the
microphone could you could you open that
up for me the original series do that
again a couple times and I'm not sure if
it folks at home can hear that or not
because I'm just kind of I'm just
holding my microphone up to that that is
fantastic
ok so now we're going to hear the call
quality of that particular device you
ready Nelson he's ready we can't hear
him now I'm just going to establish that
call here we go
so remember we haven't changed anything
in our settings let's watch an L from
this 8 but he gets the goal always it's
got the Flip Nelson I can't hear you so
are we synced to the correct device
oh yeah oh there are you ok yeah we're
sick Hey oh my gosh my goodness that's
loud talk to me bad good qualities you
like you like the sound quality on this
that sound
exceptional that was my that was a bit
was my Catterick by the way it's a bit
louder than the other yeah but it's not
it's not safe for driving at least you
can use the other one for yeah okay
we'll give it that look at that okay
well let's let's have a conversation so
tell us about this one you know a lot
about this and how is that how is that
well this is still down this is down
there I found it on low mic contest I
found it online by accident about a year
and a half ago I guess it was November
of 2015
okay and they were and they had
announced that it was going to be
actually they announced that a few
months before that but I found it in
November and I it was one of those had
to have the moments like I told you
before and I ordered it pre-ordered it
it was supposed to come end of December
didn't come they pushed it back to
January they pushed it back to April
they pushed it back again and again and
again because they didn't have all the
correct components what is this network
discovery and I said what oh yeah yeah I
know what you I know we're talking yeah
but they list it back because they
wanted the device to be perfect and I
finally got it July the third or fourth
last summer and it's just been amazing
I love been amazing absolutely lacked I
even found I even found online they they
don't sell this with it but I found this
little thing to clip out of my help
nyah so this gives you the full like POS
experience so do you have you have the
uniform and everything like you go to
the the conventions with this and oh
I've been to conventions and stuff like
that and if you'll just hang on for one
second yeah I'm going to put this down
and I'm going to come right back in two
seconds okay yes please don't be a retro
well this is yeah ooo I think
something's going on here
I always got the house
I've got the house go unlike you real
you remember that we're on live TV here
right now oh yeah you said that you said
to wear a uniform so this is the only
one that I have he's got a housecoat
nice start new housecoat beautiful Sigma
ll definitely a TOS fan when you've got
the tos housecoat that's kind of I told
you that before now this sound quality
when you had it down in the desk was
just as good as as I would expect and
that was now that was further away than
the erection eration bluetooth combat
yeah I mean I can I could take it this
far how far I rose it's so good it still
sounds good yeah it's still crystal
clear yeah just really minor that's all
now how do you find that the noise is
when you're in a like a busy spot say
you say you're at a concert and you're
talking on your Star Trek communicator
because I know that happens all the time
that Robin are bugs me but I'll let you
know the next time I do okay thanks man
okay well I think I think hands down the
original series communicator sounds
better I mean it sounds amazing
right yeah I'll give it that but you
have to you have to take into account
the original series one is it is what it
is oh yeah now get a lot more space for
circuitry and things like I come from
okay I don't know that whiny sound
effects
yeah see you can hear those sound
effects but us on the receiving end of
the call we cannot hear those sound
effects oh yeah that sparks a nice
Locker yeah yeah well that's it looks so
neat love it now I know it comes with a
ton of sound effects one of though I
could I wish I could play some for you
well we've had you on the show before
and if if you're interested in checking
this out
go to cap 5 dot TV slash Star Trek and
we'll actually put that video on that
particular device Nelson so that folks
can hear that okay and it's so loud
getting so we're getting a feedback okay
I could hold it away no but that's how
crystal clear it is it's so it had so
much good bump to it and I'm a second
I was like ah so it's like if you hear
that little bit of echo when Nelson
speaks that's entirely because you're
hearing them through our microphone okay
it's booming lis loud like when he
started talking you saw I mean cut low
like that's not looking around like is
there any way I can turn him down it was
that much louder so very cool stuff well
I appreciate the call Nelson did we lose
the call right there I think we did lose
the call so I'll just I'll unmute that
but you folks can't hear at Nelson
appreciate the call very very much you
can hear me
the folks at home can't hear you but
thanks for demonstrating that for us
what do you think that's our comparison
review of the call quality of the Star
Trek The Next Generation and the Star
Trek the original series communicators
you can find both of them at cat5 TV
slash Star Trek but beyond that I mean
hey if you're a collector if you are a
fan of Star Trek of either of those
shows I think they're they're both very
cool advice and while that next next
generation communicator doesn't quite
have the sound quality for sure making
calls he's making called Nelson I'm
gonna like ant hear you so I'm going to
let you go my friend thanks for being on
the show
we'll follow up take care I think as a
collector you know I'm a bit of an
amateur collector in that you know I
don't I don't have the budget to spend
the money that a lot of folks do have
but right but I like to have some things
that are you know I've got a Starfleet
uniform I actually have to go to Fan
Expo on others day I really want to yeah
I never watched the original series I
watched some of next generation like not
not every single week or was it once a
week or once a day every day every
weekday every week well I didn't watch
that often obviously but I loved it the
next generation yeah right so I like
this but I would totally wear it in the
grocery store not a problem you'd meet
new people we accept that challenge how
did the batteries last on it like is it
a full day you know I haven't I haven't
ever worn it non-stop for an entire day
I haven't had to die on me by the
thought not yet no true but I tend to
I'm the kind of guy that I'll plug it in
at the end of the day anyway so okay
I've never run it
for more but it'd be an interesting test
for sure but I'm just happy it's
rechargeable and you don't need like
shuttle A's or something it in Cooper
great for people commuting but actually
what I like is free I like that yeah
alright comment below let us know your
thoughts on both of these communicators
who's the clear winner and if you've got
one post us a picture or a video view
test in yours out in the grocery store
wherever you may happen to go
[Music]
[Applause]
you
