hello and welcome to new everyday on
category 5 TV my name is Carrie and my
name is Jen and we are here starting a
brand new online TV show through
category 5 TV and we just wanted the
opportunity to just talk with you about
everyday issues encountered as followers
of Jesus and you know we're still
working out every day what that means
what does it look like to actually
follow Jesus what does it mean to see
God in everyday life
we should probably share a little bit
with you about you know our backgrounds
and are different spheres of of
connections and influences and I'm a
pastor I've been a pastor for 17 years
so I have a totally different
perspective on how to interact with
people and interact and how to connect
people to God because that's what I do
but you're a nurse so you would find how
you live out your faith maybe in a
totally different way yeah and even it's
just very interesting Jen and I we
actually roommates and so this is kind
of just a little glimpse into our
everyday one of the things I really
valued or have valued since living with
jen is our couch time together so you
know at the end of a busy day will come
and we'll talk about things that that
have happened during the day and you
know general share from her perspective
oh here's how I saw God working or
here's what I'm struggling with or here
you know didn't scuze me this was a hard
conversation and and what is it actually
you know how do we how do we interpret
this as a Christian and so will you know
open the Bible together we'll pray
together and I really um just grown from
that and just learned a lot from jen and
your perspective and we're very
different people oh and like she said i
am not a pastor but i've been able to
see God working in my life in different
ways and we're just excited to share
that with you and hmm and also hear from
you as the viewers and yeah and so if
you have any questions at all please
feel free to like us on Facebook and
leave a message there or email us at new
every day at category five dot TV and
even if it's a prayer request like type
it in send it off we'd be glad to pray
for you and we we want to encourage you
just like we have been encouraging to
each other mm-hmm and so why don't we
just talk a little bit about how this
all came about like we've been roommates
now for about 30 years yeah
crazy very cool and she's still my
friend she's just my friend look I'm the
difficult minor anyhow but that is one
of the things that has helped us though
actually is just acknowledging like I'm
hard to live with and we need God's
grace actually every day and that's one
of the cool things right and i think
that's that verse from lamentations i
think has been such is what we're basing
the show on but has been such a okay
it's a brand new day so I'm just gonna
I'm going to read that so this is from
the NIV if you want to follow along
actually or that says starting in verse
21 of chapter 3 it says yet this I
called to mind and therefore I have hope
because of the Lord's great love we are
not consumed for his compassions never
fail they are new every morning great is
your faithfulness I say to myself the
Lord is my portion therefore I will wait
for him and so often um that is such a
promise that I I claim to because it
says his mercies or his his faithfulness
is new every morning his like yeah it's
like Anne of Green Gables who is a
character a Canadian book character she
would say you know each day is new with
no mistakes in it and that's just God's
grace yeah and the fact that we get to
begin each new day fresh yeah and God is
there like just to walk with us and help
us and say you know god I'm having a bad
day today and yet carries my roommate I
want to treat her with love and kindness
I can't do that that is God's grace so
that you know when I get dressed and I
come out of my room and there's Carrie
that I can be like yay because God is
with me yeah and I know that sometimes
coming home from a hard day it's like
okay like weird to treat each other with
kindness and respect and honor yeah and
it's okay Lord like you
you you need to help I said that's what
I love about God's mercy it's like no
matter what it is like lord I need to
cook this meal that I'm sharing with
someone I da don't really I don't go
badly or poorly no I'm still alive it's
not that and I'm still alive too so it's
not bad um but even that is a mercy yeah
the fact that he takes what I put in
that pot and he makes something
wonderful like thank you God and just
you know conversations that we have with
various people that we go into feeling
like a house is going to turn out and we
turn it over to God and then he just he
makes it new he makes it new yeah yeah
we were talking about what what do we
call this show you know we knew that we
wanted to be able to just be real with
people um and not and not negate the
fact that life happens and bad things
happen and bad conversations happen and
that sometimes there's turmoil I mean
you turn on the TV and what do you see
all the time right it's always bad news
it's always you know bringing you down
and I know sometimes it at work there
can be really bad things that I
encounter in it and you really wear you
down but like we're holding on to that
promise that it's actually God who is
able to make us new and not I we're not
just talking about an emotional
experience we're going to share today
about our stories because you know not
that the show isn't necessarily about us
as individuals it's going to be about
how we explore just life issues and how
to have a relationship with God but I
think it's important that you know you
have an idea of where we're coming from
so maybe jen do you want to just share a
little bit about like sure who are you
who am i are you well my name is
Jennifer as we just already
established but I went when I think
about who God is there has never been a
time in my life and I haven't known God
my parents are Christians and their
parents were Christians they're both
raised in a Christian home went to
church every Sunday and I didn't know
your grandparents were to my
grandparents were too and my grandmother
played the piano or organ every sunday
and i still remember that was on my dad
side and i still don't know my
grandfather on my mom's side with the
hymnal on the couch over and he would
crack open the hymnal and he would sing
the old hymns oh wow i remember as a
three-year-old sitting at his feet and
hearing him sing these old songs like in
the sweet by and by which is just this
wonderful song that you know at some
point um when he's you know this world
has passed away that he's going to be
face-to-face with Jesus and you know for
me like as a three-year-old like he was
old like I think he was 80 at that point
so not that 80 is old but as a
three-year-old like anything over 20
sure is only when you're 80 you can be
new every day that's true that actually
right that is true you are new every day
right from the very beginning so so I
grew up in in a home with morals and
values based on who Jesus was we went to
church every Sunday I was went to Sunday
school I went to a midweek Bible class
you know so I learned about who Jesus
was and how much what he did for us on
the cross which you know so I've grown
up knowing that God loves me that he
died on the cross for my sins because
our relationship was broken between us
and God and so I knew from a young age
that if I confessed Jesus or if I said I
want to follow Jesus that he would see
you know I understand it now but as a
little kid I knew that he would come
into my heart
you would come into my heart and he live
with me and so that happened I think
around grade six I went so even though I
knew who God was I hadn't actually made
a decision okay to follow God and so at
a summer camp called Vacation Bible
School I remember being our theme was a
circus theme and so there I was like we
were under the big tent and I remember
that day for some reason we were talking
about lions and I think Jesus being the
Lion of Judah which is one of his names
in the Bible because lions are seen as
like the king right the king of the
beasts and I remember the lady at the
front was talking about Jesus and she
said if you want to ask Jesus into your
heart today put your hand up huh I put
my hand up and it was just so cool
because i knew i knew i wanted to follow
Jesus and it has been an interesting
journey like that's how I first came to
Christ okay so now I know your journey
is different it was a little different
so why don't you tell us a little bit
about yours sure I just have a question
though sure even some of that story I
hadn't heard yet so okay I'm learning
new things about Jenna this is great um
like when you prayed to invite Jesus
into your heart like did anything
significant happen right after that you
know did you I don't know what's look
did you feel different I don't think I
felt different I just blow away I know
and there was diesel I just knew that I
had made a choice I just knew that I had
made a choice and from that point on God
was with me I I can't that yeah did I
didn't want my behavior remarkably
change I don't think so
I just knew I asked yeah and I knew he
had answered it was just a knowing it's
so hard likes I know some people's our
experiences are different I just knew I
said come into my heart and forgive me
of my sins and I think I felt a piece
now that because there's something there
and I believe I felt at peace about my
sins being forgiven and I was at peace
with God because even as a grade 6
that's 11 you can experience that piece
whether you're 11 or 25 or 30 7 or 85 it
like I can only speak up to some of
those ages of course but that's the cool
thing about God is when you ask God
would you forgive me for whatever it is
whether it's the first time or the
hundredth time I believe he comes and he
gives you peace that deep knowing that
he has heard and it's like that sin is
gone through His grace his mercy so what
happened after that so you know you
became a Christian and then he said it's
been a journey for you since then so can
you bring kind of us up to speed of well
no now you're a pastor so rightly you
kept going in that vein so that's good
yeah I did keep going and went through
my teenage years you know going to youth
group and having some really solid
people pour into my life not just my
parents and not just my pastor but other
Christian believers who taught me about
who Jesus is and modeled modeled what
does it mean to be a Christian so it was
really cool to watch them to watch
couples love their like husband's love
their wives and wives love their
husbands and to see them struggle
together was really very encouraging to
watch other people grow in their faith
that were not related to me so it wasn't
just my family
right and so then I went to school in
Ottawa I went to the University of
Ottawa and I believe at that point
somewhere in that those four years I
think I made a stronger just commitment
of living out the faith and when I came
home from school I was planning on
working in gerontology working with
seniors and social issues my undergrad
degree was in human kinetics so health
and science and lots of movement like
helping people move and very interesting
my undergrad paper it was does a
15-minute static stretching routine
affect the flexibility of seniors really
yeah uh-huh that's important yeah so we
can teach you how to stretch I have
stretching books to write here um but
what was interesting is I planned on
coming home taking a one-year diploma in
gerontology and then working in that
field and the pastor at our church at
that point in time said well you know
our youth pastor has left would you mind
filling in maybe you can teach kids how
to stretch my scene here I know and so
I'm like they asked you like come fill
in an app here come fill in the gap I'm
like I can fill in that's not a problem
and so I have been filling in for 17
years I've changed churches since then
I've been to Europe since then but
really felt the call of God on my life
and I know that sounds such like a weird
term what does that sound like and I
remember Bishop Keith Alfred who's I'm
part of the Free Methodist denomination
that's just where God has placed me he
SAT me down one of our events and he
just said Jen I see the makings of a
pastor and I was like
uh um okay thank you and like what do
you say to the bishop like thanks man
thanks man I yeah so in the FIR
methodist denomination the bishop is
like the top guy okay so not every
denomination has is set up in that way
okay so I thought about it and it just
didn't let me go it was just that
thought just I was not released from
that thought and since then I cannot
imagine doing anything else with my life
I love talking to people about who Jesus
is it is and how much he loves them that
he has plans and purposes for them and
no matter where they're at in their life
Jesus wants to be a part of it and
that's what I love about the name of our
show that Heidi of new every day well
what is new every day his mercies are
new every day who is he he is God he is
you know the beginning and and he's the
creator he is this wonderful person
divine and yet you know I believe wants
to be intricately involved in every
single detail of our life right down to
what am I going to wear today Who am I
going to talk to today where am I going
to get gas today because I've learned
that with all the choices that we make
God will use them right and so prayed
specific prayers and you've seen God
answer specific prayers yes so yeah so I
can't imagine doing anything else you
know until God tells me to do something
else I want to tell people about how
much God loves them and has a desire to
be in relationship with him and my life
verse is John 1010 the thief comes to
steal kill and destroy but I have
that you would have life life like life
and have it to the full like not just
half but the fullness of God yeah and so
that's where I met now and yeah
thoroughly enjoying god's mercy awesome
yeah and maybe that's something that we
can explore later on in in shows as they
come up as you know what are some of the
things that we try to fill our life with
two to bring us like a sense of purpose
and like a reason for being here mm-hmm
that like we have understood to be found
in God and experiencing a relationship
with Jesus but maybe that's something
that we can talk about later on if you
have some ideas or questions that you
want to see us sir or engage in
discussion with us then send us a
message on facebook or you can send us
an email and we'll talk about that again
at the end of the show then thanks Jenn
it's good to hear i know there's a whole
lot more that has happened in your life
that hopefully we'll hear about as shows
go on and as as it's pertinent to
different things that we talked about
yes so that's cool alright so i think
it's your turn okay so yeah where do I
begin um so I wasn't raised in it will
say like a Christian home my parents
didn't they didn't even really go to
church we went on Christmas and an
Easter when yeah you probably should go
right but I really didn't have a concept
of who God is you know I kind of always
believed that you know when I looked
around and I saw the Sun rising and
setting in the world turning and all
these birds and animals and I thought
well something must have made them so I
attributed that to this God figure who I
didn't know who that was
um so yeah my parents weren't Christians
then one day I was I went up to my mom
and I said mom I think we should go to
church Wow how do you know how old you
were i think i was around 10 okay yeah
interesting kind of the same yeah right
oh yeah we we went to a Boutin's he's me
a local church in a small town where I
grew up just random Sundays my mom and I
would go and my dad was cool with it
because it was a good time for mom and I
to connect and have some time together
and it seems like a good moral thing to
do you know yeah so we did and then you
know we didn't consistently or anything
like that and then I think I was around
12 we were driving past a church in the
area a different church excuse me and
there was a sign outside that had a cool
saying on it couldn't even tell you what
it is know if it was a Bible verse or
was like about nature I don't know but I
said oh that's so cool can we go to that
church love and she was like okay well I
guess of my kids asking me good church
again I gotta go and write you know she
was really gracious to do that and give
up her time I realized that now she was
busy but so we started going to this
church and I actually went that summer
to a vacation bible school I guess
similar no circus no circulat i think it
was about africa or something like that
and pardon me so I went to vacation
bible school it's like a week long we're
heard about God through song they would
teach his songs we do crafts I think I
built a shelf um but I just got to hear
about who Jesus is and my mom actually
started attending the Alpha program okay
so what is I hear a lot about we hear a
lot about alpha so yeah how would you
describe it so it and I've done the
course now and really enjoyed it but
alpha is basically an introduction to
what is Christianity and why should we
care so who God is why bother going to
church what is the Bible Susan is it
just a bunch of stories put together by
people who lived a long time ago or is
it really true and does it have meaning
for
our lives so usually they have a meal
they talk about it you watch a video and
just spend time talking to people and
hearing about their ideas too so I think
if you're interested in alpha will put a
link up on our Facebook so you can click
on it so you you can there's probably an
alpha running nearby if you have more
questions so we'll put that link on the
on the Facebook page and on our email I
think yeah cool man thanks Jen um so mom
started going there and that's where she
became a Christian and then I remember
her just telling me okay what do you
want to be Christian too and I was like
okay why not if mom is doing it I was
all too but I had a better sense that
you know I think God is real so I I
prayed with her and I said okay Jesus I
guess you're real and can you forgive my
sin and come into my life and same as
you Jen there was no fireworks I didn't
run to the mirror and look like someone
new um but I mean the bible does say
that when we come to him he does make us
new he washes away the old self and
starts creating something new in you
yeah i think that 2nd Corinthians 5 yeah
and I'll let you look that that up there
jen thanks so I what happened after that
hmm i guess i became a christian at that
point I started going to youth group but
I always really felt like I had to be
perfect even before I started going to
church my parents weren't overly you
know strict or anything like that but I
always felt like I couldn't I couldn't
mess up like I had to be perfect all the
time it's really struggled with guilt so
if I made a mistake or I don't know even
if it was something totally benign then
I really carried this guilt with me and
I remember mom saying Kerry like give me
whatever you're struggling with and she
didn't know God at that time right and i
would actually pretend to take sin out
of my pocket I didn't know it was called
sin then when you
do something wrong right and i would
give it over to her physically
metaphorically and she'd say okay I've
taken whatever your burden you're
carrying and now be a kid you know don't
be so uptight yeah but I understood that
but I'm like but that doesn't remove
anything but didn't do anything inside
of me right I still knew that there was
something there that I couldn't fix yeah
but we need god I need a god to to make
me a new person did you find that
version that verse is the second
Corinthians 5 17 if anyone belongs to
Christ there is a new creation the old
things have gone and everything that
were everything is made new yeah so and
so at that point in my life I started to
understand okay you know Jesus I'm
learning about him he says he's the son
of God I started to go to youth group
and read the Bible and that's when I I
heard somebody say I had other women in
my life who really encouraged me mm-hmm
and they said Kerry like you gotta spin
you got to read the Bible every day just
read a little bit even if you don't get
it right so I just started praying and I
didn't know how to pray neither did my
family so I just said god I'm gonna read
this and can you just show me even one
verse just one thing that I can think
about and learn about so I'd write down
that one verse and pray that my god
would teach me about it mm-hmm and he
did Jen like in in crazy ways I was in
high school and I remember I would just
ask him questions because I didn't know
the right way to do it I'd right heel
beside my bed I would just start talking
to God I remember one time I was reading
on a cereal box BHT added for freshness
random right right and I was like god
what's BHT kept eating my cereal right
right later on that day I opened my
science textbook this is like great 10
open it up and it said BHT is a chemical
blah blah blah added for blah blah blah
I'm like God I asked you that question
this morning and you answered
and it was just really affirming so we
started to spend time every day I
started to see glimpses of God I would
be praying for friends I prayed and I
was praying praying praying for my
friend's brother who had cancer and
later on that summer I learned that he
was in remission Murray has cancer I
just I started to see you okay you know
praying matters and I can talk to God
but it wasn't until I was in I was 18
and I went to a banquet at the high
school that i was attending okay and
remember people were getting awards and
things like that and and i was on
spundge of sports teams and I was really
trying hard to be perfect and do
everything right yeah and like I didn't
get the awards but i still like I
clapped for my friends happy for them
but i knew in my heart like that i was
proud and that i didn't mm you know I
wasn't perfect and I wasn't actually
happy for them and I could see like
little glimpses of the fact that you
know what you can be total you can think
you're totally okay yeah but on the
inside there's this ugly thing called
sin even in the midst of doing something
right there's this ugly thing you have
called sin there and there were other
stuff that happened into my light in my
life that you know maybe i'll share
later on but i knew at that point like
there's no amount of good that i can do
I can't volunteer enough I can't do
enough good deeds I can't say enough
kind words yeah that's going to like
balance the scales between goodness and
bet being bad before God and that's when
I realized I need Jesus mm-hmm and
there's a verse in the Bible said excuse
me for the wages of sin is death that's
when I was just looking at ya but the
gift of God is eternal life through
Christ Jesus our Lord and if you confess
your sins that God is faithful and yes
to forgive your sin and cleanse you from
everything that's not right yes and so
that's really when I turned to God and I
said I personally need forgiveness of
the things that I've done wrong and I
prayed and I asked if he would truly
forgive me and I think that's when I
really saw a change in my life that that
God is able to forgive sin more able to
have a fresh start with him every day
and that's I guess what it means to walk
in his mercy hmm you know what I mean
yeah so was after that time and there's
been times since where you know I know
that I've been forgiven of bad things
that I've done but I was at a turning
point I think for me yeah and I think
sometimes when we sin which is basically
missing the markets we're not like you
said you're doing bad things so what
what do we call it sin I think sometimes
we can feel like we've sinned and
there's no possible way that God can
forgive us yeah like because we wouldn't
forgive ourselves I think and so often
we think we put who we are on God and we
think that he operates the same way yeah
and he doesn't like it doesn't matter
what we've done he forgives and he
doesn't grow us why did you do it that
way well you've done this before I keep
like yeah and yet he's perfect yeah
right and he is not there was no sin in
Jesus in his life and if and maybe if
this is the first time you're even
hearing about this Jesus and you want to
learn more about him and see and read
about his life in your Bible if you want
to start in the book of John the Bible
is divided in different books the end
and if you want to start reading you
know just ask God to to show you and
what is what is his mercy look like and
that's probably a good place to start
would you recommend that book or what
would you recommend john is a great
place because John was one of the
Apostles that travel with Jesus when he
was on earth like the 12 disciples yeah
the 12 disciples and he and his brother
James and what I like about John which
is different than the other Gospels
Matthew Mark and Luke John is in the New
Testament the fourth gospel is he paints
a very real picture of Jesus
like the emotional side of Jesus the i
want to say the wrestling side of Jesus
there as I have read through John like
oh I didn't think Jesus would reply like
that oh I like how he interacts with his
parents how he interacts with people how
he interacts with God like it's just
very I want to say more personable I
love the other Gospels mark is probably
one of my favorite Gospels cuz it's
short 16 chapters and because I tend to
be very much point by point by point
like here's the point here's the point
here's the point but John actually goes
in and flashes it all out and yeah i
think john is a great place okay to
start I agree so if you have or know who
Jesus is I do the same thing that Carey
does this is my journal but I keep every
day and you know like reading through
John so if i have a question i would
write down a verse and god what does
this mean mm-hmm like what does this
mean and then and i actually would write
that in slide right down the verse and i
would write in dear god what I guess me
just later yeah and and sometimes I'll
sit quietly and I'll feel like I feel
like the answer is come and I'll just
start writing out or sometimes what I'll
do is I'll just start writing what I
think the answer is God's I God is I
write and think about this this is what
I'm thinking would you direct me as I
right and just I find the thoughts start
coming because what we're doing is
opening ourselves up to the Holy Spirit
and when we and that's another one of
the things that i love about God he's a
promise keeper and throughout the Bible
it says if you turn to me I will turn to
you like I'll come near to you like the
book of jeremiah says you know if you
seek me you will find me when you seek
me with all your heart James in the New
Testament
has come to God or draw near to God and
He will draw near to you mm-hmm and it
nowhere does it say you have to be
perfect you have to be good you have to
have it all together and and Kerry said
so clearly like you see the outside of
us yeah and we've had this conversation
so many times we see the outside of each
other and we can say oh I'm so thankful
you're my roommate and yet on the inside
it's like this wrestling and we can say
like but if you only knew what I was
thinking about or what I thought about
today and yet the grace of God says if
you come near to me if you give me those
thoughts if you give me those feelings
if you give me whatever I will come near
to you and I will lift them off just
like your mom lifted you know I handed
over my pocket linson yeah and she took
them and now the cool thing about God is
your mom couldn't replace that sin with
herself but God actually lifts that sin
off and he fills us with His Holy Spirit
that then we'll guide and direct us so
if our heart is to grow closer to God
then God honors that that is what i just
i love about God like he's so faithful
he's so faithful yeah yeah it's I like
what you said that my mom taking my
pocket concerns couldn't replace that
with anything and you know now I
understand that because we sinned
against God because we do wrong we are
separated from God right and we can't
live with him after we die and we can't
have a relationship with him if there's
if we have sent and everyone has sinned
like at first I said earlier Romans 323
but that like I'm understanding now and
we're still learning
this show is not to be like we know
everything and here dad's a pastor and
that kind of thing yeah but now I'm
learning that God had to send himself in
the person of Jesus Christ to come and
take the place and actually died for us
if the wages of sin is death he had to
die on the cross but he didn't stay
there he was buried and then he rose
again and he came back to life and
you'll read that in the book of John and
so he defeated death so that means and
he says if you come to me you will have
eternal life and we're forgiven of our
sins we come to him and we ask him for
forgiveness and we can have eternal life
with him and so he's coming he's taken
that place and now made a bridge for us
to come to God because the blood of
Christ covers our sin amen so we can go
to him yes and it's not by our own works
but is by by faith in what he did on the
cross I don't think will fully
understand what that means until we get
to heaven no that's something that we
can certainly talk about here so I think
we're getting close to the end of our
time so I don't we that went fast that
why we pray yeah for those who are
watching and something we challenge each
other with and pray for each other is
that we would grow in the Lord and so I
think why don't as we pray will pray for
you and if there's I I always like to
say I always have three options right
when I talk to people will you at least
be open to learning more about God
secondly don't put it off today is the
day I'm going to follow Jesus and for
those of you that have been serving the
Lord and you just want to grow in your
faith today is the day like his mercies
are new every day this is what I love
like his mercies are new every day
so often I you know before I even get
out of bed in the morning like lord help
me today so why don't I'm gonna pray and
then carries gonna pray because that's
normally what how we end our time
together and we try not to fall asleep
so we recorded it at a decent time today
so we're not gonna fall asleep there's a
couple times would be like amen amen and
there's no response there's no response
so um it's alright so we're gonna be
used to it if you guys don't respond
when we say Amen then we'll trust that
you're praying on your end cuz they
can't talk to the camera no but you
could high-five the screen wherever you
are like way to go that's what you could
you could or you could email us new
every day at category 5 TV or like us on
Facebook every day new every day we do
want to say thank you though to eco
alkalines for powering our our mics
because then it would be really hard for
you to hear us if they weren't doing
that and the cool thing about eco
alkalis is they are carbon-based battery
so there's none of the junk that
pollutes our environment yeah in their
carbon neutral environmentally friendly
yes yeah so they are providing all the
batteries for the camera is the
microphone so we're just very thankful
for that we're also thankful for
category 5 TV for the opportunity to
have a spot on their their channel so
thanks so much yeah okay should pray
let's do it alright dear God thank you
so much for this time and thank you that
your mercies are new every day and Lord
we ask that as as we listen to each
other and as the people listen at home
or at work or wherever they are or God
that they would be encouraged and Lord
for those that are hearing about you for
the very first time I ask that you would
give them courage to listen more and for
those that want today to make that
decision to follow you Lord God I ask
that you would meet with them in a real
way they would feel your presence they
would know your love and
Lord for those that are growing in their
faith would you bless them today
encourage them and may they feel your
presence in a new in a fresh way forgot
we thank you for this opportunity we
thank you that you are good and awesome
and no matter what you are faithful
thank you in your name we pray amen amen
yes thank you Father that you allow us
to come to you and even pray to you even
if we don't have the right words you let
us come and I thank you for that I thank
you for how you have shown yourself to
me and Jen in our lives and I really
praise you for that guy that you have
made us knew that you've forgiven our
sin because of what Jesus did on the
cross and Lord we want to live new every
day for you amen and God we're just
excited about this show and we pray
father that you would show us the things
to talk about and that you would
encourage people as they watch to know
that you do love and care for them I
thank you Lord that a relationship with
you is more it is not about just feeling
good or having peace and joy mm-hmm God
but you want to help answer the
questions that are tough like who am i
what's my purpose where did I come from
and where do I go when I die and so yeah
we are just excited and pray that you
would bless the viewers we commit next
week to you in jesus name amen amen so
I'm Jen and I'm Carrie and we do hope
that you will tune in next week for the
next episode of new every day here on
category 5 TV cheers my friend cheers
you
