this is the box they sent me what is so
exciting about this device is that it is
a single board computer built in to
basically a hard drive enclosure that's
all that's in the box I'm just gonna
throw that down there and let's get in
it together now I was watching Doctor
Who last week and I'm afraid to do
anything with the bubble wrap I'll just
set that aside safely okay now this is
sealed Marsh man yeah he's so proud of
you I know I know and there it is I feel
like there should be like some heavenly
semaphores playing as I open this I want
you to understand how incredible this is
for SOC and single-board computers
you'll notice there is no HDMI output
there's no video output this is strictly
your DIY Nass unit there is a larger
form factor version of the hc1 it's
called cleverly any guesses know the HC
to know ya the home cloud - we'll take a
full-sized like three and a half inch
hard drive now what this bad boy is
gonna take so what I want to point out
is that this is basically an xu4 single
board computer I say that it's not
really an X you four but it's it's got
the same SOC so what it has underneath
of this you notice that there's no
processor it's because it is on the
bottom side you can't even see it but
it's down there and it's making contact
over here with the cooling architecture
of this aluminum body okay so this
heatsink it's basically like the the
chassis is this giant heatsink and the
SOC is underneath of this bit here and
it's keeping cool the SOC is why is it
so exciting it is a cortex a15 2
gigahertz pros
with a cortex a7 CPU as well that gives
this a total of eight processing cores
eight cores folks amazing unbelievable
it has two gigabytes of RAM and as you
can observe here it has an SATA 3 header
built right into the board so what does
that mean now we can take our kingston
SSD there you go I've got a 960 gig or 1
terabyte drive and I just simply slide
it in there and boom now it's part of
that device so now this SOC when I boot
it I'm going to have access to this
drive as a hard drive for this system to
use for storage now it does boot from an
SD card so I've got a micro SD card
which I've installed Mavericks Debian
stretch on this so you can download that
at cat5 dot TV slash med just to make it
simple for you that'll take you to the
forum thread that gives you that image
for Debian stretch and that is going to
boot from that SD card then the data is
going to be stored here this is where
we're gonna actually put stuff the case
here now this is sold separately this
upper part here it's just the way that
they've done it so just keep in mind
you'll probably want to pick up one of
these as well and what this does is it's
going to just slide right on here I
presume
of course I unbox this with you watching
so you know about as much of it as I do
but I think that's just gonna kind of
pop right on here huh yeah something
like that with the SD card right there
does it slide on it it looks like it oh
yeah yeah there's like a yeah like a
little break there we go
okay and then this side here I imagine
that's gonna do the same thing and
they're gonna lock together so no screws
needed
ah yes okay now we're learning here
together folks so this is the Odroid hc1
I've put my kingston 960 gig hard drive
in there
I've got Mavericks install here on a
Kingston 16 gig microSD which I'm just
gonna pop right in there it's gonna use
5 volt 4 amp of course we need that 4
amp because we're also powering a hard
drive as well it's got USB 2 and it has
Gigabit Ethernet beyond that that you
add the SD card slot the the microSD
slot is is uhs-1 compatible so it is
fast but again we're gonna probably put
most of our data is going to be
happening here just the boot in the
operating system itself is gonna happen
on the SD card but before you test it
are you putting screws in the SSD
because there's screws on the side on
the table there beside you what what are
they look at you what shakes v you made
me sound like a genius well where do
they go
yeah there you go look at that the food
for the wind you've got a couple we've
got a hole there mm-hmm and we've got
that's it that's there's just one screw
hole that perfectly aligns with my SS
perfect let's grab that because we you
know we we absolutely we only do things
correctly around here folks we read the
instructions oh yeah there weren't any
instructions you saw what came in the
box actually it's just DIY it's just hey
stick this thing together figure it out
for yourself this is very like chic I
love the look of it so and I think that
has a little tiny home server anything
like that this is kind of an ideal
device I think as an observer as Nagios
how perfect is this for for something to
monitor your network and keep tabs on
put all your logs on the SSD it's going
to give better performance and higher
reliability than something like your SD
card SSD SD there you go it's all
screwed together fantastic alright so
I'm gonna jump back over here Sasha if
you want to hit that wide shot there so
that we can see you and I'm gonna make
my way back to the set okay so let me
just all there is to it yeah let me feel
mm-hmm
it is cool what do you think ah
unboxings make me want to buy things
it's just it's there's so many different
things you can do this okay
it is Linux compatible so again I've put
Debian on here yeah cap 5 dot TV slash
Bev to grab the the image for that which
you just flash using B'Elanna etcher I
guess they've renamed it cuz they got
bought out by or they changed their name
or something like that
but sure anyways you can burn that and
then you're good to go yeah
presumably and you say well you've done
all the work but we want to actually see
this thing operate yes so don't go
anywhere we're gonna fire it up right
after this
[Music]
