welcome to category 5 technology TVs
what your bow to experience is a free
tool wide interactive broadcast from
material Canada we podcasting wave every
tuesday at 7pm each time get your
questions in following the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 g weeks
and now let's get here's your host Bobby
Ferguson welcome to episode number 205
of category 5 technology TV it's tuesday
august the 23rd 2011 I'm Ravi Ferguson
I'm crystal wall nice to have you here
great to see you yeah it's been a while
how was the vacation but with also I
didn't really want to come back no not
that I didn't want to come back to
category 5 I didn't know you know this
was like highlighted equation Odin ya
know so good time good time oh it's
great yeah yeah how about you yeah I had
some nice time at the cottage but it was
hard to come back because I said about
it on my blog but I I was like so used
to 24 7 with Becca and the kids so
coming back it was it was really tough
having to be away a work every day and
stuff like that back to reality yeah
pretty much mm-hmm nice to see everybody
joining us in the chat room we've got
quite a crowd there and make sure you do
join us in the chat room category five
dot TV is where you'll find it and also
you can you can get onto free note if
you're using an IRC client and our chat
room is pound category five very busy
show planned for tonight I know but
before we start into that though i
should say how is the sound tonight my
friends is it crystal clear crystal
clear with that behringer mixer with
preamp xenex preamps and beautiful stuff
all that fancy stuff but it sounds good
I think so nice to get rid of the the
damaged hardware we're still obviously
waiting for the server there's some
little choppy nas's off the top I don't
know if that's
word but I just made it up and so it's
acceptable Chris Reich I know what
you're doing yeah but yeah so we're
still we're still waiting on that server
i did get some good news this today
though is that they have ordered in the
server oh great which is going to make
its way to toronto and then work its way
up to bury so I'm really really looking
forward to that coming in and then we
can get past all of the issues that
we've had since our power surge in the
spring where I believe we're finally
through the audio problems now we're
going to be getting through the the
choppy system and the and the lack of
power as far as broadcasting goes so
that's very exciting you can find out
more about the server at our website
category five dot TV really exciting if
you click on new broadcast system up at
the top of the website you'll get to
actually see what the server is going to
look like as well as that you're going
to be able to find out a little bit more
about the specs that we've chosen why
we've chosen those and and how we're
going about building that server once
all the hardware is in I'm excited to
say that we're actually going to be
doing a basically an on-air build so I'm
going to be putting together that server
on the air that's something I'm really
looking forward to as it's been a long
time since we've done a hardware build
really feels like it's been a massively
long time cool yeah see watch all your
frustrations on air watch the vein on
your forehead pong frustrations this
real wood oh yeah good thankfully as I
was saying very busy show tonight we are
going to be announcing a giveaway where
you can win a year supply of eco
alkalines batteries stick around for
that also we've got your questions we've
got a pogoplug to give away cool in a
very interesting way I'm not going to
tell you too much about that if you
follow my blog you already know what's
going on but tonight we are launching a
new program on our show and I what I
what I all I can tell you right off the
bat is make sure you get onto our
website if you haven't already done so
register for a free viewer account in
order to participate in tonight's
special feature mm-hmm
where the award is a pogoplug or a
hundred viewer points as the runner-up
prize 25-year points is the third place
prize so there might be some pretty
exciting action later on in the show and
the pogoplug is going to be the grand
prize so make sure you're registered on
our website make sure you logged in make
sure you check off that little box that
says remember me very important stuff
that's all I'm going to tell you because
we're going to be getting into the
action a little bit later on in the show
so start limbering up yeah space fish
you saw him last week mm-hmm there he is
I said on Twitter Oh see he was really
really still there and it's like oh did
the feed lock up no he's just is is
trying to escape he's floating around in
space I I thought I had a good idea and
I gave him some some pellet food just
before the show because I'm like okay
well that will give space fish energy
all fired up well he kind of failed us
last week that and there he is again
he's just kind of hovering at the top I
think he's camera shy how does he stay
so still he stays so still that I
honestly think that the cameras like
locked up for the computers locked up I
had to do a double take and I was like
oh yeah he's actually sitting that still
still in LA oh he's literally just
hanging on the I was just thinking by
the end of the show we're gonna be like
oh he's still in that resident that gave
him know he's easy just fine but he's a
little bit a little bit uninor jeddak
let's just say that much it might be the
lights maybe like they there oh maybe
yeah they're so great and he's like yeah
the lights in here I'm getting a suntan
as we sit here so what have you got
coming up in the news oh my goodness all
sorts of amazing awesome wonderful
things so let's see coming up in the
newsroom Virtual Touch helps keyhole
surgeons to feel tumors radio antennas
that can be sown directly onto clothes
have been developed by US researchers
iOS 5 to include early earthquake
warnings for users in Japan HP plans to
stop making pcs after best buy request
the return of the failed touchpad stick
around these stores are coming up in
under 30 minutes well that's some scary
stuff
what's that going to do to the industry
we also have a big announcement to make
tonight we are reopening our phone line
the cat phone is going to be available
to you later on in the show so make sure
you've got your phone nearby the
computer as you're going to have a
chance to call in and give us your
thoughts on on those news items all
right we've added i'm on google plus you
can find me at cat five TV / g plus for
my profile and you'll see that in
various places on our website category 5
TV we now have a +1 button and so you
can you can +1 some of the episodes of
category 5 TV and we'll see how that
goes not all right let's uh let's Oh
Before we jump into viewer questions
there was a pretty good-sized earthquake
tremor today you know I heard about it I
didn't feel it and I actually has
completely oblivious to it until I
started swimming at the time like how to
know i was sitting at my desk completa
thing at your desk which is hovering in
the air by elastics yes actually
interesting i was i was at the office at
the time and what was weird as I was
sitting I was sitting at my computer
that wasn't the weird part but I
seriously all of a sudden I just felt
dizzy I thought I was dizzy so I took
off my glasses and I set them down and I
was I was still going like this and I
was like that's weird because it was it
was different because the last
earthquake that I felt was was like a
rumble and you knew it was an earthquake
and you know there's things shaking and
stuff this one literally the building
was swaying back and forth but how I
realized that there was something kind
of off and it wasn't just me as I look
forward and I've got blinds on the
window in front of my desk and the
blinds are swam in perfect motion with
me so it was a really weird Excel yeah
that's really eerie yeah so of course
we're up here and airy and it was way
down in the states where this actually
took place so to think that it that it
reached that far is is that's a kind of
unnerving yeah that's scary a little bit
but hopefully everybody's all right and
i'm not sure i haven't heard news as to
if there's any damage that that was
caused by that at this point but yeah
what was your experience maybe papas a
message in the chat room category five
dot
be okay uh new viewers in the chat room
please let Kristen know that that you're
there so that she can say hello to you
and we'll jump straight into viewer
questions if we could I know we need a
lot to cover tonight if you've got
questions you can email us live at
category 5 TV and of course you can join
us in that chat room on our website as
well awesome so let's jump into our
first it's actually not really question
um during oh sorry this is from a meal
says during episode 2 or 3 2 o 3 told me
how to add category 5 TV 2 XBMC and
here's a result in the form of a YouTube
video not sure if you get the idea I can
I can certainly pull it up let's just
bring up my email here it says thanks to
help extra PHP tutorials would be great
I remember the question and talking
about XBMC and using this is like a
multi media server that you can install
on your computer and it comes up on your
your flat screen TV or however you want
to set it up and its really a fantastic
system but he was having trouble getting
category 5 working on the system so we
provided some information about our RSS
feed back in episode 203 and sounds lang
well he says here's the result let's
take a look
so there's the the XBMC window what you
see on the on the TV so he's added
category 5 technology TV to the menu
there's some of our episodes being
controlled by his mouth very cool and
alas category 5 working on XBMC very
cool Emil thanks for for sending that in
I hope that you're enjoying having
category 5 up on the big screen that's
very cool yeah awesome thanks meal good
to know that that that works so if
you're having trouble getting category 5
working on XBMC I'll recommend that you
check out episode number 203 of category
5 TV that'll be your chance to get it
set up and working for you so just
before we hop on to the next question
here and the chat room there's a little
bit discussion about stuttering and
legging sound and video don't know if
there's anything we can do about that
that's a moment unfortunately no
hopefully hopefully it's bearable gang
hang in there and hopefully if if there
are issues there then there will be a
good quality downloadable version
available for you unfortunately we are
still working through the server issues
are one big bottleneck right now is the
fact that our our main broadcast server
got zapped in a power surge so we're
constantly you know we're trying to get
through this this time right now while
we're waiting for the new server to come
in and in the meantime we're still on
the air we're still broadcasting
faithfully but we do expect there are
some issues and unfortunately there's
nothing that we can do about that but we
do our best to continue on so I
apologize for any inconvenience but
hopefully the show is is still enjoyable
for you ok ok it's so next question is
right Chris Reich just mentioning that
the mic sound fantastic tonight mmm yeah
we've got the headsets because we are
pop stars Chris everyone saw we have a
hair flip or a you know Robbie does hair
flips rather than I do i do them very
very well mm-hmm ce pro at twenty three
point nine eight frames
and so moving on oh yes hmm here's a
question from Joe Coulson hey Joe hey
Robbie we're using cobian cobian coupon
code Ian yeah the newest version okay
and exclusions it has two options
include only these files and exclude
these files when you looked at the
software on an old episode you only
explain the excluded section could can
you please explain include only these
files do the files have to be in the
source section for this operation to
work Wow yeah we're going back Kobe and
I looked at that episode number 68 we're
at episode number 205 I'll ago it was a
long while ago that we had a look at
that so so what exactly is cocoa bean as
a backup software for for microsoft
windows it's really good it's free it
uses volume shadow copy which means it
takes snapshots of you to have your
system so that it can back up things on
the fly so if you've got like a running
database or programs running you can
still back up your system without having
to close everything down it's it's
really a fantastic application just the
fact that it's free as well really just
makes you smile I'll put a link for the
free download in our show notes for
episode number 205 now I just happen to
have on my old file server which is
still up and running because i use it
for an ftp server i happen to have our
old cobian setup installed and on this
server i can i can kind of demonstrate
for you so what what what they're
talking about here is under special
under the properties for your backup
you've got include only these files and
exclude these files excluding the files
is quite straightforward it means that
you're going to omit certain programs
are certain file types certain
directories from within so that way
you're able to actually omit stuff that
you don't want to be a part of your
backup temporary files things like that
include only these files think about
that as
a bit of an opposite direction so in
your files you're actually telling it
what you want to backup but here you're
saying okay well within that criteria so
yes the files does matter okay so your
source directory does matter but within
that criteria only include these files
or this type of file you can use masks
so for example if you go ad and then
mask you can enter as the example shows
there let's say you want to do a backup
of just your music so you go start mp3
knowing that all your music is in fact
mp3 files or if it's all pictures from
your home camera it might be star jpg so
in that case it's going to back up only
the JPEG images and it's going to leave
all the thumbs.db files and it's going
to leave all that the extra stuff so use
that sparingly and only if you need to
it would be for specific types of backup
sets you'll see over here that I
actually have multiple backup sets from
when I did use cobian on this particular
server I still use it on my virtual
machines to back up the windows systems
but so you can have for example you're
my pictures backing up separately from
your my documents for example and you
can tell it to exclude your pictures and
I I guess it just depends on what you
want to do so hopefully that makes a
perfectly good sense but yes files does
matter so here I'm backing up unraid /
category five and then in special if I
wanted it to only backup my video files
I would go star dot avi add another mask
star dot mp4 add another one star dot
what other masks might I use for let's
just say that how's that so to see what
it's done is created those two includes
so it's only going to include things
that fall into that so anything outside
of that from category 5 directory is
going to be omitted so hopefully that's
that clarifies that for you and thank
you very much for the question it's
interesting to see that you're you're
watching some of the old episodes as
well I hope
been enjoying those some information may
certainly be out of date but we try to
do stuff that is going to be usable for
years and years to come I've got some
viewer photos who that have come in this
week three hundred viewer points
annoyance watches category five TV on a
zune device and sometimes from the pc
using ubuntu 10-point the unity platform
so they reverted back to 10 point 10
since annoyance missed a couple of shows
recently in this picture they they said
that this is them trying to catch up by
watching multiple episodes of category
five at once using their two devices so
thank you very much for the for the
email annoyance and thanks for the
picture cool stuff and i see the chat
room was up there on the screen as well
and i'll send you a hundred viewer
points as thanks for for sending that in
pires rock this world says that they are
trying to keep up with the chat room as
they watch the live show and here's the
setup there it is we've got category 5
running on the the website we've got the
chat room krista chattin away there
they've got a it looks like a Dvorak
keyboard layout so you learning dvorak
good for you cool looking keyboard with
some illumination and an apple a couple
of apples you like apples IC and
vegemite don't know why i had to include
that good so you're healthy and you
watch category 5 very good yeah and
you're learning dvorak which is very
cool i really want to learn dvorak 4 and
this is a different keyboard layout you
look at your keyboard and you see the
qwe rty up at the top left that's qwerty
that means you've got a qwerty keyboard
Dvorak is a different layout which is
designed more for computers the cordilla
was designed for typewriters so the
things wouldn't jam as they're flipping
up like this but so why computers still
use it it's beyond anyone nobody quite
understands it but
all computers practically these days
still use qwerty so switching to Dvorak
is better for your organ onyx by far
okay and as well you get like seventy
percent faster typing it's ridiculous
hmm you know I kind of have be around
when you switch yeah I wanna watch you
flames ya know for the first for the
first while for sure once I get seventy
percent faster than i already am I'm
afraid that the the computer might not
keep up oh my goodness already have that
property I don't think I could I could
do that because i said when i type now
if i type too fast like i write my name
but I spell it wrong about ninety
percent of time your own because I'm
going and so I mean if I was seventy
percent faster i have no idea that would
be bad news it's typing your own man
buds I guess mine is pretty easy are 0
bie bie mm-hmm that's all good cool uh
let's see I would like to let you all
know a little bit about a contest that
is going on starting right here at
category 5 TV we are privileged to be
sponsored by eko alkalines and you can
you can actually find out a whole bunch
of information about them by going to
their website we've got a hot link at
cat five dot TV / eco and as you see on
their website they manufacture
eco-friendly batteries they're fantastic
there earth friendly they have zero
percent cadmium their lead free and
their mercury-free much better for the
environment and they stressed also to me
i had an interesting discussion with
them a couple weeks ago where it's
important to note that not only are they
physically like this battery that I'm
holding in my hand is better for the
environment but also their practices as
far as the manufacturing process yeah
I've iron mentally free yeah the fact
that they're doing as as much as they
can to use recycled material for example
even going so far as offsetting their
carbon footprint so they have a smaller
carbon footprint of course then the most
battery manufacturers but even the the
comparatively smaller carbon footprint
that they do have their offsetting that
with the carbon fund carbonfund.org so
very very cool what they're doing and
they're good batteries they actually and
now I've seen the the statistics that
show that they perform just as well as
the big brands and you know who I'm
talking about the two big ones they
perform just as well but that's great
I've actually found and I've used
multiple different batteries and
microphones and stuff but I've actually
had a better life with these batteries
than I then I have with any other
battery padres that's so unusual yeah so
what we'd like to do in our partnership
with eco alkalines is we'd like to
present you the viewers of category 5 TV
an opportunity to actually obtain a
one-year supply of eco alkalines
batteries so if you head on over to
category five dot TV tonight and you
click on Robbie's blog which is over on
the left-hand side you can do that
anytime between now and September 26th
which is the cutoff and during that time
it's really simple you know what what
they need to do yeah so if you want to
have a chance to win this all you have
to do is you can tweet it on Twitter
that correct all of them on twitter
follow them on twitter sorry or like
them on facebook yeah or you can retweet
um I believe you have something in your
blog and that's at category 5 TV / blog
that's right and there's an actual
specific tweet that you'll need to
retweet which is coming out this week so
be watching for that make sure you
follow them on Twitter make sure you
like them on Facebook and that's your
chance those are your ballots and all
the contest details are actually on my
blog category five dot TV / blog and
you'll see there is an article win a
year supply of eco alkalines batteries
from cat5 TV and we're very excited
about that I think it's it's just a
fantastic I mean who doesn't need
batteries anyways so I was surprised
because I've always wanted to be as
environmentally conscious as possible
and
in the process of everything I'm
learning a lot about the manufacturing
process and what goes into batteries and
realizing that the heavy metals that are
in rechargeable batteries are actually
much more dangerous and worse for the
environment then then you would expect
from something that you think is going
to be more environmentally friendly
because you think it's rechargeable so
it's it's a renewable thing and you
think that you're doing better for the
environment and I've always believed
that but then I'm learning that this is
actually not not necessarily a good
practice mm-hmm and there are other
issues involved in that as well the the
electricity that's used to charge
batteries and stuff is apparently much
more than you would expect so just
interesting stuff but so we have those
available to you cat5 TV / blog category
5 TV is on our website and just join
this just zip over to my blog and see
the information there to get into that
contest and hopefully well good luck and
that it's going to be very exciting
we'll be talking about it a little bit
over the next several weeks because the
contest is actually going to be the
prizes awarded on September 27th on
right here on category 5 TV so make sure
you get your ballots in and find out
more on my blog cool more viewer
questions I think we've got a couple of
minutes laughs a couple more here this
one sorry the lingo actually is a museum
from Katherine she says I have a really
ignorant noob question know what our
viewer points and what if anything are
they used for good question yes viewer
points are mechanism for registered
viewers on our website it's a free
service you can register for free but in
so doing you have the chance to
accumulate what's called a viewer point
and by doing that you're getting the
chance to win virtual awards like we've
got our honors metal for example so
people are able to win that award it's a
virtual award but it sits on your
profile and it shows that you're an
active member of category 5 then
as we get into the higher numbers over
the next several months we're going to
be seeing some people entering the you
know the 5000 Bureau points the ten
thousand fewer points area and when that
starts happening then there are going to
be some tangible prizes such as coupons
that you can redeem your points for once
you hit a certain plateau with your
viewer points you might get a coupon or
you might get a prize or you might get a
discount on a piece of software or
hardware so there will be details that
will be disclosed throughout the course
of of the show so all you need to know
at this point is is get registered on
our website it's free and start saving
up your viewer points because as we go
as ideas come in as sponsors come in to
provide different awards to you then all
of a sudden we've got chances for you to
redeem those points so cool thanks for
the questions not a silly noob question
at all oh so here's another question
from a meal it's just very very curious
this week mmm hey Robbie and the gang
lame I guess qualify as the gang because
I look so hip I popped my colleague site
just for that it's the it's the denim
mm-hmm began coming back yeah yeah
you're bringing it back hey try you go
girl says I was a bit late last week so
i miss the biggest part of the live show
thank you for answering my question that
helped i am now also watching some
youtube channels with HTML CSS PHP and
javascript to learn it here are two good
sites for people that want to learn this
and the first is PHP academy' org and
the new boston.com interestingly the new
boston also has your category 5 web
development series posted on his youtube
channel again thanks for the answer very
nice very cool thanks Emil i'll post
those links in the show notes for
episode number 205 at category 5 TV we
would we'd love to include those for you
in the meantime I guess it's just about
time for the news unless we've got a you
know quick question in the chat room you
can send that in at the chat room just
make sure its attention robbie f or are
you krista tonight I'm just Krista okay
all right hmm very well very well we'll
give you a second where there any new
viewers in the chat room everybody's got
your phone ready if you want to call
into the cat phone this evening mm-hmm
all right don't see anything coming in
no questions none you know everything
they don't even have to be that kind of
questions just like rates from areas of
the world you've got to know 30 seconds
everybody Cal hydro how's the Akron
astrue image can restore a system image
to different hardware using this plugin
oh it's a link to a plugin for akron
estroux image is that right I totally
didn't follow I think so there is a link
in the chat logs go get it cool yeah
okay well if there are no questions and
nobody who's professing to be new
tonight let's rock on to the news end
yeah cool
alright so from the category 5 TV
newsroom a leeds university studies to
mind computer virtualization with a
device that simulates pressure on a
certain hand when touching human tissue
tissue remotely must could enable a meta
to handle a tumor robotically and judge
if it is malignant or benign cancer
specialist hope the new system will help
to improve future treatment in current
keyhole procedures a surgeon operates
through a tiny incision in the patient's
body guided only by video images using
keyhole techniques as opposed to a major
invasive surgery helps improve healing
and patient recovery however surgeons
can't feel the tissue they're operating
on something which might help them to
find help them define a categorized
tumors the tactile feedback the texture
the stiffness of the tissue is taken
away in Oh laparoscopic surgery the dr
rob Hewson the co supervisor of the
study the computer sends a signal to
device to tell it the force you are
applying you can actually feel the
response forces you would have felt on
your hand very cool however dr. Houston
believes the work is still a long way
from full medical you saying there are a
lot of technical challenges to overcome
before this can be integrated into
surgical devices radio antennas that can
be sown directly onto clothes have been
developed by US researchers the team
from ohio state university created a
prototype using plastic film and
metallic thread the scientist reported
in a I EEE Journal hi mmm the system's
range is four times greater than that of
a conventional antenna worn on the body
the technology could potentially be
applied in a number of fields but is
primarily primarily designed for
military use our primary goal is to
improve communications reliability and
mobility of the soldier said GGO chichén
one of the researchers sorry but the
same but the same technology could work
for police officers firefighters
astronauts anybody who needs to keep
their hands-free for important work
apple chief executive Steve Jobs sent an
email to Japanese employees immediately
after the 2011 earthquake and tsunami
offering help and support if they or
their families were affected by the
disaster and his company is now
extending some of that support to the
people of Japan 3g cell phones are
compelled by Japanese law to include SMS
CB technology which allows mass
broadcasting of messages to any cell
phone within a designated area an apple
intends to use at technology to offer
citizens of Japan an early warning
system in event of earthquake Japan has
a sophisticated early warning system
which collects readings for more than a
thousand seismic sensors and while
traditional alerts are posted by radio
TV and text message 9to5 mac reports
that earthquake reports will be added to
apple's notification center in iOS 5
which is expected to be released in
September users well of course have the
option to turn off the features since it
may reduce your battery life now is it
just me or did you perk up as soon as
you heard how I was a plause actually
kind of wondering if you intentionally
plug that in there you know because it
because I was here meet Krista happy
there you go some positive apple news yo
history Taylor best buy has been unable
to sell their stock of touchpad tablets
that order from HP and last week
announced that they wanted HP to take
them back similarly deal a day site woot
offered touchpads at a very aggressive
price and only managed to sell six enter
and 12 of them this is for his side that
often sells out goofy tech widgets in
hours when the touchpad was gearing up
for release there seemed to be a fair
amount of interest among geeks but what
happened David Adams from OS newscom
thinks that one thing that doomed the
touchpad was the fact that it was rushed
into the market with the iphone and then
the ipad apple hugged the luxury of
being able to perfect the device because
it didn't have the competitive pressure
but the ipad is out there selling like
mad and the other tablet vendors feel
that they can't wait to that they're
losing the win of opportunity so they
rush the product and it shows and then
hewlett-packard confirmed reports that
it plans to stop making pcs tablets and
phones in order to refocus on software
and they have agreed to buy UK software
software from autonomy for 7.1
billion pounds really about eleven point
seven billion dollars is that right yeah
so my goodness either serious about this
yeah no kidding HP added that it was the
considering selling its personal systems
group which includes the world's biggest
pc making business and that it will
discontinue its web a west of Isis the
touchpad was launched less than two
months ago with models starting out at
about six hundred fifty dollars but when
they heard HP was pulling the plug many
retailers jump ship and marked the
device down to as low as a hundred
dollars the mad frenzy which finally
caused a man for the product result in a
most retailers selling out of the device
as quickly as if it were an ipad 2 what
are your thoughts so we're gonna get
your dialing fingers ready to pick up
the phone or you can use google voice
call us now on a category five phone to
have your say number 70 5739 1056 did
you buy a touchpad are you angry that HP
pulled the plug are you upset for having
spent so much for your device or you can
tell us about HP's big announcement to
shut down their computer systems armed
this is a bad decision for HP and why do
you think it came to the so call call
now Kylie and 70 5739 1056 I really
can't believe it it's like for everybody
who's gone out and bought a touchpad at
the price that it was in the store and
now it's a hundred dollar and then I
went down to a hundred bucks like would
you not be upset about that I think I
feel it give us a call if that's you I
always think it's like a like an angry
child they're like well fine and you
like stomping their feet and kind of
felt that way hmm ok best but I didn't
want to keep on our tablets so we'll
just shut it down not shut it down boys
it's like Gordon Ramsay gotta hold a HP
shut down the kitchen just cuz someone
going right I don't know what do you
think I I wonder what's gonna happen is
they've got all these devices are out
there and quite frankly they're nice
devices these are
good tablets you got to admit but what's
going to happen with the operating
system are people going to suddenly you
know obviously there's the problem you
know the concern over webOS and HP's
lack like possible removal of their
support for that but will we start to
see people opening up to hacking the the
tablet a touchpad and all of a sudden
there's this whole movement of you know
those who are lucky enough to get a hold
of one possibly for six hundred fifty
dollars possibly for ninety-nine dollars
those are the like s the fortunate ones
are the ones that got it for cheap but
really they sold out like like instantly
you go onto a website HP had them on
their website for I think ninety-nine
dollars for the 16 gig version and a
couple minutes later they were all gone
well you put something down like that to
a hundred dollars why would you not
sounds like you get this piece of
technology so who cares if it's you know
not any good or if it's not as good as
others so but who cares i think hardware
wise it's it is a good tablet i think
it's a good speedy responsive tablet
it's got lots of great features and it's
modern but is is this this guy from OS
news.com david adams was he correct in
thinking that you know perhaps they
really try they tried to push themselves
into that market too quickly and nobody
was ready for it maybe the consumer
weren't ready for is it that they put
their ipad competing product into a
market where they priced it at the same
price point to the same you know user
base as far as cost goes could that be a
factor could it be that because they
were charging so much for it the user
base of the the pc which is
traditionally a less lower spender Tim
you know obviously we don't that on the
pc we're not used to spending as much as
you do on an Apple device so shouldn't
the iPad be more expensive than the than
the I guess what they wanted to be the
iPad killer hmm or was it the HP killer
their own product I'd love to to receive
a call if you can pick up the phone and
give us a call or use google voice RW
Nash one of our news guys was mentioning
that if you use google voice
you can call us up for free from US and
canada and of course from the UK you can
call us up for one cent per minute and
of course there's no charge to call
other than the fact that you'll you'll
just pay the long distance to give us a
ring so so we thought we'd give it a try
so if you like pick up the phone let us
know what you think about the whole
kerfuffle over HP and their their
decision to close down their their pc
end of things and that's a scary thing
to thinking about you know the quality
level of HP computers and from a
consumer base i think walk being able to
walk into a store and and say you know
i'll get this good quality HP computer
they make good computers and simply so
if they closed that down who's the next
best thing really i'm i'm almost really
glad at this point that that i went with
a clone like an OEM system i'm building
our own system for the new server I'm
you know there's other reasons that I'm
glad for that but now hearing all this
over HP I'm thinking that well it's
probably a good thing that I didn't get
that HP server that we were looking at
so why died because where's the support
going to be did anyone in the chat room
purchase an HP TouchPad and certainly if
that was you i would encourage you to
pick up the phone and give us a call
we'll give it a couple more minutes to
see if if anyone calls in you know i
think part of the problem could also be
like how all these companies besides
apple or marketing these comfortable
devices i mean like Apple already has it
out there and I think a lot of these
companies are focusing more on what
their product does that apple doesn't
write instead of the product and I think
that's where they're losing a lot of
people I just think that they should
find their their own niche instead of
trying to scoot under apple and then
come up on its time because we're
looking at a market where Apple came out
with the device and it's the same thing
with a smartphone it's like every
smartphone that comes out after an
iphone is really trying
yeah and same thing with the iPad it's
like they did at first that is smart
they did it a little bit conniving Lee
as far as how they released the the
first generation and then the second
generation iPad it's like well here's a
jumbo-sized ipod touch but we took the
camera out knowing that okay well we're
going to put that in the second
generation so everyone's going to
upgrade and then all of a sudden we've
got all day so it's a it's an
interesting way that they've gone about
it but how does someone like HP compete
against that some have suggested they
should have taken it as a loss leader
they should have said you know what this
thing's a hundred bucks from the start
and said okay here's our way to be the
iPad killer let's take it as a loss
leader let's make our money elsewhere
and let's put out a device that's really
going to hit the industry strong could
that have done something for them so
this is category 5 technology TV who's
this hello have we got a caller looks
like we lost them please try again so
close yeah those guys so close give us
another call should it have been a loss
leader should they have included a deal
with their printers when you buy a
printer you know get a high-end printer
for for several hundred dollars and all
of a sudden we'll throw in a touchpad or
perhaps we'll at that point give you a
touch pad for a hundred bucks would that
have been the way that they should have
approached rather than just entering a
market that's owned by apple practically
and saying okay well we've got a
competitive product we're going to price
it at the same price and we're going to
expect that everyone's going to buy it
and then great big online store still
615 of them which is ridiculous yeah I
mean no wonder they're hanging their
heads in shame and saying oh just shut
it down I would be devastated devastated
is our color gonna try again I hope so
any other thoughts in the chat room
there on HP's decision to close down
their their pc and and touchpad end of
their business going strictly to
software
I think it'll be a ripple effect I think
that we're going to see a lot of I think
is going to be a big wake-up call for
other tablet manufacturers who are
trying to compete against Apple I think
we're really going to see that where
we're going to have you know all of the
other device manufacturers and wait
maybe we got to approach this
differently maybe they're going to think
about taking things loss leader because
really I mean to get into this industry
it's it's going to be that way mm-hmm
what are you thoughts final call to pick
up the phone give us a call 705 739 1056
come on come on call you get them to
call you can get them to call you know
you wanna come on that's how she does it
you know everybody's calling oh wait a
minute no no somewhere they're trying to
get through the lines are just they're
just jammed that's what the problem is
the lines are jammed my kids are
probably upstairs playing with the phone
yeah that's the problem final call
anybody want to give us a call 705 739
1056 we thought we would open up the cat
phone tonight I know it's been a long
time since we've had a phone line so
you're not used to this you're probably
not they'd probably didn't even know
coming into the show that hey I could
actually call up and give my feedback
mm-hmm and of course I can also open up
the phone if you would like to give us a
call with a question if you'd like to
ask a quick question or if you'd like to
say hi simply to have a quick chat with
with Kristin myself i'll just give you
that opportunity to give us a quick ring
nice to see everybody joining us in the
chat room Chris Reich how are you doing
lots and lots of people in their gadget
wisdom guru who has been one of our
viewers who has surpassed the point of
receiving a thousand viewer points at
this point oh my goodness very very
happy to have you here and participating
in the community alright well there's a
Chris Rock does have a question in the
chat room out know if you ever yeah
Icarus is
as I've installed scientific Linux 6.1
and it gives me no GUI do you know how
to load no more xfce you just get into a
Bosch prompt or where does it take you
gad wheels got a link there for some
information in the documentation I'm
just curious like if it's a if it's a
flash prompt I mean you can type start X
all one word and that'll that'll launch
your your your ex environment which will
load your you know your defaults as far
as that goes I haven't tried scientific
Linux is that one that I should be
looking at with our with our review as
we go forward looking at different linux
distributions might be interesting just
a quick note that this episode of
category five technology TV is brought
to you in part by pogoplug and you'll
find them online at cat five dot TV /
pogoplug and as well we've were
sponsored by planet calypso i'd
encourage you to join me in the free
online game it's cat five dot TV /
Calypso we will we'll try the phone
thing again in the future I thought that
I would you know provide that
opportunity for you tonight hopefully
regardless I've maybe raise some points
that make you go hmm you can pop me an
email live at category 5 TV and myself
or krista will will raise your concerns
on the air with regards to HP and
anything else that we've set on
tonight's show and will like i say will
introduce the cat phone again in the
future i'm sorry for the one caller who
tried to get through and couldn't so do
we have any final questions in the chat
room before we give away a pogoplug cuz
i know that's what is eating for that
you know there was one question here now
I've lost it
sorry gang it's hard to keep up a pretty
active chat room tonight on it oh this
is a non-techie question but o-tar's 360
just says what do you say the average
wage for a junior web developer is in
what country ah that would be a key
question i think in canada i guess it
depends ailing i don't know like do you
think like 25 bucks is a starting wage
at this point or 20 bucks for junior
give or take I don't know um maybe less
15-6 depends how good you language it
depends on what is minimum wage the ten
bucks yet I don't know keeps you know
what you could always you could always
pick up a phone go through the yellow
pages and and just call up two different
companies and just say I you know I
would be open to this if somebody called
me up and I've had it happen where
somebody called up and said I'm just
feeling out the industry just wondering
approximately where wages start at your
company as far as web development goes
and I've shared that with them so it's
not I don't think too many people are
going to have a problem with that are
you asking that question then find the
average and and you've kind of got an
idea as far as that goes and that's in
your community too so that's even a bit
more of a bonus right so we do have a
caller on category 5 TV who's this oh
hey annoyance how are you all right very
good very good Krista's here with me as
you see on that I can't listen to it
well yeah yeah good idea that's probably
like a 10 second delay there as far as
that goes where you can where exactly
calling from tonight I am in Georgia
cool yep cool what can I do for you
tonight we're just going to ask you
about a light issue that I had with my
bluetooth okay and putting pen yeah
you know if there is there some kind of
a problem with that a mic issue with
10-point times it when i'm on skype yeah
the might will work so i have to go into
windows these guys oh dear is it a is it
a USB microphone no is just a regular um
like that you plug into them into the
mic jack okay and you're plugging into
the pink port on the back of your
computer yeah so Ella works in your
windows environment right so just not in
your legs environment yeah we're fine as
we're out yeah and speakers are no
problem speakers work by chat room and
the ideas i don't know event of an issue
their annoyance as far as that goes i
have not had problems with audio both
mics and and speakers in ubuntu 10.10 or
a webcam linux might pick that up as the
default capture device for audio so it
may be playing sound through your
speakers but it might be using one of
those other capture devices as your
microphone is that a possibility by any
chance i was hoping that it would do
that so that I so I unplugged that
device something else would pick it up
but it didn't okay and when so you do
have another device which which possibly
does it could be picketing picked up as
a microphone is that right well I have a
webcam built-in yeah but it doesn't
shake it doesn't pick up anything oh
it's built in okay sound goes so you've
got a built-in microphone as a laptop I
guess yeah so you probably have a
built-in microphone yeah it's hard to
say like in pulseaudio you might just go
into your settings but I'm sure have you
already done that gone through kind of
the prompts I've gone through everything
I could possibly do with that yeah I
went through the post audio I
actually put some other software on the
machine and all the audio stuff just
doesn't work ok so are you do you see my
screen right now then I right now yes
okay so this is my sound preferences
which I've brought up just by click the
single clicking on the speaker and going
sound preferences and you can see an
input I have my input devices so I have
a sound blaster audigy analog stereo
input as my option and you can see I've
got two different devices yes I'm gonna
refresh ok I don't feel like you're
doing I gotcha so hard to hard to really
know what what I could do for you as far
as that goes but I would just go through
your pulseaudio configuration annoyance
and and I'm not calling him an annoyance
that's actually his handle just so you
know my name it's a dangerous one to
have because because you know it could
work on so many levels so I would go
through pulseaudio configuration if not
I guess the best advice I can give you
is to get involved in the ubuntu forums
you're on a boon to 10 point 10 so what
i would say is get over to ubuntuforums
org get registered on there if you're
not already on there and you're going to
find with 10-point 10 there's a ton of
support because a lot of people have
used it are using it and a lot of people
have probably already encountered a
similar problem to you so if you post if
you can't find the answer to your
question their annoyance I think that
you could easily post a new thread and
get a response reasonably quickly but
because it is going to be
hardware-specific all I can say is go
through your pulse audio settings by
going into your sound preferences make
sure that your input device is set to
the microphone input not the line input
right because that would make a
difference a laptop a laptop you're
probably sharing the input so if your
microphone for example needs to have you
know a decibel booster because it's
plugged into a line input
that could be a problem as well so
really hard to say man I'm sorry that I
don't have a definitive answer for you
but will you check out ubuntuforums org
here yeah give it a go and let us know
if you were able to find the help that
you need there and if not you know best
I can say is we can try to replicate the
problem but it could be
hardware-specific but those would be the
things i would try ok ok thanks yeah
thanks kindly for the call nice talking
to you take care Cheers ok so we have an
opportunity for you here you can tell
them all about this do you have you used
a pogoplug before I've you've remoted
into yes you've used my Pogo but close
as I've gotten so you probably you know
what we'll just we will ignore the
contest and we'll just kind of slide
this Oh what contest yeah what contest
we have no idea what you're talking
about and that's the end of the show ok
here's what I want you to do a head on
over to category five dot TV login to
the website this is very important make
sure you're on our website category 5 TV
login and as soon as you're logged in
I'm going to give you a quick little
step by step here's what I need you to
do click on our logo up at the top left
hand side you're going to see a new
button on our website which is going to
give you access to a click race if you
don't see it hit our logo again it's
common as long as you are logged in to
our website at category five dot TV this
is your chance to pick up a free
pogoplug from category 5 TV and cat five
TV / pogoplug so head on over there
category five dot TV for your chance we
are waiting for participants hope
there's face fish there we go
head over to category five dot TV login
to the website and make sure you click
on click race looks like that first five
or six viewers will be will be approved
to participate in the cliq race tonight
come on folk is still waiting wait until
Whelan click get over there click races
waiting for you here still in Breen
maybe there's still stretching it's just
so much going on but next week
everybody's going to know what's the
crisis exactly Mel be prepped and ready
hey your sweat bands on and yep there
you go phones sitting by the computer
click raise load nap head on over to
category 5 TV if you're watching live
click on the click race button once
you're logged into the website very
important that you're logged in
otherwise you will not see that that
button we're waiting for participants
just a really quick comment here back to
the HP i am boris karloff I hope that's
right says that HP is crediting the
difference to angry customers apparently
so if you had bought one for six hundred
fifty dollars well yeah and you'd be
really upset at that point but I think
they're going to anger those customers
and they're going to create this slew of
people that are hacking the device
beyond that category 5 TV get on over
there real quick and log into the
website and click on the click race
button so what happens if no one clicks
in do I get to go in and I'll just wear
a tie on Boris Carla I will just click
away and then I will win and then I will
get the pogoplug we have a pogoplug
device to give you tonight so join us
for click race cat five dot TV category
five TV sign on to the website as I said
and we're going to give you that if you
win on click race I need five maybe six
contestants
come on click click where is everybody
going on click hmm no one really wants
the pogoplug I think they want the
pogoplug they're just not sure things
like crazy just give it to me that would
be misty of Chris Reich I hope that that
everything's well please join us and
click race come on everybody it's also
possible there's a pretty high
possibility that there's lag and if
you're watching this after the fact that
it's quite possible the viewers who are
live on the show they may be because
there were some issues earlier tonight
they may be a minute or two behind us so
in that case I'll here they go yeah all
at once let's count all right everybody
I apologize for the lag not a lot that I
can do about that but we've got demon 8
10 and torto joining us for click race
we need three more players come on
everybody it's for a pogoplug and we
want you to participate in click race
what click race is for those of you who
have never played click race all you
have to do is get to our website
category 5 TV and from their login click
on click race if you're watching the
live show this is your opportunity to
win and you're going to be clicking like
mad and it's a race it's you against
other viewers and whoever comes out on
top is going to win a pogoplug second
prize is 100 viewer points and third
prize is 25 viewer points so either way
you're going to come out on top come on
everybody we've only got a couple
minutes left check out category 5 TV
login I want to give this thing away and
I wanted really really really fun way
and that's where click race comes in
there's a few people on here actually
seeing that when they call in it goes
straight to voicemail that's that's only
because we're unable to take calls at
the moment and again I wonder if that's
what happened with the phone calls maybe
we're honest still trying to wrestle
extra well we're on a delay and it
sounds like so something's up with the
internet something's up with justin TV
or something
where we've got a delay there and so
after the fact I apologize for for dead
space on the show tonight but
unfortunately we can't account for when
we're a live show if people are catching
it a minute that's joined and we say
call in now and then we wait a minute so
maybe you don't hear it before we start
we just say ok call in now and then
we'll tell you why you should call it
yes anybody ever done show it doesn't
usually happen that way dad will you can
have a pogoplug as long as you get on to
click race come on you gotta race d man
8 10 and torto just gonna push this over
time gang I want to give this thing away
and I want to do it on the air I don't
want to have to I know be so much fun on
air yes while we're waiting for people
to join us on click race we've got demon
810 torto we're waiting for you to join
us I'll just let you know that after the
show we're going to be activating a new
poll on our website category 5 TV we've
got 23 entries for the name of space
fish there he is looking good space fish
needs a name because he doesn't wanna be
called space fish my suggestion was
Bowie from Bowie's in space yeah mmm
flight of the conchords for the
reference mmm what else you got that's
that's what I got Bowie's in space so
we've got 23 entries including my own so
22 entries from viewers I would
encourage you to get onto our website
this week vote for your own vote for
your favorites if you didn't get one in
make sure you vote for your favorites if
you submitted one you can vote for your
own you can vote more than once but you
can only vote once once per day that's
the rules behind the behind the
competition at the end of it we already
told you we're giving away 300 viewer
points for the winner the person whose
name of space fish is chosen but also
we're going to give you a pogoplug so
are we gonna get some more people
playing click race guys what's going on
in the chat room there's tons and tons
of people who are joining us live right
now I want to see you in click race so
that we can that we can give away this
pogoplug there's virtually no downside
there really isn't you go in you know
you get some fun times and then maybe
you could evoke the only problem would
be if you use dictation software
oh then what do you do in the next room
might be like what is going on there
you're sitting there going click click
click click click click click click and
they just think you're stuck or
something yeah dictation software I'm
sorry Andrew Jameson is probably not the
thing to be using with click race yeah
but you can you don't know you know here
we go that far as much man didn't yeah
come on gang it'd be really cool if you
can if I can get enough people to
participate at everybody in the chat
room Chris Reich we'll see what we can
do about skype anybody else going to
join us in click race otherwise we're
gonna have to roll over the prize until
next week unfortunately but what we'll
do is we'll start click raced a little
bit earlier in the show and we'll let
people join in just in case there's lag
a game next week dman 810 toward oh I'm
sorry that that we have run at a time
before we've been able to race gang I'm
very excited about click race I really
want you to participate in and I know
it's a little bit different because
usually we don't have this level of
viewer interaction on the show beyond
the chat room which is usually you know
it's always quite active and you're
active right now and I know a GAD wills
mention that yeah well we're actually
probably pushing a lot of server
resources and I think we definitely are
click race is pretty heavy as far as
that goes but I think we can handle it
so so I really want to see that happen
okay so we'll we'll do that next week we
are going to retry click race unless
anybody comes in we've got room for
three more and we'll just give you one
second cool that's too much about I was
excited for it I was really excited for
it you're not all all the stuff ready
for you and all the exciting stuff huh
well gang it has been a fun show
regardless of our inability to to get
people to join us and click race on
account of and what's going to happen I
don't know if you noticed but the phone
was ringing like crazy there yeah yeah
well I don't know about eight minutes
after we stopped talking about the phone
so I think there's like this major delay
tonight and I think what's going to
happen is as soon as I sign off the air
all of a sudden a whole bunch of people
are going to click on click race and
unfortunately you know those in the RSS
feeds are like what's going on
truth be told I think we're suffering
from some serious lag tonight and
unfortunately that puts us behind and
that means that the viewers don't know
that we're doing click raise until eight
minutes later and here we are saying
come on they're all going to try to calm
everything's going to try to increase
and we're gonna gonna meet we're already
done mm-hmm sorry gang next time next
time so hopefully next week we will have
better success with our justin tv feed
in the meantime I hope you have a
fantastic week and I apologize that we
weren't able to give you a pogoplug
tonight but that is going to be
rescheduled for next week and we're
going to move things around we'll make
sure that that that is going to happen
for you but do get onto our website
category 5 TV find out more about the
contest to win a year supply of eco
alkalines batteries and get your
questions in live at category 5 TV cool
okay i think it was fun regardless i
think it was i on gang i hope you don't
covered a lie it was great yeah i think
so so hope you have a great week yeah
absolutely you too you have a great week
and it's been nice having everybody here
now that i'm gonna sign off all the
Terrans gonna come in here it comes yeah
a slew of click raise your old emails
terribly sorry about that dang what can
you do way so have a fantastically yeah
weekend that was weird thank you first
see ya next Tuesday see you then
