welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's Kim here's your host Robbie
Ferguson welcome to episode number 206
of category 5 technology TV it's Tuesday
August the 30th 11 you stab you
someone's don't get there don't say it I
started putting up to like fall sale
websites and stuff oh that's like the
kicker right there I do some websites
for schools and word like here's the
fall curriculum and welcome back and
it's like uh huh did you get all your
back-to-school stuff yes I got an e set
pen yay I'm done with school my daughter
is six we have no idea what she needs I
was going to send her with a pad of
paper and a pencil and a nice backpack
this also she has a lovely backpack
uh-huh and we've been fortunate enough
at least to this point to let her like
she's still at the point where she
appreciates the things that she has it's
a beautiful thing so it's not like we
don't need to change mac packs every six
my friend it happens when you're young
and when you're like grade eleven twelve
although she did say to me recently
because she's got tons and tons of silly
bands she said daddy at this out of the
blue daddy I i liked silly bands but now
i don't like them anymore because i have
too many of them oh I don't know it's
silly bandz oh really they're like
they're elastics that you wear around
your wrist the kids wear around the
wrist
and they're shaped in silly shapes like
snowman and stars and happy faces huh so
anyway ha that's my story so she's
beyond silly bandz now so don't send
silly bandz just how she's selecting
appreciate them she's got so many pet
shops it's ridiculous I was getting tech
related yeah that's good what do we got
going on tonight you've got lots of news
coming up I have an ipod touch doc that
I picked up this week that I wanted to
show you kind of still a little bit
excited about that tonight we're gonna
find out the name of space fish space
fish cool there's his tail oh he's alive
wonderful you can win a pogoplug and 300
viewer points if you submitted a space
fish name hopefully you were able to get
on this week and vote vote vote did you
vote I did I did I voted as often as
possible i actually I asked that it's
like it's like at the election time is
it I know but it from it's already past
that's for like the votes are in right
so I can't actually sway anybody's votes
I was actually voting it for c 3 h 20
not a days in space no come on no I'm
Star Wars g73 h2o yeah like c-3po yeah
kind of like that but with water at the
end mm-hmm so I voted for that what else
we got coming up we're gonna be learning
how to install windows only windows only
applications on Linux so stick around
we're gonna be talking all about that
and also we have a cliq race tonight so
if all goes well wink wink we actually
have a clip crazy yeah that's the plan
so be ready to click race and that of
course is going to result in another
user walking away with a pogoplug we're
going to talk more about poker plugs in
just a minute what do you have coming up
in the new
like it inside of all sorts of amazing
wonderful things you will not believe
she always makes it sound so exciting
that's because I have to build up for
the beginning so I don't like she's
break down laughing in the middle of
watching the screen or to the
appropriate screen but in the meantime
I'll make it sound really exciting and
that too now you just ruined the aura of
it so I'm gonna try that bill next
question as I'm as i'm looking it up on
google i'll be like he doesn't have a
middle your channel cinnamons adjectives
in here i have a fantastic answer so in
the news in the news oh the department
of defense in Australia are putting a
push on the use of open source software
in government agencies agencies rather
Raspberry Pi the $25 all-in-one Linux
motherboard powered by the app they AR m
or arm arm processor mm-hmm was
demonstrated running quake three a
government attorney what has unveiled
that google CEO knew about the illegal
pharmacy ads running on its site oh no
really microsoft has signed an agreement
to bring linux compatible cloud
computing to china Nokia's developer
forums were hacked and it looks like all
the user data was compromised Apple's
future is uncertain as CEO Steve Jobs
steps down from his position stick
around these toys are coming up in under
30 minutes we've got lots of viewer
testimonials this week I was pleased to
see some that that have come out but
first I've got a viewer picture that was
submitted by invincible mutant who says
here is watching category 5 TV by the
rubicon or rub bike on I don't know it's
a soda brand that we don't have here in
Canada I don't recognize it to you I
don't it rubicon anyways it's a Rubicon
mountain on the kitchen desk and areas
watching category 5 technology TV with
that aren't you scared it's gonna tip
over and my computer's fall onto your
computer and like crack your display
dangerous yeah we're living on the edge
or a dangerous dangerous man I will give
you a hundred viewer points for that
and I'd like to bring up our website
category 5 TV thanks for submitting that
invincible mutant like to bring up our
website and see what viewer testimonials
have come in over the past little while
we haven't looked up your testimonials
in a while hey everybody Chris Reich
Agra moto G pop 7 Greg in Texas Troy 74
g-dog it's great to see you during a
live show it's been a while fold guy Jim
nice to see you ok so over on our
website category 5 TV if you point to
interact and then viewer testimonials
you'll be able to submit your own which
I encourage you to do that's kind of a
yeah it's a nice way to encourage us and
before I say before we get into viewer
testimonials I'll just say we one of the
things I've noticed is that snail mail
has really tapered off like we don't
ever we don't get any postcards recently
and I think because we don't really work
for it yeah so I would be happy to
encourage you with some viewer points if
you want to grab a postcard from your
local convenience store and and send it
our way like something that has a
picture of your area we'd love to
receive a postcard with a little bit of
a you know spiel on the back about about
your area maybe tell us about where you
live that would be very cool let's see
I've got one here from old guy Jim
actually who who writes us on our
website category 5 TV so simply put the
category 5 crew past present and future
are providing a wonderful service to the
worldwide community I've learned more in
the few episodes that I've seen than I
have in books that I've read on the
subject of Linux I'm starting to view
past episodes at this point while I
learn best by doing I'm not a great
hacker so you have been very helpful
already I've already found nuggets of
gold in the chat room thank you not just
to you but also to the viewers in the
chat room that comes from old guy Jim
who joins us from Hampton Virginia and
is joining us in the chat room tonight
Thank You old guy Jim it's it's a
pleasure to have you as a part of our
category 5 community and so nice of you
to submit of your testimonial as well
what are you thinking if you want to
bring up your testimonials to and i'll
let you help me chip through these I've
got Joe cool who don't joins us from
Texas in the US and that joe says
category five technology TV is the cat
pajamas pajamas I've saved both ways so
that Chris Reich will be happy there are
very few podcasts out there that can
deliver important information and keep
you laughing at the same time all while
actually learning something new if it be
ubuntu macintosh or even windows how
does how to Mack it in there oh I think
it's just sneaking its way under fault
it's her fault here is some special
karma for you your family and all of the
viewers out there on the Big Blue Marble
cheers and thanks again from Joe thank
you very much for the viewer testimonial
there I'm working my way up the list top
the list okay so i'm currently at
invincible mutants from august 17 of
them tonight see it all right you want
to go for that sure i will give her all
right so I'm Attila muta says
congratulations for the new server your
show is really getting better and better
in terms of quality with it we're pretty
excited about the new server yeah cheers
mm-hmm we all see your effort keeping
category 5 TV alive and thanks to the
crew for the endless support we have
seen Hillary and Krista away from shows
sometimes but not Robbie that's true he
works constantly I think so we're gonna
think Robbie did I say it wrong is it
constant constantly I thought you're
making no no I wasn't making constantly
like yeah disagreed always working I not
okay okay just making sure just a green
says I think Rob you should tell the
crowd what makes Robbie so determined
and dedicated you have earned some
unprecedented respect in this I think
I'm sorry couldn't help much right now
financially as a post graduate by I am
definitely behind you I think helping
you to cheer up the community with
interesting materials that is what I can
do right now to show my support keep it
up excellent thank you cool yeah thank
you very much alright well first of all
thank you very much for that invincible
mutant
yeah what what what keeps me going with
the show and I think I really appreciate
one of the comments that you made
they're invincible mutant that I really
appreciate is commenting that you know
we're pressing on even with without the
new server because I get a lot of email
and and sometimes it can get
discouraging when I do get email from
people who just don't know people who
weren't here when the server got hit by
lightning and so they don't understand
that we are literally flying at
half-mast right now so when if you're if
you're new to the show and you and you
wonder why we do some of the things at
half-mast if if you if you wonder that
we are operating with a basically
interim hardware until we get there so
invincible immunity it means a lot that
you that you see the dedication that's
gone into just keeping the show going
through this rather challenging time of
not having a proper broadcast system
appreciate that so what what keeps me
going and that's simply the community
and knowing that there's a small part of
me that that just knows that we can make
a difference here and that's I think
that's why we all kind of volunteer
doing the show is just for the community
you have questions and we try to have
answers and hopefully we give you some
some education and some fun at the same
time and it sounds like we have so thank
you very much are you ready for another
one yeah am I ever from Auckland pardon
me auckland new zealand from Bennett's
meet it in there hey Donna he says the
image is of me watching category five on
my laptop in my bedroom and there's a
literature there there it is okay
excellent tacori 500 we're gonna have to
give Bennett a hundred viewer points
cool says I got the HP TouchPad for 132
NZ what says hi is that like a new
zealand dollars $132 new zealand i got
it okay from my work it's a great tablet
but the software could be better they
have said they will continue to support
the software i finding a way to watch
category 5 on the tablet as well but i
am waiting for android to be brought to
it as there's a reward of about 200 or
started two thousand two hundred fifty
dollars us Wow to the first people to
port it over who isn't that interesting
I I was kind of thinking that hackers
would kind of reverse engineer things
and start porting different
distributions to the the tablet the
thinkpad but interesting that there's
actually unscented so hey get porting
people says I use Android on my samsung
galaxy ace and it is so much better
thanks for the great show keep up the
good work yeah thanks Bennett thank you
so much and like I say I'll give you a
hundred viewer points for that as well
for sending in a picture along with your
testimonial we'd love to have you submit
a viewer testimonial all you have to do
is visit category 5 TV click on interact
and you'll see the viewer testimonials
there you can go submit your own cool
nice to see everyone in the chat room
you remember last week do I like it was
23 minutes ago last week we had what we
expected was some rather substantial
video lag do you want to know how much
video lag there actually was I do
actually no do you know yes you read I
did I was reading things okay tilted I
act surprised so remember last week if
you were watching on the RSS feeds and
things you may have been like well why
is nobody calling in that seems weird
there's so many viewers well why is
nobody picking up the phone I said no
I'm like why is nobody well they're
crossed my mind you know what did i do
today to make it kick them Chris Reich
so angry that he would not even pick up
the phone and call us hmm so anyways
video lag of 23 minutes 23 minutes
that's insane it's incredible we're used
to maximum video lag of about 10 seconds
so if we do a contest if we say call us
up 10 seconds later the phone starts
ringing easy if what what happened last
week is we said call this up 23 minutes
later you heard that live mm-hmm there
was that much delay and unfortunately we
didn't realize at the time because it's
one of those things when you're live
it's hard to to know that there's
that kind of a lag and people in the
chat room we're carrying on with their
conversations it was weird because
nothing that we were saying was actually
happening in the chat room asking a
question oh does nobody have a question
in the chat room yeah I'm in 20 30
minutes 23 minutes later yes I have a
question why aren't you answering me I'm
sorry everyone if you felt a little
mm-hmm like we were ignoring you last
week it's because we were in a time
capsule 23 minutes into your past dman
810 was clicking away at click race for
23 90 good for you my friend Elise
you're all practiced outbreak yeah
that's good so what we ended what I
thought we would do tonight is an
interesting way to test to make sure
that we are ready to receive your calls
tonight to make sure that we are ready
to have you participate and click race
and win a pogoplug so what I want you to
do in the chat room category 5 TV or
category 5 on freenode is tight this
don't press enter don't send this to the
chat room yet okay I'm gonna bring up
the chat room you're going to type the
word mark m.a.r.k space dash and then
the name of your city your state your
province your country whatever you want
to do just so we know where you're from
don't send that to the chat room yet i'm
going to send one to the chat room just
so you can see what i expect it to look
like this is how you qualify so if
you're watching the chat room you see
co-hostess hedmark dash Barrie Ontario
okay so be ready to send that chat room
goes silent and in eight seconds we're
going to send that all right ready 5 4 3
2 1 hit enter
our first one is an affront greensville
five seconds lag thanks everybody so
I've got 25 viewer points for everyone
who participated in that little test we
have less than five seconds leg tonight
we are ready to have contest giveaway
pogo plugs great it's a part of me that
was a little nervous going into that
because last week was so bad with the
video lag we don't know what it was it
could have been internet it could have
been justin.tv still coming in so let's
not let's take a look at where where
some of these people are from we've got
so the first one in was greenville south
carolina rd streets joining us pristina
kosovo al Kent is joining us from Kosovo
thank you for joining us tonight Chicago
Illinois we've got gee pop seven if you
want to hit some of these as well are
you do you see those on your side I see
them all can we have annoyin season
lawrenceville GA Chris GA sorry I'm
horrible with my it is GA guys uh that's
not Georgia is it we've got Chris Reich
who joins us from Rochester New York it
is Georgia okay okay very cool thank you
I'm glad it was right because I always
feel bad if I don't know my geography
too well I'm horrible for short forms
we've got who did we miss we got Ryberg
joining us from Millen georgia as well
lots of viewers from Georgia we've got
demon a 10 from Grand Blanc Michigan
we've got westland Michigan Smitty Smith
joins us old guy Jim from Hampton we've
got gadwal in Virginia Greg and Texas
from Texas rapper from lilienthal nyan
get her set you say ha ok so I look like
the fool I'm sorry how lilienthal and
leaders such sin I really should have
left that to her rapper thank you very
much for joining us I I presume that
your ear your from far away it's really
nice to have you here benin jadis from
Auckland New Zealand we've got Troy 74
from Merritt we've got to spring cowboy
joining us from Indiana yeas it 1965
Clifton
Jersey like just all over the place I
wow yeah there's not very many people
from the same place if I didn't I'm
shattered if I didn't mention you it
means that you had more than nine
seconds of lag welcome everybody that
was just within the first nine seconds
those those people so four seconds of
coverage there hey RAF ER all right so
we are all right we've got batteries to
give away my friends cat five dot TV /
eco / free batteries pardon me is is
where the contest is found we are giving
away a year supply of eco alkalines
batteries amazing yeah these are
eco-friendly batteries they are carbon
neutral the company that that
manufactures them goes through the whole
process of making sure that the
batteries are carbon neutral they use
recycled recycled product to manufacture
the batteries the packaging is recycled
it's just they they put a good solid
effort into making these eco-friendly
that said they're fantastic batteries
they work really well they last longer
than then even and I don't like to say
brands mm-hmm just because I don't know
who's watching I don't want anybody to
say hey it offended you don't worry you
know yeah you hear about all the
lawsuits that go on and stuff in anyways
you know the major brands these guys eco
alkalines perform better than than most
major leading brands they last just as
long they perform just as well they're
fantastic batteries so and i'm using
these these are the official batteries
of category 5 TV and we'd like to give
you your supply go to cap five DV / free
batteries and that's going to tell you
all about how you can actually qualify
to win a year supply of eco alkalines
all the details are there check it out
cat5 TV / free batteries and I encourage
you to do so any time we do a contest
like this I've mentioned it before you
know when we have banner ads on our
website and stuff if something catches
your eye and something is of interest to
you click on it we all need batteries we
all care about the environment and want
the earth to be here for our children
our grandchildren and our children's
children and
children's children's children and so
you know there's go over there cat5 TV /
free batteries and and just participate
in the contest remember these are a
sponsor as well so every person who who
participates in the contest it it helps
us out as well so but fantastic product
and I'm really looking forward to giving
those away at the end of September
because somebody is going to get them i
should mention too we're gonna ship
those anywhere in the world so it does
matter where you are even if your rapper
or whoever anywhere you are we're gonna
be we're gonna be sending out a Jameson
55 79 can you sing him a song no I'm
sandru it's so nice to have you here my
friend so good to have you here she
Robbie's a singer and that was not how I
sing he's in the chat room feeling all
you didn't say my name give me any kudos
nice to have you here no man anyways
cool mm-hmm the ipod touch doc that I
picked up I have been shopping around we
I've had an ipod touch for a while
mm-hmm I knew just he's had that little
sit theme yeah i'll show you what i had
this is what i had because i win the
store and i said okay well if i want to
watch video on on the ipod touch and I'm
thinking category 5 and being able to
test stuff for the viewers and stuff
that i can make sure that it's
compatible and so they gave me this and
it didn't cost me anything I hope what I
hope not no it's like it's like a little
cheap plexi thing that you just kind of
set your iPod on and it would work with
an iPhone or whatever it we've broken it
once when I came apart on the air and
shattered ever anyways it's nothing
fancy this particular one does not
include bluetooth no it does not have a
speaker system or video output it does
not have audio in or a built-in volume
control and the other disappointing
about thing about this particular ipod
dock is that it does not charge my
background as i use it Wow why did you
purchase that well this is this one I
got for free see this is not the dock
that i bought this week my friends
the reason i want to show you this is
because shopping around really makes a
difference i just i picked up a cheap
doc but here's the thing I've been
looking for one for a while mm-hmm it's
been two months okay junior research
when i was at the cottage so I did
episode number 202 from the cottage and
while I was there I stopped in to the
local electronics dealer and everything
and they had one for a hundred fifty
dollars it was compatible with the 3rd
gen down I think this is one of the
problems that we run into with the Apple
devices as their conjugate so fast but
when they do so they make them not
backward compatible entirely so in a
case with the docking station for
example it does have a universal dock so
it will allow me to play through the
speakers but it won't charge my ipod
right right so that's the problem that
you run into so i decided against that
because you know what i really want it
to be able to charge my ipod what's the
point if i come home from work and the
batteries at got only twenty percent
life left in it which you know because
it annoys you all the time wish you
could turn that off but so i wanted
something that would charge it so that
you have to get one that has 4th gen
compatibility go to any store it was 150
bucks hundred fifty bucks 120 bucks and
really not that exceptional so finally i
found one that was a hundred bucks and I
was like it's compatible with the ipod
touch for it's got built in speakers
it's going to charge it it's it's a
decent enough platform but that's all it
is it's literally just a set of speakers
and a charger right i came across this
one I was it was 50 bucks okay so I
picked it up just like looked at the box
because it's 50 bucks okay that's that's
cool it can't possibly be a 4th gen
compatible and I'm not going to tell you
don't worry about the brand and what it
is and stuff it's just a it's just a
cheap brand but it is compatible with
the ipod touch and iphone 4th gen you
can tell that by the diagram on the side
so of course okay i'll read a little bit
further it's got speakers it's got the
charging cradle it's got a volume
control but here's the kicker that
really got me is it has caught composite
video output no yes
so when you plug your iphone or your
ipod touch into that not only do you get
the charger and the speakers but you
also get the benefit of that $40 cable
that you could buy separately to allow
you to watch watch your shows from your
iPod or iPhone on the TV so for me it's
like that's brilliant we've got a
pogoplug so all of our family movies and
stuff are on there so we can use the
pogoplug to stream the video to this
plug in the dock that's gay it's hooked
up to the TV right so it's it's a decent
little thing and it works well it sounds
you guys for 50 bucks so I don't care
about the brand I don't care what it is
everyone's going to say well where'd you
get it what is it how can i order one
all I'm saying is shop around don't
settle because there are there are
things out there that you know I'd
encourage you to find and understand the
the specs I think that's a challenge for
for you if you don't understand that hey
yeah my ipod touch 4 or iphone 4 will
work with an ipod 3 doc but it won't
charge if you don't know that you might
not understand that and you might get
into a bind so good to do your research
find out get into a community like
category five and and ask what what what
you should buy you know purchase
decisions regardless of this is just an
example but cool so I was pretty pleased
with that it's neat to it's an alarm
clock app okay I woke up to I'm used to
waking up to the ipod like I iOS sounds
just kind of annoying yeah do do do do
you know so I woke up to birds chirping
huh virgin choose whatever you want I
imagine yeah and it's all included with
the app so uncle cool stuff no big whoop
but I just wanted to tell you we're here
for you if you want to make some
purchase decisions that's pretty cool a
quick lag check ready with your mark
we're gonna do a quick lag check as well
for Andrew Jamison he just wants to be
involved that's all we've got space fish
that we're going to be giving out a name
for in just a moment here and lag check
in 10 seconds get your mark ready
five six four three two one mark hit
enter so four seconds so no problems
Andrew Jameson thank you very much okay
we had a number of great submissions for
space fish the space fish names there's
space fish at the bottom of the tank
there and he needed a name beyond space
can't just gone space fish for the rest
of his life I wanted Bowie cuz Bowie's
in space from flight of the conchords
look it up we have a pogoplug and 300
viewer points for the winner pogoplug is
a fantastic device as I was saying it
streams to my ipod touch it gives you
basically for my ipod touch using that
as the scenario for an android device
for a blackberry whatever iphone this
lets you plug in let's say you've got a
500 gig hard drive USB you plug it into
the pogoplug now you're eight gig ipod
touch has five hundred and eight gigs
yeah that's amazing that's so cool
that's to put it that's just too that's
an entry level as to what this can do
this is fantastic device and we're
giving away two of them tonight one of
them is going to the winner of the space
fish contest based on your votes I've
also got runner-up prizes as well second
place is going to get a hundred viewer
points in third place is 25 viewer
points so a third place winner maybe you
could do a dremel that was pretty good
my third place winner is catfish from
code ours 360 from your votes at
category five dot TV thank you very much
for your submission code are 360 and
congratulations on your 25 points second
place are you ready with twenty three
point three percent of the overall votes
we have c 3 h 20 i was submitted by
torto congratulations on receiving 100
viewer points and our grand prize winner
tonight
for a pogoplug as well as 300 incredible
coveted fewer points the winner with
twenty six point seven percent of all of
the votes that came in to name space
fish is anticipation that's killing me
Raptor 222 the name of space fishes now
Major Tom pretty major to us so i kinda
one at the same time congratulations
raptor 222 congratulations to Major Tom
who was formerly known you were gonna
have come formerly known as space fish
congratulations Raptor to 22 Major Tom
of course a reference to David Bowie
character mm-hmm so I kind of feel like
Bowie's in space kind of got in there
and and and one even in didn't really
but it didn't really know so I guess
I'll give him the pogoplug in the 300
points congratulations recognize me too
and thank you everyone for your
submissions thank you everybody need
your time ground control led zep and
thank you too to everybody for your
votes as well we had tons of votes on
our website category 5 TV to determine
the name of space fishes major time he
looks so happy about it he looks really
thrilled tonight now yeah he was kind of
like hovering at the top before now he's
like I have a name I have an identity i
have a very perfect my yes super
exciting raptor 222 well it is time for
the news i'll let you kind of take that
away at this point sure and in the
meantime if you have any questions for
us email us live at category five dot TV
or join us in the chat room category
five TV or category five on freenode you
can take it away good eight
alright so from the category 5 TV news
room the Australian Department of
Defense this depth of his push for
open-source software to reduce at 100
million M sorry hundred million dollar
annual software licensing bill last week
it joined five other government agencies
informing the open technology foundation
which aimed to facilitate collaboration
and interoperable technology in the
public sector already they have begun
testing Open Office as an alternative to
Microsoft's expensive office suite
defense chief technology officer Matt
Janna polis mm-hmm so the department had
been considering an open source software
for more than three years in accordance
with the new policy defense tender
documents now explicitly stated that it
would consider open source software
options alongside proprietary products
acknowledging that open source suppliers
may have been held back by smaller
marketing budgets when bidding for
government tenders in the past time will
tell what the open technology foundation
will mean for open source projects and
the overall open source movement we all
know it was coming the $25 Linux
computer called Raspberry Pi and if the
name didn't give away like isn't that
just just saying 'let's should be a good
way right there number 24 dollar package
they squeezed in a fully configured
arm-based 1080p compatible mini
motherboard the device is still in
development and only a few days ago the
alpha version of the board was
demonstrated running quick three
raspberry PI's a nonprofit organization
from the United Kingdom aiming to
develop an extremely low cost our
motherboard which can be used to develop
cheap yet powerful hardware for develop
developing markets while also providing
a cheap but powerful motherboard to hack
around with their first product is about
the size of a credit card even though it
produces 1080p video at 30 frames per
second the hdmi or composite with an
impressive 700 megahertz arm to 11 sorry
processor and at least 128 megabytes of
RAM I have having difficulties Raspberry
Pi is slated to be released
the fourth quarter of this year he's all
the talk of raspberry pi you're like i
know i'm hungry i didn't want a run at
supper before i came here so you're
gonna go home and make a raspberry pi
mm-hmm Rhode Island attorney Peter
naranja told the Wall Street Journal
that incriminating emails had been
uncovered as part of an official
investigation showing that Google's
chief executive Larry Page knew the
advertisements for unlicensed Canadian
pharmacies were running on its us site
the search giant agreed last week to pay
500 million dollars or 306 million
pounds to settle the case it declined
the comment on the specifics of the
allegations but instead issued a
statement reiterating its regret about
what happened saying with hindsight we
never should have allowed those ads on
Google in the first place mmm well you
know what they say but hindsight I'm
sayin and a first-of-its-kind deal
Microsoft has entered oh sorry in a
first-of-its-kind deal Microsoft has
entered into a joint agreement with
china's leading domestic linux operating
system provider to together provide
cloud services across both microsoft and
linux platforms the agreement with China
standard software company CS to see
government-owned Linux provider was
announced last Monday is the first time
Microsoft has partnered to provide
cross-platform cloud services and an
emerging economy said sandy gupti Gupta
general manager at Microsoft's Open
Solutions Group and while Microsoft has
many partnerships in China this is the
first time it's partnered with the
provider of what's essentially a
competing platform Gupta said you have
to stop writing these difficult names in
sorry it is Gupta Gupta thank you okay
the Department of Defense are putting in
a push on the use of open source
software in government agencies the
mixed source solutions stemming from
this collaboration will be built on
Microsoft's hyper-v open cloud
architecture will include support to run
CS to see neo kailan linux server
products according to the microsoft news
release gupta Niihau kai-lan limit yeah
every parent out there
hmm heard that but that way well sorry
you hear it as you will that's unreal
that's unreal so the things Robbie rates
for me and then I read them and then I
get heckled for I don't know what you're
talking about I don't know oh so anyways
Koopa Gupta declined to disclose the
dishes the details of the legal Covenant
agreement that the two parties signed an
online community used by developers of
Nokia phone apps have been hacked the
company warm that members personal
information including dates of birth and
IAM of email addresses may have been
stolen oh no new kias developer forms
have been temporarily shut down with the
security breach is investigated nokia
said initially we believe that only a
small number of these four members
records have been accessed but for their
investigation has identified that the
number is significantly larger company
said that no credit card details had
been taken but warned that additional
contact details such as Skype addresses
may have been stolen I think that's bad
news regardless of how many people's
content husband yeah has been taken I
think it's still a big deal let's see
the world witnessed the passing of an
era last Wednesday oh this is a sad
story everyone be prepared I have to you
know I agree I'll let you tell the story
and then we'll reminisce yeah son when
Apple CEO Steve Jobs officially resigned
and named chief operating officer
Timothy cook as his successor Jobs who
battled pancreatic cancer and had a
liver transplant in 2009 was on medical
leave since January and has concluded
that he could no longer continue to
fulfill his duties with Apple Steve Jobs
has been called a revolutionary and a
visionary whatever you want to call it
he shaped the world of media and
entertainment and as a result Apple
became the standard of several sectors
of technology including mp3 players cell
phones and laptops and PCs as well as
creative software such as in design and
GarageBand jobs is also responsible for
founding Pixar films in 1986 and turned
the den fledgling fledgling a movie
studio into a
household name the next few months will
say a lot about the influence that Steve
Jobs had on Apple Apple continued its
tradition of success we don't know what
are your opinions give us a call at the
cat phone number is 70 5739 1056 and let
us know what you think guys can get the
full stories at category-five TV /
newsroom and the category 5 TV news room
is researched by roy w national
contributions by invincible mutant if
you have a news story you think is
worthy of honor mentioned email newsroom
at category 5 TV for the category 5 TV
news room I'm crystals what are you
thoughts about I am so dad yeah I mean
the guy the poor guy has been battling
this or that medical condition over the
past several years he really was I don't
know if it's single-handedly but he's
given the credit for basically taking
Apple yes from a failing company that
could have failed and turning it into
something spectacular mm-hmm and so you
know all of a sudden Apple is back in
the game and they're huge what are your
thoughts call us on the on the cat phone
705 739 1056 we love to hear from you
tonight with regards to Steve Jobs
leaving Apple I think for me what it
what it says about the whole era of
personal computers is that while Steve
Jobs has said for for many years that ok
well the pc vs mac battle is over
because microsoft one is what Steve Jobs
has said they decided to you know invest
in things like the ipod touch the iPhone
the iPad and devices that have
revolutionized the macbook pros and and
revolutionising that type of device that
I guess you would call it an appliance
as opposed to a computer mm-hmm so I
think as far as historically goes I
think you know Bill Gates and Steve Jobs
right at the forefront in the early
times of computing when I was just
getting started it's sad to see that
coming that whole era coming to a close
with Steve leaving bill of course
retired several years ago
but that's a sad time I think well and
maybe it's not as bad as we think I mean
it's always sad to hear when someone has
health issues but for the company he's a
baby man 2 yeah maybe his successors
have been with the company long enough
maybe they're the same kind of mind
frame maybe they can bring apple along
just as well as d jobs had and that's
the hope I suppose yeah for for Apple
and for Apple fans is that that is a Tim
Timothy cook heppell Tim Cook that he
would take over and still kind of
continue on in that visionary role
whether or not that's possible i don't
know i don't know the guy but yeah i'm
steve steve has really been a visionary
I think with with the company does
anyone want to give us a call 705 739
1056 will just give you a couple of
minutes to give us a ring because we
don't have lag tonight so if you have an
opinion with regards to Steve Jobs
leaving Apple we'd love to hear from you
come on
there we go oh sorry Crystal's posting
the wrong i met sup phone numbers all
the time a charm you don't know how many
times on my voicemail i leave the wrong
phone network really to people yeah i
have to call back yeah thanks for
calling category 5 technology TV this is
Robbie who's this Andrew okay James
where you calling from just for the sake
of the viewers from Michigan nice to
have you calling us tonight do share
your thoughts about about Steve Jobs and
his departure from from Apple will he
started up next right he started up next
and then they went and bought next and
he became absorbed into their company
yeah definitely definitely Andrew thank
you very much for your call I do hope
that that apple will you know that that
whoever comes in and takes over will
that will still be able to maintain the
the company in the progress that they've
made so but thank you very much for
making this call to Xander we did that
we experienced a little bit of lag there
and that's why I was a little bit not
nearly as bad as 20 minutes up no just a
couple of moments just a couple of
moments thank you for the call Andrew
appreciate that very much and if you
would like to give us a call let us know
what you think about Steve Jobs
departing from Apple we would love to
hear from you of course i'm a linux user
and so I've never been an apple follow
in regards to their products or their
their product line but I recognize it's
got it's got such a place in the market
it's got such a as an appliance like the
ipod touch has been fantastic for me
being able to check my email and stuff
like that it's it's a pretty handy
device well it's funny even people who
say that there are not within the Mac
fad but yet there's so many people that
do have our iPhone or an iPod Touch or
something they don't really consider
that as part of the Apple the whole
umbrella that there are so many people
affected by it still definitely
definitely tonight's episode is brought
to you in part by pogoplug at cat five
dot TV / Pogoplug and by planet calypso
cat five dot TV / clip so you're
watching category 5 technology TV you
can find us online triple w dot category
five dot TV i'm your host Robby Ferguson
I'm crystal off tonight I'd like to look
at a Linux tool which if you're new to
linux if you've never used Linux or if
you're just considering it or you're not
too sure what it can do for you Linux is
a different operating system it's
something alternative to Mac OS or
Windows which you can install on your PC
hardware is you know to put it at its
most simplest form you download it's
free that's one of the advantages but
it's got a ton of free software
available for it and what's cool about
Linux is that you can now over the you
know with with the progression of Linux
over the past several years there's
always been this tool called wine it's a
windows API layer that you can add to
Linux and with that application with the
progress of that application over the
past several years we've seen it come
from something that could possibly run
your Windows programs to something that
runs a lot of Windows programs very very
well head on over to wine HQ com to find
out what applications are indeed
compatible with wine and once you've got
linux installed you can actually grab a
windows program i'm going to use win app
as an example it's a media player that's
popular on the windows platform if i go
free download from win app
calm you'll see something here it's
available in multiple languages but it's
only available on Microsoft Windows well
that's a problem for us because we're on
Linux is it really a problem for us know
because I've installed what's called
wine you'll find it in your repositories
WI and II just like the beverage and
what it does again is it gives us the
ability to run several windows programs
on your linux machine I'm just
downloading that file 15 Meg's so then
this is kind of a correct me if I'm
wrong but like a solution opposed to
partitioning your hard drive oh yeah
happy in windows installed on part of it
yeah definitely this allows you to have
windows programs running natively into
linux that's kind of cool right yeah so
really neat it's different than
virtualization is different than dual
booting virtualization you have to
actually bring up a windows machine in
order to run the windows application
whereas with this you're actually
literally able to run that application
so I've downloaded the program so it's
now available to me I've got the
executive all you'll see that this is
indeed winamp dot exe that's a windows
executive all on Linux now that I've got
because I've got wine installed I can
right click on that and go properties
remember this is a windows executive all
I'm going to go permissions and then
allow executing file as program and
check that off I'm going to close that
window and now all i have to do just
like as if i was sitting on a windows
computer right this very moment and here
i am in Linux remember that this is
indeed Linux right can tell by the
wobbliness i'm going to double-click on
that file what does it look like it
looks just like a windows installer I'm
gonna hit okay welcome to the win app
installer
next and user license agreement comes up
just as normal of course you've read
that you're going to agree with it
otherwise you can't install install to
where c colon slash program files / win
app well we don't have a C Drive we're
on Linux that's okay it's going to mimic
that behavior for you what do we want to
do will install the light light version
just to make it quick next winamp what
do you want to do won't install it on
quick launch we will create a desktop
icon in a start menu entry what extras
do you want none of these don't need any
malware extra stuff not that they would
distribute such a thing but okay all
this stuff it's their way you know if
you if you want it read it support them
it's a free software they include those
things because that's how they pay for
their software so well what's this it's
done launch win app after the installer
closes hit finish and you see okay I've
got my settings next whatever finish and
lo and behold there's win app a
windows-only multimedia player which is
an executive all program it's an exe but
it's now running natively within linux
thanks to wine neat so very cool stuff
again you can get wine if it's not
actually included with your operating
system with your distribution of linux
and get it from any repository go into
synaptic package manager go into
whatever you use and install wi and then
that's going to give you the ability to
run those windows programs just like i
just did wine HQ org once again that's
the website where you can you know punch
in your application and see does it work
with wine can you run it natively in
linux without having to have
virtualization head on over to our
website category five dot TV of course
when we get this kind of traffic as we
have tonight you may have to refresh a
couple of times and I apologize for that
sometimes it happens
we have a ton of traffic on our website
tonight as you can imagine during a live
broadcast but we are about to enter into
our first ever what I anticipate to be a
successful click race so head on over to
category five dot TV you have to be
logged into the website make sure you
check off that box that says remember me
you don't want to miss out on your
ability to race and click race and once
you're on our website refresh a couple
times if you need to you'll see a icon
on the front page that says click race
and when you're there click on that if
you're logged into the website you have
to be logged in otherwise you won't even
see the button and that's your chance to
join us for click race tonight the grand
prize tonight is going to be a pogoplug
o given with ya to polka plugs in one
night that's the roll over from last
week and you've also got a hundred
viewer points for the runner up and the
third place winner is going to get 25
fewer points cool very exciting stuff
start stretching here click your fingers
right now get ready to click in click
race here we go hopefully everything
will work out alright we've got a ton of
traffic on the website though it makes
me nervous because hopefully our web
host is able to keep up with everything
click race is starting now category 5 TV
welcome to George be a Jameson a s 7 59
and sprint cowboy we have room for two
more contestants on click race tonight
ready to go all you have to do is log
into our website category 5 TV click on
click race and that's your chance to
participate if you're having trouble
with the website make sure you hit
refresh refresh sounds like a drink and
yeah and make sure you also are logged
into the site if you're not logged in
you will not see the button you won't be
able to join the game all right we have
maxed out our contestants get clicking
everybody it is time for click race our
first-ever
we've got George V rapper a Jameson a s
759 sprint cowboy and corto are ready to
race get clicking my friends when I get
them all over the world
time for click race playing a game
tonight for a pogoplug and
can go up to you no matter where in the
world you are rafter so far is in the
lead with twenty nine percent of the
Flex is right behind him respect
refresher do you have any kind of
trouble
just hit refresh Troy 74 infinity
the game has begun so we're good to go
has taken over the lead twenty-five
percent of the clicks pretty close right
cowboy
are you my friend
fresh on quick break you are in the game
you can get quicken
takes 10 it's tough stuff quick quick
quick you know I've ever had to click
this mess like crazy I know they
are close your fingers seasons off maybe
that's why I'm spring cowboy maybe
what's crackin you might be bored yeah I
was all seized up but they cannot
they're spring cowboy of course they're
not gonna respond to us in the chat room
because you're cooking lesson ready
about 15 seconds left foot slick brace
we've got Gordo
now things are really picking up now
okay we're gonna get this about 30
seconds actually if
if things keep up this way I want to
give you a chance to catch up here come
on spring cowboy where r
holding on to that beach photos close
behind i'll charge he is slow
never know i can click them with the
real hungry anybody's face right now you
are about to win a pogoplug
could be a Jameson a cookie torto or
laughter coming up from by
right there AAS 759 and working on those
clips as well
but its sides old
that happen
two
on our first ever successful clickers a
Jameson by two clicks by two clicks is
that that close does that close
unbelievable George B is our runner-up
in second place and then it looks like
we had thai torto now toward oh hi 31
clicks in so we've got a Jameson has got
a pogoplug 300 viewer points and then we
also have behind a Jameson we've got
George be with a hundred viewer points
and torto with 25 viewer points
congratulations hey Jameson the song
paid off the phone call paid off your
show this is your show isn't them if you
sing songs some and then they went at
pocono it works I just wonder you know
that's how that next week everyone's
gonna come as they want to win a
pogoplug and you should seek whatever
lated but it's got to be something to do
with you know it's a Jameson show look
at that congratulations thanks for
participating in the show everybody I've
been a lot of fun tonight absolutely
yeah you know I actually forgot
something um you know last week I was
saying that we should be a little more
jazzy with our awesome new headphones
and I think they're just a little bit
too plain so I actually went out I spent
a hundred of my pennies and 100 whole
pennies I got this they are Stickle
rhinestones so maybe next week wheat
bring them over and look a little more
to know not can I open these up
absolutely Wow look at this now we are
genuine pop stars my friends what am I
supposed to do with this I think why I
didn't really think of how they would
work I just know they're adhesive okay
I'm gonna go with a manly purple of
course so this is supposed to go on my
mind I think and I don't know if it'll
work or not did it work is it glistening
all that is nigh see that is so much
isn't that manly lovely thank you very
much you know anytime anything I could
do to help just a rhinestone cowboy boy
oh boy well hey thanks for joining us
tonight thanks for that school night
yeah you have fun yeah no it's fun yeah
I always have fun good good nice to have
everybody joining us from all over the
world it was interesting to see where
everybody's frown
congratulations again to our winners
tonight we've given away to pogo plugs a
whole bunch of viewer points thank you
for sending in your viewer pictures you
can send those in to live at category 5
TV for a quick way to get a hundred
viewer points also I had mentioned send
us a postcard in the post you'll see our
address our mailing address is actually
on the bottom of every single page on
category 5 TV or you can go to contact
us and send us a postcard with your you
know a picture of your local city or
state country whatever you know
something that reminds you of home and
write something nice on the back and
send it our way and i'll be happy to to
give you some viewer points for that and
i think that would be really nice for us
to receive some snail mail fro for a
while it's been really cool a long time
it's almost like we're working backwards
and again yo male is so amazing and I
believe there's something about opening
the mailbox though and there's something
there that just says hey it just thought
it's ND a letter you know they used to
call it fan mail or whatever way back in
the day it was it's just like you know
open the mail bag and here's a letter
we've had we've had some very
interesting stuff sent to us in the past
but because we haven't made mention of
the postal box in a very long time oh
just forget it yeah just kind of tapers
off and eventually the you know it dies
off and you know it's been a few months
and we haven't received anything from
viewers so we do have postal service in
Canada we sure do it's it's a little
slow a little unreliable but it gets
here usually so um give it a try sound
good cool thanks everybody Thank You
Christa nice to have you here oh it's
always great to be here and we're
looking forward to a very fun month of
September as well I don't know if you
know this or not we're coming up on our
our fourth anniversary season 5 of
category 5 TV starts late next month so
very excited it now it's hard to believe
so much time has gone by we've got some
hardware that came in for the new server
parts of it it's not all here but most
of the stuff that that we ordered with
donated funds has arrived so so I simply
wanted to say like I've said it before
and it starts I
it doesn't start to sound redundant but
it really you know when we opened that
box last night it's like the viewers
purchase the stuff to replace the
damaged hardware and it means so much to
myself to everyone who's involved in the
show that that you stand by us like that
so so I actually recorded the unboxing
video and unboxing is incredibly boring
to me so I figure it's pretty I'm pretty
boring to most other people so I didn't
include it in the show tonight but I did
put it up so that those of you who would
really like to see the unboxing video
and see the hardware as we open the box
that's that's available to you that will
be on category 5 TV under watch the show
and features you'll be able to find that
but you can also find it on our blip
site it's blip TV / category 5 that's
where it is right now so well cool
thanks everybody for all the fun tonight
have a wonderful week thanks Krista yeah
I'll see you everybody I guess and
thanks major tom it's been fun oh he
looks happy with his new name looks so
happy mmm good job we'll see you next
Tuesday night this is a live broadcast
that goes forth every tuesday night at
seven o'clock eastern and we look
forward to having you here join us on
our website it's free service make sure
you register so you can participate in
some of the cool contest that we have
category 5 TV and we'll see you next
Tuesday night sounds good see everyone
okay
