welcome to category five technology TV
and what you're about to experience is a
free worldwide interactive broadcast
from Ontario Canada we broadcast live
every Tuesday at 7:00 p.m. Eastern Time
get your questions in join the community
chat room at triple W category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Rob you
Ferguson welcome to episode number 230
of category 5 technology TV it's Tuesday
February 14 2012 nice to see you I'm
Robbie and I'm Rachel hey right how are
you all doing today
looks like your hair yes I'm different
something's different this week what are
you all doing watching this show instead
of doing something for Valentine's
already well I will tell you what is
coming up in the news room
we have Apple stock price has surpassed
500 dollars a share so I hope you have
some stocks in that and Netflix has paid
9 million dollars to settle a privacy
related legal action and President Obama
plans to help Mars exploration in favor
of human spaceflight when I first read
that I thought it said in favor of human
sacrifice whoops the Microsoft India Web
Store has been hacked and user passwords
were stolen so stick around these
stories are coming up later in the show
scary stuff I feel like you're like uber
short tonight is your chair low double
just yeah I'm kind of like well maybe
I'm just so talking there that's you've
done it you've done it well tonight we
are gonna be we're gonna be building the
ultimate virtual box set up you want to
stick around that seems a little bit
more more realistic there we go
my kids were sitting on that chair I
believe so it's they sunk it down
they've been away on super tux my
daughter is like in love with super tux
right now they both
Italians act they draw pictures of super
tux they love it if you haven't got it
for your kids make sure you go get it
awesome so one of the most important
issues that have come up this week is
Jiminy Cricket he's paying a visitor off
he's like his conscience Robbie yes
you've gotten Christie doughnuts
Christie pizza and last week Krista
Krista yeah last week Eric got cherry
pie so I've heard what is this yeah and
then here we are me nothing sorry well
but it is Valentine's Day and you know I
just couldn't I just couldn't watch you
suffer happy Valentine's Day
mm-hmm I would send you one as well it's
I can smell it from here
it smells delicious pure chocolate
goodness no sherry you know you won't
get any eat up hey you can visit our
mobile site it's cat5 dot TV slash
mobile or as it says on the screen as I
realize that it also has a redirect
mobile dot cat5 dot TV that would be the
way to get there or you can scan this QR
code very cool way to get it bring up
your device scan that code and boom it
comes up on your screen mobile cat 5 TV
also we would love to receive your
postcard all you have to do is send it
to category 5 technology TV P o box
20900 9 Barrie Ontario that's Canada l
4n 7w7 and of course when you send us
your postcard we will show it on air
we'd love to see where you're from maybe
a picture of a local something the
scenic maybe a tourist attraction or
something that we'd be interested in
that would be very cool so um I don't
know if you know this but Robbie's
working on his website hmm and they have
a cool new feature I've been allowed to
peek at it where any postcard that's
been sent
is put on like a viewer map kind of like
who's watched similar right yeah and you
click on it and you can see what the
postcard said and you get a picture of
the front of the postcard so you get to
see where around the world they've been
sent from so that should be cool so send
in thousands of them so Rob's all over
all week having to upload these and just
make them do more work it can be very
cool if you send in a postcard it's
actually gonna make itself onto that map
you'll see a pin and you click on it as
rachel sang so there's some really cool
features coming up on the new site I'm
so excited about it it is going to be
going into phase 1 data very soon we've
got a great team of people viewers
especially who are gonna be testing the
site for us if you're interested in that
all you have to do to get involved in
the betta it's a closed beta it is open
to everyone but you have to sign up for
it so all you have to do is email live
at category 5 TV make sure in the
subject line you say v3 betta or beta
depending on where you're from but that
will get you involved it's gonna be a
lot of fun it's gonna be an awesome
upgrade to our website so very excited
about that yeah it would be much easier
to watch episodes and everything to
actually navigate it around
yeah it's laid out a lot nicer and it's
got a big launch button and everything
to make it easy one of the things that
I've really worked towards I don't know
if people really realize how real or sin
tensive running a show like this on a
website is when it's a very specific
window you know Tuesday nights at 7
o'clock is when we're live so our
servers get hit really really hard
during that time and so one of the
things that we're working on and what
I'm working on is building this new site
to be extremely lightweight and that
means it's gonna be very very zippy when
you bring up the website it's gonna load
very quickly we're gonna see those
errors that you sometimes get on our
website when there's too much traffic
those are going to disappear as well so
we're very very excited about it cool
a question in the chat room from Ignacio
82 says quick question I've got a
logitech c910 running in a boom - the
problem is that the maximum resolution
that I can select is 640 by 360 any idea
why I can't set it to 720 that that's
gonna be like a video for Linux issue
but you would think that if you bring up
cheese it's gonna allow you to to set
that have you used cheese to test that
be interested - no cheese allows you to
just kind of use a drop-down and and
pull it down but you have a cheese like
cheese that sounds cheesy cheese like a
camera you know and like say cheese
mm-hmm it makes sense makes sense so
that unfortunately I don't have one of
those cameras so I can't test for you
it's gonna be a trial and error but I'm
sure that there are some forums that may
be able to help you certainly for your
particular distribution if you're using
a boon - for example get over to a boom
- forums and see if anyone out there has
experienced the same issue that would be
my best recommendation at this point now
one of the things that I'm really
working toward with category 5
especially if you can believe that we're
coming up on our fifth anniversary so as
we move into season 6 this fall I'm very
excited that we're gonna be putting more
of a push toward Linux compatibility as
far as Hardware goes and things like
that so we're gonna see more and more of
that but unfortunately you know it's
getting to that place where we've got
hardware to test with so love to know if
you find a resource that helps you fix
that but unfortunately my knowledge as
far as that camera goes is not gonna
help you tonight so cheers for the
question anyways cool so we've got to
get a word from our sponsor and we will
be right back in just a moment after
this your last chance to relax is on the
way up the hill
you can capture all the action like
never before without a bulky sports cam
that's a high-definition video camera
mask from liquid image Canada calm even
low-light you'll capture the memories
just how you experience available now
from liquid image canada.com this is
category 5 technology TV and you find us
online at triple w dot category five dot
TV speaking I look over you knew you
knew and you kept this a secret from me
Oh gang okay so we were talking a little
bit about webcams and Linux and webcams
in general and one of the big exciting
things this week is that Wirecast from
Telestream cat5 dot TV slash Wirecast if
you go to that link you're gonna see the
software that we use to broadcast the
show it's called Telestream Wirecast and
with that software we're able to connect
all our cameras into one computer and we
can camera switch and do all that kind
of stuff so interestingly enough we've
been waiting for it pleased to announce
that four point one point three has come
out of wire cast and it is compatible
with the Microsoft LifeCam studio this
is a 1080p webcam okay HD webcam it's in
fact what we're using tonight so I don't
know if you notice that we're using a
new camera but it's one of these the
studio from Microsoft so if you're
watching and you're a Wirecast user what
we're doing tonight is actually
broadcasting through the studio in
Wirecast four point one point three and
I kind of wanted to touch on it because
I know that a lot of you are curious
about what it would take to be able to
broadcast your own show or maybe you
already broadcast a show and you really
want to step it up to HD well here's an
opportunity to do so very cheaply you
can find out more about this actual
webcam on our website actually on my
blog it's cat v dot TV slash life
kamme and if you go to that website
you're gonna learn a little bit more
about the processes that we went through
in order to get this game this camera
working on Telestream Wirecast but now
that it's here
fantastic so what I'm gonna do I'm gonna
bring up the the GNU image manipulation
program I want to show you just a quick
little demonstration and you know while
I talk I mean you can you can eat that
that cupcake thing
the massive cupcake what I want to show
you here I'm just gonna give you a quick
demo of what is a little bit different
here about the studio so we were
previously broadcasting in 720p so
that's 1280 by 720 is the resolution of
720p so essentially you know let's say
that that is the size of our window so
I'm gonna color that in black so that we
have something to reference okay
I'm gonna create a new layer here in the
GNU image manipulation program and I'm
gonna go and change the canvas size now
proportionally to 1080p 1920 by 1080 so
now you'll see that comparatively that's
the amount of camera data video data
that we now have added to the video so
that that black box is 720p the grid is
in fact 1080p so check out what I'm
gonna show you and this is something for
Wirecast broadcasters people who are
considering using the Microsoft LifeCam
studio because sometimes what we don't
realize with a 1080p camera is that we
don't necessarily need to broadcast in
1080p I'm gonna show you what I mean in
just a second here I'm gonna grab
another color
I'm gonna go green and let's fill in
that layer green okay not that way
yeah there we go
created the lair in the wrong order
there we go okay
so Green is 1080p black is 720p watch
what I can do with this black box okay
what I hope that you can understand is
at 1080p let's just say I've got and
Rachel's gonna love this because I'm
such an artist as far as this goes
we're gonna go new layer dude okay
here's a person okay so that's that's
gonna be you Rachel you're on camera
here's here's me okay
remember we're at 1080p now with this
camera all right so we're not actually
broadcasting at 1080p we're using a
1080p camera so if you're interested in
using what's called digital zoom watch
this this is my 720p frame okay so if I
were using a 1080p camera which allows
me to see that entire space but I were
to broadcast in 720p now I can zoom in
digitally and I have lossless video all
the way around this frame so I can zoom
in so that it's pretty much just Rachel
pretty much just me at 720p digitally
and I don't need multiple cameras I can
move around the screen so as you can see
here we are at you know we've got the
1080p camera which has been scaled down
to 720p here we've got 1080p zoomed in a
little bit and here again so it's gonna
be lossless because we're able to
actually move around without upscaling
that video so very cool to be able to do
that you can do that because we've got
much more pixel data coming off of this
camera so very cool stuff now with
Wirecast for point 1.3 and again I
encourage you to check out the website
cap v dot TV slash Wirecast this is a
camera switching software so it's what
we use in order to actually create
category 5 TV from a technical
and point cameras plug into that
computer and it powers it if you're
gonna use a 1080p camera like this it
does take a lot of power we're using an
i7 2608 gigs of ram no 16 gigs of ram
pardon me and it's a pretty powerful
system there's six hard drives and
everything's in a raid zero and it's
very powerful but even with that hard
drive setup i still cant encode in 1080p
directly to hard hard drive so we can
only encode in 720 so that's why you
know we can we can compromise by using
the camera in full 1080p and then
zooming in on it and we get lossless
digital zoom which is beautiful
beautiful thing for webcasting so any
questions let us know in the chat room
Wirecast for point 1.3 now introducing
the ability to to use cameras such as
the LifeCam studio very exciting so
Garbi says Robbie F when you switch it
to zoom it also doesn't get heavily
pixelated and then he's like yeah that's
the thing I hope that my little
demonstration using that graphic helps
you to understand why that is because
we're recording broadcasting in 720p so
we can move around that 1080p space
rather than taking a 720p camera and
zooming in on it which stretches the
image and we lose quality here we're
able to move around the image without
losing quality so question is do you
want full quality this clothes easy yes
well see in our case for example we have
a fairly limited space I don't know if
you can really get a sense here is the
LifeCam studio and we are you know we
could not put cameras all around us
because we've got monitors all around us
if you look here this is this is our
setup right so in that case being able
to use some form of digital zoom is
really kind of critical we need to be
able to do that so being able to do it
losslessly with the live cam studio and
Wirecast that's a beautiful thing
beautiful thing cool Coolio Coolio yeah
well we've got a couple viewer questions
that we should probably jump into we've
got a lot going on tonight and I'm very
very excited to be showing you some
stuff with VirtualBox we're going to get
really under
hood and we're not going to be looking
at it from a as much and user experience
as a server administrator kind of
experience so stick around we're gonna
be talking about that in a few minutes
all right so we have something here from
Robert Meineke I hope I pronounced that
right Robert and he said I popped it to
my mother's credit union the other day
to transact a bit of business and much
to my surprise
Eric kids long-lost twin was beaming at
me from the Board of Directors gallery
on the wall and he has a link there best
regards Robert em does he mention where
this is well the links it can you bring
it up on the screen maybe sure yes okay
so we can see this education employee
credit oh my hahaha
and there he is that is uncanny
could you imagine does he know of this
twin I does now that's crazy yeah it
does look just like him that's the weird
thing about having viewers all over the
world is that you know you get you guys
to walk into a credit union and find a
guy that looks just like one of our
co-hosts that's hilarious I hope that is
just crazy I'm gonna have to post the
link in the show notes this credit union
is gonna be like why did I why did our
hits just go through the roof all of a
sudden everybody's hitting this guy's a
page so this credit union is in Fresno
California so Eric apparently has a twin
what do you think does does that look
strikingly like Eric yeah and it's even
got the same it yes
dark haired gray same stay outgoing
since our baby and interesting we have a
viewer question from Jim Franklin aka
old guy Jim his question is Robbie f
I've been a fan of stop-motion animation
since I first watched King Kong and then
mightyjoyoung
and no old guy Jim is not that old I saw
them as a kid on television
reruns so I was fascinated by your
stop-motion episode tribute to Star Trek
you showed the webcam you used to do the
scene grabs I've been looking for a new
food and two friendly webcam that can
still be purchased new I've not had much
success finding one with the necessary
driver if required that works with my
current version of Ubuntu and
stop-motion do you or anyone in the chat
room have a suggestion as to what works
as usual thanks to you and to your
excellent co-hosts for a quality
broadcast note my coworker guitar Playa
mm also enjoys the broadcast Cheers old
guy Jim awesome thanks Jim so webcams
and Linux now okay so we had in the chat
room a little bit it seems like the
theme becomes webcams and that's cool
because we just happen to switch webcams
here but we had a viewer in the chat
room who was having trouble getting a
particular camera working in Linux as
far as getting it in its full 720p glory
what I do have connected into this
system and Jim you're gonna make me
sound like I'm trying to sell Microsoft
cameras and I'm and I'm not so much but
I want you to know that there are some
good cameras out there that are that can
be had for very very cheap for example
okay I'm gonna I'm gonna do this Jim I'm
gonna go cat five TV slash life cam okay
that's the little block entry that I
have that's dedicated to this you know
getting this camera really working well
so I'm gonna go there and you'll see if
you scroll down a little bit you can go
by this camera here so this is what I
mean by this is cheap so we're gonna go
here and I'm gonna go LifeCam studio
just a quick search there it is okay it
currently is on sale and you can have
this camera 1080p 450 $4.99 alright so
make sure you follow the link through my
blog at cap 5 TV slash life cam because
we do kind of keep track of how many
people click on that and it helps us out
so it's a great price now I've got one
connected to our demo system fortunately
so I'm going to bring up cheese
so the Rachel can see what it is that
we're talking about when we say cheese
there we go okay so there's a life cam
studio if I go edit preferences you'll
see that by default it's coming in at
640 by 480 which is not widescreen I
would want to go 640 by 360 instead so
that it's widescreen mode just a bit
nicer but of course you can go up to you
know the full resolution I don't think
this computer will be able to handle
that resolution I think it would be
choppy see so if you get that you can
bring down the resolution it means your
computer can't handle that speed 720p it
seems to do pretty good and of course
you know for webcam use or whatever else
is 640 by 360 doesn't matter doesn't
that look good you know really really
good because you're still you're still
using the aperture in the end the lens
on a 1080p camera here it's just that
you're scaled it down to 640 by 360 so
let's close out of that and you said
that you are interested in in doing some
stop-motion so I'm gonna bring up
stop-motion which I have installed from
our demonstration click on the camera
there and there we go so you'll see that
this camera in fact does work with
stop-motion so we'll create a quick
stop-motion video stay very very still I
move just a little bit whoa now a little
bit more
and a bit more a bit more
this is not the correct way to make a
stop-motion video people there okay so
turn off the camera and okay Jim so that
is the LifeCam studio you can find out
more about the camera please go through
my blog because as I say those links are
tracked and and we do get some credit if
you do purchase it but that said is you
know I'm not endorsed in any way by
Microsoft or anything like that I just
I'm looking for a deal myself ok so that
we're able to pick up these cameras for
fifty five bucks and their 1080p maybe
you can't get 1080p Jim but if that's
the case as you saw there even at 640 by
360 it's a good quality camera for the
price USB 2.0 so it's compatible with
most systems it does require pretty
heavy specs but does a really good job
and as you see there it works on Linux
and if you do anything with it old guy
Jim you should send it in so we can see
it cuz I actually I went to school for
animation so we did stop-motion
animation
cool in school so I would be interested
in seeing something you made now being
that you went to school for animation
what what kind of stuff did you get into
be interested to learn a little bit more
about what what you've done and we know
that you do these amazing cartoons
because you've seen the cartoons you see
it on our website right now if you go
there the Valentine and things like that
yeah well I worked on like 2d animation
and stop-motion and flash animation so
yeah it would be neat to see I remember
one time spending an entire day doing a
bit of stop-motion animation because
it's 24 frames a second so do like a
minute of video was took forever and
then at the very end the teacher came
and said oh no no no do it again
so not good enough
but if you like it I recommend I think
is named Jan's Fink and Meyer or
something made a movie called Alice now
that is some weird stop-motion animation
check it out cool
yeah the stuff that I've done with
stop-motion I mean I think it's really
really neat but I've only ever really
tinkered with it and we did a
demonstration on the show in which you
know literally you know how much work it
is to do 24 frames a second so to do a
10 second video in a in a 15 minute
window is stuff quality goes down the
drain so well you can you can actually
send in your viewer questions go to your
email application send us an email live
at category 5 dot TV we would love to to
field your question try to answer it
right here live on the show fewer
questions tonight are brought to you by
quarter electric they are the official
electrical company of category five
technology TV find out more about them
by contacting them our quarterly at
quarter electric comm and of course they
will they will take care of your
electrical needs anywhere within 100
kilometers of very Ontario so check them
out cool could take a question in the
chat room if there are any got a couple
of minutes here before we jump into the
news well I was gonna say because I
mentioned it earlier so some people like
the cartoons yeah so if anyone has the
cool cartoon idea related to category 5
or the Rob or the co-host or whatever
something related to the show send in
your ideas and if there's one I like I
will do it for you and maybe Rob will
show it on the show or whatever you have
is up to you so now we actually get
funny for those of you who have perhaps
not seen a Rachael shoe cartoon if you
go to our photo gallery on our website
category 5 TV you can see some of them
here's your happy Valentine's Day for
today and there we all are there are a
couple in there we had a Christmas one
as well that the Rachael did so yeah a
great idea to send in your ideas you can
email them to live at category 5 dot TV
and Rachel will receive that request
and it's fun stuff cool nicely done
nicely done so broke computer has a
question if you have time he says do you
know how to set up an Active Directory
LD AP server with the time that we have
as invincible mutant would say I will
direct you towards turnkey Linux oh it's
not like another 9 hour yeah well a an
Active Directory setup is setting up a
domain for your for your Windows Network
can be deeply involved the the thing is
is do you want to go with full Active
Directory services with like a small
business server from Microsoft or
something like that pay through the
teeth for licensing just by itself let
alone the software itself but licensing
terminal user Cal's and things like that
can cost a fortune instead we can
actually fall back on Linux based Active
Directory architecture so if we go to
turnkey Linux the reason that I
recommend them is that it's already
pre-built for you it's really really
simple to get started out-of-the-box
turnkey Linux org if we scroll down just
a little bit you'll start to find the
appliances there are a ton of pre-built
virtual machine appliances lamp stack
for example if you want to create a
Linux Apache MySQL PHP stack to host
websites Joomla WordPress redmine etc
etc and here's the one turnkey domain
controller appliance that will in fact
replace your need for a Windows primary
domain controller by using Linux
technology so you're able to create the
same environment for your Windows users
but it's free so check it out it's
turnkey Linux org and that particular
one is called the domain controller
alright
check that out that's all the time that
we have today for viewer questions do
stick around because after the news we
are going to be jumping right into our
tutorial about VirtualBox and certainly
if you're going to be getting into
appliances which are virtual machines
that you host on your computer there's
an opportunity for you to take the
tutorial tonight and then grab one of
those turnkey Linux appliances and
install it using what we're gonna learn
a little bit later on so stick around
that's gonna be a lot of fun if you're
ready we will yeah jump right into the
news what's going on exciting stuff is
going on here
so the shares in technology giant Apple
have crossed $500 a share for the first
time and it caps a remarkable turnaround
for the iPhone maker whose shares were
worth just $3 at 19 cents in 1997 when
it faced the possibility of bankruptcy
so if you are one of those people who
got in at $3 did you imagine that'd be
insane yeah so it's now worth four
hundred and sixty billion dollars Apple
is oh and last month Apple reported
record-breaking net profits for the last
three months of 2011 the profits were
the fourth biggest in US corporate
history wish I got in on that so Netflix
has paid nine million dollars to settle
a privacy related legal action a
financial filing has revealed the online
streaming firm which made no admission
of wrongdoing said the settlement
related to compliance with the video
protection Privacy Act the 1988 US
legislation prohibits the disclosure of
video rental histories and it is
reported that the legal action concerned
allegations that next flicks was failing
to delete the viewing histories of
customers who had left the service so
Netflix has argued against parts of the
24 year old legislation in the past
since it prevents them from offering a
Netflix Facebook app which will allow US
based users to share information on what
they are watching with Facebook friends
and the settlement put a significant
dent and Netflix's finances after
accounting for the payment
fourth-quarter earnings fell from forty
point seven million to thirty five point
two million for them really
tough yeah I gotta agree I gotta admit
though I'm a little bit on their side
with regards to that I mean like what
movie did he watch last week don't tell
us
cuz it's illegal I mean it should be my
choice if I tell people what movies I
watched right I can understand how that
legislation went into place but how many
24 years later Internet is huge and
people like to share stuff I was saying
and it's not like the people that their
histories were shown they're not the
ones who got the nine million dollars
most likely not yeah so it's who god I
should complain that that they kept my I
want to share that I should go to the
movie store and just say can you tell me
what I rented last week and just see if
they say yes and then nine million
dollars it reminds me though of that
just makes me think not to digress but
you know how a lot of people on like
Twitter or something they have this
plug-in installed in their media player
so that it says on Twitter what they're
listening to so I thought wouldn't it be
funny to go through all their mp3
library and redo all their id3 tags so
like no matter what Eric kid is
listening to it could be anything and
all of a sudden his Twitter he's
listening to Justin Bieber's Greatest
Hits fantastic that if you do it
I want a screenshot back to the news
good already
President Barack Obama's 2013 budget
request for NASA would slash spending on
Mars exploration and shift funds to
human spaceflight and space technology
so I guess you're not gonna see my
family after all
and as reported by BBC News last week
this means the US will pull the plug on
its joint missions to Mars with Europe
ever approved by Congress the budget
request would reduce funds available for
planetary science by about 21 percent
but spending on human exploration and
space technology would rise by six
percent and 22 percent respectively
so the Mars Science Laboratory MSL rover
will land on the red planet this year
and the maven mission to study the
Martian atmosphere will still go ahead
in 2013 so responding to criticisms of
swing
cuts to the Mars program mr. Bolden said
for someone to say we're walking away
from Mars with the biggest Rover MSL not
even there yet I don't think that makes
much sense overall NASA would receive
about 17 point 7 billion for next year
with a flat budget envisioned over the
next few years
ok hmm anyone got thoughts well my only
thought is like it's it's so tough to
get to Mars I am so hopeful I mean I'm a
Trek guy right so like you're hoping
captain for cards go and be like yeah it
would be nice if it was Captain Picard
Klingons but I don't know so much about
Klingons because probably at this time
and step in the game they'd be at war
with us well tribbles my kids would love
a couple thousand tribbles man eating
pills that I have not seen what seems
like it seems like it's never gonna
happen like spaceflight and it's like
they're talking about going to space and
it's like we're gonna get just outside
of the atmosphere okay then
Microsoft appears to have had its Indian
Web Store broken into a new sir login
credentials stolen by Chinese hackers
hmm and that wasn't me and tech site web
pea sauce reported on Sunday that the
program group which goes by the name
evil shadow team managed to deface the
website posting an image of a V for
Vendetta mask with a message unsafe
system will be baptized even now as you
can see in this image the site continues
to be offline with a slightly more
official looking message according to
multiple reports user rather than the
passwords were also stolen by the
hackers a situation made significantly
worse because Kwas are apparently made
the schoolboy error of storing them in
plaintext Oh seriously great that looks
good on Microsoft not so users of
Microsoft store in India are being
advised to change their passwords on the
site as soon as it comes back online to
change their credentials on any other
sites if they use the same ones across
multiple online accounts and so if you
want the full stories go to category
five TV slash newsroom category five TV
newsroom is researched by Roy W Nash
with contributions by our community of
yours if you have a new story you think
is worthy of on-air mention email
newsroom at category five TV for the
category five TV newsroom I am Rachel
shoot Thank You Rachel
the news tonight is brought to you by
Garden Gate farms comm certified organic
broccoli sprout and wheatgrass juice you
can check them out online garden gate
farms comm also planet Calypso get the
free online massive multiplayer
role-playing game at cat5 dot TV slash
Calypso this is category five technology
TV thanks for joining us on the show
tonight and you can find our website at
triple W category five TV there you go
we also again have the mobile site
mobile app camp five dot TV we'd love to
have you join us there or on our website
cool stuff are you familiar with
virtualization okay one of the things
that I really hope to accomplish with
category 5 TV and I think that we we
kind of do this is to be able to offer
you ways to save money by using
technology to your advantage and one of
the coolest things in business and even
as a home user that that have come along
in a long time is something called
virtualization it basically means I can
be running Linux but then if I do need
Windows say for Photoshop or something
like that
I can boot up Windows inside of Linux as
if it was a program so now all of a
sudden I've got my Windows environment I
can create my virtual machine as it's
called and within that environment I can
install my accounting software that's
Windows only even though technically I'm
running Linux because virtualization
lets me do that lets you very quickly
switch between different operating
systems because it's a virtualized
environment it treats your Windows
installation as if it was another
program installed on your computer so
you can tab you know switch over to
Linux instantly and surf the web or
whatever a lot safer
so with virtualization in the
business environment of course what that
means for you is that you're able to
create virtual servers we're looking a
little bit earlier tonight about at
turnkey Linux appliances where you can
replace an entire domain controller well
imagine you know if we go back 10 years
in time we'd have a server which would
be way over sized way overpriced
very expensive to repair if anything
ever goes wrong with it because it's all
proprietary and each server would run
one one task really you'd have a domain
controller server that server was one
physical unit if you wanted to have
exchange mailboxes quite often systems
weren't powerful enough to carry both
tasks so you'd have to run that on a
separate server and then you'd have a
file server for ftp and samba things
like that so you end up with a whole
bunch of servers in your corporate
environment well now we can take that we
get one basically super-powerful
computer which is much smaller than they
ever used to be and in that computer we
can install a whole bunch of virtual
computers literally is like having a
whole bunch of computers installed in
one computer so we start off as with
Linux as our base because that's you
know the most stable the most virus
[Music]
immune I guess would be the word we
don't have to deal with Windows viruses
of course because it's Linux so you're
starting with Linux as our base we can
then install a turnkey Linux appliance
for our domain controller we can install
a Windows XP system to be able to run
our photoshop and whatever else we can
install a whole bunch of different
systems and they can run simulus lee as
long as you've got enough RAM so if you
want to give each machine say four gigs
of ram and you've got 16 gigs in your
system well no problem you've got enough
to run at least two or three virtual
machines simultaneously chances are
you're only gonna unless it's a server
you're only gonna need to run one or two
so tonight what I want to show you is
how to create basically the ultimate
server based environment we're talking
about a head list a headless of
VirtualBox setup very cool stuff again
if you're in business or let's say
you're I love the example of things like
nonprofits or churches charities and
things like that where you really need
to be able to save money so here's an
opportunity for you
do that by using a pretty good PC so hmm
well I'm just writing notes for myself
okay all right Eric does this thing
where he scratches something down and
then he goes so tonight okay so imagine
okay we've got a system that's built to
be a virtualization server okay so it's
gonna house a whole bunch of other stuff
so that system may have a little you
know fairly good amount of RAM but we
want to stick it in a corner somewhere
in a server room we want it to be on a
UPS so it's got battery backup and it's
gonna be doing its thing and we can use
remote desktop or VNC or any of those
kinds of things in order to access them
but we don't want to have to stand in
front of the server because these days
you don't need to I can administer a
server way down in California from up
here and Barry I can take care of
everything for you remotely without ever
having to stand in from the server and
that's what virtualization gives us in
the real world environment so a couple
of tools that you really need one of
them is called VirtualBox I already have
VirtualBox installed on this system
VirtualBox is a free piece of software
which allows you to basically you'll see
here that and these errors are just
because of some of the virtual machines
that I have it just you know or have
been deleted or whatever but you see
yeah like I've got Windows 7 installed
I've got a boom to 11.10 Linux Mint
Debian
Kimmo and I've got my website all these
things are virtual machines on my system
so I can boot up any one of those very
cool stuff but what I want to do you
know I still again I have to sit here in
front of a computer so I'm not gonna
take you step-by-step through installing
Linux and things like that what you're
gonna need is basically Linux we're
gonna need a patch II which you can
install you know if you've got Debian or
pardon me Ubuntu I'm using Zorin OS just
install the PHP 5 meta package go into
synaptic package manager go to PHP 5 and
just install that that's gonna give you
a patchy and PHP that's all we need
today or you can go into your terminal
and type sudo apt-get space PHP 5 all
one word PHP the
or five that's can install that for you
with PHP five that again gives you a
patchy what that means is my computer or
in this case say my server okay is going
to become a bit of a server it becomes a
web server that file is in fact so what
you're seeing there where it says it
works
I'm gonna go VAR w W there's a file
called index.php in this folder if I
open that you'll see exactly what that
file is right I've added a mail script
there to test it but it says it works
okay so that's all that is brilliant
okay so that's Apache that's what we're
gonna need okay so we've got VirtualBox
installed let's get rockin on this on a
closed VirtualBox because what we're
gonna do is we're gonna create an entire
server environment to allow you to
administer this thing through your web
browser from anywhere on your land or
you can open up a port on your firewall
you'll be able to administer it remotely
as well first things first we need a
lint Linux user in order to add in in
order to basically run VirtualBox I'm
gonna create a new user Linux users for
me and for you probably are gonna be
under system administration users and
groups okay
create a new user I'm gonna call this
one V box alright just to make it nice
and easy and I know exactly what that is
it's gonna be my VirtualBox user I'm
gonna hit okay not a lot of stuff has to
happen to that user because really
they're just to authenticate I'm going
to call my password one-two-three-four
one-two-three-four one-two-three-four
one-two-three-four I would never set a
password to that we're gonna do that
just for the demonstration because you
know we're not gonna create a big strong
password on the show and then I'm gonna
sit here wondering you know Oh what did
I said to this so for you I want you to
use something that's uppercase lowercase
alphanumeric it's got a couple of
characters in it that you know are like
an @ symbol or explanation point or
commas or whatever else so that it's
nice and strong so people can't guess at
it okay so in the meantime we're gonna
go one two three four one two three four
okay
my VBox user is created I'm ready to go
close out of that now I'm gonna go into
well let's bring up my web browser first
and foremost and let's actually get a
copy of the tool that we're gonna need
okay so what I'm gonna do is I'm going
to create for you a nice little link
cat5 dot TV /v b alright stands for
VirtualBox if you ever need to remember
that cat5 dot TV /v b when you click on
that right now where that's gonna take
me as directly to the downloads for PHP
VirtualBox and I'm gonna get the newest
version look at the date over on the
right there four point one point seven
at the time of this and I'm gonna
download that super small click on it
and open it there it is okay I'm going
to extract that to my temp folder /tmp
here we are in linux doing all this and
i'm going to close this okay so now i
have a copy of this PHP VirtualBox in
the temp folder on my computer let's go
into our terminal and I'm going to go
into CD / TMP and then go CD space and
it was called PHP and then I hit tab to
fill in the rest so I don't have to take
the whole thing and hit enter
now if I do an LS which shows me a
directory listing there's all the files
so now I need to go we remember where do
you remember where the the files are
located for our website a little quiz
for you slash var slash with the default
installation of Apache PHP 5 under this
particular environment which is based on
bloom too
so what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna sudo
because you have to be a super user and
of course if you're using Debian you'll
just do a su to become root and then
you'll be able to to just make dirt make
der VAR w w / and I'm gonna call it VB
or I can call it virtual box or I can
call it whatever I want I'm just gonna
create that folder enter my password and
there we go so now it created a folder
in w w called VB so now if I go
localhost / vb it's gonna take me to
that folder so now what I want to do is
sudo
MV star slash var slash w /v b /
remember that trailing backs that slash
what that's going to do is just can move
all the files so now if i do an LS the
folders empty but if i do an LS on this
folder that's where the files have been
moved to next step we need to actually
configure VirtualBox because what's cool
about VirtualBox too is that it comes
with a soap server program that allows
API application programming interfaces
to interact directly with VirtualBox
with with no GUI so very cool so what
we're gonna do is we're gonna set that
up this is so simple all we need to do
is go sudo G edit ok we need to create a
file which probably doesn't exist but
we're gonna go default so is slash etc'
slash default slash Virtual Box so what
we're doing is we're going sudo just
become a super user we're going G edit
to open our text editor and then we're
telling it what file we want to bring up
into text editor it's slash etc' slash
default slash VirtualBox do not leave
out this step because if you do you're
not going to be able to start the soap
daemon that is going to allow you to run
your web server you're gonna get errors
and you're gonna wonder what is going on
you have to take this step ok because
what we're gonna do with this file is
we're gonna tell this system we're gonna
tell VirtualBox who the user is that has
authority to do this and we already
created that user so VBox web underscore
user equals fee box because that's the
user we created if we wanted to I could
run it as Robby whatever but we created
a user specifically for VirtualBox makes
backing up really simple I'm gonna save
that file if you have trouble saving you
probably forgot to do sudo there we go
VBox web underscore user equals V box
that's all you need exit that okay those
errors there don't worry about it that's
just G edit it's nothing fancy now I'm
gonna try this I'm gonna go now notice I
started typing et Cie I forgot I need
sudo slash etc' slash in yet dot d / V
box here's the cool feature v box web -
service and we're
go start okay hit enter it says done
that means it worked there were no
errors if I do that again I hit up and I
go status it says checking for VBox web
service running okay that's what we need
to get to that's the point that we need
to be at in order to make this thing
work
I feel like The Slap Chop guy are you
following me so far are you following me
come on camera guy I'm just playing okay
next step we're gonna make this thing
actually go all right here we go
so easy so easy just follow the steps
okay I'm gonna go CD slash var slash w w
/ BB that's the folder where my files
are this is the program that's gonna let
me do this all through my browser see
how there's a config dot PHP - example
we're gonna move that mV sorry we need
sudo don't we MV config dot PHP -
example notice I just hit tab and it did
that now I'm just gonna rename it config
dot PHP so I'm saying move but really
what I've done is I've renamed it so now
there's a config dot PHP file instead so
now I'm gonna go sudo G edit config dot
PHP so that we can set up our user whoa
look at that the user was already called
V box but you're gonna need to put your
user name in there it could be Robby
right we're go V box do you remember my
ultra-hard password there we go okay
you're gonna need to set that up
other than that you can probably leave
all the other settings the way they are
if you want to get really hardcore into
this you can go through the settings
there and really customize things but in
this case because it's the first time
we've done it let's just leave
everything else the way it is we've set
up our user we're ready to go so now I'm
gonna close that and it close everything
up and let's bring up my web browser
again remember I've got PHP 5 installed
which has Apache so I've got localhost
right
but now I've got localhost / VB see what
we've created now I'm gonna go and
username is admin password is admin
okay if we've done this right I hit
login and that is what I'm seeing in my
actual web browser right looks
strikingly like VirtualBox check this
out okay first things first
my friend's admin admin is not secure
let's go file change password old
password admin new password of course
our super secure password 1 2 3 4 1 2 3
4 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 that's gonna be your
super secure password ok that's the
first thing I want to do now look at
this if I click on VirtualBox there
tells me about the running instance of
VirtualBox remember I started /et c /n @
d /v box web - service I started that
service and that's what this is now
allowed to connect to because I setup
the user credentials for that V Box user
ok so now let's create a new virtual
machine just as if I was actually in
VirtualBox next name of my virtual
machine now can I remind you here I'm in
my web browser this is Chrome I'm not
running VirtualBox now I could be on any
computer on my network you could bring
it up you could go to my IP address
slash VB and you'd be able to access
this interface as well anyone on your
network but remember that's why we have
that secure password ok you can open it
up to the firewall port 80 if you want
ok but again it's it's safe in that it
is it's set up with a password alright
and it's as secure as you set it up to
be watch your firewall though we want to
we're not going to get into security
issues at this point we're gonna do this
all in the land for now I'm gonna call
this my Windows system we call this
Windows 7 so users want wanting to
install Microsoft Windows version 7 ok
32-bit let's say and then we hit next
and we tell it how much memory do you
want and you'll see this is exactly like
VirtualBox what do you want to do create
a new hard disk these are virtual hard
disks you don't have to worry about
formatting them they're not going to
touch your actual host operating system
ok and you follow the prompts just like
you were setting up a real virtual
machine in VirtualBox it's done
so now I have a machine for Windows 7
all I need to do is go into settings go
into storage and grab where my CD is
right choose a virtual CD disk disk
image file and I can use an ISO or I can
use my actual CD drive and install my
system that way so here's what's really
neat now we don't have any virtual
machines installed yet I'm gonna tell
you something real quick because some of
you may have noticed that now that I've
run this VirtualBox instance you'll
notice well where did Robbie's machines
go he used to have Windows 7 boom 2
11.10 where did all those go remember
that those were under the Robie user ok
now I've created a new user called V box
and that is the user that's now running
this program in the background
headless I don't need to monitor anymore
on that computer cuz I'll use my web
browser from any other computer I'll use
the web browser from a tablet right so
if I want access to those machines I can
move them over I can copy them over I
can create symlinks or whatever I need
to do but in this case we're starting
with a fresh install we're gonna create
new virtual machines if you want to grab
a Linux appliance you can install those
as well you've got an option here up at
the top so this is for you if you're
looking at that turnkey you go import
appliance right or alternatively what I
usually do is I'll just create a new
virtual machine and I download prefer to
download the ISO and just go through a
full install it's very quickly turnkey
so so that is how we create the ultimate
VirtualBox set up of course this just it
just gives us so much freedom it is
browser-based
we no longer have to have ahead on our
VirtualBox machine it now takes
VirtualBox to the server platform in
such a way the VMware was the way to go
in previous years so now if you run a
server if you're an administrator and IT
director or anything at all so anywhere
that where you're dealing with
virtualization and needing to cut costs
needing to use hardware to its full
power because remember these days your
computers are so incredibly powerful I
bring up my system monitor here right
and I've got this is just my this is
just my demo system and my CPU is
running like 20 percent usage 10 percent
2% usage so
what what a waste of resources if I'm
just running one operating system now
with virtualization I can run multiple
operating systems and then a server that
is a fantastic way to cut costs and it's
virtual hardware if your real Hardware
crashes take the backup of that virtual
machine move it on to another server
move it on to a laptop just install
virtualbox that's free virtualbox.org
and then you can move that virtual
appliance that virtual machine anywhere
you can store it on your network and
boot it up from any computer it's
fantastic so many good things to be said
about virtualization and VirtualBox is
now entered that server realm we're no
longer just for the desktop this is
category five technology TV and we're
online at triple W category five dot TV
I'm sure that I would expect that there
may be some questions in the chat room
we've got a couple minutes here to field
those well actually invisible mutant had
a question but it was way back in the
list so if you still have it do you want
to repost it invisible mutant I don't
remember it was like we we let me see I
think we do I can't remember what minute
it was that but he had a question
somewhere in there can we allow multi
users no I think was a different one
than that all right
I have guest additions and USP
extensions oh here
Robbie F if you have time at the end of
the show is it possible to discuss a bit
about s SD card all right what would you
like to know about an SSD
that's a a solid-state hard drive let us
know what you'd like to know I'd be
happy to to talk to you but let's let's
try it if there if there are questions
specifically about VirtualBox and how
this technology can be used I'd love to
to to stay on track with that just so
that it's it's kind of all here as a
resource but you'd like to upgrade to
SSD SSD in order to get the same you
know you hear that they're faster
they're possibly more reliable they're
not sensitive to shock factors and
things like that if you put an SSD in a
laptop and it gets jostled chances are
it's gonna still boot up if you have a
spinning hard drive in there and it gets
jostle pretty hard it's gonna damage the
drive and you're
data so so there are advantages there as
far as cost to gigabyte goes you're
gonna pay through the teeth right now
for for any really from gigabyte to
gigabyte you're gonna pay more but then
again I think what's going to end up
happening is we're gonna see because the
price of hard drive spinning hard drives
goes up and up and up after the flooding
we're gonna see that gap kind of closing
in on itself in such a way that SSD is
gonna be the way to go but that said
there's there are many options there I'm
a Kingston guy myself but there are some
tons and tons of good stuff out there so
what you what you want to do is look out
for the speed is really crucial and not
to plug crucial but that's the real
thing get into forums SSD is very
finicky as far as it's not night and day
it's not black and white anymore right
hard drives used to be able to say 7200
rpm great that's pretty fast 10,000 rpm
that's even faster great put it in a
raid zero and it's even faster well with
a with an SSD you've got to look at
reviews because it works very very
differently what's up moto says ask
Robbie which controller set you should
go for that changes from week to week
right so get into the forum's gets get
asking some questions get reviewing get
on to sites like Amazon are great
because you get people who who usually I
mean people who review stuff are the
people who are disgruntled so if you
want to know what's wrong with something
get onto Amazon and you look at people
who have bought it and you'll probably
see a bunch of people who have said some
negative things so you can you can weigh
the good with the bad and way who really
knows what they're talking about and can
say in technical terms so to speak that
you know this particular drive has this
issue or whatever but it is very very
different than spinning drives so we
don't have time to get right into SSD
right now I'm sorry but if you want to
know more email me live at category-five
TV and we will talk about it on a future
show but that is all the time that we
have tonight yep how's the cake you can
give me a fork I've been you're supposed
to just home
Oh seriously all right that's the way to
do it
I'm ready all right how many great night
everybody yeah good to see ya yeah take
care we will see you next week
Hillary Rumble is gonna be here so we
will talk to you next Tuesday night at 7
o'clock Eastern time 4 o'clock Pacific
and we'll see you then
