quick question for our viewers I want to
put an app on my kids phones so my wife
and I whip grate our phones we pass them
on to the kids yeah that's cool you know
that way they can use our Wi-Fi play
their games and stuff like that yeah but
I want to put an app on my kids phones
that I can control when they use their
phone I can lock them out if they're
using too much I can remotely remove
that lock but they can't uninstall it
I've tried a few software that you can
get for free through the Google Play
Store their Android phones by the way
okay through the Google Play Store where
you download it and you have those
features but all the kid has to do is
install it from the phone I want
something where they can't install it
unless I uninstall it or access them to
uninstall it so I'm looking for some
suggestions from our viewers Wow so if
you know of something please let me know
I'm willing to pay a little bit but not
a lot okay one that was $100 a year
subscription I'm going I don't need a
hundred bucks for that okay I'm looking
at ESET mobile security because it has
some of those features for it okay so
but whether or not it's what you see
what you're describing now this is a
great tool that adds things like
filtering and anti-theft aunty phishing
protection kinds of things yes and I
have that on my problem phone yeah and
this is a great product for keeping your
phone safe there is a free version that
has like real-time scanning and remote
locking remote siren GPS geolocation if
someone steals your phone that kind of
thing and then a small fee for ESET
mobile security premium which has
additional features but you're right
they can circumvent that if they know
the Android password they can change
things right in the phone and most
likely you know every pairing either
removes the password or gives it to
their kids so that they aren't hounding
them every five minutes right now the
screen went black and now I can't open
the phone that's right they almost need
to have multi level like an
administrator password for Android yes
but what you're actually describing to
me sounds
endpoint protector and it is looking a
lot cheap no like this is a business
product I don't know maybe our viewers
know of something that's for home users
that will do this but the fact is Jeff
that you have to have a centralized
server to manage these things yeah I
don't want that but you have to have it
for what you're asking for you have to
have a central management console that's
where something like endpoint protector
comes in really or and one of the ESET
business lines like if you went with
ESET endpoint protection advanced it
comes with the business version of
mobile security right that has ESET
Remote Administrator and then you can
use Remote Administrator to block apps
right a phone Oh No that will you can
set up policies in remote administrator
that turn on and off the web browser on
a schedule oh cool so that would do it
that's that's pretty economical yeah
it's a couple hundred bucks will get you
five use or EPA license but is that per
year or yeah you're looking at annual
subscription fees right yeah see and I
don't want to spend a couple hundred
bucks yeah you know like I was you know
there I was looking at a couple apps
they were like you know five bucks yeah
you know for five bucks if it works it
works it's great you know and I don't
mind supporting developers but I just I
the big thing is I want like you know
through my home Wi-Fi I can set the
times that the internet works on them
yeah you can do that yeah but that
doesn't even what you want you want app
level control correct that's gonna
require endpoint some kind of endpoints
centralized server that's going to yeah
I know I know I heard about a an app I
think it's called call your mom we had a
couple years ago I think it was only on
an iPhone at the time but basically you
know if your mom's pets to call and you
don't answer she can lock your phone oh
and you could only unlock it by calling
her and then she'll put the password in
on her app and if she if you're not on
the phone with her it really yeah I was
that's cool if the kids are you know yes
yeah now I'm picturing my mom doing this
to me have you ever heard of circle this
is a
partnership a hardware partnership with
Disney and technology companies circle
know it's a device that you put on your
home network and it's built for this
purpose but you have you have to buy the
device right and this this device it
connects with the app that you've got on
each of the phones and gives you some
control over these kinds of things oh
okay so I would say that for for home
this is probably the the answer right
and I haven't tried it that's all so I'm
just go by marketing height but you know
we get the press releases and things
like that 99 bucks you buy it so what
does it do manage your family's devices
across your network kids can get into
the action - all marketing hype but
essentially I wonder if there's like a
about you know what is this thing watch
video by circle you can watch the video
if you want Jeff later but it's
basically a little device that you plug
into your network connects wirelessly
with your home Wi-Fi allows you to
manage every device on your network
using the circle app families can create
unique profiles for each family member
from here kids will have a connected
experience that is designed just for
them time limits bedtime filtering
rewards if they're good pause their
connectivity off time meaning you know
can't be on the phone during that time
right and usage control so if they're
yeah you can watch up to one gig of
YouTube right perfect so that's called
circle that's meet circle comm if you do
end up going that route now it's
available in Amazon so you can use our
partner like right yes and I'd love to
review that product I wouldn't mind
actually getting our hands on one and
seeing what it functions yeah and you'd
be a great use case because you're
actually looking for this kind of
exactly and if anyone in the community
has has experience circle as of you know
it's brand-new it's it's a you know
we're still getting the press releases
right now come on to learn about it so
but that may be the answer Jeff okay
well I don't something to think about so
if you know please comment below let us
know or shoot us an email and yeah be
good to have some options because
[Music]
[Applause]
