welcome to category five technology TV
episode number 427 for Tuesday the 24th
of November 2015 it's nice to have you
here say hello to Hillary Rumble who is
here in studio with me live on location
of studio D I'm Robbie
Tally's around here moderating the chat
room keeping everybody in line great job
and tonight we are celebrating 20 years
of GNU image manipulation program Wow
again as such we will be kicking off our
20 weeks of GIMP tip series day it
starts today today you better have some
tips up your sleeve I will come up with
something what can we do ok something
about a car is this car bad no it's blue
now look at that gorgeous yellow one
gotcha again it's red have me fooled
haha tonight we will show you how to
fool the world and change the color of
any bright objects we'll also talk about
the future of password box and discuss
what you need to know moving forward
especially if you're using it on hmm
okay and here's what's coming up in the
category 5 dot TV newsroom Mark
Zuckerberg his wife is having a baby
girl and he plans to take some time off
as the CEO of Facebook when she's born
yeah who is blocking users from
accessing Yahoo Mail if they use an ad
blocker in your face you want to block
the ads we will block you that's a quote
imagine going fishing and capturing a
drone Maryland crabber had that exact
thing happened we'll talk about it
Google is starting to serve up apps
directly in the mobile browser and a man
with motor neuron disease has scooped up
a u.s. prize for inventing a device
which allows people to control
wheelchairs using only their eyes stick
around these stories are coming up later
in the show
this is category 5 technology TV
starring sasha dramatis
hilary rumble
and your host Robbie Ferguson this is
category five technology TV welcome to
the show my name is Robbie Ferguson
Hilary with child you see my belly it's
right here I used to have one of those
I'm working on getting rid of it not
quite the same
so you're due in February yes for those
who were not here the last time you were
here what tell us a little bit about
what you're expecting what's I'm
expecting a baby it's a girl I'm like no
it's a baby that was by child baby girl
do you have names yet Katrina for
category five oh that would be very
beautifully defined yeah we'll see I
don't know it's hard it's hard to find a
good name because I've just worked in in
settings with children my whole life so
then some names kind of get like a
negative connotation and you're like I'm
never naming my child
right um or and then some names you're
like woohoo this is so good so I don't
I'm undecided I just like how naming
your kid Hillary for example you
automatically expect them to be amazing
would you know you work very heavily
with hearing impaired individual so when
you're naming your child is not going to
play into it like what is this child's
name going to be
ensign for example a into it not exactly
because a sign name is assigned to you
by a deaf person like Robbie bald guy
right am i right
well sometimes they pick like the sexy
bald feature and highlight it so it
could be like letter are raw because
you're bald I don't know in our family
all of our family it's gonna be my new
thing
I don't know sometimes they do stuff
like that like if you if you were smiley
you could have like a sign name like
this or typically girl names are on the
cheek or boy names drop here because
like boy and girl so but someone has to
like bestow the name on you so oh I
can't decide to do it have to be it
members or personality something yes
would bestow the name
on the baby and then that becomes their
name so it's almost like having two
names hailey which is not unlike coming
from another culture and having a new
name assigned to you that is easy for
those people to brace for exam I don't
know I'll report back with my findings
once I have the baby and make a decision
on Denis and now every time that you're
on we're like is this her last show
before the baby comes we'll see I guess
December's coming so December is a bit
of a busy month as far as I had lots and
lots of stuff going on and then January
you're gonna be right there waiting for
the baby gonna be huge massive and the
camera adds 10 pounds so we shall see
all right what's nice to have you here
I'm so glad that you here nice to see
you again and nice to see you everybody
nice to see so many familiar faces I saw
Dave made you checking in the chat room
there a couple minutes ago hasn't been
with us for a little bit because a lot
going on I know
and also expecting a child so we're
eager to hear the sex of that baby as
well and looking forward to good news
there and he's been working to convert a
lot of people to Linux and it just makes
me proud I'm like a proud papa
we appreciate you Dave and nice to have
you here nice to see so many people in
the chat room move we've got so many
friends today DJ take you on the bat I
don't know I quite on the bat oh nice to
see you you can stick around for at
least a little bit tonight because this
is gonna be an incredible show
incredibly Babla please French I felt it
so well oh my goodness
I just offended so many people I'm sorry
moving on speaking of offending so many
people password box is shutting down
what what's up Intel security comes
along steals password box under from
under us and decides yeah well we're
just gonna assimilate all of its
greatness into our product and then
throw it away the good news
our friends at password box all still
have their jobs and they are working as
true key Montreal branch workers so
they're we're here in Canada so we're
very proud of password box and
everything that they've accomplished and
great product and I'm really sad to see
it go but we have the inside scoop
tonight on what you need to know as a
password box user especially if you're
on Linux we're gonna talk a little bit
about that so like I said Intel security
they're shutting them down they just
announced it on Thursday they acquired
password box just almost a year ago like
to the date they announced that they're
shutting them down because they're gonna
be focusing on their true key software
okay or the the entire platform of true
key password box is going to continue
until fall of 2016
they say late 916 inside sources say
it's gonna be around the fall so that's
what we're expecting so if you're on
password box right now you don't have to
worry about really quickly yeah yeah and
just to really quickly backup in case
you're not familiar with what password
box does it's a browser plug-in that
allows you to memorize one master
password and then their servers control
basically keep log of all of your
passwords we've talked about it on the
show before the advantage to having
something like password box in place and
they've done it the best was to be able
to use really strong passwords on all of
your services so if I use Twitter I want
to be able to use a crazy long crazy
wicked password that nobody could ever
guess II including a computer but the
problem with it is that it's so hard to
do that on all the services that we use
then we shop on Amazon and we then have
to create a new password for that no I
can't do that so I'll use the same
password as I used on Twitter and I'll
use the same password there as on this
other service that I use and then that
service gets hacked and they now have my
Twitter and Amazon password and it's a
big problem password box alleviated that
because it gave us the opportunity to
use really strong passwords across the
board randomly generated if we wanted to
on every different website so that's
great and then we only have to remember
our password box password and master
password master password should be a
song from the 80s and that's fine you
just sit there giggling that's funny to
me thanks buddy it's encouraging to know
that you thought it was funny
I enjoyed that so because of that I mean
that's brilliant I love the way that
they've done things but now they're
going away okay what does it mean yeah
what does I mean first of all the first
thing that comes to mind is are we gonna
be able to export our password box
passwords am I gonna be able to take my
long list of passwords that are stored
in password box export them and import
them into some other key password
logging and utilizing software not sure
how to classify it password box is not
going to receive the update to be able
to export okay that's the sad news
however here's the kicker all password
box data can be imported into true key
okay and it can be done for free and
true key Intel security assures me and
I've spoken to three individuals there
now too just to confirm this first
assurance is that they are going to be
introducing an export to file feature
early next year in true key and then the
next two assurances that I got said that
they do in fact hope to have this out
this quarter so we're going to see it in
2015 Wow
so what that means is if you have all
your passwords stored in password box
you can switch to true key you can't
switch back so it is a switch to true
by installing the application we'll talk
about how to do that in a couple minutes
and then it will automatically transfer
all of your passwords and then you can
use the new export feature which is
coming soon not yet available they
assure me it's going to be available at
the latest first quarter of 2016 so
that's good news so we're gonna be able
to if you're not happy with true key in
the way that they've done things you'll
be able to export to a file and then
import it into another application of
similar nature but then you'll wonder
okay well what if I really like true key
what is it yeah what's the difference if
they've assimilated and then closed down
password box what does what really is it
so I spoke with our friend Meghan
Smulders you remember her she was
formerly of password box mmm formerly
and we've had her on the show
I believe twice and we talked about
password box and and the features back
before the acquisition and now she is
with true key by Intel security at their
Montreal branch so she's still with the
company they're all there I hope they've
got the ping-pong table do the ping-pong
table oohs that that's important to
productivity so I spoke with her and she
said and I'm gonna quote this because
this is important okay what is true key
that was my question true key by Intel
security lets you sign in using things
unique to you like your face fingerprint
or a second device from there
remembering and filling in all of your
passwords across all of your device from
there the app logs you in everywhere
else we've brought in the same basic
functionality of remembering and filling
in your passwords across all of your
devices from password box and added a
whole bunch of new ways to confirm that
it is really you online this allows you
to customize your security with one or
multiple factors you decide interesting
so now I'm Perkin up and starting to
think oh okay this sounds pretty darn
good the more factors I'm continuing
this quote from Megan Smulders the more
factors you use to verify it's you the
more secure
profile becomes we will be bringing more
factors as we move forward as our goal
is to one day eliminate passwords
entirely okay so i've signed up for
Amazon I've got it memorized in true key
like I did with password box I've signed
up for Twitter I've got a very strong
password with that and it's memorized in
true key securely so then I can use my
cell phone to start the process of
authenticating myself to my device then
I use a finger pad to scan my
fingerprint confirm it's me and a
retinal scan
so three factor authentication then I am
able to sign into Twitter because true
key automatically opens up my house word
wow that sounds pretty cool so migration
if you migrate over from password box to
true key you expect it okay this they're
adding a whole lot of features to this
yes what are we looking at is probably
gonna be really expensive so I talked to
some of the people over at Intel
security who tell me if you are a
password box lifetime subscriber that's
me and that's some of you as well you
will receive three years of true key
premium for free oh wow if you migrate
to the true key app with any other
password box subscription you're going
to receive one year of true key premium
for free after you've surpassed your
free years if you wish to upgrade true
key premium subscriptions cost just a
$19.99 USD per year so it's less than
some of the competition for sure and
it's free for 15 or less passwords so if
you only use a couple of services then
Wow charge so for 20 bucks USD per year
so the price hasn't really like changed
I don't think it's any more than
password box was but so from what I can
tell it's still gonna be very affordable
it just looks like they're doing away
with password boxes referral program
which is a really neat way to get a
lifetime subscription
so that's good okay so moving the to the
true key app how hard is it you need to
download the true key app to your
computer mm-hmm here's the kicker PC or
Mac oh okay I was gonna ask me because
we had a question Windows Windows or Mac
okay so no darn it what we're saying
darn it all to heck okay come on Intel
security I am fighting this folks they
say that there isn't enough demand for
Linux I want you to get out there and
get in I'm gonna go to feedback trucha
calm I'm serious
there's they say that they're working on
Linux support they do not seem to feel
that it is a priority hmm but it is
something in the back of their minds and
we've heard that before okay
password box works on all platforms
because it's a browser plug-in so you
can continue using password box right
into fall 2016 and then see if they've
brought out linux support
why does Linux support matter I mean
this is where you know the question
comes up if there if there isn't such a
demand for Linux users to have access to
this software why does it matter okay
for one thing it's not about Linux as
far as the operating system goes I see
Linux as freedom so as a freedom
advocate I want to be able to use my
password manager on my Windows computer
at the studio I want to be able to then
get on the netbook at home which has
Linux and be able to sign in to my stuff
without a difference yeah obviously and
of course you know we expect that it's
gonna work on phones and everything like
that so it's not so much about Linux
itself it's about the freedom to not be
told by a company that you can only use
this platform or this platform I don't
want to hear it I want it to work on
everything everything other than the
fridge I don't really care if I can
access my passwords I'm free I'm fair
enough is that fair so get out there go
to feedback dot true key calm and
demand Linux support I don't care if you
tell them that you heard it here or not
Robbie says it's for the freedom not for
Linux so much as just I should be able
to do this on any computer so I say that
because this sounds really great I would
like this on my Linux system true key
sounds fantastic and it does sound like
something that shouldn't be it should be
agnostic as far as what platform you're
on there should be no restriction there
yeah
once you've migrated to the true key app
you will no longer be able to log into
your password box account it's nice and
easy though all you have to do is
install true key on your computer then
login using your password box email
address and password it will
automatically migrate everything over
and again once they bring out the export
feature chat room saying you could
install key pass for example well then
you could import it from password
directly because true key will allow
exporting so there you have it that's
really the low down the skinny on what's
going on with password box the time
frame that we have ahead of us you can
be ready for it but know that we do have
time so you're not being pushed
especially Linux users you're not being
pushed off with the password box
platform just yet because I got ten you
can still use it and then watch feedback
feedback teruki calm pummel them with
Linux requests and create multiple
accounts write scripts call leanness
blur valves and see what he says alright
because it's about freedom okay you can
email us if you've got questions about
true key or password box in general live
at category-five dot TV that'll come to
our studio and we will do our best to
get the answers that you need or again
go to feedback dot true key com to see
what's going on there and in the it's
kind of like an FAQ not quite a forum
but FAQ with interaction and
and they're very active there their
support has been fantastic so far I've
had no trouble getting response from
them so I'm quite pleased with the
support like the level of support from
Intel security so I don't have any fear
there I'm pretty excited about the
product I'd like to see it on Linux fair
enough
thanks for hearing me out folks and hope
you enjoyed my little rant little tidbit
of info for ya I enjoyed it
great thanks bye okay well let's move
along sure it's time to show category 5
TV some love all that we ask from our
viewers is 25 cents if you can do more
that's fantastic but get over to
patreon.com slash category 5 and I gotta
explain this a little bit to you how it
works is that you give 25 cents per
episode yeah and there's power in
numbers it costs us a lot of money to
put on this show and to create the
network that we have we have other shows
as well new every day is a weekly
broadcast that we that we put out as
well and we have some less than frequent
broadcasts that we work on that we're
trying to develop such as the show show
that's a big one
we've got try it buy it with Sasha de
menos and because that's pre-recorded
she will be able to continue on with
that because and things so if you love
Sasha tour made us there's an
opportunity for you to help keep her
here by supporting try it buy it for
example we've got the category 5 TV
newsroom we've got all these great
programs it would take a thousand of our
viewers giving 25 cents per episode to
cover our cost per episode on a regular
how fantastic a thousand people sounds
like a lot but it's not in comparison
with how many people watch our mouths
broadcasting 25 cents on the other hand
does not sound like a lot and when we
look at okay it takes a thousand people
I really want you to think about
yourself and just whether you can give
25 cents because it's not a lot to ask
you were talking less than the cup of
coffee per month
as we put out four or five episodes per
month of category 5 technology TV if you
can do more let's say you did $0.50 an
episode it would only take 500 viewers
to do that or 125 viewers at $2 an
episode yeah and some are doing that and
and there are perks involved as well so
head on over to cat pardon me
patreon.com slash category 5
we hate asking for money and that's why
we've made it so absolutely simple yeah
and I'm really hoping for you know power
in numbers folks if you enjoy what we do
and you love the shows especially
category 5 technology TV this is my my
baby our flagship yep and we doesn't
really love to have your support and if
it all it takes is a thousand people
we're nowhere near that point but I
appreciate everybody who has signed up
so far it's fantastic we are going to
give away two teeny drones those are
those little micro drones that we've
that you've seen me flying around it is
one of the world's smallest drones it
has a 6 axis gyro so it flies
fantastically well even in windy
conditions it can go 80 feet into the
air and you can fly it around
I just don't lose it tip don't fly it
into water not a good idea I love flying
the thing it's a brilliant way to learn
how to fly a quadcopter as well that's
cool you don't have to worry about
crashing us so much because they are so
how do you say they don't break easily
they're durable durable that's the word
I was looking for so we're giving away
two of those and the draw is going to be
among the first 100 subscribers to our
patreon profiles so the first 100 so
there's still a lot of room for you to
get in there go to patreon.com/scishow
and time for christmas it would be a
great gift and you get two of them you
get two of them two remotes two drones
you can race them you can share one with
a friend whatever you want to do that's
it great so please do that and another
cool way people can support us as well
is through our affiliate links right
we have partner links all over the place
and you can find those on our website
category five dot TV and click on
support' us you'll see the partner links
especially my favorite Christmas
shopping and I did 3/4 of my Christmas
shopping last night online
it was brilliant no lineups and people
okay Black Friday Cyber Monday sweet
deals across the board slots in a few
days yeah if you're going to shop on
Amazon say or eBay any one of our
partners Black Friday sales cyber monday
sales are huge huge and you can simply
go through our partner links and then a
portion of each sale will go toward
supporting category 5 TV so cool so cool
and so easy and you have to buy stuff
anyway and you're saving time and money
you're not driving a story doing at home
people are doing it it's win-win our can
I say thank you for buying your fire
alarm category 5
we got a fire alarm what else do you say
I wrote down a couple that we're very
kind of interesting interesting vitamin
multivitamins yeah you know that kind of
stuff I don't I just get an anonymous
report that says what we've sold so that
I know what what features what things we
should be this is the kind of stuff you
can go through that link and buy your
multivitamins people have been buying
shampoo and toilet paper on Amazon
through our links and we get a portion
of that sale is a fantastic way to
support us without spending anything
extra so we appreciate that
so thanks for thinking of us while you
shop easy peasy
thanks folks go to category 5 TV click
on support us and you'll see our partner
links there ok well I get to cover news
tonight it's a red-letter day can we
magically head on over to the news or do
you want to say and now from the
newsroom sure and then we'll use the
magic of television to whisk me away
first I'd like to say that you're
watching category 5 TV and we are a
member of the tech podcast network if
it's fact it's here and you can learn
more by watching by checking out cat 5
TV slash tea
the N and the International Association
of Internet broadcasters and you can
find mark at five TV slash ia IB and now
from the category five dot TV newsroom
here is Robbie Ferguson magically it's
Tuesday November 24 2015 and here are
the stories were covering this week
Mark Zuckerberg his wife is having a
baby girl and he plans to take time off
as the CEO of Facebook though she's born
yahoo is blocking users from accessing
their free yahoo mail service if they
use an ad blocker imagine going fishing
and capturing a drone I'll tell you
about a Maryland crabber who had that
exact thing happen earlier this month
directly in the mobile browser in an
experiment rolled out last week and a
man with motor neuron disease has
scooped up a u.s. Prize for inventing a
device which allows people to control
wheelchairs using only their eyes these
stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere this is the story of
Operation Christmas Child
it may just be a shoebox but to millions
is the start of the greatest journey
traveling the world
sent with prayer shoebox gift
fill the hearts of children from over
100 different countries with hope faith
and love I'm Robby Ferguson enforce a
shudder made us and here are the top
stories from the category 5 TV newsroom
Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg says he
will take two months off for paternity
leave after the birth of his daughter
mr. Zuckerberg made the announcement on
his timeline calling it a very personal
decision facebook allows its US
employees to take up to four months of
paid paternal leave which can be used
either months or throughout the the
child's first year pardon me
mr. Zuckerberg announced in July that he
was expecting a baby girl with his wife
Priscilla Chan he did not say who would
be replacing him at the company in his
absence and in his statement accompanied
along with a picture of a pushchair and
his dog mr. Zuckerberg said studies show
that when working parents take time to
be with their newborns outcomes are
better and that for both the children
and the families can't help but like
that pun intended
yahoo has confirmed that it is
preventing some people from accessing
their email if they're using ad blocking
software in their browser some users in
the US report that Yahoo Mail was
displaying a message asking them to
disable their ad blocker before they
could access their inbox yahoo said it
was testing a new product experience in
the u.s. members of one ad blocking
forums said that they had already
managed to circumvent the restriction ad
blocking has proven to be a
controversial topic and technology
companies have responded in various ways
in September Apple updated its mobile
operating system iOS to allow
third-party ad blockers to be installed
although they are not capable of
removing Apple's own ads which serves up
in apps google meanwhile has introduced
a paid subscription version of YouTube
which allows viewers to remove ad
on the video streaming site for a
monthly fee it sounds a bit better to me
ad blocking advocates say disabling
advertisements can improve smartphone
battery life and reduce mobile data
usage it can also prevent people from
being tracked by advertisers online and
prevent devices from protect pardon me
devices from malware that could be
served up if an advertising network is
compromised but the catch-22 is this
companies like Yahoo rely on advertising
revenue to earn money from services such
as Yahoo Mail which it provides for free
sailors for millenia know that have
known that see the sea hides far more
than it reveals nowadays finding robots
under the water is almost an
inevitability though that doesn't mean
that the Maryland crabber David Haas was
expecting to find one on November 5th
near the Chesapeake Bay Bridge Haas was
crabbing with his crew when he caught an
underwater military drone the
fisherman's wife reported that her
husband had brought home the 6 to 7 foot
6 to 7 foot long bright yellow tube
which contained fins on the end after
inspecting it a crew member found a
service number on the underside of the
device and called it the object it
turned out was an autonomous underwater
vehicle or a sea drone owned by defense
giant Northrop Grumman after they called
the number on the side of the drone the
company picked up their watery robot the
very next day the device was identified
as a Remus 100 in the Remus series of
underwater robots our scouts and patrol
units they explore below the sea looking
for explosive mines and other threats
last week Google announced a new
experiment that let Android users stream
a select handful of apps through mobile
search without downloading them content
from 9 apps that Google partnered with
now show up in mobile search results
even if it doesn't exist on the
company's web site and users will be
able to click a stream button to get the
full app experience without installing
anything for example if you search for
hotels in Chicago
Google will now be able to pull app only
content from hotel tonight and then let
you find a hotel and book it without
ever downloading the actual app Google
makes this possible by letting the apps
run remotely on virtual machines through
its cloud platform app streaming could
help fix some of the frustrations of
mobile search for example when you
search for something you want to know
that you're getting the best results as
quickly as possible but the growing
dominance of mobile means that the best
content to fulfill your query might in
fact be inside an app that's why Google
has spent the last two years convincing
app makers to index their content to
allow it to be searchable by its
algorithms in a process called deep
linking until last week Google could
only turn up information that also was
contained within the website but now the
Google in pardon me but now that Google
will show app only content in search
you'll be more likely to get better
results since it can talk to both the
apps and the websites this is pretty
cool a man with motor neuron disease has
scooped up a u.s. prize for inventing a
wheelchairs using only their eyes the
iDrive o matic developed by Patrick
Joyce from Wells Somerset allows
quadriplegic wheelchair users to steer
recline and change the speed of their
wheelchair mr. Joyce who's 46 was
diagnosed with motor neuron disease in
2008 he has spent two years developing
the device alongside his test pilot
Steve Evans from Surrey it links
existing I gaze software used to control
computers using eye movement - a
joystick on the controls of a powered
wheelchair and it's attached by to the
control pad using non-invasive velcro so
it could even be used on loaned or
rented wheelchairs his wife woke him up
at 4 o'clock in the morning Oh 400 hours
to tell him that he had won the top pack
a day prize of one hundred and ninety
six thousand US dollars equivalent to
about 128 thousand
mr. Joyce said I was gobsmacked that we
won the money comes at an opportune
moment as our house is too small and we
couldn't afford to move here's the thing
he says I wasn't supposed to live as
long as I have and we hadn't planned on
me still being alive when our kids were
teenagers
it's sad but what an incredible time and
blessing for that family
he added I doubt I Drive Ematic will be
commercially developed there are some
liability issues that would prevent that
from happening but I designed it to be
easy to build at home how cool is that
big thanks this week to Geoff Weston Roy
W Nash and our community of viewers for
submitting stories to us if you found a
news story that you'd like us to bring
onto the air email us newsroom at
category 5 TV and for all your tech news
with an ever so slight Linux bias visit
the category 5 TV newsroom at newsroom
dot category 5 dot TV for the category 5
dot TV newsroom I'm Robbie Ferguson
filling in for Sasha tomatoes thanks
Robbie now you're back just like that
welcome back to the show this is
category 5 technology TV hey Hil thanks
for often for me that was fun first time
doing the news Wow thanks buddy all
right tonight oh well first place holder
category 5 this is category 5 technology
TV it is our website is triple W
category 5 TV and we are encouraged to
have you here with us tonight
it's always a pleasure and we love our
chat room nice to see everybody there
it's so great to see you and if you're
not in the chat room but still watching
the show hey pop us an email live at
category 5 TV or you know whatever it
takes to get in touch but join the
chatroom as well you can find that on
our website category 5 dot TV beauty all
right he'll are we ready to get into it
yes tonight starts a brand new series on
category 5 technology TV here we go
the GNU image manipulation program aka
jimp again GIMP on November 21st 1995 I
was but a wee lad to uni students
decided hey Photoshop is expensive let's
make something better and make it free
I'm I'm pretty sure that's how they it
would become the GNU image manipulation
program it's an image editing suite a
software tool that's available for
Windows Mac and Linux now 20 years later
here we are
20 years holy moly 20 years has gone by
and they still have an incredible
roadmap of features that we are to
expect I mean they are at two point
eight point one six I believe they are
working on 3.0 and they haven't even
brought out two point nine yet and then
they are excited that they are going to
be working toward taking things like
non-destructive editing making that a
part of the GIMP that's something I'm
excited about that's something to come
like they are still developing this
thing that's twenty years later and it's
absolutely free it has become a robust
complete suite of software for doing
image editing color correction cool
graphic effects did I mention it's free
you can get it at gimp.org G int dot org
download it for your platform right
there so I figured because the GNU image
manipulation program has given us 20
years of free image editing software why
don't we take 20 weeks to give you GNU
image manipulation program tips so
beginning tonight we're gonna kick it
off with number one and we're gonna
learn to change the color of any bright
object in five seconds flat
what
I'll probably take a little longer to
explain wretched Oh Robbie we got a rest
of the show once you once you've got it
down once you've got the process down
that's all it's gonna tell okay we're
gonna get online I need a picture to
work with we are taking this right from
the scratch we're taking this right from
scratch we are gonna do this like we're
doing it at home and in real time no
post-production editing or anything like
that this is the real deal folks I'm
gonna head on over to Google and go to
image search because hey it works yes
pretty decent - the pic here let's find
us a picture okay so in Google Image
Search I'm gonna type in blue car blue
car alright blue car alright next step
because we're broadcasting this on the
air we're gonna go search tuples usage
rights and if you're using this for your
website or anything any kind of
presentation you want to do this labeled
for reuse with modification that means
that this image is licensed for me to
use for free and I can show this to you
on the air and it probably won't get
sued and if I do it's okay because I've
shown that we have the rights to yeah
okay so hey there's a blue car that's
sweet
alright so attribution what are we
looking at as far as okay the author of
this image is Patrick know hi air and I
appreciate you putting up this image and
allowing us to use this Patrick thank
you yes okay so we're gonna grab this
picture here look at it full size let's
save this to our computer I'm just gonna
drop this into a temp folder /tmp I'm
using the GNU image manipulation program
tonight on a Linux computer again it
works on Windows it works on Mac so I
don't care what platform you're on it's
about freedom you can use the GIMP on
any platform that's that's the deal
because that's how we roll
no pun intended because we're working
with cars okay oh the pun master I'm
sorry but we just got banned in China
I can jump into the tempo where's my
blue car there it is all right
right-click on it open with the GNU
image manipulation program here it comes
let's get out of that get two point
eight now I don't even have the latest
and greatest version that was released
earlier this week I'm gonna convert the
colors alright so first of all I don't
like Oh
oh dear I just locked my whole system
out oh I'm so kidding I accidentally
this is why we do things live on the air
to show what can I hit ctrl ctrl Alt L
because I am also a Photoshop user and
so that's that brings us to something
about you got a I got a learn I have to
learn you have to learn to that there
are different color different key
commands but it's okay what I wanted to
do is set up levels of course if you're
a top user you know what I was looking
for okay colors levels does it tell me
what it is
colors levels don't worry that's gonna
be one of our features is key keyboard
shortcuts forget I can just improve this
a little bit I'm gonna bring that up
these are the highlights right there and
you see how they drop off right there
he'll that means that there it's that's
kind of where the the highlights begin
in this picture so having the the little
triangle there bringing it in its gonna
brighten that up a little bit shadows
are starting at about the right point
but now I want to just brighten it up a
little bit this is what the levels tool
see how much of a difference that makes
to my image beautiful okay so we want to
take this car and we want to make this
red how would we typically do that like
what we will be paint it seems like too
much work
oh it would be a huge so am I gonna go
through here and go like this and how
cheesy is that gonna look
oh and I'm and covering it up in this oh
I just colored outside of the lines no
way that ain't happening
watch this let's make a new layer okay
all right it's a transparency layer so
we can put anything on here and then
when we turn off that layer it goes away
disappears like it good job do you love
it isn't it amazing
all right down at the bottom there's
this hidden little tool that allows us
to toggle quick mask mode first of all I
want to select none everything's a
right-click select none because I had
accidentally selected something there
okay so by clicking on that toggle quick
mask which it shows the command is shift
Q okay so I can do that that way as well
so shift Q and then grab your paint
brush and start painting in the car
that's time-consuming it's gonna take
you forever all right so we're gonna I'm
gonna show you how we can do this really
really quick what did I say how long is
it gonna take you said five seconds
possible
I believe you we shall see if you could
pull it off in about to blow your mind
all right so I've got this new layer
here watch what I can do now I'm gonna
change the layer mode to hue okay mode
hue and I've got that transparent layer
highlighted I've cleared it it's blank
now I've got red selected I can click on
any color I can make this yellow I can
make it red I can make it blue and then
I can change the size of my brush
because I've selected the paintbrush
tool here and as I change the size of my
brush look at what happens to my marquee
to show the size of that brush the scale
it's pretty big ready are you ready oh
yeah I'm asking sorry I'm ready I'm
gonna just start painting I'm just
confused cuz you're still painting or
are you oh wait now I'm gonna create a
new layer I think my layer has got some
masking there okay let's start with a
fresh layer so I'm gonna just delete
that layer and then set it to hue
something's going on I have I have a
selection
yeah I look at oh there we go hey that's
that I had a selection where I had
dragged my mouse over see trouble try a
trial and error live television
unbelievable look at that okay a new car
I don't believe it
there we go how crazy all right so now
that's what I've got
okay it it's a hue layer so it recolor
eise's that so what we need to do is now
right-click on that painting that I just
created and go alpha to selection and
that shows me where I painted outside of
the lines okay so I'm gonna grab the
eraser tool right here make it a
slightly smaller brush it how big it's
going to be is going to depend on the
resolution of the image and I'm gonna
zoom in here and I'm going to simply
delete from my red now see if I go over
the line watch what happens it turns
back to blue so all I'm doing is I'm
just removing that little bit around the
edge where I've gone over there's a
little bit on the bumper see that there
shouldn't be any red on the bumper so
I'm just gonna kind of remove that
although there is a little bit of a blue
reflection but so I can touch that up I
can clean it up don't need to color the
wheel and you notice that it didn't
really do anything to the wheels because
they don't contain a bright color so if
I want to color any object and we're
using cars here is the example it's a
fun little way to do it it could be a
lamp it could be anything we use this
technique if for example we're selling
product would teeny drones is a good
example so take a picture of a red one
and we make it blue and we make it black
and then we didn't have to take a whole
bunch of pictures it's just nice quick
yeah dirty way to get pictures up of
various colors so there you have it
there is a red car let's change this to
select or is it a blue car I don't know
how quick was that okay you don't
believe me yet let's start with a red
car
because we all like red sports cars
right yeah and hey folks if you've got
questions if you've got comments please
post them in the chat room if you're
watching yeah I'm watching I'm waiting
here there's some conversations going on
but not related to this well that's fine
sorbets and if you're watching live it's
live at category five dot TV if you'd
like to send us an email red car is my
search and again search tools usage
rights labeled for reuse with
modification let's find the coolest one
that we can find I like picking one like
I could go with something like that but
you know what it doesn't have it doesn't
have a background so I'm not really
demonstrating for you how effective this
method is I really want to show you that
hey we can we can do this in any scene
do you see one that really stands out to
you hell I'd like to find it I don't
know names yeah I'm like old pick the
red car they're all red all right all
right
okay well let's jump back up to the top
here don't want to get into anything
obscure and let's just say I guess this
one is sure that one's pretty decent eh
okay so let's visit the page and let's
see what this is Creative Commons free
for personal and commercial use no
attribution required so to the author of
that thank you for providing this image
nice Adi a red Oddie we don't have to
attribute and we don't know the
attribution but it's not required
because of the license and Google helps
us to determine the license and that's
really helpful thank you google okay so
this is a red car again I did it again
I'm such a nerd I'm such a bald man okay
right click I'm gonna figure it out and
I'm gonna we're gonna cover it in a
future show of levels because I know
Anthony's wondering hey what are the
hotkeys okay so I'm just gonna fix up
the levels a little bit here okay looks
good I don't want to go orange want to
stay red it's just got a little bit too
much shadow at the front that's a photo
flan so we're just kind of touching it
up a little bit okay so let's create a
new layer notice I'm not going to create
an E marquee that's gonna make it not
work now I'm gonna choose what do you
want to do let's do yellow let's take
this beautiful red car and make it
yellow okay I'm gonna change that blank
layer mode to hue I'm gonna change the
brush size to something that seems
reasonable for this size image and I'm
gonna start painting I can I can go
outside the lines okay I love that I'm
not having to be precise by any stretch
Popat about did it do did it doo doo doo
doo done okay so now turn off that layer
to see what I've painted I missed as
part of the grille doesn't really matter
cuz it's not got a color notice that it
didn't change black to yellow because it
doesn't do that it looks for color and
changes it to a different hue so now I
want to add an alpha to selection to see
where I've gone outside of the lines and
then use the eraser tool with a smaller
brush size and go around the edge and
delete anywhere where I've accidentally
colored things yellow that shouldn't be
so I'm going to go around here I do not
have to be precise you'll be able to
gauge this and it's gonna be different
on a per image basis and that's done I
can pull some of the yellow out of the
window oh yeah see how the window got
tinted a little bit I can pull that out
because that doesn't make any sense to
the image there we go and I got a little
bit on the mirror there we go okay so
select none there's the image that's
what I've come up with and ready for the
original well there it is a red car
turned yellow and again we're using cars
as the example tonight cuz I thought
it'd be fun but you can do this with
anything that has bright colors your
prom dress gray or is it purple you be
the judge it'd be fine we have folks
this is category 5 technology TV that's
how to color
a bright object change the color of a
bright object in about five seconds
doesn't take any time at all and you
will ruin your friends and woo your
customers as you are able to change
things on future episodes of this series
this is 20 tips for the GNU image
manipulation program 20 weeks of tips at
that we are also going to be covering
how to remove things objects from images
actually pull them out of the image
while retaining a background but how's
that possible how can I take out a sign
from a field and all of a sudden it's
filled like you see the field that was
previously blocked by a sign I'd like to
know how to do that how do you remove an
awkward boyfriend from a family photo or
something we're gonna cover it all yeah
we're gonna cover it all folks so don't
miss the series tune in again next week
and we're gonna have more tips for the
GNU image manipulation program thank you
to the developers for bringing us such a
great tool it's absolutely free get it
at gimp.org that's all the time that we
have he'll can't believe it don't forget
folks you can shop through our partner
links it's a big help to the show huge
help to the show and especially with
your Black Friday and Christmas shopping
what a huge impact that's going to have
on paying our bills
which you know it gets hard at this time
of year for us too because we do still
have to maintain paying the bills to the
landlord and insurance and Internet
all this yes and also patreon.com slash
category five is where you can support
us for just 25 cents per episode if you
enjoy the broadcast please do support us
in that way Hilary it's always a
pleasure thanks for having me
nice to have you here see you guys
around thanks for being a part of the
show and we're gonna miss you as you're
away I guarantee you that but make sure
you pop in my head every now and then
bring the babe I see the baby baby baby
oh yeah hurry and tally who is now 10
years old
was on the air like we brought her into
the studio and she was just like just a
toddler and then the boys my boys were
on the air when they were like Liam who
we brought on and he was just a newborn
baby I was there I remember when you
introduced him to the world and he's he
just turned five
well he's turning five tomorrow we had
his birthday on Sunday so I feel like
he's already turned five but tomorrow is
his actually to turn five years old how
can you believe like he's so bad wild so
time flies
I'll see you guys soon don't you worry
take care everybody we hope you enjoy
the show category 5 TV broadcasts live
from Barrie Ontario Canada every Tuesday
at 7:00 p.m. Eastern if you're watching
this on demand or through cable TV check
out the local show times in your area at
category-five TV and find out when you
can watch live and interact in the
community chat room category 5 is a
production of prodigy digital solutions
and is licensed under Creative Commons
Attribution 2.5 canada we'll see you
next time thanks for tuning in
