what you're about to experience is a
free worldwide interactive broadcast
from Ontario Canada we broadcast live
every tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time
get your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Robbie
Ferguson welcome to episode number 175
of category 5 technology TV great to see
you nice to have you here it's Tuesday
January the 25th 2011 I almost said 2010
I know it takes a whole year to break it
2012 a comment on the start saying 2011
finally good to see you how are you
surprised two players yeah in full
glorious HD I know I fantastic great
we've got a lot going on tonight don't
we show very busy show we have to Pogo
plugs to give away tonight
you know how I love free stuff people
and someone x 22 people are going to win
two peeps good luck stick around we're
going to be giving those away a little
bit later on tonight also we have
Philippa hassle strong and Christine
Porter joining us from Telestream down
in sunny California and they are staying
warm and they're going to talk to us
about internet broadcasting and how
that's kind of revolutionising the way
that we tune in to our media and how
broadcasters are actually broadcasting
that same media so stick around make
sure you get into the chat room if
you're at all interested in internet
broadcasting or even just finding out
how you can do it it's a it's a
fantastic media get in on the ground
floor get in now and we've got some of
the best people here with us tonight to
talk about how you can get involved in
internet broadcasting so get in the chat
room category five dot TV it's going to
be a great time and what have you got
coming up in the news as well you have
lots of stuff coming on maybe a business
show coming up stay tuned for the 10th
billion download that has been made from
Apple's App Store accompanies just an
asset no because I got my ipod touch I
know right so I was sitting there and I
actually downloaded 10 billion you were
responsible apps yeah billion app
download
this guy right here not really somebody
in the UK stick around you'll find out
more oh no is looking for a student
ambassador of so sorry student
ambassadors more than one to promote
there is blue to base dual screen tablet
Microsoft has confirmed that some
handset running its windows phone 7
software are sending and receiving
phantom data and cyber fees are cashing
in after stealing credit cards in a hack
attack on the website of cosmetics firm
flush stick around to the latest news in
a category 5 GB newsroom fantastic
thanks Rob that oh well there you go
thanks a gamoto did you hear me eight
world I hope you did just know just know
this that you better be here to hear me
when I read all these fabulous stories
later on in the newsroom if you could
just give a quick sound check he'll this
is Hilary Rumble I'm on category 5 in
the flesh and now my audio is better
fantastic welcome to live broadcasting
we're talking about internet
broadcasting and this is what it's all
about my friends it's all about
last-minute preparations plugging in
cameras to the computer at the last
second and we have gloriously upgraded
our camera John is is working back there
and he's a seriously he's sitting there
with the with the Tilton's you know when
he is just going this is amazing so I
hope you enjoy that tonight it's going
to really change the way that the show
looks and I am very pleased to have
Philippa and Christine joining us from
telestream ladies that's it's very nice
to see you thanks for joining us tonight
thanks for having us thank you what I'll
do is just kind of introduce what it is
that that telestream or Wirecast means
to our show and if we can get into now
this is a great opportunity for people
who are interested in internet
broadcasting to get in here talk to some
people from telestream about internet
broadcasting we're going to call this
the kind of live broadcasting 101 not
that we're keeping track but certainly
we've got a lot to cover tonight but
Wirecast is the is the amazing software
that we use here at category 5 in order
to broadcast the show live it also
provides those high quality RSS feed
downloads all of those files that you
that you download week to week those
files are recorded directly from
Wirecast so it's kind of like the
one-stop solution for camera switching
anytime we are doing the graphics at the
bottom here if we're changing names and
things like that i wish i could i'll see
ya but the cg the name keys and
switching names like it's phenomenal
as much as we can within the confines of
a one hour show but Wirecast has really
taken our show and and you remember back
when we first introduced Wirecast
probably about a year and a half ago
where it really boosted the show to the
next level in that camera switching was
instantaneous there were no more gaps
between camera switching angles and and
video quality all of a sudden was
through the roof as much as it could be
with the cameras that we used because
what's interesting about this kind of
technology is that it's it transcends
from the basic you know you can use a
webcam you could use a step-up which is
you know let's say a SD camera something
that uses firewire or something like
that or you can get into what we're
doing tonight which is an HDMI HD 1080
camera cool so I'd love to hear from you
ladies what it is that each of you do at
at Telestream and how you know you will
get into just a conversation tonight
with with myself and with Hillary and
with our chat room about what what
internet what we kind of can expect out
of internet media over the next couple
of years so it's great um I'm miss
Philippa as I said before and I'm a
product manager for Wirecast and I'm
Christine and I'm the community manager
at telestream and I also work with
partners which revolves a lot around
Wirecast very good so in your position
flip I what does that entail being a
product manager it's a lot about
listening to what you guys want to need
and mapping that out in the product
roadmap and of course being very kind of
you know sensitive to the market and
yeah making the product even better very
cool and I have seen over the course of
our usage of Wirecast how much you you
work to improve the product and listen
to your community there's a vast array
of support coming from your community
forums as well which which you know that
in itself says a lot for the company as
well it
listen a lot when we did it when we
release by a cast for now and we're
really happy to see that a lot of our
users are you know they appreciate the
features that we put in there and it
feels right and we're paying attention
to all the different channels out there
we've got um we've got people on Twitter
we've got the forums Craig's running the
forum as you said and so we get up we we
hear all the feedback and a lot of these
things you may have noticed have gotten
incorporated with the product and lots
more to come and we're happy to hear
that you guys like it and that it works
well for you yeah like any any piece of
software you do encounter the occasional
blip or when we introduce it like this
is our first night with HD cameras and
so you know there's the nervousness of
the big upgrade to new hardware and
things and there's always that but the
support of your community and the
support of like you say Craig in the in
the forum there and as a like an actual
representative of Telestream as well as
the community of users the support level
is really there and and that's really
fantastic and what I'm going to ask to
have happen tonight is Hillary I'm if
you can watch the chat room really
really closely for those who are asking
questions and just kind of pass that on
a new ladies are in the chat room as
well I understand yep we're watching is
as it goes on yes fantastic so any
questions that you have with regards to
internet broadcasting this is your
chance and if you're catching this after
the fact send us an email live at
category 5 TV great opportunity for you
two to get your questions in if I can
answer it for you at that point then
then that's fine and if not I'll pass
you along to to telestream and they'll
be able to serve it send you some some
support so what what is kind of the the
nature of live streaming as it is now
like when I started streaming video if
you can believe was back before
realplayer g2 and when g2 came out it
was that was the thing and it was it was
this huge big deal when that came out
now the internet has been revolutionized
with things like flash which to us now
seem like an older technology but it's
still in use and we're
on casting with flash media tonight and
then recording to all these different
formats so how has the the internet and
and the kind of the evolution of
high-speed internet over the past 10
years how is that really impacted the
way that the internet broadcasting is
going to be moving forward that's a good
question i mean what we see is this
increasing need for it or the people are
screaming for it and we see these
increase that is a six hundred and fifty
percent according to scott comscore for
light video content out there and you
know sites like justin TV you stream
they are just growing and it's amazing
and it's facing space to be in because
we get more requests for Wirecast than
we can manage more or less really it's
fantastic what that makes me wonder is
like when you mention things like justin
TV and stuff like and I can understand
they have a massive amount of bandwidth
one of the questions that that was asked
of me is what happens when the internet
gets to the point where there's just not
enough bandwidth to support all these
television shows that are broadcasting
in HD quality through the internet when
when do we have to be concerned about
that and what and what kind of you know
are there steps that are taken towards
that that's just something that's kind
of curious to me I know that's an
interesting thing to ponder and I you
have I don't think that we will I don't
think that that will happen maybe that's
naive we see a trend of course that it's
a higher I mean that it's increasing all
the time but also we see that the
capacity in our networks it's we're
moving to 4G Europe is really strong
there I mean I think that develop when
it comes to internet connection and
speed is it's going to handle the new
demand I think so I'm just curious like
because with a jump six hundred and
fifty percent and yeah in how much
people are watching internet-based tell
my viewers especially yeah
and just that just that anybody can do
it now it takes so little to get your
video up on the web they just you people
don't have limitations like they did in
the old days and and you know it you
know I have a I have a young son and
he's interested in video and you know
every it's easy for him to do things and
contribute to the online video yeah that
raises services such as like youtube or
something where you know it's on demand
and the bandwidth can be kind of
distributed over a wider network but
it's just amazing how how things have
progressed and Telestream is kind of at
the forefront I think of of that
progression and it's an exciting place
to be i think for you it's been very
exciting and it's interesting because
our our company has had so much growth
and many people here are just trying to
manage various things just to kind of
keep up and we have lots of um job
openings at the moment I should do that
is and always look on the web we've got
available right now but um now i should
say well while we're here okay so you've
got job openings where are those jobs
physically located or these positions
that can be filled through through the
internet as well um it would depend on
the particular job I don't know the
exact URL but if they do go to our
website which is Telestream net they
would be able to go under company and i
think that there's a link there for the
jobs okay so we'd love to have people
check that out and in then moving back
to when we talk about live content what
i think is interesting and what also
probably does makes it so popular is
that it seems like people are tend to
watch it for a longer period of time if
you compared to you know seeing a
regular video on youtube people tend to
watch it more more or less 7% longer
than they would watch a 5 based video
then and then that's interesting too and
i think that what makes live streami
interesting because things can happen
yeah we can i'm signs up here like
Hillary's microphone could be left off
exactly who knows what can happen it's
wild yeah so I think live streaming is a
great space to be in and especially now
when you can do so much with your
computer you know a camera and an inner
connection you put your video on the web
and it's so simple and I think that's an
achene and cheap yeah starting with
cheap solutions like three solutions
yeah free solutions like adobe media
live encoder or Ustream producer I mean
that's amazing and you your camera your
you're on the web yeah right euro so i
noticed i just picked up a fewer had
given me an iPod Touch recently as well
and even the justin.tv app allows me
from the ipod touch for the iphone to
broadcast directly from that device and
it it's like this whole new world of all
of a sudden everyone can be an Internet
broadcaster ray and I think people would
do it more and more from their cell
phones and I mean we see that already
but he's a lot of media rising yeah all
the new devices out there being even
more mobile more portable more flexible
I'm yeah so speaking of and we were
talking a little bit kind of touching on
price and how cheap it is to to do
broadcasting now I think about four
there's two different sides of the coin
there there's the days when I was doing
real media g2 where the amount that you
would have to pay for just the bandwidth
to broadcast was just amazing like
paying thousands of dollars a month just
to be able to stream to a small number
of people now there's companies that
have started up like you stream and
justin TV just as a couple of examples
who are providing those services on an
ad based basis so there's no level
there's you know we don't have to pay
for that service to be able to broadcast
live and in this and it's just you know
when taking that and and then all of a
sudden now with applications like
Wirecast from telestream we're able to
use just a standard pc instead of a
twenty-thousand-dollar piece of hardware
where we're able to broadcast in HD and
upgrade to an HD camera with a one
hundred and fifty dollar video card and
a camera that was three hundred dollars
on sale and it's like how does this how
did we get to this place over such a
short amount of time but that is what is
so amazing i think that these new
software have just
revolutionize the whole idea of
broadcasting and I mean you guys can do
more you can do green screen we did you
can do a virtual TV studio and I could
plant into anything exactly and I mean
it's amazing you could do I mean eighty
percent of what these high-end solution
for a fraction of the cost and I think
that's something that's right yeah it's
so cool and just playing with the with
the software just yeah makes me all
happy so do you to broadcast yourselves
as well like do you have I guess you
using wire cast need to be familiar with
the application right we've definitely
tried it and play with it and I mean you
have to if you work with a product you
have to kind of grasp what you're doing
yeah exactly but also we we get a lot of
input from all of our great customers
and partners we did a really cool thing
for a UK launch of the call of duty
black ops which was amazing to watch and
you can tell us more about that yeah we
actually I was contacted um I I kind of
overheard via Twitter a guy that was
going to do this big thing and so we
started interacting and he ended up
using he ran a company called media
kinetic and he ended up using wire cast
for the black box lunch and they had
they had over almost 200,000 views and
they ran it for five hours yeah wasn't
five hours more than more than five
hours in there was it went without a
hitch which is always fabulous to hear
and he's been a great advocate for us
and that was a great experience but it's
interesting because you know the online
streaming is applicable in so many
different areas that there's it's you're
only limited by your imagination you can
use it to enhance what you're doing in
almost any field and that's what I see
when I work with partners I'm contacted
with by various people who have an idea
and they think hey I think I can use
video for what I'm trying to pull off
and we work together and we're able to
make something happen and it's really
really exciting and it's all from you
know sports game to the best black up
launched to science that you have a
churches yeah and now that's the point
that I was thinking is that churches who
want to broadcast their services on a
weekly basis all of a sudden that
becomes practical it used to be that
they had to be on some big television
network and yeah think about that and
this it's revolutionized that it's the
fact that you can broadcast from
anywhere right and and also what's fun
is that some of them are more simple you
know you set up your camera you maybe
use green screen and then we have the
black ops where they you know they mixed
eight sources they have pre-recorded
sources they did this huge thing and
it's it's so cool to see how the
software easily scales from very low end
kind of simple live streams to these
complex really big things that you would
expect a hardware to do yeah people are
always pleasantly surprised to see that
they can really extend beyond maybe that
they even thought that they'd be able to
do like these high profile events like
we were just talking about with the
black ops and others and we also have
our CEO doing a weekly meeting we use
Wirecast internally in the company to
broadcast that live to our offices in
Sweden oh and syriza mate so that's
interesting an interesting point is that
you're using the software internally as
not other not necessarily a television
program broadcast but to be able to
communicate with other other network
with your other come basis for the
company yes and that's something we see
we see a big kind of new area in the
business video in the space where people
want to use it more for you know company
presentations and and we do it a lot
ourselves so we totally understand that
kind of you Miriam people in business
lives as Philippa said ur are realizing
that they can save a lot of money by
using streaming video to get their
message out to their um company across
the nation across the world however it
works in it saving them a lot of money
for travel expenses forth and tapping
into the Osprey bandwidth solutions as
well all of a sudden it's like this that
takes kind of even Wirecast your product
into a whole new level is that I've
never really even considered right and
education is another one that's real big
and
we have lecturers that are using it in
big universities and people the students
can be at home or wherever and they can
turn into the lecture and they can
interact and you know chat directly with
the professor or interact with a group
that are you know participating in the
lecture and it's it's really it's really
interesting there's just it's it's
limitless really thinking of it from
from the business perspective and being
able to do presentations just even
looking at our show which is based with
that's powered by Wirecast and the
ability you know for me to bring out my
computer screen for example and to be
able to bring up applications and bring
up tools that we use on our show for
demonstrations but all of a sudden
taking that into the educational sector
or into the business sector that becomes
a completely different platform for them
that's that's affordable and I'm sure I
mean Wirecast is is not an expensive
piece of software and we'll talk about
that it's it's quite astounding the
feature set and what we can do with this
there are they sorry go ahead I was just
going to say it's it's nice because
there's these free solutions that allow
people to get in with a minimal
investment and start getting used to
live broadcasting and honing their
skills and then as you as you graduate
to the next level tell streams happy to
offer a variety of products to help you
to help you add production value and to
increase the quality of your broadcast
it's easy to grow and it's kind of it's
very affordable I mean starting with you
stream producer going up to maybe used
to produce or pro and you can add some
titles in there you can add some
transitions moving up to wire past like
you guys well you have a lot of more
sources and you can mix them and you
will have green screen if you want to
try that I mean yeah it's easy to scale
up I think 22 how to start basic and
then you get all excited and you want to
have all these cool features yeah once
you realize what's there and what you
can actually do and then you know here
we are with a camera in the system
that's 1080i and we can we can
eventually grow to that point it's
amazing and I mean we do we'd even do
virtual studio sets like we talked about
before it reduce board boards for live
you know sport
events and it's really cool to see how
people use it mm-hmm right yeah and like
you said it off the top of the show it's
really just about your imagination and
what you do with it I believe there are
some questions that are coming in in the
chat room and we'll try not to get into
too technical of questions because I
know that's that's not really the the
what we're looking for tonight but but
certainly if you do have questions its
category 5 TV or you can join us in the
category 5 chat room on freenode one
question that did come in was um people
are wondering how often does Wirecast
have to increase your streaming capacity
because it's happening on a weekly or
monthly basis to meet like your overall
customer needs with the broadcasting it
I don't quite understand what you might
increase I guess it's for the broad I
wonder I wonder if Philippa and
Christine if there's if there's maybe
confusion in the chat room with
understanding the relationship between
Wirecast and streaming providers such as
justin TV or ustream you have to have a
good the upload weight has to be good
enough for you to send it to Justin or
Ustream and then it's when the media
goes from you soon and you stream to
your viewers it's actually the bandwidth
between the server streaming server
provider and the end user that is
important so it's kind of you know
that's where there are Bob likes all
around the place because it's internet
right so it's important that you have a
good upload capacity and right important
but again we've stepped away from that
realplayer mentality of having to have
so much bandwidth at the source and and
now it's become so understand if you'd
like to do web broadcasting basically
you you need to have like a dsl
connection or you could start out with
something like cable modem just a
high-speed internet connection not the
light service because then you just
don't have the upstream to be able to do
it but if you have a true high-speed
connection like we have dsl five megabit
here and it's it's pretty entry level
compared to some of the fiber options
that are available
therefore an affordable price but as a
starting point you can start off with
dsl you can test that out thinking of
the church model you know you've got
internet there and you'd plug into it
and what you broadcast simply has to be
of a lower bit rate than the bitrate
that your internet connection is able to
support so if you're streaming at 400
kilobits a second that's really good
quality video but if your internet
connection supports up to 800 you can do
that no problem you're streaming it to
justin.tv your streaming it to you
stream and then they're streaming it out
to the viewers so you don't need to
worry about how many people are watching
because the bandwidth is only one way
for you and also the Wirecast does have
a bunch of presets that the user can
configure to meet their needs so there
it's very configurable and I'd like to
throw out there for people that don't
know this that um Wirecast is available
as a free download and it's limited with
watermarking and audio it's like a video
water yeah yeah and so but it's full
feature so anybody can download the
software and give it a try and you'll be
able to do everything is just going to
have a watermark which admittedly can be
annoying but um it's like you can use
the software to its full capacity but
then every five minutes is wrong maybe
maybe it doesn't really do that it's a
little more subtle yeah a little bit
more but it was yeah it's a good way to
try it and then you can also you could
get an account at the streaming server
providers and you can check your upload
rate and I mean if it's choppy you could
select a lower resolution setting just
to adjust all right so you don't have to
go with a really high resolution stuff
then we do have a lot of these on
user-generated content providers we have
them built in right to Wirecast so it's
just pretty much one click to send your
stream to the provider of your choice
mm-hmm it's very simple yeah we use both
Ustream and justin.tv simultaneously and
what they mean there is when you're
creating your broadcast you're able to
select justin.tv you don't have to
figure it all out you just enter your
justin.tv login it creates an rtmp file
and boom you're good to go so very very
simple setup to get you up and going and
it is a good point that there is a
free trial version as well yeah and and
like like has been set here you can you
can give that a go and and it is
full-featured just with those audio
overlays which are not quite as annoying
as my demonstration thanks indeed so any
other questions before we hop into the
news are you good for time that we can
welcome some more questions and sure
fantastic okay so if you can stick
around we're going to be back after
after the news alrighty okay well people
as you may or may not have heard earlier
there's lots going on in the world of
technology do so from the category 5
that's only knew
billions download has been made from
album out shore
the downloaded game was a free app
called paper glider developed by British
company neon play where users control a
paper airplane all the millions of Apple
users from around the world it was
downloaded by Gail Davis and she was
from orpington in Kent hmm the know is a
clever or single dual screen 14.1 inch
tablet aimed at the education market and
powered by a boon to inc linux the
company needs to get the word out and so
they're turning to their potential
customers for help the no student
ambassador program is open to any
us-based college student we're looking
to gain a unique marketing and
communication resume blur but also have
a deep discount on a no tablet the job
responsibilities aren't light doesn't
seem like something easily scan you'd be
required to attend weekly meetings
conduct product demos work with student
clubs and organizations as well as
participate in no viral marketing
campaign ambassadors are required to buy
their own know but at fifty percent off
this works out to a nice discount as a
no starts at around five ninety-nine but
the 32 gig dual screen flavor runs 49 99
as in almost a thousand that's what I
mean by that anyways to get more info on
this you can visit calf live TV / no to
apply or check out no comm to find out
more about the device how do we spell
know now if you are wondering yes that
is a good question k + 0 dot com yes so
not not the opposite of yes as a note
and not know as you know what you're
doing no w-k-n-o calm to press on
handsets are running its windows phone 7
saw Oh something handset that are
running windows phone 7 software are
sending and receiving phantom data the
problem surface in early January with
some owners of phones running Windows
Phone 7 claiming that their phone was
sending between 30 and 50 megabytes of
data every day an amount that would eat
into one gigabyte allowance up in 20
days microsoft said that
through the investigation they found
that most of the problems were caused by
an unnamed third-party service however
it was said that is still there still
looking into other potential falls as to
why this is happening a spokesperson for
microsoft said we are in contact with a
third party to assist them and making
the necessary fixes and reveals that
they are actively looking into potential
work around until this issue is resolved
cyber thieves are cashing in after
stealing credit cards in a hack attack
on the website of the cosmetic company
lush many less customers have reported
that their cards have been used
fraudulently the online shop was shut
down on the January 21st and its
homepage was replaced with a message
revealing the attack lush said anyone
who placed an online order between
October fourth and january twentieth
should contact their bay just in case
their card details have been compromised
mmm you can get these full stories at
our website category 5 TV / newsroom the
category 5 TV news room is researched by
roy w nash with contributions from
gadget wisdom guru becca ferguson and
our wonderful community of viewers if
you have a new store you think's worthy
of honor mention send us an email at
newsroom at category 5 TV for the
category 5 a teeny newsroom I'm Hillary
Rumble thanks oh this episode of
category 5 technology TV is brought to
you in part by pogoplug calm as well as
planet calypso at cat5 TV / Calypso we
are joined tonight at category 5
technology TV right here at category
five dot TV if you if you're watching
through justin TV or ustream and you
want to find out where our website is
that's it leptin and our beautiful
Wirecast lower third we are joined
tonight by philippa hassle Strom from
Telestream she's the Wirecast product
manager also Christine Porter is
telestream and Wirecast community
manager and christine we're interested
in Annoying a little bit more about what
it is that you do as the community
manager of course being the the nature
of our show so focused on open source
technologies and things like Linux
we're very community-minded and even
with our own community here at category
5 TV so when I see that you know company
has a community manager it instantly
makes you perk up and say oh okay these
guys these guys have a community and
they actually care about the people who
are using their software and it's a
different model all together so if you
could just tell us a little bit about
what it is that you do well I we do a
lot really twitter has been invaluable
to us and I we've formed a lot of
relationships on Twitter with our
customers and it's I can't tell you how
wonderful it is to be able to just look
and see what people are saying about the
products and then when necessary or when
warranted I can jump in and I can help
solve problems or I can give more
information right and people respond
very positively to that and they like to
see that they can that that the company
is listening and that we pay attention
and that there's follow-up and so forth
and so twitter twitter is probably one
of the biggest resources that we use as
far as social media goes we also have we
have blogs for both ScreenFlow and for
Wirecast and those have been great in
building the community and solving
problems and again those also provide
lots of opportunities for us to reach
out to the community to people that are
using the products and maybe a high
profile or not so high profile way and
we can profile them on the blog and show
people help they're using the product um
it provides a great opportunity really
to further relate it's it's really
relationship building um you know we're
able to feature the customers on the
blog and it's a win-win for everybody we
can show people how the products are
being used and we can also show give
some shed some light on in a cache of
another stuff that they don't like being
the the people that are experimenting
because Wirecast as we said before
really invites people to do all this
creative style and when we see people
doing something really cool we post it
on the blog and you know we talked about
it and also like racine mentions for me
as a product manager is amazing to have
that extra set of eyes and ears out
there because Twitter is you know they
talk about all these things that they
want or that there
right yeah watch for your hashtags for
sure excite it's invaluable so just
before we get too far away from the
topic how can we follow you on twitter
and what's your blog website as well
sure happy to tell you that we have we
have telestream has many twitter
accounts and Wirecast is simply at
Wirecast ScreenFlow is that ScreenFlow
we have flip4mac which is another
popular product that we make is at
flip4mac and Telestream itself has a
Twitter account and I bet you can guess
what that hashtag is and our blogs are
the streaming room for the Wirecast blog
blog Stella stream net / streaming room
and the ScreenFlow block is blogs
telestream net / sweetening room yes
lots to remember for sure what we're
going to do is we're going to post links
to everything that was mentioned tonight
in the show notes for episode number 175
so if you missed any of that make sure
you check out the show notes at category
5 TV for episode number 175 and will
include all the links that Christine was
mentioning there as well and i'll throw
offer one more out there and if somebody
is not a twitter user and they want to
get in touch with us you can also just
e-mail Wirecast at telestream net
fantastic and also on these blogs which
something that i really appreciate is
that we have a feature request there
that people vote on and we have a list
of them and just go in there and give us
as much feedback as possible we'd love
to get that so how much weight would it
take would it would feature requests
have with telestream if i went on and
said i really like it to do this how
seriously does telestream take that
suggestion if all of the if in the end
the feature requests tab you can vote so
we always look at the top or at least I
always watch the top feature request and
we kind of evaluate them and see what we
could do or you know what our tape would
be on it sometimes users come up with a
problem but it doesn't necessarily need
to be the solution that they're trying
to present solving it so it's always
about a constant evaluation but we will
always read them I think it's really
important to see what's out there and
what people are asking for okay we
talked a little bit earlier about how
the cost of broadcasting on the Internet
has come down and that's that i should
say just the cost of broadcasting in
general because broadcasting on the
internet now has become almost
synonymous with with network
broadcasting it's become you know the
big networks are using the internet
instead of satellite in some cases like
they used to have to use back in the 80s
and 90s so things are really changing so
the cost has gone down but what happened
to the challenge level of becoming a
broadcaster I know back you know that's
mentioning the 80s and 90s it would have
taken a team of well educated
individuals to make a broadcast take
place so now that things have changed as
far as the cost goes and who and
therefore who is able to broadcast
because the cost has come so so much
down how how has the that same curve
gone for the ease of use well it's
interesting because some people do
one-man shows and they do everything
they'll have Wirecast going and they'll
switch between shots it's complicated to
do but it can be done and then if you if
anybody checks out the streaming room
blog that I mentioned earlier some
people have come up with neat ways to
enable quick switching between shots by
using these other devices there's the
quark nano control was one and then
there was another one there they're on
their own the vlog and so okay that's
another cool thing is that our our
customers introduced us to these novel
ways that they go about solving problems
yeah I even installed VNC server on the
broadcast computer and then used VNC
from the ipod touch and here i've got
the little handheld device and i'm
suddenly able to control all of my
camera switching from the ipod touch
great and it says believe yeah and will
we see also i think the challenge in the
future will not be everybody will be a
Content producer everybody can do their
own TV show because as you said you can
operate it yourself you just need a
computer a video camera and an internet
connection so the challenge i think
we'll be on the viewer side to kind of
understand how do i get the news that i
want how do i find the channels that i
want to
because it would be before it was really
easy you went to the big broadcasting
companies to watch content but I think
now the content will be more specialized
more focused people will have like you
guys have very well kind of scoped tap a
live show and it will be there would be
so many out there so the challenge will
be to find what you want to watch and
that's where things like the you picture
the roku box coming in and the tivo even
in the earlier days and then you've got
now I've noticed that iogear even
tweeted asking they're holding a contest
saying what what a device have to do for
you to cancel your cable TV so even
companies like iogear it's like okay
well it's obvious that they're doing
something behind the scenes they're
trying to get ready to take this
internet based media and make it so that
it replaces the need for a cable TV yeah
I think that's definitely I think that's
where we are heading I think we're
heading towards web TV and Internet I
mean we are already there basically yeah
really good yeah I think definitely and
I mean I come from Sweden and I watch a
lot of the Swedish TV shows on internet
because I I mean I still want to see
some of them I like it so I going to
their page and it works great so I don't
see a need for me to I wouldn't want to
watch Swedish television regularly I now
prefer watching it on the web it's
interesting how that has also changed
the way that we perceive viewing because
it's on demand if you want it to be on
demand our viewers can tune in live if
they'd like to interact but a majority
of our viewership comes from people who
download the show and watch the show
later so suddenly broadcasting doesn't
just become more affordable and this you
know everything we've talked about so
far but also for advertisers it becomes
it's it's this it's what we call the
ripple effect here where we see 44
sometimes months beyond a live broadcast
there there's still people who are you
know you sell advertising and they're
still selling products based on that ad
six months later because people are
still downloading the video and it's
become this whole new media where it's
not like it broadcast at once and you
might catch it on a rerun
it this is something that is it's more
ongoing yeah it's a combination of the
live event and then keeping you know a
file photograph friends that people can
watch and it will be there forever never
I mean it will always be out there and
that's really yeah and how does down the
street and make that easier for the user
so we've got we've covered the live
broadcast at end of things how can we
then then take our live broadcast and
make it into something that becomes
on-demand maybe with youtube or
something like that well Wirecast I'm
sorry pit Wirecast of course offers the
opportunity that at the same time that
you guys are streaming live to you
Justin and Ustream you can also record
maybe a high resolution copy to disk if
you want to use that and then use it for
later and you can set you know set up
the preference that you want for that
high dress copy Ryan they posted on
YouTube like you guys are doing I
imagine exactly yeah so you picture a
broadcaster who's sending out this video
at 400 kilobits a second because they're
limited to the internet connection but
recording locally at 2,000 kilobits a
second so all of a sudden they've got
this version of the video that can be
burnt to a DVD or that can be watched
through like a media pc or something
like that connected to an HDTV so
suddenly there there are two different
platforms coming from this one piece of
software yeah so that is yeah that's
what we see that people use and that we
use it ourselves for our weekly meetings
because we always say them so people can
watch them when they want do you have
the interesting use cases from schools
that have used the software perhaps
government agencies town halls groups
that may be small groups that I could
see it even being used for like somebody
who wants to do like a cooking show in a
group setting like you could use this
for educational purposes and for right
you know creating your own food TV or
whatever you want to do and certainly
you mentioned about a little bit about
sports coverage and things like that are
there any interesting use cases that you
can think of off the top of your head
that yeah we also see it
mean we've had medical companies you
know people want to do lectures on
operations in operation rooms so they
want a live stream okay are they out
pitched in and then they want to live
stream the audience watching it and they
would I have you know a chat room with
questions to the doctors operating and
you know integrating that as a kind of
very interactive lecture and they are
both they are located in totally
different locations it's really
fascinating we've had a guy who's
working with that with us now and and
that that's similar to the lecture again
i'm working with a professor right now
who's doing the same thing at a
university and with the same i mentioned
earlier the same thing with everybody
can interact with one another via the
chat blogs and everything so I and then
we've had we've had a lot of local
events here gonna be used wire cast of
Nevada City Film Festival lets you have
used work as we've had I mean we have
when we went to blog world we were there
last year we went to we heard a lot of
people you know just wanted to live
streamed our concerts like a fan of bad
if the live stream I want to show my
band on the web I think that is a great
thing just put it out there and make
people listen and hear you and yeah so
if you have a webcam or a digital video
camera that's connectable to a computer
pretty much any device corrective yeah
any device that will connect into your
computer essentially is going to be able
to work with the with wire cast and your
other project m religion hdmi or an STI
you know we can use it and use that as a
source yeah but USB you can realize her
in firewire USB all that so it's just
put your camera in Wirecast we know put
your camera plug your camera to your
computer right alright cast and you can
livestream your concert or school events
you know we're doing something at school
we could do live steam that right all
types
yeah there's so many uses to to how this
can be done and then of course there's
taking it another step and doing
something like category 5 TV where you
know here we are in our fourth season of
internet broadcasting and just really
changing the way that users can interact
with a show with our chat room Hillary's
watching the chat room we've got email
coming in and we've got everything else
going on and yeah that was never really
available to to users before because you
turn on the TV and if you're fortunate
you might come across the show that says
call in and you get an answering machine
and you leave a message and the answer
at three shows later kind of thing but
it's totally different when you when you
work on something like this and it opens
up that communication I can see how that
can be used in education and training
seminars like that I thought of another
interesting example we have a couple
different companies that are using it
and they're storm chaser outfits oh and
they they do they chase tornadoes around
and they use wire cast to stream lives
of weather events so that's another kind
of really beautiful yeah yeah people
tell me Jack no hope sorry go ahead no I
was just going to say we won one thing
that came up from those people is that
we needed to have an auto reconnect
capability so that was an example of you
know in these severe environments they
might lose their connection and so we
were able to implement something so that
they could reboot and then the stream
would start immediately so they wouldn't
lose anything you'd have to reconfigure
everything and so forth Oh neat so then
again there's a scenario where
somebody's made a suggestion you've
taken it into account and said oh this
is a good idea yeah yep definitely yeah
very cool so what else can we say about
about Wirecast it's a it's a
broadcasting software it's a you know if
your computer will support it will
record the HD video locally it allows
you to do live camera switching
everything that you see us do on the
show and as well as
the broadcasting of desktop operating
systems for example right so everything
that you see here is done through
Wirecast i'm using linux and so i have
this handy little tool called desktop
presenter and desktop presenter allows
me to capture my main display and
broadcast that too Wirecast and that
goes directly to the Wirecast
application and allows me to stream my
desktop in a much higher quality than if
it were say composite cable coming out
of the computer an s-video cable to a
capture card and you can have is it I
guess an unlimited number of computers
as well all right cast is both Mac goes
so it's crossed fun you can use it
regardless yeah and we just made that
the evolution of the product we have a
lot of stuff going on this year and so I
think customers and would-be customers
will be really happy where this product
is going yeah I think so cheerful and I
mean we're always being on we're also
kind of working on going after of course
the low-end hardware competitors that we
see out there we want to do a vetted
virtual set now in our last release and
also scoreboards but of course we want
to add more stuff that can help you guys
make even more exciting and really
professional looking video fantastic you
I think you already are doing that but
we want to give you more we here at
category 5 we try to stay on top of like
the what's latest and greatest and move
forward in it and what's neat is that as
you release new software and new
features and updates and patches we're
able to benefit from those and our
viewers therefore able to benefit from
those as well yeah and we want to get
more Pro features for you guys in there
great yeah and it's it's fantastic as it
is I got to say and I'll just mention
now while the broadcasting end of things
is designed to run on mac and windows
and we have to run it on windows seven
here in order to do the broadcast so
that's where all our cameras plug into
and everything like that it's our one
Windows computer and it
is all that and i think it was cadwell
just wondering if I believe it was
wondering if it makes it worth running
windows in that scenario and and if
you're going to be doing broadcasting
seriously then it you need to have a
broadcast computer and this is the
software that's going to make it happen
for you so you know does definitely make
it worth worthwhile you can see how the
show is progressed and even tonight with
the HD camera that would have been
possible without without the software
but that says without hardware is that I
mean the the UK the the call of duty the
black up launched yet we talk to you
they only used a macbook pro for the
entire right and my viewers may remember
back when I did the cottage episode I
was actually on location in the middle
of the forest with my laptop and a
single video camera going through
firewire to a firewire card in the
laptop and was able to broadcast from
there as well and that was all through
wire cast so there's so much that you
can do with it I was talking about being
able to stream the desktop to wire cast
and while that is a Windows application
that also does run under wine perfectly
as you've seen any time I bring up our
desktop here on the show just thought
I'd mention thank you indeed this is
category 5 technology TV it's fantastic
having you here and we're joined tonight
by by Philippa and Christine from
Telestream and they are the makers of
wire cast among other software but wire
cast as the software that allows us to
broadcast category 5 technology TV and
certainly encourage you to check it out
we have a special URL cat five dot TV /
Wirecast if you'd like to check it out
and in a couple of weeks time we're
actually going to be giving away a copy
that's worth four hundred forty nine
dollars us so stick make sure you're
watching the show over the next few
weeks because we're going to tell you
how you can get that get in on that
software we're going to be taking
ballots for that over the next couple of
weeks but tonight we have some Pogo
plugs to give away all right so unless
i'll let you kind of wrap up Philippa
and christine because we're just about
out of time but i really appreciate the
time that you've taken to be with us
tonight here at category five and and
certainly
I know that there's going to be
questions after the fact because like I
say there's that ripple effect I'll
encourage you to email us live at
category 5 TV and Christine was
mentioning earlier that you can email
Wirecast a telescreen net as well and
we'd encourage you to to get your
questions in email in category 5 will
will talk to you on the air and of
course telestream is there to answer
your questions about wire cast as well
it's been fantastic having you on the
show thank you very much for being here
thankfully thank you so much have a
great nice fun we're gonna go back out
the Sun no yes yeah hey hey now it's
like 40 below and snow in here but honey
thank you guys you enjoy take care you
have a great night right hi this is
category 5 technology TV and you'll find
us online triple w category 5 TV Hilary
it's so nice to have you here thanks I'm
glad to be here yeah really good it's
always great to have you here in the
studio studio it's not the save from my
laptop on my little webcam it's not
quite the same right but I'm glad to be
here the hot lights makes you feel like
you're in sunny California I know right
yeah that's all the different brilliant
you didn't get the same much tonight i
solisti like that was really interesting
like for me especially like with my
program at school like Union in
broadcasting and I know so just like
listening to that and just technology
blows my mind perpetual amazing happen
go change this is a really cool Wirecast
is we really neat and yeah I really
enjoyed that harvest I was really
focusing actually it's kind of late so
do i was like tuning out the chat room
just kidding I love you guys but I was
really interesting yeah and I would
encourage you to get your questions and
this is episode number 175 check out the
show notes for the the episode if you're
watching this after the fact and those
will be there for you it's that time
people here you go van away in the house
got two of those to give away tonight
and I had to figure out how are we gonna
give this away hmm because our script
kiddies bombarded us with um I catch ya
checking Twitter and your leg thousand
emails in to the food and so many people
how many emails did you get are you
ready for the final count I'm a little
nervous guys ready for this da da da can
you show that how many ballots did we
receive for contest the pogoplug if you
can guess you will the pogoplug is a
great device and i know that our viewers
are are keen on winning it your chances
your odds are not too high tonight
statistics will tell us that a lot of
people entered you gonna say it I can't
even show them just just tell them I can
so many too many people are you gonna do
it or mine you are thirty-nine thousand
232 can you believe that almost 40,000
so your chances tonight are about one in
40,000 crazy so crazy okay so what we're
gonna do I'm going to bring out my
trusty ol little website here and I'm
going to go random.org I'm going to grab
the count of messages and yes this is
this is for real this is insane look at
that check it out people legit
we're going to generate a random number
between 1 and 39,000 what did I say it
was 232 generating random number from
random.org it's 11 804 for the sake of
privacy i'm going to change cameras
there because we don't want to reveal
any email addresses but i will tell you
that in fact he's won 1804 and what i've
done is i have sorted these by the order
in which they were received ok ok gotcha
we need some drums 1180 for good luck
good luck 1180 for i'm scrolling through
39,000 232 email 1180 for this it says
pick me pick me pick me said Giles
Richardson congratulations you are the
owner of a brand-new pogoplug from
pogoplug calm and category five dot TV
but wait I said there were two he did
hark not one but two sorg generate a
random number 723 ok well the low
numbers haha give me lelo let me scroll
quite a ways here 723 s720 first yeah
yep yep
the 720 third email to arrive in my
inbox comes to us from Rodney right
Rodney right congratulations hurry you
are the proud owner of a brand-new
pogoplug feature here so the two of you
John senator and Robbie make sure you
send me an email live at category 5 TV I
will need your full shipping address so
that we can ship that out to you by
courier and also the courier usually
requires your phone number as well
that's attributed to that address and
your name everything that we would need
to shift that to you and that will be on
its way so congratulations to our
winners tonight and we will have some
more Pogo plugs to give away in February
as well so so you haven't missed your
chance no and and you can stop emailing
me now we're not taking any more ballots
for your great interest people I'm press
almost 40,000 the interest was great
forty thousand pounds in one week so I
had to cut it off this morning because I
was like that's it no more ballots
congratulations and I hope you've had a
lot of fun tonight and again if you have
questions for Wirecast you know if it's
about Wirecast and you want to hear it
answered on the show email me live at
category 5 TV and of course they're
going to have a whole bunch of links for
you for wire cast in the show notes for
category 5 TV episode number 175 and
remember camp five dot TV / Wirecast is
a website that you can go to and that's
going to give you a deal on Wirecast
we're going to be giving away the
software in just a few weeks and we'll
be announcing how we can go about that
we're not going to double up contests
for show but next week we'll be
announcing how we're gonna be doing that
so thanks so much for being with us and
thank you for being with us yeah loads
of fun my pleasure everybody have a good
night tonight it's been hard to follow
the chat room and everything but I will
definitely go over the chat logs
category 5 TV oh yeah lots 1
room people always a buzz in that's for
sure for sure I'm glad I was here to
give away this poll blah two of them are
free stuff and I know you guys do too so
Trey fun you ask me we we did receive
some email this week and of course with
the special nature of tonight's show we
were unable to get to those but we will
address your questions if you sent us
question alive a category 5 TV will take
care of you next week don't you worry
thanks for your patience hope you learn
lots that's all the time that we have
for tonight Timeflies we having fun
thanks everybody thanks for tuning in
have a wonderful week I look forward to
seeing you next Tuesday night at the
same time at seven o'clock eastern time
and and make sure you tweet me there you
have it all right I have a great week
