welcome to the second episode of the
pixel shadow today we are going to be
going on a mining spree as we started
last time but we ran out of time so I'm
gonna get into the game I made some
ladders off-camera as you can see and
also I want to give a big thank you to
the people subscribed on my youtube
channel and have been following me on
Twitter so you can find me using the
hashtag the pixel shadow and we're gonna
get into the game so see down the ladder
I've done a little digging in the ground
with my pickaxe here handy-dandy pickaxe
and you just go down but it's pretty
dark down here so we're gonna need some
torches I also got a bit of coal in my
inventory so I can quickly make some
torches so open your inventory with I
take yours take any form of sticks and
you will find four torches and put the
coal on top so now I have eight torches
which I can place down to provide light
you find coal from I found the coal you
like dig underground and you can find
coal ore and if we find it come across
any else to quickly show it to you so
I'm just gonna stay on the slider dig
down a bit and then you can place the
ladders and climb up it using space and
whoop I placed it on the wrong side here
we have a really good aura called iron
ore except you're not you can't mind it
with the wooden pickaxe as you can see
so let's quickly make another pickaxe
just all the matters of surviving
no I don't have any wood left so I'll
quickly go get some wood
just one plank we'll do the wood and mix
the sticks just one wood planking the
crafting grid and right now I have
sixteen sticks let's get back to my
house and let's make a stone pickaxe you
put two sticks like this then take three
cobblestone or stone which can be made
by smelting cobblestone in your furnace
you will get the stone pickaxe which has
better durability than the wooden
pickaxe and will last last longer things
like that and can break ores and stone
faster so let's get this iron which can
be made to make some really cool things
like better pickaxes and we'll walk so
it look really nice
do some of that later I'm just checking
the area for any hidden doors in the
stone looks like none are here so let's
continue going down you have a four
block reach so every time you have to
get closer each time
well we just found some clue which means
we can craft some more torches which is
good
apparently does no more coal which means
Oh spoke too soon
a bunch of coal lawyers here so if you
were wondering this is what the color
looks like looks like oh just any rip it
looks like stone with a bunch of black
strikes you mind it you will get one :
poorer or so right now I have four
coulombs in one month let's grab a bunch
of this so we can make a bunch of
torches let's quickly make some ten and
ten see how many torches that'll get us
forty so now we have 43 torches which is
really good
so this is like how you mind you just
simple as that every time your pickaxe
will break because we can't have forever
pickaxes that'd be too awesome
a pinch look at this fancy or I'm
actually not quite sure what this is
tuna or is this is tin lump what you can
make not quite sure that's a part of mod
not just vanilla mind test so we also
got some copper lump which can be
combined with smelted iron ingots but
you get when you smell a lumps to make
copper and get what you are really good
it makes stronger tools and better
blocks my pickaxe is gonna die so we
might want to go to the surface try and
get a copper pickaxe if we have enough
or just make another stone pickaxe
because I'm sure we have enough sticks
of this so ya go to make a new pickaxe
fresh stone pickaxe which I'll pick up
once I have this one dies might die in
this hit yep so let's get this pickaxe
find you we aren't being very lucky
right now
Oh second time I've spoke to some new
wait why don't I have any hearts well
it's fine by me because if I died that
would not be good some torches around
caves like this you can find ores like
quartz which I'll quickly get to once I
place down for ladders do not want to
get lost in here these caves can be
pretty big you can find good or will
quickly collect some cars because that
is super good super Connor that's super
good and this is a good cape
not too big not too small so you won't
get lost
yep perfect perfect cave and what's up
here yeah the key letters and we see
some more iron here
I guess we were lucky this is really
they're pretty common but if they have
they can have some really good ores and
I'm running out of ladders okay so
there's a bunch of coal right here which
we'll need for torches and I love the
graphics or the torches by the way it's
so cool silver silver silver' is pretty
rare looks a lot like tinsel tin isn't
very good because you can't do much with
it but if finding silver is really good
because you can make it a tool set and
with armors mod you can make an armor
set which we might be downloading soon
of course can't do it much but you can
make really cool box you can um quartz
box in Minecraft you find this in the
nether but in - it's really common in
the overworld so see I think I have four
now five limbs
you put four of them in the UM in the
crafting grid like this and you'll get
four quarts box which look really good
we might want to display that in my
house somewhere maybe for the second
floor in future episodes
this is actually really good put a
couple of torches here so I remember
where the ladder is so I don't get lost
too much just Taylor silver one was
silver one was two and my pickaxe broke
if I had another silver I could make a
silver pickaxe wait no I need to smelt
it I'm pretty sure but um you can smelt
them to make silver ingots and make um
pickaxe slightly better than stone even
though it's pretty rare and this cave
goes around in a circle let's try and
get as much iron o'clock as we can see
sure there was another way to escape
this area I'm pretty sure this is silver
this is silver that means you can make
yeah that was silver so that means we
can make the silver for backs when you
get home and I think this is pretty good
and quickly put those together zactly a
stack and I think we've gotten most of
the yours around here except for if you
call and we'll go maybe like once we
have 60 ladders left we'll go back on
perhaps in the episode
I think once I'm 80
ladders we'll go home and show you the
silver pickaxe in the bronze pickaxe
which is really good we are in fly mode
let's get out of that
and now we have a decent mine system
going on so let's head up click go into
fast mode okay put a couple torches in
art my hood and we'll make the silver
pickaxe and I am going to to make
another furnace so I can smelt multiple
things at once should I'm gonna make 2
so 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 and you put them put
cobblestone in the crafting grid like
this none in the middle you'll get one
furnace for each each time so put that
in there get in there
smelt the copper here
let's make some more courts and I'll
show you what the blocks look like in a
sec so I got eight from that which is
really good right make these into slabs
which might look cool yeah that's a good
idea tell you what I'm planning in a sec
make slabs by putting three quartz
blocks in a crafting grid like that
you'll get six quick slaps you can craft
them back just by putting two quartz
slab in the entry I think can you not
craft them back I thought you could
maybe not with quartz with other things
you can but I'm going to make something
really cool so now that we've gone right
in we can make like this little place
here like um what's a call to porch
front door porch and these have smelted
so I can quickly show you the silver
pickaxe
so you take the three silver ingots put
them in like that like the regular um
stone pickaxe and you will get a silver
pickaxe which actually I think it's
really good texture look at it it's
beautiful
and let's see how fast this thing mines
I'm not actually quite sure
yep that's a bit faster then stone and
it has a long lasting durability I think
about twice as much as stone I'm pretty
sure so let's quickly put that in the
chest cuz we don't need that right now
and let's make some more quartz slabs
actually you can break quartz blocks
with your fists which is good if you
misplace it and you don't have a pickaxe
in your injury so we're gonna break the
snow nice and then above it once I get
some more quartz I can put them over
here I get one more quartz block I'll
have enough sold quickly go find some
get that silver pickaxe back try and
find some quartz
come on quartz you know I need to find
you just for
this is getting along well except that
we can't find any quartz the seems that
when you actually want the or you can't
find it so next episode I'll try and
find as much corset quartz as I can buy
then let's quickly get to the surface
next episode we'll finish that pop on
that porch and thanks for watching
please leave a like subscribe and
comment what you liked best and I've
just bye hope you enjoyed the video
