welcome to category 5 technology TV
episode number 373 for tuesday the 11th
of november 2014 it's nice to see you
thanks for being here tonight we're
going to be speaking with Ilyas vitalik
who joins us from powtoon are we talking
about an incredible new product that
they've just released today and they're
going to take your presentations out of
the dull mundane bullet points into
incredible animated slides stuff that
you've never even imagined it's
incredible stuff then we're going to be
able to add wow factor to presentations
make it nice and simple so stick around
that's coming right up and here's what's
coming up in the category 5 TV news room
Microsoft is helping blind people see
using 3d audio technology the Home Depot
hack that happened earlier this year
also leaked around 53 million email
addresses German police have raided over
a hundred homes to clamp down on piracy
a French health watchdog is warning
against the use of 3d technology by
children aged 6 and under and US
President Barack Obama wants to keep the
internet open and free I've been freedom
stick around the full details are coming
up later in the show this is category 5
technology TV
starring Sasha dramatis
Hillary rumble
christo wells
your kid and your host Ravi Ferguson
introducing Beltone first a
revolutionary new hearing aid so small
you can hardly see it so comfortable you
can hardly feel it for the first time
ever you can control hearing aids
directly from your iPhone pick up the
phone listen to music and use your
hearing aids like wireless headphones
hear everything that matters try Beltone
first for a free trial call one eight
hundred Beltone now welcome to the show
this is category 5 technology TV and
tonight we're joined by ilya spetalnick
who joins us from powtoon i hope i've
got that right alia welcome to the show
that's absolutely right thanks thanks
for having me ilya tell us a little bit
about what it is that you yourself do
with powtoon and a little bit of an
introduction into your company would be
great okay so I'm not the CEO and
founder of powtoon and what we do is we
basically bring awesomeness to
everybody's life that's that's basically
our motto we want to bring awesomeness
to your life okay and and the the exact
medium that we've chosen to do that is
actually presentations and short
animated video clips so what we do as a
company or maybe I'll just give you a
few words of how we came to do what we
do with the company and that is I'm an
entrepreneur and I I have a tendency to
have ideas the thing is that you want to
test these ideas and the best way to do
that as we know from Lean Startup
methodology is you put a landing page
out there you invite some people to come
and basically have a look at it see
whether they like your product as it
were and you know and then you know that
you have a winner or a loser right you
know to make it very very short but the
the best way to do that is if you have a
short video clip of your product problem
is that if you're in the stages of not
having a product you can't do that the
way Julia it's really expensive for me
as a small business entrepreneur to hire
a production company to put together
production exactly exactly it starts
somewhere around three thousand dollars
and can ended $25,000 and that's kind of
the predicament that I had found myself
in I wanted to test all of these
wonderful ideas that I had in my mind
about startups that could go Stella but
I never you know I I didn't have a a
tool to do it with other than hiring
somebody and that was going to be too
expensive especially you know you want
to validate things out quickly so you
want to try one thing another thing long
story short that's how powtoon was born
powtoon is a is a software that allows
you to create short animated video clips
and we needed to make it so simple that
you and I me in fact that I could use it
even though i'm not an animator I'm not
a designer I'm nothing of the sort and I
just wanted to drag and drop little
figurines I wanted to put some text I
wanted to make it look professional even
though I myself am NOT a professional
designer and so we create we we actually
brought in a tremendous animator and
designer who created this that's called
baseline of of assets for us right and
then we just put a framework around it
and we are allowing people to do this
and since we started over 6 million i
believe powtoons have been created you
know and elation and that's very nice a
success right there one right the one
thing that that our customers so our
customers and our friends what we call
the powtoon tribe they they love the
product but the one thing they said is
we really want to do this and use it in
a one-on-one kind of scenario I would
love to I don't want to use PowerPoint
anymore Prezi is too complicated for me
and I just want to use it in an
environment where I can present to my
peers or when I'm giving a talk or
something like that but you know there's
nothing out there for that and powtoon
even you know it's not a short
animated clip type scenario anymore it's
a presentation at slide show ok so for
those who aren't familiar with your
company in your product I know we
featured you your product here on the
show before powtoon is it a drop-in
replacement for say powerpoint it it is
it pretty much is I mean that's
certainly what we're what we're aiming
at not powtoon I'm talking about slides
right now the product we're launching
today ok is literally a replacement but
it's not you know it's not exactly for
it we we didn't want to go after all the
functionality of powerpoints that's not
what we're about we perceive the problem
with PowerPoint or with presentations in
general to be one that is about design
that means I want to look cutting engine
beautiful when I design when I present
in front of people so using the the
standard powerpoint templates is a
little bit weak it it kind of it doesn't
do anything for my bed right over done
at this point Ilya you're getting ahead
of me because I I know you're excited
about this product we all are and so
just backing up a second here so today
is a big day for powtoon plain and
simple today is November 11th 2014 mark
it down in your history books because
this is when powtoon is branching out
into this new product called slides and
you alluded to the fact that that's what
this new product is that that you're
launching today row that is how does
that differ from the powtoon product so
knowing now ok slides is the drop-in
replacement for say powerpoint or your
your favorite slot presentation software
how does that differ from powtoon itself
ok so now let's let's call it we have
now two products one is called powtoon
studio and the other one is called
powtoon slides what's the difference
between powtoon studio important slides
powtoon studio is basically a platform
that allows you to create short animated
video clips and animated presentation
you can drag and drop characters into
the screen you add text and you
basically control the entire let's call
it environment you whatever you come up
with in your head that's what you can do
with with with powtoon studio it allows
you to be you become the script writer
of that script okay elton slides is
something completely different palkein
slides is literally a replacement for
PowerPoint that means with PowerPoint
you want to present to somebody an idea
that you have or or yeah presentation so
what we've done is we've allowed you to
use our let's call it our library of
beautifully designed styles to create
something that that presents you that
represents you as a brand so if you want
to look cookie we've got a cookie style
if you want to look very businesslike
we've got a very elegant and gray cell
or many different styles if you want to
do something in with animation with an
animated character walking into the
screen and speaking on your behalf then
you can do that as well so and and and
all of that so you don't have to create
the scenes anymore in in powtoon in
powtoon studio but rather we've created
a plethora of layouts and styles for you
that you can choose from and the liner
being fantastic of this and I know you
know knowing powtoon in the history of
how your product works gone are bullet
points the the traditional you know
boring slideshows gone are just the the
transitions that are just basic wipes
and fades and you guys do a fantastic
job of taking presentations to the next
level so they're going to be less boring
they're going to be a lot more fun a lot
more humorous in many cases if if that's
what you're going for what about those
kinds of things way when you approach
developing the software are you looking
at use cases how
people going to be using this product
how can we make it better than the the
competition or the stuff that's been
around for many years that's exactly
what we're doing in fact we're not even
looking at how can we do it ourselves
how can we make it better rather we have
invited our tribe the powtoon tribe you
have to tell us how to make it better to
tell us exactly what it what it is that
they want how they want it and that's
exactly the product that we've created
that means this slides product is not
one that we thought up right a product
that is a an outgrowth of the powtoon
tribe coming together and saying guys we
love powtoon we want you to take this
energy this visual kind of brilliance
and transpose it for us into environment
that we can that we can kind of conjure
up things very quickly we don't want to
spend too much time but we want to end
up looking amazing and also and
professional and all of these things and
we want to end up sorry go ahead sorry
and there's one other thing that people
wanted and that is they said and please
if you're going to do this then we're
begging you make it so that I can embed
videos very easily okay because right
now I'm in an environment this is a user
speaking to me this is our tribe saying
we're in an environment where we know
that we can embed videos in our
presentations but we just can't do it I
can't you know it's too complicated yeah
I tried I haven't succeeded so what
we've done is we've actually patented a
feature that we've developed we call it
the Clipper vid feature where literally
at the click of a button you can import
a video or choose one from YouTube yeah
and you can actually crop it's linked to
exactly only the part of the video that
you want to show at that point well and
that's such a powerful idea i have to
tell you the
I'm so excited about this I love it I'll
tell you why I'm so excited about this
because when when I'm presenting yeah
the most important thing in presenting I
find or one of the most important things
is what we call a patent disrupt that
means no matter how great your
presentation is people are going to
start looking at their mobile phones and
they're going to start playing around
and things like that yeah unless you do
something to interrupt this approve you
know to to bring them back and there is
nothing more powerful than to insert a
short scene from a well-known movie okay
it makes your point huh and what we've
done is we've made this so seamless well
basically the way that you would
progress a slide set now you're
progressing the slide and the next thing
that comes on is a movie or a clip from
a movie yeah that says you know hasta la
vista baby or whatever it might be all
of a sudden you're not like shaking
people out of their complacency and and
giving them a chance to refocus on your
presentation this is such a powerful
device in in presentation making that
I'm just I can't wait to see how people
use it and in fact we'll get it a little
bit later we're running a competition to
see how people use it to be on that in
just a couple of moments time I want to
know alia you mentioned that it is very
community driven as far as your feature
set goes and I love that you're
listening to your community you're
listening to your users and getting
sourcing your ideas they're basically
your focus group these are the people
that are using your product who with the
new slides feature the new slides
product who is it that you are basically
presenting this to that maybe are not
currently a part of your powtoon tribes
is say our is there a specific group of
people that would really benefit from
this product certainly I mean that's the
only reason why we're doing this on me
we're doing this of course to to help
our tribe to do things to become more
awesome in their presentation making but
also we are
literally listening to those people
saying to us listen this these features
are missing in the broader market place
yeah and we're saying that if our tribe
is calling for these features then there
is a much broader and wider set of
people who can use this the slides
specifically is targeted at let's call
it in a business it's targeted to
specific audiences one is a
business-driven audience and the other
one is of course in education students
teacher eight you know who better what a
better example of somebody who is easily
distracted than a student who's bored in
class plane and said I can't tell you
how many emails I personally get from
teachers saying thank you guys so much
for this product thank you because my
kids when I when I start playing a part
in firstly they sit up and secondly if
it's later they say well great it's a
power tool right so teachers have really
understood the power of this and in fact
you might know but we just had a huge
giveaway we gave away five million
dollars worth of accounts to the
education sector just you know in the
last two months because we want we want
to foster that we know that kids have
short attention spans in fact you and I
have short attention spans and with
powtoon what we can do is we can
introduce this element of patent disrupt
you know like something out of the
ordinary that you didn't expect all of
us and our great you know and then you
have it the chance i'm not saying you
will but at least you have a chance to
refocus to reset your your attention
meter yeah and say okay i'm going to
listen for another 30 seconds for
another 20 minutes whatever it might be
sure now so education is a very very I
mean us and education we have a real
love affair powtoon and education it
just wears a love affair but there's
also a love affair with a certain subset
within the business community and those
are basically marketers and I'm so
about corporate marketers and also
internet marketers but for corporate
marketers you have to understand they
live in an environment where if they're
going to create a presentation they are
either going to get a designer to
basically look over it and clean it up
which is expensive which is it sometimes
if you outsource it you don't know what
results you're going to get back if its
in-house you have to provision for it
you have to pay for it and so on some so
with slides what we've done is we've
kind of created the designer in a box
for you you have really awesomely
designed styles that you can choose from
that are either elegant or edgy or you
know all of these wonderful things that
you as a marketing professional wand or
even as a corporate professional that is
much more representative of your brand
the brand that you want to convey if you
see what I mean sure yeah which is yeah
this is category 5 technology TV my name
is Robbie Ferguson and I'm speaking with
Ilya spetalnick we're talking with with
him from powtoon about the new product
slides which is an exciting drop-in
replacement for your favorite
presentation software that takes it to
the next level this is exciting stuff I
can understand your relationship with
the educational sector and I think you
should be absolutely proud that you've
created a product that is not only
outstanding for your community your
users but to touch the education sector
in such a way that you're actually
improving the reception of education
teachers who use this product creatively
are going to be able to grab and keep
the attention of the students and
present what it is that they're trying
to teach and plain and simply you've
made an impact on society when when
you've been able to accomplish that so
congratulations on that front as far as
slides go I want to know how difficult
is it to use I mean if I've got an
intern say or a family member who wants
to be able to help out and and put
together a presentation for my company
it slides something that they need a lot
of training to be able to use we have
basically I gave the team only 1r image
it has to be completely it has to be
foolproof okay that means that means
that the idea is that it is so simple
that you can hardly go wrong so it
really within three clicks you've
already got something truly awesome that
that's the remit that I gave you and and
so as opposed to in our power to studio
you might those people who are familiar
with it you have many options of
characters and various things in slides
you have virtually no options okay you
only have your choice I'll ok typically
choose the style you choose your layout
yeah and then basically you add your
text you add your videos and and that is
it it's designed in fact we we added and
this is also one of our tribal additions
you know the tribe insisted that we add
this we wanted to make it really so
let's call it um defined and and and
clear what you're doing and what you're
going to get at the end that we didn't
really give them a choice initially to
even adjust the size of the text ok so
you're right this is more of a workflow
that I'm going to fill in the blanks and
it's going to spew out an amazing
presentation you could say that but we
actually changed that because oh because
during tests it was during development
and testing during development adjusting
we thought look we need to stay we will
we are offering our users a designer's
vision of what an amazing presentation
looks like yeah it's cutting-edge it's
beautifully designed if you start
changing fonts if you charge start
changing sizes bolding and so on you
might be create you might be messing it
up yeah yeah I know where we shall
appear so I hear here because people
come to me and say I want to be able to
edit my own website right exactly so
initially we thought let's stay true
to the vision of the designer yes but
what we found is that our our test
subjects our our alpha testers and beta
testers didn't respond well to that at
all okay too much control is not good
and so what we did is we allow you to
make these changes which improves the
product incredibly it's the minute that
you're tried you'll see exactly what I
mean but what we what else we added is
that if you want to go super awesome all
you have to do is click on export this
to powtoon studio and you're taking the
nice nice presentation that you just
created moving it into powtoon studio
and you can go crazy if you want to and
if you want fireworks and you know
whatever you want in your screen you can
then put it in animated characters on
the most beautiful design style if you
understand what I mean that means we are
kind of laying down this idea of we're
going to stay true to the designers
vision and we are deferring to you the
user and we're saying we'll give you the
most beautiful thing that we can come up
with if you want to add to it take away
from it it's up to you right i can see
powtoon studio users even using this as
a quick start way of getting there there
exactly exactly mm-hmm now okay
community is asking we've got a lot of
Linux viewers do you have a version that
works on linux well it kind of
cross-platform compatibility or really
it's completely cross platform
compatible because it's browser based so
it plays it works on a mac it works on
windows on unix it is cross-platform you
know as long as you've got a chrome
browser a firefox even an explorer oh
wow that must have been a challenge for
your development team Oh douche a
Microsoft okay so it boils down to this
how much of slides gonna cost me okay so
slides is basically free it so you yours
okay actual question Ilya Marie lakorn
is real by big a bug are unicorns real
haha only chief executive unicorns okay
can you um okay basically free it what
you write so basically you can use
slides for free and it follows the
powtoon model if you want to remove the
the part in branding in the bottom
right-hand corner then you just you you
opt for one of our either for profile
business plan it's part of power tune
okay and can be used for now I'm
thinking okay the powtoon logo being on
the screen is fine for presentations in
my company presentations like the oh so
one use case where I may want to remove
the passing logos if I'm going to
broadcast it as say a commercial or
something like that so is licensing set
up in such a way that with the free
version well I should rephrase the
question what kind of what limitations
are there with the free license as far
as can i use it for commercial use can I
use it for only personal use can my
church use it as long as the powtoon
branding is is in the picture that means
the free version is used you can use it
you can use it any which way you like
okay once yeah because the branding the
branding remains in in in the picture
you can't of course crop it out or
anything like that but if you if you
want to use it for commercial use or for
for business use you should really be
looking to to upgrade and it like i said
it's part of the power tool package that
means all our power to intro and
business users are going to receive the
version of slides that does not have
branding and in the bottom right okay so
we'd encourage you absolutely to give
slides a try give power to in a try
where can we sign up for this slides
product you go to paul to.com slash
slides just like that's it there you
have it folks okay you alluded to at the
at the top of the the interview that you
have a contest that's that's kind of
surviving this whole launch can you
explain to us however
yours can participate in that absolutely
so let me just quickly outline to you
what the contest is true when we were as
we were creating the clip of it feature
which is this feature that allows you to
choose a YouTube clip and then and then
crop its length to just the few words
the sentence that way that you want to
show we internally started sending each
other messages like that like for
example you know yesterday you made me
so mad and then we would take like a
clip exactly we take something like
alien rose I mean you know crop it out
yeah where the alien just you know
attacks and and we were cracking up the
whole company was constantly sending
these mini clips to each other we call
them quick and anything done and and we
thought it's such a fun thing to do that
we are now launching a competition where
we're inviting people to create their
own quick clips okay so what you do is
you think of something clever to say and
then you find the right movie reference
or or some other reference that you have
I can't stick it in there and then you
send it out and that's basically where
you where you join the competition at
our ballot is to create one of these
quick clips exactly and you can create
as many as you like the way to enter the
competition is just too once you've
created a quick clip you'll find that on
the share page or on the viewer page
you'll have a little banner on the right
hand side that says enter this into the
quick clips competition and then the
more people vote for you the the more
likely you are to either win an iphone 6
iphone six-plus will give you the choice
and you will be immortalized as a
powtoon character what yep Nexus the
winner of this at the end of ten weeks
is going to be a cartoon character
powtoon figure brilliant and people will
use
my visit in there slide shows absolutely
very cool well thank you so much final
question that that we like to know here
at the show I think about a scenario
with just to kind of wrap up our
discussion the scenario is this is an
online thing it's through my browser and
so I'm going to create it i'm going to
view it i'm going to preview and do all
this stuff through my browser but what
happens in a case where say my office is
not the TV is not internet-connected its
rug is there a way to export to a format
where i can put it on a flash drive plug
it into the TV and let it play yes
absolutely we're just in the process of
basically finalizing this you'll be able
to download it as an executable file and
you'll be you'll basically just you'll
just click it and play now having said
that you should be aware that due to
YouTube's Terms and Conditions you can
of course not export YouTube clips that
means if you have a quick if you have
YouTube clips in your video yeah in
sorry in your slides presentation you
need to be online for them to for them
to play right these core product will
your products strip them out of my
slideshow if I try to export it it will
okay will want to explain that just
really briefly so what powtoon is doing
there is that they're protecting you
from copyright infringement absolutely
right the arms of youth will say that
Google can come after you if you take
those clips exactly and we don't want we
don't want to be part of copyright
infringement we've created a wonderful
platform that allows you to embed these
clips now if they're your own clips that
means if they have been uploaded by you
yourself then all we can do is rely on
you to be an honest person and not not
not to have basically and you know burn
these off from somewhere now but if you
they are your own clips then then they
will export alongside everything else
very good so it's only we are only
protecting you from copyright
infringement against youtube or yeah at
this point in time
very good okay well Ilya it is so nice
to have you here again my name is Robbie
Ferguson I'm speaking with Ilya
spetalnick from powtoon and their new
product is available at powtoon calm /
slides and as we heard here tonight it's
available for you to try absolutely free
you can generate your presentations you
can use them and it's licensed in such a
way that you can do that for free if
you're in a business and you want to use
these in a commercial setting then you
can you can sign up and subscribe to
remove the powtoon logo if you like and
and that's a great way to support a
wonderful company that's building a
product that is absolutely I mean this
is exciting stuff because we're seeing a
transition from dull and dry
presentations to these exciting
presentations that are encouraging
students to learn that are a lot more
fun for your business presentations and
Ilya at to you to your team keep up the
great work and thanks for being here on
category five tonight thank you so much
and once again just for you to know
where to go if you are interested in
looking at the product its ww2 calm /
slides or alternatively you can also
just go to your search engine and input
hashtag slides and you'll find it again
thanks Elia take thank you very much
Robbie goodnight all the best it's
Tuesday November 11th 2014 and here are
the stories were covering this week
augmented reality for blind people could
help him get around without the help of
a guide dog thanks to a new technology
being tested by Microsoft home depot is
revealed that the hack attack earlier
this year leaked not just credit and
debit card information but also the
email addresses of their customers
police in Germany are clamping down on
movie and music piracy and have raided
over a hundred homes are you thinking
about buying that 3d TV this Christmas
season a French health watchdog is
warning of the impact of 3d technology
on developing eyes and President Obama
made a statement yesterday in support of
net neutrality and well it might be
upsetting to internet service providers
and large companies it will level the
playing field for the average user these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere this is the story of Operation
Christmas Child some it may just be a
shoebox but to millions is the start of
the greatest journey traveling the world
that we prayer
to box gets fill the hearts of children
from over 100 different countries with
hope faith and love
I'm Sasha dramatis and here are the top
stories from the category 5 TV news room
for millions of blind and visually
impaired people venturing out of the
house can be a dangerous and daunting
task Microsoft is aiming to change this
with 3d audio technology and a smart
headset the software giant is trialing
in the UK microsoft system works by
creating a 3d soundscape of audio that's
transmitted through your jawbone you
wear a bone conduction headset that
pairs to a smartphone that can pick up
nearby beacons and guide you around the
bone conduction here is key it means
that you can still hold conversations
with people or hear the environment
around you because you're not wearing
headphones that cover your ears which is
crucial if you're visually impaired and
rely on sound as a primary sense
Microsoft has created a clever system of
audio cues for nearby stores points of
interest and journey details alongside
regular GPS instructions and unique
audio ping that keeps you straight on
track when you're navigating Microsoft's
headset is designed to tackle these
challenges with technology that won't
cost eighty thousand dollars which is
the lifetime price tag of a guide dog it
won't completely replace a guide dog or
a white cane but it might just lower the
cost and complexity of navigating cities
if you're visually impaired ninety
percent of the world's visually impaired
live in low-income settings according to
the world health organization
inexpensive technology is badly needed
and Microsoft recognizes that a simple
headset could be the answer the headset
is calibrated by first scanning your
entire face and head with Kinect
producing a map for the system to
improve the accuracy of the headset and
tailor it to your own dimensions it's
all driven using gestures from a
smartphone app that plays back audio
menu straight into your ears you simply
tap and hold and slide or drag around to
navigate with each move accompanied by a
subtle vibration from the headset of the
handset and the menu item read back to
you
if you're on a train or a bus it will
tell you when you're about to reach a
station or stop using GPS or nearby
beacons but it's blindly walking around
environments where it's especially
impressive the real magic of this system
is the 3d audio technology that gives
you a real sense of direction one
feature on the head on the headset
allows you to push a button and hear a
list of nearby places of interest
they're processed through the headset
depending on the direction you're facing
so that when a store is read aloud
you'll be able to hear the direction of
where it's located that might be in the
rear left you're out in front but the
audio gives you a clear sense of where
that store is along a route through just
sound alone we've received no word yet
on the release date or the cost of the
peripheral but the prototype is quite
impressive that sounds really cool you
made an interesting point though Sasha
before before we went on the air tonight
yeah if I was that visually impaired and
and perhaps if there is anyone listening
tonight who is visually impaired to the
point of not being able to see and
needing a peripheral such as this my
point my point is well if you have a
smartphone that you need to click and
drag and swipe to calibrate the system
yeah and you can't see your smartphone
how are you going to have a properly
calibrated system that's an interesting
point for sure it's cool how technology
especially something like Kinect which
was as far as I knew at the time as far
as we knew developed for for gaming
mm-hmm it is a replacement kind of a
competitor for Wii with the wiimotes now
Microsoft comes along and says no we
don't need to have a remote will use
just your hand gestures in your body in
a 3d space so being able to use that in
order to create this 3d basically
immersive environment it's almost it is
like augmented reality for audio
perception as opposed to visual
perception I love the idea I really hope
they can make it work agreed us retail
giant Home Depot says hackers who stole
payment card details of Millie
of customers also stole 53 million email
addresses it said hackers access its
network with a vendor's username and
password between April and September a
vendors a vendor that so that means that
the vendor has access to emails and
credit cards and debit cards the company
had previously revealed that 56 million
debit and credit card details were also
stolen in the hack analysts say it's one
of the largest data breaches on record
surpassing a similar incident at
retailer target home depot insisted on
Thursday that the file containing the
email addresses did not contain
passwords or other sensitive personal
information although it did contain
credit card numbers and debit but it
warned customers to be on guard against
further phishing scams that might trick
them into sharing personal information
so just be warned don't overshare at
home depot now more than 400 police
officers in Germany have taken part in a
nationwide clamp down against piracy
colognes public prosecutor has announced
they searched 121 apartments across 14
states in the hunt for people sharing
music and films illegally online
officials targeted members of a
file-sharing forum called bourse who the
prosecutor says have uploaded movies
music software and ebooks the German
police said some of the suspects in the
latest raid were willing to cooperate
they added the investigating authorities
are hoping to gain further insight into
the piracy scene on the evaluation of
this evidence so pirate errs beware
that's frightening for sure mm-hmm now a
French health watchdog has recommended
that children under the age of six
should not be allowed access to 3d
content the agency for food
environmental and occupational health
and safety and seas added that access to
those up to the age of 13 should be
moderate
it follows research into the possible
impact of 3d imaging on still developing
eyes few countries currently have
guidelines about 3d usage according to
an sees the process of assimilating a
three-dimensional effect requires the
eyes to look at images in two different
places at the same time before the brain
translates it to one image they said in
a statement and children and
particularly before the age of six the
health effects of this vergence
accommodation conflict could give much
more could be much more severe given the
active development of the visual system
at this time I would say that the
children that the movies are geared to
are probably between the ages of 4 and
13 interesting pointers 3d movies or
Disney and Pixar and for young children
so what are you doing a case like that I
mean everybody's looking at their their
Christmas list and thinking okay this is
something that maybe we've been saving
up toward maybe the old TV is done and
do we go with 4k do we go with 3d what
do you do and then to have someone show
up and say hey it's not good for kids
and we've been hearing it for some time
I think that that whole you know the
development of the visual cortex and the
eyes and it's not good to have 3d the
the faux synthetic 3d anyways during
that time mm-hmm I don't know I have a
3d TV and I know that there are only
particular times in the day if I'm too
tired I'll get a headache so I can't
imagine that on the the vision of small
children yeah I tend to agree President
Barack Obama wants to reclassify the
internet as a utility he said in a new
statement released by the White House
yesterday that would allow the Federal
Communications Committee to enforce
heavier restrictions on it and protect
net neutrality the president said the
time has come for the FCC to recognize
that broadband services of the same
importance and must carry the same
obligations as so many of the other
vital services do Obama is officially
supporting net neutrality writing that
Internet service providers should
not be allowed to control or pick
winners and losers in the online
marketplace in his statement President
Obama outlined rules for internets where
ISPs could not block legal content
throttle services or offer paid
prioritization of service way to go
Obama that sounds like that is good I
mean it sounds good right absolutely I'm
a big fan for all your tech news with a
slight linux bias visit the category 5
TV news room at newsroom category 5 TV
for the category 5 TV news room I'm
statue dramatis thanks Sasha this is
category 5 technology TV thanks for
joining us tonight this is episode
number 3 73 and it's Tuesday the 11th of
November I want to take a look at a
really really cool product that is
coming to market yes it's in a box that
is very nondescript because this is not
available to you yet but I'm gonna tell
you how you can get one are you ready
for this I am okay i can tell you use
case right now I got a server downtown
co-located that runs our entire website
okay okay I ran a cron job on it or some
crazy thing and I ran up the cpu and I
ended up hanging the server and I have
to drive to the colocation facility in
order to reboot it physically I don't
run it power it off power back on site
was down for that time that sounds very
inconvenient Robbie very inconvenient
indeed what if you could reboot it
remotely what if well that sounds all
fine and good but Robbie we know right
say Robbie we know we know that's
expensive it must be very expensive very
expensive to get remotely accessible
power bars and that kind of stuff you
can get computers that have built in
remote access that you can reboot it
from you know before the operating
system along comes ivy link okay you
ready for this
there it is what's that he's a little
teeny thing it's a plug doesn't I know
what you're thinking doesn't doesn't
look right doesn't look like much well
this is this is what is it this is the
the chinese input for china don't make
they don't have them here in canada or
America yet they're coming this with an
adapter will work here now it has Wi-Fi
built in you're able to connect to it
through the internet through a mobile
app you can monitor the usage just like
a kilowatt you can monitor the the power
usage of any peripheral that's plugged
into this you can power cycle it
basically rebooting a server or if
you're not a server it men like me well
you can just turn off your light that
you left on whatever device is plugged
into it you can remotely control it not
too shabby not too shabby at all what
you know those things where I always
sudden think about the bad things that
might happen yes how secure is I like
don't think that I think of the dark
it's a it's very well thought out the
team that is behind this product right
is experienced with with regards to this
type of product and it is built to be
secure it goes through secure servers in
order to get the connection to that you
don't have to do it through the internet
you can do it through local Wi-Fi but
the nice thing about being able to do it
through the internet is that I can be
anywhere I can be in a coffee shop and
take a look ok I'm going to bring up so
you can't get this at home depot then
you can't but I said right at the top of
this little segment that I'm going to
tell you how you can get one and can you
a what did I say it's really expensive
to get remote access power right right
now because this is a crowd crowd
funding campaign they're raising the
funds to be able to do this hmm and to
bring an American model with the you
know American Canadian yeah 10 volt plug
here you can go over to cat five dot TV
/ IV link and that's Ivy y li NK
and it's going to tell you all about it
I want you to check out the video but
look at this okay so what's available
still there are only there's a week left
okay so there are 46 of this one
available you'll be able to pick one up
for ten dollars Wow dollars can't even
get a fancy latte for that much and get
an IV plug look at that get an IV plug
at far below retail price a contribution
of ten bucks so so you're able to get it
right now for unbelievably cheap you got
to support this because this is a
product that's going to bring this kind
of service the ability to remotely
control and monitor power on your
peripherals to mark to users who
couldn't normally afford that I'm
talking it would normally be about
600-700 brain Wow can get it for 10
right here you know those times when
you're worried that maybe you didn't
turn off your coffee pot or you didn't
unplug your hair off greater you could
plug your a hair straightener and do it
and there you go you would never have
any worries at all and so then the
question becomes well can you to
actually do that oh that is it just
assuming that and the American version
yeah is going to support appliances up
to 16 amps that's excellent so you'll be
fine too yeah anything at all I would
need one for every plug just for peace
of mind there you go and if you do that
you'll be able to communicate with all
of your IV plugs from one app and you
can actually name them so if this is my
hair straightener you could I can
actually call it the hair straightener
and I can look at now I can see oh it's
still drawing power so I know it's still
on whoops turn it off nice so you know
we have the smart meters and we have
good like high electricity costs you
sort of midday you could really turn
everything off in the middle of the day
if you want to test it for that if you
like you know so there's really I mean
you can think there's pretty much
limitless possibilities with the IV plug
check it out cat five dot TV / IV plug I
vyp l ug awesome Robbie yes category
five TV is a member of the tech podcast
network
if it's tech it's here cat five dot TV /
tpn and the International Association of
Internet broadcasters cat5 TV / IA ib
quick correction iv+ i said IV plug its
IV link sorry i dealing IV why link2
right we'll at the end of the show i'll
make the IV plug link as well just to be
sure just in case anyone missed that
common IV link IV link my mistake she
thank you to that everyone who has
contributed to the show as of late we
are trying to get internet service here
those who are watching live know that we
had a little bit of trouble off the top
of the show that's because we're using
LTE cellular internet and if the weather
is not great then we can lose connection
we're also working on getting a really
decent camera for the studio space we've
got a beautiful space here if you were
able to join us for our open house you
know that it is absolutely incredible
here and we had a great time this past
Saturday I had a blast I just want to
say I'm not being rude on my phone I
have the chat room on my toes on her
phone she's actually I'm not like you
searched ears to me but the open house
was busy it was fun the constant flow of
people were all over my newsroom they
were leaning on my desk it was it was a
blast check out cat five dot TV /
facebook if you'd like to see all the
pictures from the event that was a lot
of fun i appreciate everyone who came
out to see our studio space here at
studio d to visit with us to get to know
us and enjoy some wonderful treats that
were provided by hilary and shelley did
the catering for us delicious sugar
thank you everybody for being a part of
that special event yes we've got a
couple of minutes time to answer your
viewer questions and I appreciate you
sending in your emails it's live a
category five dot TV if you'd like to do
so if you haven't already ok have a
question from Andrew Bates hey Andrew
hello Robbie I love this website and I
wanted to know who did your website for
the show
I want to get something similar to this
website set up and design hmm so good
website like the web site huh huh did
you do it I did it was me hey Andrew
have any free time dangerous blushing
huh have any free time to do Andrews I
don't have any free time but i do have
billable time Oh beautiful lots of that
but yeah category 5 TV is a development
of my own and and what's really
impressive about it is not so much the
site but the infrastructure how it works
what it's able to do what it's capable
of doing under the hood if you go to
status dot category five dot TV you'll
get a little bit of a taste a glimpse at
some of the power that is behind our
actual website it's not just a website
it's a full distribution mechanism for
this international show that is watched
by tens of thousands of people and on a
regular basis right so that's all there
no I I'd be happy to help you out though
if you if you are looking to hire that's
what I do professionally so if that's
the case pop me an email live at
category 5 TV and say hey can you get me
a quote and we'll just have to talk
about what it is that you need and what
what it is specifically that you love
about the site since that's the question
you know wanting your site exactly like
here is a question from Howard hey
Howard Howard says firstly i must say i
really enjoy your output I view via a
roku 3 100 gigabyte broadband picture
quality is excellent wonder if that's
good for me to know thought you might
consider mentioning or even featuring a
piece of open-source security software
called smooth wall might wish to check
out and then there is a link okay yeah
smooth wall I haven't played around too
much with because we tend to use a lot
of mono wall I what is that what is
smooth wall smooth wall is it not it's
web filtering kind of firewalling and
okay that kind of stuff so you take an
old pc for example an old computer with
a couple of network
ards in it and you basically build your
own router well it's much more
sophisticated than that you're able to
create this incredible ability of
thinking of businesses being able to
control what can and cannot be accessed
through the internet or vice versa what
cannon cannot get in so smooth wall is a
good example of great open source
product mono wall is the one that that
we tend to lean toward at the office but
I know that we we've worked a lot with
both not really my forte but definitely
cool here's info here's a quick not
question okay it's a from dominance
Dominic sickles hey mama wanted to say
thank you for the response about how you
did the intro yeah yeah so a quick thank
you and just wants to know he hasn't
been called pop haha but he appreciates
the response ok that was just my little
joke on the air because his last name is
sickles I cannot believe Oh buddy has
ever called you popsicles it's because
that's amazing and I am so very sorry
now that I've said it that hot coals
haha I'm soon love least you made it
this far and then it ended now you're
just gonna be popsicles forever I like
it I think that's a great name and it's
a great alias to be using and there you
go a new email address all right
popsicles at whatever now that there's
only three minutes left i'm going to ask
your question that might take longer
about three minutes all right this is
from roselle hey Rozelle Robbie I wanted
to know if you could demo how to create
the recovery partition that comes with a
laptop by default I deleted my partition
just being curious and I could never put
it back oh no when you boot the pc you
have the option to select recovery
partition but mine is deleted because
you show me how to put it back i believe
it was a fat32 partition it's a big fat
partition okay so first of all let's
back up just a little bit just for a
second yes and I'm gonna say Oh big one
sorry not yourself it's big one from
moselle big one big one from oh
roselle New Jersey yes okay okay sorry
about that big one sounds tough so you
don't want to call him something big y
no no it has a fat32 partition okay so
first of all backing up you've removed
the recovery partition on your computer
definition of recovery partition is what
if I break something then I need to be
able to go back always always always
before you experiment with that kind of
thing run clonezilla make a full image
of your hard drive everything because I
don't want to see you in this situation
where you really have no opportunity to
recover that there are tools out there
that will allow you to basically unruh
move removed partitions they're probably
not perfect and you've probably
overwritten some data by now so that's a
bit of a problem but what you can do and
probably your only option the recovery
partition comes with certain types of
computers so it's a laptop it might be a
toshiba lenovo or whatever if it's a
desktop what whatever it might be HP
uses them lenovo uses them so you can't
just reinstall that partition plain and
simple it does it can't be done what has
to happen is you get that recovery disk
so that the DVD or whatever it is that
comes with the computer you can order it
from the manufacturer if you can get
your hands on the recovery disk you can
recreate the file system to factory
defaults so it's basically a factory
reset of the computer again you're going
to lose everything on the computer when
you do that so you need to make sure
that you've got a really good backup or
an image of the hard drive that you know
however you want to do it but
essentially a backup is crucial at that
point a factory reset from the disk will
replace the original operating system so
say windows 7 or whatever it may be plus
the recovery partition will be put back
as well it's really the only way that I
can think of that you'd be able to do it
in
and an easy sense without going through
data recovery options and things like
that that may not be quite as reliable
because there will be sectors of your
hard drive that have been overwritten
since the time that you deleted it be
careful do we have time for we don't
have any time we don't have any
questions we want to make a quick
mention then at the end of the show here
why we've got these poppies on today is
a special day for of remembrance of
thinking about those who have given
their lives for our freedom and and
those as well who have risked their
lives maybe they haven't lost their life
but who have gone to to war to there was
a there was a great speech today during
one of the services and it was about
remembering those who have given their
lives those who are fighting now and
also honoring those who in the future
will inevitably also lay down their
lives for the fight for peace we live in
Canada we're very blessed to live in a
country where we have a very high level
of freedom and and and i attribute that
largely to our veterans and those who
have have and continue to and will lay
down their lives for us mm-hmm so if
you're a veteran or if you are a
relative of a veteran thank you thank
you thank you have a wonderful week
everybody and Sasha it's great having
you here thanks for kind of taking on
roles trouble I'm here anyway but it
will also be the co-host yeah yeah
coffee time yeah good in fact next week
and just take the week off I got this
all right you got this so I'll just see
everybody solo next week Adam thank you
as well and thank you everybody at home
thanks for watching the show tonight do
remember to check out powtoon slides
powtoon calm / slides very excited about
that
and I hope you are too make sure you
stay Robbie sencha take care everybody
have a great week see and hope you enjoy
the show category 5 TV broadcasts live
from Barrie Ontario Canada every tuesday
at seven pm eastern if you're watching
this on demand or through cable TV check
out the local show times in your area at
category 5 TV and find out when you can
watch live and interact in the community
chat room category 5 is a production of
prodigy digital solutions and is
licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada we'll see you
next time thanks for tuning in
