Jeff and I have had a lot of discussions
on the air about artificial intelligence
and opinions thereof but the fact is
artificial intelligence is no longer a
thing of science fiction but we tend to
get our information from mainstream
media and so we're hearing about hype
and speculation and often fear-mongering
from people who haven't themselves been
contributors to the technology our guest
this week wants to change that with his
new book architects of intelligence
where he's recorded in-depth interviews
with the very people shaping the future
of AI he's the New York Times
bestselling author of rise of the robots
please help me welcome futurist Martin
Ford Martin it's great to have you on
the show thanks for joining us yeah
thanks Martin why another book about AI
well what I really wanted to do with
this book is get inside the minds of the
people that are really building this
technology the people that really on you
know in the whole world know the most
about artificial intelligence they're
literally in many cases the people that
have you know been responsible for some
of the breakthroughs that have really
brought us to this point where
everybody's talking about AI because
it's become so disruptive so I think
that's the best way to kind of cut
through as you said the speculation and
the hype and really find out what's
really going on and that's sort of my
purpose with this book very good and I
love the way it reads
it is written very much as an interview
so you know if you're daunted by a big
thick book Architects of intelligence
from Martin Ford is it's written like an
interview and you're able to kind of get
into the minds of those who are involved
in the development of AI Martin how will
AI evolved and what major innovations
are on the horizon well I mean that's a
good question no one really knows the
answer to that and that's one of the
main takeaways from the book is that I
talked to 23 of the people in the world
that know the most about this and yet
they really don't agree on a lot of this
stuff you know to have different
opinions different ideas so one of the
main takeaways is that it's gonna be
unpredictable I mean everyone agrees
that this can be very disruptive and
it's gonna be a game changer for the
economy for society but we don't really
know exactly what innovations are gonna
occur first we don't know for example
what industries are gonna be transformed
first we don't know exactly what the
breakthroughs are going to be having
said that the primary technology that's
really driving things right now is
what's called deep learning or deep
neural networks which is basically
building software in a way that kind of
roughly emulates the way your brain
works you know in terms of the way the
neurons are connected and that's the
technology there's really just been
transformative over maybe the last six
seven years we've seen incredible
breakthroughs we've got systems that of
course are used in self-driving cars now
toward even really close to to really
working we've got systems used in
medicine that can look at a medical
image and actually be better than a
human doctor in some cases that
determining is there cancer in that
image
we've got systems that are translating
languages
even in real time so it's just stuff
that really just a few years ago with
science fiction is now happening so we
can expect that over the next year's and
decades that technology is going to get
a lot better it's gonna evolve become
much more powerful and that's gonna
continue to drive the disruption and
then further out there are some real
breakthroughs on the road toward what we
would call true human level intelligence
which is really kind of the holy grail
of this whole field you know building a
machine that can think at the level of a
human being but that's kind of a long
path and there are a lot of
breakthroughs that need to occur before
we get there right and a lot of my
discussions in this book are about what
exactly are those breakthroughs when
might they occur what does that path
look like and how long will it take us
to to get the human level AI that's one
of the most fascinating questions you
know mm-hmm it's really central to this
field Martin we hear a lot of terms AI
and now deep learning what what's the
actual relationship between deep
learning and AI well AI is the broadest
term artificial intelligence really
means essentially building technology
building machines or algorithms that in
some sense think or take on cognitive
capability and can solve problems and
learn in the same way that that people
can one facet of that one one area of
that is machine learning which is
specifically building algorithms that
can look at data and can learn and right
now those terms are used kind of
interchangeably but what we're seeing
right now is really machine learning
it's algorithms that look at sometimes
massive amounts of data and can learn to
do amazing things from that you know
base you know for example looking at a
medical imaging determining is there
cancer there or not and that is really
the disruptive technology but there you
know in the future it will become even
broader and will incorporate things like
genuine reasoning and so forth but right
now it's primarily a focus on machine
learning yeah that makes me think like
is are we gonna see machine learning and
deep learning continue to dominate or
are we gonna have other approaches that
are coming to the forefront right so
before the current boom in deep learning
if you go back you know more than 10
years 15 years there were other areas of
AI that were much more prominent that we
really focused on and this involved for
example what was called symbolic
reasoning the ability of computers to
make decisions and to to reason in
human-like ways this is where the main
thrust was although people didn't have a
huge amount of success with that there
was also expert systems which are the
kind of systems for example that do step
by step thinking and analysis that's the
kind of system you basically find in a
jet airplane which can fly itself right
there was once a time when all of this
stuff that we now considered to be kind
of routine was was considered to be
artificial intelligence the current boom
is in machine learning and teaching
algorithms that can learn but many
people think that in the future we'll
need to bring back some of those earlier
ideas into the picture in order to build
more more generalized powerful
intelligence that's one of the the main
ideas in a book there's one camp of
people one group of people that believe
strongly that deep learning is not gonna
be enough to take us forward to the next
level that we're gonna have to bring
back some of these more to
some ideas right but then there are a
bunch of people that I talk to that are
really deep learning enthusiasts they
really believe in this technology and
that includes people like for example
Geoffrey Hinton who is very famous
within the AI community for having been
probably single guy that's most
responsible for bringing forth his deep
learning revolution he really invented a
lot of the technology there and they
believe that deep learning will get
better there will be you know and become
more general it will have new
capabilities there will be breakthroughs
that will occur within the context of
deep learning or neural networks and
that will take us forward so it's really
interesting to talk to these different
people about their views of the
technology and how it might progress but
again one of the main takeaways is that
they really don't agree there's
something of a debate between these two
camps mm-hm
and that's one of the I think most
interesting aspects of it cool and it's
very much stepping stones I think and
we're at that point where it's leaps and
bounds Jeff I'm thinking about deep
learning and as you're mentioning Martin
how can this technology is able to think
along the the same kind of way of a
human in a way so I mean I have to ask
the question that all of us Trekkies are
thinking I'm sure at this moment I mean
what does it look like as far as the
path toward human level artificial
general intelligence like how far off
are we really from lieutenant data being
able to operate our business right right
I mean that's that's the biggest
question in artificial intelligence and
and and it goes back right to the
beginning when Alan Turing in 1950 wrote
a famous paper he asked can a machine
think and that's where he invented the
Turing test right which many people have
heard of is kind of the test for true
intelligence if a machine can carry out
a conversation like like a person and we
consider it to be intelligent that's one
one test and that goes all the way back
to right to the beginning and yet we
still don't really know the answer to
the question of how how far off it is
and it's it's a big part of the book I
talked to everyone about that but the
opinions really vary I talked to Ray
Kurzweil who's a very
famous futurist that many people have
heard of he's the guy that is most
associated with the idea of the
singularity
he thinks it's only ten years off 2029
Wow he thinks okay we will have human
level artificial intelligence and that's
a very very aggressive prediction I
personally think that's way too
yeah like is that an aggressive
prediction to try to push the industry
or is this a realistic approximation
that's his view I mean Google working on
these technologies right he's now before
he was a guy that kind of wrote books
and talked about this a lot and an
inventor but now he actually for the
last few years has worked at Google and
he's actually working on this so and in
the interview I did with him it's clear
- he knows what he's talking about in
terms of the details of you know the
technologies work and also you have to
give that some some credence right but
then other people I talked to and one
example would be Rodney Brooks who is
who is the founder of iRobot Corporation
he's one of the most famous robotics
experts in the world he thinks it could
be a hundred and eighty years in the
future so that's a pretty good range
right oh wow is it ten years in the
future or a hundred and eighty years in
the future
I mean 180 years you're really getting
into the the Star Trek era right I think
when Star Trek was actually set right a
couple hundred years in the future so I
mean that's the range of opinion I I did
I asked everyone about this I actually
took an average any err moment not to be
about 80 years so okay just at the end
of this century so I think most of us
would be quite lucky to still be alive
if it's really 80 years from now um so
that's what we're talking about it's
very unpredictable 80 years is about the
average but there certainly are a number
of people that are much more aggressive
not just Ray but others think it might
be 20 to 50 years somewhere in that
timeframe okay but others think it's
hundred years away so that really gives
you a good sense of just how hard this
problem is and how little we know about
it how little we know about what it is
really gonna take to get to the point
where we can build human level
intelligence and
how fast those breakthroughs can occur
so I would expect very oh thanks
question yeah and I would expect that
that is the key word its breakthrough
because at one point that breakthrough
is gonna happen that's just all of a
sudden gonna accelerate things you can
read all about the discussion that we're
having basically learn about these
discussions that Martin has had with
these professionals in the AI industry
by reading architects of intelligence
Jeff do you mind throwing to a
commercial break we've just got to take
a really quick quick break here yeah
yeah so when we come back we're gonna be
speaking with Martin Ford about the
dangers associated with AI so you're
gonna want to stick around whether you
shop on thinkgeek gearbest B&amp;H photo
video eBay or Amazon or even if you want
a free trial of audible you'll find the
best deals and support the shows we
produce by simply visiting the shopping
sites you already frequent by using the
links on our website visit category-five
TV slash partners for the full and
ever-growing list and help us create
more free content like this show thank
you for shopping with our partners and
thank you for watching and we're back we
are talking to Martin Ford about his
he's best-selling author and we're
talking to him about his book on
artificial intelligence called
architects of intelligence now prior to
the break we had a couple of great
questions just kind of going through
what is artificial intelligence deep
learning how are they connected stuff
like that but I want to get to the other
side of it because we've had
conversations on the show and as much as
I love the advancement in tech my very
personally I am very worried about the
the security risks that come with this
as part of the conversation usually goes
Jeff we got to stay away from conspiracy
theories we got to be careful of that
because a lot of the mass media is
driving toward fear-mongering in a lot
of ways yeah so so I guess the question
I want to know and and in coming up to
this interview I think it's the number
one question I've wanted to ask is what
are the risks associated with AI and
particularly in the areas of security
privacy bias and potential weaponization
sounds like a great question for Martin
our guest Martin Ford right so this is
this is a very important question and
there definitely are some legitimate
concerns there and this is you know was
again a really important topic in the
book so there's lots of material there
on this I will just in the beginning I
want to just make the point that there
are really two categories of these risks
or dangers and the first one is is what
you just mentioned the things that we're
gonna face for sure the things that we
are already beginning to face an
artificial intelligence so these are
very very legitimate fairly immediate
concerns that we really need to worried
about and then there's a second category
of dangers that we might call science
fiction still at this point very more
speculative futuristic things that many
people consider to be you know
potentially existential but that's a
separate category so what I'll let me
focus first on on the immediate things
the things that we really legitimately
have to worry about it's certainly one
of those is security the reality is that
when we have an autonomous system
something that is controlled completely
by artificial intelligence and there are
no people in the loop then by it's
natural to assume that that system is
going to be more susceptible to you
hacking or to cyberattack someone else
could contain control of that system or
or cause it to stop working just to give
one example imagine that we had
autonomous trucks driving around
delivering all our food to stores to
grocery stores and someone hacked into
that and brought all those trucks to a
stop I mean that's a pretty big problem
right and you can imagine many many
things like that so the whole issue of
security with these systems is is a huge
issue and there's lots of effort being
put into that and it's gonna be a huge
challenge and maybe the single most
important challenge with with regard to
artificial intelligence and automation
more generally is the security issue
you know the fact that we have to make
sure that these systems you know are
safe from intrusion whether it's from
criminals or other countries or whatever
and Martin if I may ask along that vein
whose responsibility is that are there
regulations to to demand companies that
are manufacturing artificial
intelligence to to use a security by
design principle yeah I think there's
gonna be a need to be kind of
interaction between government and
between industry there I certainly there
there's a place for regulation I don't
think the government can do it all by
itself I mean the reality is that with
many of these issues we you know there's
a place for regulation it's also true
that the government isn't isn't by
itself competent like the people that
work in the government don't have the
knowledge to do this so you want basic
realities that people that work for the
government make a lot less money than
people in the private sector so the very
best people don't always work in the
government right so in terms of
technical expertise it's not always
there so it's gonna require cooperation
between the companies that are doing
this and the government and hopefully
there can be some reasonable standards
there you know and and the companies
will understand it there probably does
need to be regulation to ensure that
that these systems are safe and they
will work together with the government
to make that happen in an appropriate
way okay now I mean along that vein of
thinking you also have the impact of AI
as it relates to industries and so with
that challenge you write about in rise
of robots is the potential impact on the
job market and the economy do you think
that all of this could cause a new kind
of industrial revolution and completely
transform the job market yeah I mean
that's my view and as you say that was
the topic of my book rise of the robots
and I also I talked a lot about that
with everyone in architects of
intelligence as well there is something
of a debate about that you will find for
sure economists that will tell you that
this is all overblown there's nothing to
worry about and largely the reason
they'll tell you there's nothing to
worry about is the in the past this
issue is come up many times people
worried about technological unemployment
for a long time
it hasn't really happened yet right so I
personally believe that this time is
different because now we've got
artificial intelligence we've got
machines that are in a limited sense
beginning to think and that means that
they are competing you might say with
our core competence right the thing that
really makes us unique as human beings
is our ability to think to learn to
adapt to innovate and machines are
beginning to compete directly with this
capability and that's gonna have a
different impact in the future that's my
view most of the people where everyone
that I talk to really and architects of
intelligence believes that there is
going to be a disruptive impact not
everyone agrees there will be outright
unemployment but I mean I think most
people in the technology community
believe in the potential word is big
disruption what we see so far of course
is not unemployment we've got a very low
unemployment rate in the United States
but we do see for example stagnant wages
right among most right oh the workforce
you know they literally haven't gotten a
raise really in decades not in not after
and adjusting for inflation so I think
technology is already having a big
impact in terms of pushing down wages
for average people and making things
much more unequal so - all the gains
from advancing technology are now going
to the people at the top right
executives and investors and people like
that are doing well but average people
are not so I think this is already
having a big impact and I personally
believe that over the next 10 20 years
we're gonna see an even bigger impact
and there is a real potential for for
unemployment and that's an issue that is
you know potentially huge for society
for the fabric of society for stability
of society for political stability and
so forth not just in the US but in
countries across the world right and it
also has big economic implications
because in order to have a thriving
economy people have to have money to
spend right you you know you need people
to come by what's being produced
businesses need customers and if people
don't have jobs or if their incomes are
very low if things are so unequal that a
few people are really capturing all the
income then you can't really have a
a vibrant economy and I think that's
gonna be a real challenging for us so
you got is my view although again there
is a big debate over it okay
now I mean with that thought I mean
you've talked about how big business is
gonna be gaining from that and I know I
read an article earlier this week about
a I think it was a restaurant in Japan
or China that had laid off all of its
staff and got robots in and then fired
them all essentially because they
weren't working out so with that kind of
back and forth hustle of trying to get a
sense of how to use AI who really is
going to be the big benefactor and who
are going to be the big losers is it
kind of the you know big man versus
little man or is it gonna create a whole
new realm of winners and losers so to
speak well it's going to I mean
technology is gonna have a gradual
impact right it's not going to be a
restaurant for you know robots overnight
or something it's going to be a
restaurant gradually using more robots
and as a result of that not meeting
quite as many people and maybe letting
some people go and maybe not hiring so
many people in the future right and
you're gonna see that in restaurant
you're gonna see that in Amazon
warehouses and you're gonna see it
especially with white-collar jobs across
the board so this is one really
important thing to understand is that
this is not just blue-collar workers and
it's certainly not just physical robots
and they're actually manipulating the
world right it's a lot of this is just
about software and it's gonna be a big
impact on knowledge workers the people
that sit in front of a computer and do
relatively routine things you know
cranking out the same report again and
again or doing the same kind of
quantitative analysis or manipulating
data in some way a lot of it is gonna be
susceptible to automation and that's not
you know low-skilled people right that's
people that have college degrees
so there's a big impact coming there now
in general the losers are going to be
people that do routine repetitive
predictable things and again right that
doesn't necessarily mean unskilled
people or people that don't have
education it's about the nature of the
work there might be the McDonald's
worker flipping hamburgers or it might
be the college graduate
who just does the same report every week
right those people can both be impacted
the people that are going to be the
winners and and will be relatively safe
from this and may be in a position to
benefit from it are gonna be the people
that can work with the technology in a
way that really adds value and that
would be people who are very creative
that generate new ideas it will be
people that have interpersonal skills
and networks and can build sophisticated
relationships with other people you know
and and and and things like that and of
course it will also be people that own
lots of capital right because
essentially what's happening here the
big picture is that capital which
includes technology and machines and
algorithms is becoming more capable and
displacing labor right so to people to
own capital which is a relatively few
people right because you know capital
ownership is very concentrated right
those people are gonna do better and
better right because they own the
machines basically they own the robot as
you might say whereas the people that
rely on their labor if they don't have
the specific skills to really work with
these technologies and and benefit from
these technologies those people are
going to be losers so that's the story
that we're gonna see in the future I
think and it basically is saying that
things are gonna become even more
unequal than they are now
right now it's interesting that you talk
about the people who have the capital
are really kind of the ones that are
gonna benefit because it you know there
have been some who have that capital
that have spoken against it and I mean
you have to worry about the fears that
have been raised by people like Elon
Musk Stephen Hawking and others that
someday I could pose a genuine
existential threat to humanity right so
that's the second category of danger
that I was talking about right there's
something that's still right now is
really science fiction and the concern
there is that someday first of all we'll
build a machine that has two human level
intelligence right again as I said
before you know based on on the people I
talked to could be 10 years away or it
could be 200 years away right so
and probably is is something like 80
years at least away so you know it's
pretty far in the future but if we reach
that point most people believe that of
course things are not going to stop at
that point the machine is gonna get even
smarter that is the natural expectation
in part it might happen because the
Machine then decides to use its its
superior internet intellect you to make
even smarter versions of itself so
pretty soon you have what's called super
intelligence you have something that is
maybe much smarter than any human being
something dramatically smarter some
people think it could be a thousand
times smarter than we are or something
like that so we might be like you know a
mouse or an insect relative to the
intellect of this machine right so at
that point the question then becomes how
do we control it how do we make sure
that it still works with our best
interests in mind right this is what's
called the control problem and there are
serious people really really worried
about this working on this the most
famous of the people working on it is a
guy named Nick Bostrom who I actually
also interviewed in the book and he
wrote a pretty famous book that was a
best-seller called super intelligence
and so I talked to him in the book and
he's concerned about this he thinks it's
a real genuine issue that it potentially
could be an existential threat obviously
that's very expectancy my own view on
this is that it's good that some smart
people like Nick Bostrom and a few other
think tanks Elon must set up a
think-tank called open AI which is
working on this problem and I think
that's great there's some really really
smart people that are doing good work on
this hmm and I think that's kind of an
appropriate allocation of resources to
this problem okay because it is very
speculative it does clearly lie far in
the future I don't think we should have
this massive concern over this I don't
think we should have the government
focused on this spending big you know
government funds or public funds on this
I don't think we want Donald Trump
tweeting about this right I think it's
good where it is with a few smart people
working on it
and I think that when you get rhetoric
like you've seen from Elon Musk where
he's talking about you know summoning
the demon and it's a bigger threat than
nuclear weapons or North Korea and all
this stuff there's a risk that we become
too engrossed in that and we distract
attention from the things that we really
need to be concerned about in the
immediate future and this is the issue
you raised earlier security also the
potential impact on privacy the
potential for bias these are real issues
that are already concerned and also as
I've been talking about the potential
impact on the job market and and on
inequality these are things that are
coming at us within the next few years
certainly within the next 10 20 years
probably a lot sooner than that so
that's where most of our media attention
should be these other fears about an
existential threat are legitimate I
wouldn't dismiss them and say it's
stupid or silly you shouldn't worry
about it but I think it's okay that a
few smart people are worried about this
I'm working on it for right now all
right and so it sounds to me through the
course of this conversation and Martin
please correct me if I'm wrong but the
people who are responsible for
developing the artificial intelligence
are aware of these potential problems
and and they're admittedly there are
some potential issues with AI that are
frightening and and they know about
those and they implement those into the
development process does that yes is
that fair to say that's fair to say and
again speaking in terms of the two
general categories I laid out right
everyone that I talked to in the book is
aware of the immediate concerns that
things like privacy and security and and
bias and so forth and they are actively
working on these things they have
different views about the further out
more futuristic existential threat some
of them are quite dismissive of that
they really think that's not something
we should worry about others do take
that concern seriously good but I think
everyone agrees that it's okay if a few
smart people work on it all right very
good so yes I mean I you know we can
have a reasonable level of a cup of
confidence there the people working on
these technology
is care about it right that they
certainly know about these dangers and
you know one danger we haven't talked so
much about is weaponization the idea
that that artificial intelligence could
be used in in autonomous weapons right
that's not the same as the thing Elon
Musk is worried about that means you
know drones that might autonomously kill
somebody yeah that's something that we
have to worry about in relatively near
future and and there are many people in
the artificial intelligence community
did are very very concerned about this
for example there are over a thousand
researchers that have signed a petition
you know calling for a ban on these
kinds of technologies because it could
be you know very dangerous and
disruptive interesting now we've kind of
gone from the beginning of what is it
and how does it relate yeah learning
we've gone to the we got into the dark
side of AI can we just bring it back a
little bit yes okay so you for one final
question between all of your interviews
all of the research you've done you've
done what are you personally most
excited about when it comes to the
evolution of AI I'm excited about the
potential that the technology has to
transform the world for the better I
mean the one of the best interviews in
my book that I recommend everyone read
is with demis hassabis who is the CEO of
deepmind right this is maybe the most
famous AI company in the world is the
company that built the alphago system
that a lot of people heard about it
wanted the game of Go you can you can
there's actually a documentary called
alphago on Netflix you can watch about
this's I'd highly recommend it what
Dennis says he's very famous for this
quote is that he wants to solve the
problem of artificial intelligence and
then he wants to use that to solve
everything else and that's really
interesting so what we're talking about
here right so AI is going to become the
most important tool in our toolbox it's
going to result in incredible
breakthroughs in medicine and science it
can be used to address problems like
climate change it can be used to solve
the problem of new clean energy sources
right I mean maybe even you know global
poverty these are huge problems that
humanity faces AI is going to be the
most important tool we have
to solve these problems because if you
think about it everything that we have
in our world today everything that makes
your life better than someone that lived
a hundred years ago or a thousand years
ago is because of human ingenuity right
right and I think I think we've lost
Martin there just for a moment Martin
I'm gonna let I'm gonna let that
reconnect for your final thought can you
finish it oh sorry we we lost you there
Martin Martin can we just back up just
about ten seconds please okay so
artificial intelligence is going to be
the most important tool in our toolbox
it is going to enable us to create
things in the future that today we can't
even imagine you know and and that's the
real promise of this technology that's
what gets me excited and that's the
reason that I talk about the challenges
and the downsides of this technology in
a particular way I talk about the
potential for inequality and
unemployment and so forth because if we
don't talk honestly about those problems
and and try to create solutions to those
problems and try to create a way for
this to evolve in a way that's inclusive
right that the benefits everyone and
it's gonna be a backlash right people
are gonna object they're gonna you know
people that are losing their livelihoods
sure falling behind they're gonna be
against this technology and that's a bad
thing because it's an incredible benefit
for Humanity we don't want that we want
to find a way to adapt to this so that
we can leverage this technology on
behalf of everyone and that's really my
primary message and really everything is
I do and in terms of all the writing
that I've done in this area we've been
speaking with New York Times bestselling
author Martin Ford and he is the author
of Architects of intelligence brand new
just came out and it's available
everywhere right now you can also
support us if you'd like use the links
that we've posted below and that will
allow you to purchase through Amazon as
well Martin it has been a pleasure
having you on the show thank you so much
for being here thank you
[Music]
you
