okay there we go now I'm going and then
am I going I'm not going yeah you're
right there where you're going next to
you yes so Oh golly so oh not really
loud talking really loud talk in your
singing I'm talking we're not gonna do
much to me all right golly yes input all
right all right all right stop yelling
at me haha hold the record yeah and play
okay check why are we going november's
you're going the numbers are going but
it's just playing it's not recording you
know cuz the numbers are on this side Oh
where's the head where's the gangsta
yeah they're right here get that mom all
right here you go where's this go ok so
just that goes in here punks ok so not
too ok so it is record and play check
one check two nope nope nope not that
that means anything I can't find notes
for new every day here we go hold on
autorip go through quarters overly
complex cool at the top of the ok three
knobs input input master did that make
loud noises we did that then bring the
input did that once they were both
flashing your in standby oh I hope
you're enjoying this ok then on the
bottom left tap the first two channel
button so the light flashes want to
there are eight channels we were only
using first two once they are both
flashing your standby
both tracks are set to record highs okay
it's right ready 123 this is not
recording for the first this is this
recording this is thus recording all
right hi hi yeah I feel like you look
like Princess Leia hey her real name was
Kerri did you know that yes because you
had thing and it looks kind of braided
over the top okay cool thanks okay
that's not okay now your wine no yeah
yeah and then play can you hear us once
for the input okay so you should now see
your levels move in on the screen when
you talk in two locations which we do
once for the input ones for the
recording so fornicators move two
channels with when ready press and hold
the record button while also pressing
play dizzam press and hold the record
button yeah well also pushing play do it
there we go there's recording see how
that came on and there's a red thing
okay round thing was that on there
before I don't think so so let's stop
that of stopping and then are you
winding and then playing this in the
right goal your phone's there's only one
option
phantom thought to its doing type of
power source okay so we did this circles
there the circle is there we should be
hearing morning because it's on both
sides of the stick yeah so let's try
this again all right
No
oh I hear you I hear you
I hear you you're talking to a princess
leia oh that's it oh okay let's try this
again I can hear you talking to your mic
now okay good cuz we turned up the
levels do it
hi my name is jen and I'm Betty oh yeah
our pseudo names okay this is better can
you I can hear myself in here excellent
and in here and you hear me yeah alright
Betty Sally check Chuck whoop I stop it
stop it ok let's see you didn't stop it
waited oh did
can hear everything yeah
okay so let's get this party started
okay so you have to rewind it yeah we're
gonna leave it let's just go no I can
remind it all right ok oh man we just
better turn it on just start recording
yeah and then we'll do that clap because
look how many zeros there are you can
thank her for four days that's true 99
hours is that how long well then it
flips over that's ours minute science
all right so record and play I'm a
circle comes on circle alright so here
we go and we are I'll look at that we've
been going for 10 minutes my goodness
that took a long time you look nice
thank you as do you welcome to new
everyday category 5 TV what's our
website new every day all one word yeah
dot TV ok that's what it is for real
great and then from there they can go to
Facebook it what's the other thing that
can you email us ok Oh golly really the
best part about the show is the person
that's trying to figured so if they only
knew I family new new everyday TV ok why
don't I say this carbon neutral bit we
always muffin carbon recyclable clinics
that I hip here take it to see you hey
so I'm Jen hi welcome to every day I'm
Carrie and I'm Jenna and today on the
show we're gonna talk about friendship
and then really muni that's the thing oh
we're not gonna air guitar we should
