here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom the
UN is about to get serious about killer
robots do you have your own website
Google is going to start warning users
that your site is not secure if you have
forms on a site that doesn't use a
secure connection Markus Hutchins has
pleaded not guilty and the world's
largest data center is being planned for
the Arctic Circle these stories are
coming right up don't go anywhere
Jeff Weston gentlemen you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what are you
you're a terrible actor
what does where acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay I'm building
a really cool website are you building a
really cool website you need hosting one
of the things about a hosting account is
you don't want to have limitations put
on your website that's true how much
harddrive space do you have how many
email accounts how many domains can
point to it well we've got an amazing
deal for you for a very limited time
cat5 dot TV slash dream host for just
five dollars and a bit of change per
month you are gonna get unlimited web
site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name so your own com dice to
put that amazing website that you've
been working on on there if you run if
you want to build a wordpress site fine
sign up cat five TV slash dream host
just don't put that of the papers on
just don't do it but hey it's a great
deal folks best deal you're gonna find
five dollars and change per month go to
cap five dot TV / dream host I'm Sachi
drew Madison here at the top stories for
the week of August 23rd 2017
according to Elon Musk Mustafa Solomon
of google's deepmind and 114 other
leading figures in robotics and AI who
have signed an open letter urging the
United Nations must act to ban the use
of autonomous weapons now the letter
outlines in clear detail just how
quickly the use of autonomous weapons
could get out of hand or into the wrong
hands
these can be weapons of terror weapons
that despots and terrorists use against
innocent people Asians and weapons and
weapons have to behave in undesirable
ways we do not have long to act once
this Pandora's box is opened it will be
hard to close robotics and AI
communities as well as human rights
groups have long argued that autonomous
weaponry has the potential to inflict
extreme crimes against humanity in
conflict zones
after commending the UN for establishing
a group of governmental experts to
review the issue the letter implores the
group to find a way to prevent an arms
race to those acquire to a quote an arms
race to acquire these types of weapons
the UN group was scheduled to begin
their work on Monday as well but has but
has been rescheduled for November
subsequently the letter urges the group
to double their efforts once they
finally meet in the coming months
Mary Wareham the lead coordinator of the
campaign to stop killer robots said
earlier this year killer robots would
remove the human from the kill decision
that crosses the fundamental moral and
ethical lines we don't believe should
ever be crossed okay do you have a
website hosted without an SSL
certificate you need to move all your
forms to a secure connection right away
starting in October with Chrome version
62 all sites will show a not secure
warning when users enter text in a forum
in a forum on an HTTP page and for all
HTTP pages in incognito mode the new
warning is part of a long-term plan by
Google to mark all pages served over
HTTP as not secure to prevent the not
secure notification from appearing
when Chrome users visit your site only
collect user input data on pages served
using HTTP Marcus Hutchins the British
security researcher instrumental in
neutralizing the wanna cry ransomware
worm that was that shut down computers
worldwide in May appeared in federal
court Monday and pleaded not guilty to
unrelated criminal charges that he
created and distributed malware that
steals banking credentials Hutchins who
is free on the thirty thousand dollars
bond
was arrested August third in Las Vegas
following the black hat and DEF CON
security conferences IBM security
researchers have reported that the
malware was being advertised in Russian
underground forums with a price of seven
thousand dollars it was billed as a
method for criminals to extract
passwords and other financial
credentials transmitted in major
browsers the ads also claimed Kronos
could evade antivirus detection and
protection from browser security
sandboxes Hutchins who works for crypto
slogic of Los Angeles is going to live
in Los Angeles while awaiting an
undetermined trial date he will be
tracked by a GPS monitoring device he
has been ordered not to touch the wanna
cry sinkhole presumably because if it's
shut off it could possibly make the
ransomware start spreading again plans
to build the world's largest data center
are being made public the facility is
set to be created in the norwegian town
of balligan which is located inside the
Arctic Circle the firm behind the
project's colos said the chilled air and
abundant hydropower available locally
would keep help keep its energy costs
down the area however suffers the
country's highest rate of sick leave
from work which may be related to its
past as a mining community the US
Norwegian company says that it has
already raised several million dollars
for the project from Norwegian private
investors however it is still working
with the US investment bank to secure
the remaining necessary funds it is
basing its record-setting claims on the
amount of power it intends to draw
to run its computer servers roughly the
same amount of power as Amazon 1000
megawatts but in this case it will be
housed at one single location as opposed
to Amazon whose data is dispersed over
several physical locations in comparison
facebook status enter in the area
drawers just 120 megawatts big thanks
this week to ROI W Nash and our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
tomatoes
[Music]
[Applause]
