you
Hey twice 8 excited about the show yeah
I think I mean nothing you want but
and coming to Canada in the fall again
yeah
Oh
we really 287 episode six seasons that's
really you're getting close to friends
yeah my girlfriend she's coming she's
gonna go back
she needs to also make him make big in
her papers I mean social passport and
and some other stuff yeah yeah Kennedy
Nia
we make some small tests because my guys
have been working I wanted to see if
it's working more so for your tablet
just to see if it's okay
you know my guys were playing a little
bit in the evening with it and I wanted
to make sure it's okay it's okay from
one of my phone
okay
we can have something like for instance
a message something like I don't know
the course is great
287 episodes really really it's really
impressive 287 that many how many ppl s
have
Rachel
test test one two hey guys hey Michael
check one two check check check check
well dan can I hear you yeah can you
hear me yeah we can
yeah give me a sound check give me a
sound check plugged in 1 2 3 again 1 2 3
again 1 2 3 I don't know that I don't
know how to convey on Street check one
this news
okay give me another sound check bug
down 1 2 3
perfect ok check one two check check hey
hey hey hey hey check one two check
check check check check check see you
and sound check from you ray hello
this can you hear me check one two check
check check check check one two
hey hey hey again give me some check
check one two keep going hear me now
it's everything's sounding good give me
a real loud one no okay more give it to
me give it to me louder all right I'm
talking loud give me again not quite so
sensual give me another one for real yep
okay check one two hey hey test another
one okay now just talk another one
can you hear me now I'm talking normally
oh yeah yes is everything good is
everything
okay YouTube what do you think you're
like yeah I had that long time ago I'm
just making we just wanted a sound bite
um Rachel going oh okay give me a give
me a sound check quick again yeah Wow
this is Rachel I know so so much for
previewing your little video yeah am I
supposed to refer to this at all yeah
that is kind of important nerd
okay so bug Dan you know how we roll
here it's pretty laid back I'm gonna
give you kind of the floor I've got my
my tablet I'm gonna scan the QR code on
my screen and that will let me
communicate with you so I guess you'll
want to be ready that when I turn this
around I'll hold it steady so yeah
that's gross isn't it yeah well you if
necessary maybe use this as a hand sign
so like tilt it forward tilt it back so
I can just kind of go like this and if
it's glaring I can go like that I wiped
it it was Rachel hmm perfect yeah there
we go sound checks we got lots to work
with for the that cartoon
are you gonna make a small intro of what
should I make also small intro to the
product yeah well I'll throw it to you
but I'm gonna introduce it just
basically from the consumer perspective
and then you can we're gonna talk a
little bit about who this is for whether
it be you know retailers and small
businesses medium businesses big-box
retailers yeah you really have a chance
to talk about who you're who you're
marketing this to so ok it'll be fun I'm
sure mm-hmm
two minutes yeah okay yeah good idea
oh yeah yeah right cuz you can move your
camera right okay sure
well I'll be able to see that that
camera - yeah I should be able to but
you let me feel free to signal me if
I've not really yeah you can see us
right now hi Heather okay yeah you'll
see the real show all right folks
have fun have a blast we would but then
I'm gonna leave your microphone on for
the whole intro of the show just to save
the the fear of accidentally forgetting
to turn your mic on so just try to keep
the obscene noises down to a minimum
have fun everybody if you're watching on
YouTube afterward make sure you check
out the show once it goes up it'll be HD
we're finding hangouts as really really
poor quality but at least it's fun so
hey everybody
just about there folks okay ten seconds
he looks sad what's the matter boy he
misses his friend Rachel Xue has been
gone for a very long time the tears of a
bald nerd carried magical powers as a
tearing trash with the ink on a page
something truly magnificent occurs or
foreign air reaches water appears denied
and utter joy fills the heart of blue
tea and geek as a wallet along the path
toward women
what's this reaches you is not the
lovely redhead you might suppose but is
indeed a hideous monster
food lobbyist writers still hate me
he cries it was the university falls
upon deaf ears with a single girl the
monstrous witch's soup has referred
heaps and nerdlings beware talk cried
over the time Rachel sude has been gone
for if you dude your tears may bring up
a fate as terrible as Robby's rather
rejoice in the fact that she has
returned to us and this for now
satisfied hungry here we go the
cartoonion he did there
creator rock have fun yep yeah good to
see you all right here we go all right
here we go welcome to episode number 287
of category five technology TV it's
Tuesday March the 19th 2013 well not
really see you all but talk with you
yeah we're in the chat room yeah
category five on freenode if you want to
join us how you been I've been good how
about you pretty good yeah scary intro
hey excellent show for you tonight book
down order Oh see you remember him he
was on the show a little while back he's
back again tonight gonna be talking to
us about how we can use technology
through mobile devices QR scan codes and
all that kind of stuff to enhance our
customer interaction experience if we're
business owners or working a business
and you want to increase your ability to
communicate with your customers this is
the ultimate technological hey what do
you think of the service stick around
we're gonna be talking to Bob Danton
about how that works
Rachael tonight Google is shutting down
reader this summer Microsoft's Outlook
and hotmail outage was due to an
overheating data center
yikes and by some city and get a second
game free to play while you wait for
SimCity to connect and the Google Street
View data collection Fiasco has finally
been settled so stick around these
stories are coming up later in the show
awesome hey don't forget about our
mobile website we're talking all about
these kinds of things tonight scan codes
and stuff there's one scan that QR code
with your mobile device you'll be able
to check out the category 5 mobile
site also we want to say hello to our
new viewers this this week and over the
past couple of weeks introduced some
really cool new features on the website
some of you if you've registered for it
you will have received the notification
just before the show tonight just to let
you know that hey the shows come and
don't forget click here to watch that's
kind of cool I want to say hello to Bo
be ed back I hope that I pronounced that
even close to right Jay ROM 5 Elizabeth
then well Pierre Maury 7 good child
Akshar communications nice to have you
joining us Mike Scott see Davis
underscore and we got steve-o underscore
6514 bill 46 77 Eric Andrews Mike - 8 no
G 8 km are whoo you guys and flash 66
nice to have these new viewers just
registered on our website category 5 TV
it's free to register on our website and
you'll get you'll get to subscribe to
things like being able to receive the
email once a week are you making faces
at them is that what you're doing dot TV
bug Donald roast is standing by we're
going to take a really quick break and
then talk to him about txt feedback
don't go anywhere
cool cool so we'll be talking to him if
you have any questions for him monitor
the chat room and also you know if you
think of anything that you want to know
this is category-five technology TV
you'll find us online at triple W
category 5 TV as I was mentioned just
before the break Bogdan Auto Rose joins
us from Romania nice to have you here
once again vogue Dan hi Robbie hey
Rachel thanks for having me so good to
see ya Bogdan is here to talk about his
new product txt feedback dotnet tonight
I encourage you to check that out and
bug Dan first question is what is txt
feedback feedback is a platform which
engages customers in conversations to
get their companies if you're a retail
store a restaurant or a coffee shop yeah
on a couple of occasions customers might
go in your store and they might have
right there some feedback for you or
they might want to buy some product for
you and there's no actually an easy way
for you for the customer to signal this
information to the company right and how
they can do this right now
is that they can see some posters
throughout the restaurant coffee shops
retail store they see some posters where
they can scan a QR code for send an SMS
to a mobile phone number and that SMS or
the message which which is being sent by
the customer will get to the to the
company and the company has the
possibility of replying okay so I go
into a restaurant not too pleased with
the service that I'm receiving maybe the
foods RS but somebody's not treating me
well at the restaurant they might have a
txt feedback what QR code or some ways
for me to yeah so then what happens at
that point well at that point whenever
you can scan the QR code is gonna direct
it to a mobile website yeah if we could
could try it a little bit with the
with one of the devices yeah
sure you want us to bring up a QR code
right here on the air folks get your
yeah ready here we go
all right so this is this is our QR code
I'm gonna actually bring up I'm gonna
bring up my tablet here this is fun all
right we're gonna bring up the QR droid
app which is just a QR code scanner it's
free it's available in the Google Play
Store of course on on your iPhone there
are apps there as well on my iPod Touch
I use another QR code scanner let's see
what I use on there pretty much anything
just simply if you don't if you don't
have a QR code scanner you can just type
the small address in the browser right
that's also very easy to use okay so
let's let's actually try this and see
what happens when we scan that and folks
you can do the same I'm just gonna hold
up my my tablet here I'm gonna hit scan
oh there we go rachels you can see that
and there we go we got a beep and now
bowdan what I'm greeted with is a screen
that says welcome to retail business
store 1 let's see if you back up on the
screen here there we go so you at home
can see I know if you can see that there
we go
so it looks very much like a like a chat
window or something along those lines
yes and you can write that exactly what
your complaint for instance now I don't
know something with the coffee or
certain product which you didn't like
all right so we're gonna say here now
what what is actually what is it that
I'm connected to what is it that I'm
doing here I can say I this guy you
referring to the catch here that the
person selling me that coffee here was
really rude it's funny because I see
this kind of you know people
experiencing this and not being able to
do anything about it where you're in a
shop and yeah why is twice in the past
two weeks bug Dan I'll I'll tell you
here's here's some use cases one I was I
was in the grocery store waiting in line
and somebody was huffing and puffing
they're like she is
rude they had no way to report that to
the to the management or anything like
that of course she's not going to report
it to her boss and then in another place
a restaurant the people left in kind of
a huffy fit and and said I'm never going
back there don't ever go in there and
I'm just a bystander walking by on the
street kind of thing and us Canadians
we're supposed to be really friendly so
you know something happened that was was
quite offensive so this guy was really
rude so here's an opportunity if the
management subscribes to this service
that they would be able they would be
able to communicate that to the
powers-that-be of the business now I see
something here that says our staff is
currently busy please wait for about two
minutes so what's actually happening
here behind the scenes book done so
behind the scenes what's happening if
you as a customer you send a complaint
and nobody asks you in a certain small
interval which can be defined of course
by the companies yeah then we just get
an automatic reply on the mobile website
and after that for instance right now
I've just sent you a message for
instance we can the company can can give
of course can reply to the custom one
and they can also give them something
like discount codes or something like
that just or maybe like I'll be right
there to deal with this situation I see
now I see your reply here we're sorry
about the problem is there some way that
I can see the like you what you actually
see can we bring that up yes see if we
can there we go oh yeah yeah so that's
what you see so if I complain here on my
tablet so I've got my tablet I'm in your
store it could be a mobile device that
could be your cell phone and say so rude
or maybe I want a compliment maybe I
want to say you know this is this guy
has been good yeah there we go there's
my message on bogden's screen and you
are not even at the same location as us
you're remind the viewers where you are
physically geographically located
physically I'm actually I'm actually
physically in Bulgaria I'm not
Romania yeah Romania I should have been
but I'm actually in Bulgaria but so the
thing that the way the solution works is
that as a manager let's say for
restaurant as a manager as an owner of I
don't know you have maybe one to three
restaurants sure you have the
possibility of just logging in this
interface and seeing all the messages
that you receive on each of your
locations okay okay and you can also
reply to them or maybe somebody from
your staff can see the messages they can
reply to them and later you as a manager
can just go to the report section and
see what kind of things people are
complaining about what are the positive
the negative feedback that you can
receive yeah is is there any way you
know what what happens then you know
once we've had this what looks like a
chat with like a one-on-one chat with
management of guests or perhaps this
could be used for support I had the
thought that maybe I'm standing in a
store and you know it happens all the
time you're in a big-box store and you
cannot find a salesperson and it's like
where on earth you know you look and you
are in the middle of what was it called
majare Nia that's the reference and
again you're in the middle of Najjar Nia
if you get the reference I love you and
it's just store you know you're just
looking down the aisles and we're so
okay wouldn't it be nice to be able to
say okay where on earth do I find the
toilet paper yeah and have somebody able
to respond back so what happens after
this conversation is done does it just
disappear is there some kind of archive
that management can look back oh yeah
actually the conversation is always
being being blocked so at any point in
time when your customers are gonna see
gonna come again yeah they're gonna give
you another additional feedback or add
additional question you are always going
to see order or the conversation a
really good thing for businesses is that
for instance you go to the retail store
and you wanna buy a certain product
which is not there for instance it's not
okay and you complain about this to
somebody like the management later you
have the possibility when the management
and when the company is going to bring
that product they can send you an SMS
and they they will inform you hey Robbie
we got you the cool app that you wanted
sorry we didn't have you when you came
by the last time really so it's also new
yeah it's a new way of interacting
actually with the customer where you can
give the customer information in real
time okay so do I have to be at the
store to receive that message like next
time I'll go in no no you don't need to
bet the store Wow okay so business owner
let's say I'm a business owner or you
know I think that this could also be
integrated into education system or like
a school or something yeah if you want
to communicate with with the higher up
staff say the principal or whatever it
is
the Dean yen be able to actually do that
through a device service like this what
do I need to actually install at my
business or at my educational facility
what is there an appliance is there some
kind of server that I have to acquire or
what's what's my very very nice thing
about this application is the fact that
you don't need to install anything this
is actually software as a service so the
only subject you that you need is from
our side you just get username and
password from one account that we set up
for you you're going to get from us
posters and also QR codes and mobile
website and phone numbers virtual phone
numbers for you to put in your store
depending on the number of stores you
can also give you a one phone number for
each store loan and one mobile website
for each store okay so if I'm using so
we're looking at this as an app like
scan a QR code it's kind of like a
website you're saying you also get the
SMS ability that someone can just text
you and it becomes an SMS communication
yeah this is how it's actually the name
of it it's actually text feedback so we
started with offering SMS as a
possibility for customers to engage with
businesses yeah and we also of course we
offer this possibility so the solution I
was telling you about earlier is also
based on SMS you go you want a certain
product the product maybe is not there
and then the business can have the
possibility of sending you an SMS and
it's will inform you of the fact that
now they have the product in the stock
and you can come in and get it that's
very cool
now I welcome people who are in the chat
room if you'd like to ask began a
question feel free to put it to Rachel's
attention and she'll pass that along
Rachel if you could do that I've just
interrupt anything that I'm saying which
is not out of the ordinary for you so
but then how can we subscribe to this
service how can we get this for our
business and also of course the bottom
line is how much does it cost what is
this gonna run it's quite simple the way
to subscribe if you just go on our
website and take the feedback dotnet
it's a sign-up button
and basically our rates depending on
what you the number of stores they start
from from 25 USD per month oh this is
yeah per month yeah and in this in this
money you also have a certain number of
sms's and also yours receive virtual
phone number and all the other
information that I told you about our
mobile website QR code and everything
Wow
so the rate the service pretty much
ready to go it just need to log in see
the feedback the customer send you put
the posters in the store and also then
see the feedback and reply to the
information received by the customers
very good oh this could be used for it
like so many different things I can
think contests you know you want to run
a contest in your store and you know
here's you find the QR code and scan it
and tell us where you're located and
we'll come and bring you your prize or
so you know the real fun kind of ways
and then there's also the real this
interactive it's better than dropping
your comments in a box and then you
never know whether do they read them are
they ever gonna do anything about it
here's an opportunity for you to
actually be there standing there and
communicating with somebody one-on-one
that's awesome what a great strength of
the solution it
it's the one-on-one real-time
communication that that we offer for
customers and businesses as well to try
to link this this these two areas very
good all right we're gonna put that QR
code right back up on the screen for if
you'd like to scan it give it a try
bug Dan is on the other end of the of
the line there and he is acting as kind
of the store manager for our bogus
little category five tonight there you
go very good represent us man represent
txt feedback dotnet is where you want to
go check it out and make sure you check
that out tonight and and also scan that
QR code just to see what it's how it
operates on your device bug down always
a pleasure to have you here on the show
thank thanks for the invite
yeah thanks I'm always gonna be here if
any anybody has any questions they can
just write it there scan the QR code I
can reply very fast
very good any other way that that they
can contact you just straight through
the website website you're going to find
our email address there they are also
gonna find the phone number there any
very exciting any any solution like this
should be it should be okay yeah very
good
all right thanks bug damn thanks thanks
Robbie have a great night
you don't this is category five
technology TV nice to have you here and
thanks for joining us tonight hey Rachel
alright so do you want to hear what's up
in the news everyone I know this is your
favorite part of the show and we've got
so many viewer questions coming up so
we're gonna hit this early and then we
were just gonna plow through your
questions the mailbag is full solar
Rachel jus alrighty so I purposefully
didn't put any news in and about the
cloud just want to be safe no cheese or
gnomes you clean folks alrighty
Google is going to shut down its reader
service in July a petition to save the
service which aggregates news content
from web feeds had 25,000 signatures in
just a few hours theories are that
shutting down readers part of Google's
plan to migrate more people to it social
media service Google+ Google said in its
official blog there are two simple
reasons for this usage of Google Reader
has declined and as a company we are
pouring all of our energy into fewer
products it added users and developers
who wanted to use alternatives could
export their data including their
subscriptions over the next four months
using its Google takeout service
Microsoft has blamed an overheating data
center for a 16-hour shutdown of its
outlook on hotmail systems isn't Outlook
cloud-based now substantial temperament
temperature spike servers to start
working I'm sensing a temperament spike
Microsoft's vice president Arthur de
hann wrote that the temperature rise had
been due to a fire firmware update
failure Microsoft is in the pros
of migrating millions of hotmail users
to the new outlook on service alright
and all you fans of SimCity anyone who
buys and registers the latest version of
SimCity before the 26th of March can
choose a free game from the selection
offered by Electronic Arts the free
games available as digital downloads
include recent releases Mass Effect 3
plants vs. zombies vs. zombies who comes
up with these what is it called
plants vs. all plants vs. zombies and
bejeweled 3 it's a gardening game for
zombies and glitches caused by EA's
decision to make some city an
online-only game and finally Google has
agreed to pay a 7 million dollar fine
for collecting people's personal data
without authorization as part of its
Street View service but who gets the 7
million I don't know not me that's like
piddly changed to them like oh good
we've settled this finally minute they
sneeze and they sneeze up 7 million
dollars with 38 US states they agreed to
also destroy emails passwords and web
history data which was harvested from
home wireless networks as Street View
cars photographed neighborhoods between
2008 and 2010 if you want the full
stories go to category five dot TV slash
newsroom the category 5 TV newsroom is
researched by Roy W Nash with
contributions by our community of yours
if you have a news story you think is
worthy of on-air mentioned email
newsroom at category 5 TV for the
category 5 TV newsroom I'm Rachel chute
it's not a race Rachel maybe it is maybe
I'm afraid of a cloud I gotta get
through it isn't scary to think that the
the Street View car could go through
your neighborhood and record things like
emails and bank statements and
information from your computers through
Wi-Fi signals and Oh folks Wi-Fi is like
so wide open when you you know you get a
router or something you plug it in at
home thinking okay now I'm gonna add
Wi-Fi to my tablet and don't ever set up
any security for it and it's
unbelievably unsecure so and that's
that's just proof I mean that they could
actually drive through the neighborhood
and record all this information that's
private and that they have to pay seven
million dollars who to be able to settle
it consciously brother ordering a hotdog
everybody go quick register gooble ya
know that's kind of funny too all right
well hey tonight's show is brought to
you in part by quarter electric at
quarter E electric quarter e
electric.com also Netflix get your free
trial a cat5 dot TV slash Netflix and of
course save yourself some money on your
phone bill by completely eliminating it
with net talk duo and then talk to a
Wi-Fi line of products for the camp five
dot TV slash phone for more information
and link out to their at to their
Canadian website as well check them out
folks all right we've got a slew of
viewer questions before we get into that
I want to show you a couple of really
neat things that have been added to the
website lately really working hard to
make you know add some value added stuff
to category five dot TV make it as cool
and easy to use as possible for you so
I'm actually gonna bring it up on my
screen here check it out that's category
five TV during a live broadcast what I
wanted to show you this week is the new
show notes feature which has been
basically improved it's an enhanced show
notes timeline playback and when you go
to the show notes for any episode you'll
see that it carries with it all of the
the details of the episode it starts
playing the actual episode as well for
those who prefer Linux or are simply
curious about
[Music]
so let's pause that and now I'm gonna
scroll down a little ways you see chat
logs this is where you can follow
through the the chat that happened
during the show and see what was said
that can be interesting especially if if
viewers are providing some kind of you
know information in the chat room that
was a cool unity bug and everybody here
saw it how cool is that all right let's
see if I can get it back okay
you guys catch that that was awesome and
just like everything kind of went crazy
this whole part will be edited out not
really not really we don't do that I
wish we could okay so on this website
which I have paused not only do you have
the chat logs but you've got actually a
little play button beside each of the
major kind of points in time during the
episode if you want to watch the top
stories for example so now if I push
play on this episode say on the top
stories for candidate from the category
5 TV newsroom hit play and you see what
happens is it actually jumps to that
very segment I'm gonna pause without a
game scroll down a little ways say we
want to start the feature about building
a photo booth so easy to find your spot
in the video push play next to that just
like that that's one of the cool new
features on category 5 TV it's it's
actually a feature that has been around
for a while but pardon me greatly
improved over the past couple of weeks
so quite excited about that check out
our website category 5 dot TV and of
course the show notes are a great way to
be able to follow you know figure out
what happened in an episode somebody
said to me what episode was it that you
talked about activating the compiz
plugin enhance desktop zoom on a boom to
12.10 and I said well here you go just
click on play right next to it in the
show notes
if some of you have already noticed i
see chris reich yeah buddy and it just
starts right at that's in the episode so
category 5 TV check it out that is our
official website make sure you sign up
as a register viewer and that will give
you access to some of the cool free
features that are unavailable to people
who are not registered check it out
alrighty
alright ready for some viewer questions
ya know you can push that little play
button over there if you're looking at
the or and I guess it's down there down
there push that little play button next
to viewer questions it'll start right
here who are you talking to to them
we're on the air rachel is she has been
away for a while folks so give her that
alright so for questions we have one
from pyro rocks this world tyrus rock
hey buddy alright yeah so Robbie just a
quick question and some background in
relation to the desktop zoom which you
covered last episode momma's vision
impaired and requires zoom on her
computer she currently uses her Mac
which has excellent zoom whenever she
uses another computer in the house she
finds it impossible to get close enough
to see with the desktop zoom that you've
covered is there a way to get the zoom
to only move around the desktop when the
most hits the edges and not follow the
mouse as it can be rather hard to keep
track of a spreadsheet if everything
keeps moving when you go to select a new
cell right I hear ya yeah is that the
end of the email actually start love the
show alright Cheers don't leave that
part out that's the best that's the meat
of the question brilliant Robbie thank
you pirates rock this world alright so
yes let's take a look here I am an
Ubuntu with unity and all that and last
week on episode number 286 I showed you
how to activate enhanced desktop zoom on
Ubuntu 12.10 so tonight for you
for you and for your mum Paris rock
we're gonna show you how to do this so
what we're gonna do we're gonna go right
back into what we were doing last week
during that feature we're gonna go into
compiz config settings manager okay and
we're gonna take things a little bit
further and folks are gonna show you
what
Pyrus Rock is talking about if i zoom in
here it's fantastic for accessibility
but now if I move the mouse it's
actually moving around on the screen
which to me is pretty handy for this use
case the show because when I move around
the mouse it actually follows it kind of
like a camera but for accessibility
purposes it can be a little bit annoying
so let's take this a little bit further
and make this more of an accessibility
feature for your mum and for anyone else
out there who has you know a vision
issue that you know it's easier to see
something when it's larger on the screen
the fact is is that today's computer
monitors their high resolution and so
everything you think okay we'll get a
big screen because my eyesight is bad
but actually everything is now smaller
because it's higher resolution so how
does that work it's kind of awkward so
here's an opportunity for you to fix
that by using the enhanced desktop soon
so we're gonna do a search in the filter
field here for zoom and you'll see that
plug-in which we previously activated on
episode number 286 so if you haven't
done that yet make sure you click and
and actually watch that feature first so
that you can get as far as we are so far
so watch this I'm gonna go up to zoom
area movement up at the top here and
within that you see a drop down here
called fitting and in fitting there's an
option to fit zoomed area to window so
one thing that we're going to do is
we're going to enable that so click that
and turn on enable and now we want to
actually grab a key combination which is
going to program this particular portion
of the plug-in to a particular key
combination so I'm gonna click it and
then I'm gonna hit hit you know I can
make something up I'm gonna go control
shift K because I know that that's not
one that I currently have assigned to
anything so I'm gonna hit OK and now
here's a little trick for you uncheck
and enable enhance the zoom desktop wait
for about two seconds because it does
and then check it off again now what
that's done is this basically refresh
the settings of compiz and your enhanced
desktop zoom now features fit zoomed
area to window so I'm gonna show you
what that does here I'm gonna bring up a
small window let's use something like
the calculator there we go okay so there
it is with the calculator active I'm now
gonna hit control shift K and there we
go the calculator is now filling my
entire screen so on a 22 inch monitor
that is literally you know like 12 15 20
inches high whatever it is so now to
zoom out I'm gonna use my windows button
and the down scroll wheel which we
programmed in during the last episode so
I can move this anywhere on the screen
and I can hit control shift K and it
automatically pans and zooms directly
into that particular application now
here's something that's going to annoy
your mum Pyrus rock because as you move
your mouse look what happens
oh well that didn't solve anything I can
push the numbers but I have to move up
here to see them I can do that but then
I got to move up here to see them so
what I'm gonna do I'm gonna scroll out
I'm gonna move this aside just so that
it's out of the way we're going to go up
to Mouse behavior we're gonna change
things a little bit we're going to
change our zoom mode from sinc mouse
which is what's causing it to follow to
pan area once I've changed that uncheck
enable enhanced zoom desktop recheck it
there we go now let's go back to our
calculator
control shift K there we are now I'm
gonna move my mouse watch what happens
look at that now you see that as I touch
the edge of the screen I can in fact
move the screen I can nudge it and I
think that is much more what you're
looking for for your mum Pyrus rock
there you go
now do you notice there that I have a
big mouse and I have a small mouse
cursor one of them is real one of them
is not because I'm zoomed in so the
little one that you're seeing is
actually not going to do anything for me
it's actually just a little bit of an
annoyance so I'm gonna scroll out again
and let's turn on hide original mouse
pointer okay now you see that I actually
have that checked off but I can see it
because let's see here and that has to
do with the way that we are actually
capturing the video tonight so for you
if you have that same kind of thing
which you do see on the screen there but
in fact I don't see it on my screen
Rachel you can confirm that on my screen
there isn't a second mouse cursor right
so for those of you watching at home you
can see that but that is how you would
actually turn that off and that's
because it's actually scaling the mouse
pointer see that scale the mouse pointer
and so it actually makes it bigger as i
zoom in so check that out really nice
and simple control shift K is what I set
it to Pyrus rock this world make sure
you let us know how that works and if
that's if that's not a good job for for
your mom all right thanks so much for
the question yeah and we got more
excellent oh here's one from JP hey JP I
downloaded Mint 14 32-bit can I over
install it over it with like the 64-bit
or other distro oh I do a boot with
Windows 7 ok yeah you can you've got to
be real careful in in doing such a thing
because you need to know where your
partitions are and things like that now
as you go to installment mint may ask
you and yeah and give this a go launch
the the Installer and the Installer will
will see that there is a previous
installation of mint and it will give
you the option to either run it
alongside of that
and windows or would you like to
actually replace mint mint 64 bit so you
could say replace and it will it will go
in and and not touch your windows
partition but it will then reinstall you
can reinstall grub and then you can it
will reinstall grub and it will detect
your windows partition and everything
will work just fine so of course that
said we're doing some things here on the
system that could you know they could be
destructive
make sure you backup everything on your
existing mint partition and also I would
suggest that you back up
or your windows partition as well that's
important because we wouldn't want to
lose it just in case I bite so yeah you
can be careful so we have another one
here that says hi Ravi that's right
domain and hosting what would you
recommend for one professional hosting
for a business with good email service
and two personal website I intend to use
Joomla or another CMS for development
best regards keV oh okay so keV Oh for
professional use it's always a good idea
to find a good reliable host you know
you might find somebody locally you you
want to be able to have support that is
available to you
so now I work in a small firm I can give
you the information to purchase it even
through us if you want it to the
advantage to working with a like a local
firm or at least a firm where you know
that there are people that are operating
the servers is that they are available
to you if something goes wrong not only
that but you know that they're working
on the problem if something goes wrong
you don't want to have to worry about
that kind of stuff a professional
hosting firm will be able to you know
you can pick up the phone you can reach
them and you can you can get a hold of
them but then there are shared hosting
firms which are completely legitimate -
so this is you can also use it for
business there's nothing wrong with that
but it's harder to get support it's
harder for you to get access to you know
actually picking up the phone and
reaching somebody with some of those
companies because of the fact that they
are appealing to a different market
they're looking for people they're
looking for millions of customers at
very very cheap prices and so they don't
have time to deal with everybody versus
the small company that is running a
really good server service a hosted
solution that is only focusing on a very
small core group of customers you may
pay a little bit more but you're getting
more for it as far as service goes so
there are advantages to each for shared
hosting you can actually get a special
here something another advantage to
being a registered viewer on our website
category 5 TV is the
we have a section called coupons and I'm
gonna actually show you that Keva and I
don't mind showing this actually on the
air but here we are okay so I'm gonna go
members coupons oh look at that I've got
a login of course it's the member
section yes I'm in ok web hosting for
only 70 bucks for a whole year you get a
year of carbon neutral lamp stack
hosting on a Linux box you get linux
apache PHP mysql unlimited you can get
one free domain name registration so
that's great in and of itself because
you need a domain name unlimited storage
for your website a $50 or a 50 gigabyte
backup account who cares but the
unlimited storage for your website
that's pretty awesome you don't have to
worry about space unlimited number of
domains on your account at no extra
charge you only have the cost of
registering the extra Jermaine's that's
a bonus you get unlimited bandwidth
unlimited email accounts the coupon is
there for 70 bucks
you'll get that should I show them the
coupon oh just because you asked I'm
gonna show you the coupon cat5 TV /
dream host and during checkout it's not
obvious make sure you go in the checkout
process enter the coupon code cap 5 TV
and it's gonna be only 70 bucks that's a
great deal that's a cheap deal but it's
shared hosting I mean it goes down
sometimes I'm not I'm not saying that
it's a bad service at all by any means
but you get what you pay for it's it's
that's the saying and there's a reason
that that's a cliche if you pay $70 for
your hosting for an entire year
you just have a little bit more grace
when something goes wrong and to be
honest they're they've been pretty
reliable they host our website right now
I would love to get off of shared
hosting because we have a huge amount of
traffic on our website and sometimes
that can be problem problematic you for
your website may not have the kind of
traffic that we have and so it may just
work fine so there's a couple options
for you anyway
so call me I'll hook you up okay then so
we now have a question from John's M hey
John Jim this is an update to my
previous question I found a program that
helps you change the color folders not
use the right-click drop-down menu
okay a boon to Software Center it is
called folder color it is a paid-for
wait a minute for three dollars and well
worth it for me
so it's not just a clever name color
folder it is called folder color folder
color folder country literally three
bucks look at that folder color change
the folders color that was some clever
naming right there 299 in the Ubuntu
Software Center it's better than like
the gnome the cheese in the cloud at
least it's just this is what it is
nothing in color we know what gnome is
we know what cheese is we know what the
cloud is I still don't know what any of
those hurt I know she's reading a news
story about the cloud and she's like
yeah they released a cloud and I'm like
alright she needs to read the manual
folks yeah man and okay we'll move on to
Roy
Greta hey Roy dear Ravi love your show
it is refreshing to listen to people who
is very talking wait didn't we just have
a discussion where we just established
that so I had a question for Ravi
regarding their ripple magic 8:02 mm-hmm
the mini-pc that we looked at yes
mini-pc Roman numerals 802 3s mini-pc
okay I would like to know how to zoom
of images displayed on the screen and
how can I perform dynamic zooms on JPEGs
I tried yes I have a wireless mouse with
a center wheel control and find that the
only way to zoom in is by clicking on
the Left mouse button and then click
again to return to the original size of
image
there's no dynamic zoom that allows me
to zoom in and out at any magnification
there's only one zoom magnification I
hear what you're saying right this is
the reco magic device it's a very very
small mini PC we had it on the show a
few weeks ago if you haven't seen it go
over to our website linux tech show comm
and look for the video under cool
devices and reviews you'll see the reco
magic it's called the smallest computer
in the world and it literally is very
very tiny but it's an Android device
that plugs into your your computer
screen or your TV with HDMI input right
so the the issue that raw roi pardon me
is running into is that he doesn't have
the ability to zoom in because what are
you missing with your TV that you don't
have with the tablet do i give you a
second or do you want me just to tell
you you don't have pinch zoom you don't
have multi-touch so you can't do that
with a tablet you can go hoop and you
can zoom right in on something and you
can go like that and zoom out with a
mouse well there it is
it's multi-touch zoom feature right so
there's a couple of different things
that you can do ROI and for those of you
who are interested in that device or
perhaps already picked one up I'll show
you a couple of different things really
cool thing best thing is if you happen
to have a tablet or an Android device
okay you can install what's called the
MK 802 3 remote app and it in fact
searches for your Ricoh magic device and
your screen now I'm holding a tablet but
it could be as small as your phone your
screen becomes the multi-touch Mouse
essentially for that device you set your
phone down or your tablet down in front
of you and now it becomes your
controller for the TV through the Ricoh
magic through Wi-Fi completely
wirelessly that is the ultimate
then you do get the ability to have
multi-touch and the ability to pinch
zoom just like you normally would with a
tablet but you have to have an Android
device so if you don't have that how do
you zoom well you can get you can
actually purchase a multi-touch touchpad
for only about 15 dollars if you can
believe it it's a USB touchpad and
you've got usb on your Rico Magic device
so you plug it in there for 15 bucks it
gives you a touchpad and you can do
multi-touch gestures including of course
pinch zoom if you don't have that
because Roy mentions the diesel he's
only got a mouse I'm gonna bring up a
Rico Magic device here I think what is
actually happening is you're going to
your USB flash drive which is cool and
you're able to get those photos up on
the screen so then you're opening it
with gallery cuz you're not too sure
which one to open it with which is fine
but then if you double-click on the
photo let's bring up one of the photos
that I took just a couple weeks ago if
you double-click it zooms in and
double-click again it's going to zoom
right out and for those who are just
joining us the device that we're talking
about is the mini PC and again you can
go back over linux tech show com2 see
that if I double click it zooms in all
the way and it zooms out all the way but
there's no way in between there's no
happy medium here right so I see what
you're saying and that could be a real
problem when you're trying to work with
a photograph Rachel you're an artist so
you know it would be really ideal to be
able to control your zoom levels and be
able to get as far in as you want so
instead what I'm gonna do here Roy I'm
gonna open it with the media center app
okay we're not gonna open it with
gallery and I'm gonna show you why we're
gonna do that because now that I've got
this photo on the screen look what I
have down in the bottom right hand side
if you move your mouse down here cuz we
only have a mouse to work with I've got
a zoom in which allows me to do step
zoom I can actually just get right in
there or I can I can go anywhere in
between
so just by changing apps because
remember this is an Android device right
so I can I can change the way things
work by just changing which app I'm
using so here all I've done is I've said
no I'm not gonna use gallery to open the
photo I'm gonna use the media center app
so as simple as that
boom and now I've got the ability to
zoom without having to purchase any
additional hardware without having to
worry about the fact that my mouse
doesn't have multi-touch and eventually
maybe you'll want to add something like
a multi-touch touchpad or something like
that it would just add that extra
functionality and then it would work in
everything for example Angry Birds is
you gotta be able to pinch them in Angry
Birds that's important stuff important
stuff if you've got it on a 52 inch
screen you gotta be able to consume your
Angry Birds fine and simple right that's
why everyone buys these things
zoomed in or zoomed out can't get in
between so we have one from retro
looking glass all right retro looking
glass says hello I've set up a computer
for my grandmother for the first time
and it is using Linux yes she is having
some issues using it she's never had a
computer before I even really looked at
one I was wondering if he all had some
advice for first-time users of Linux I
set her up on Linux Mint 13 and she's
having trouble getting used to different
mouse clicks Negev Negev ating
navigating windows and other such things
if y'all could at some point maybe
upload videos
yeah well that's that's kind of what we
do we do the videos and the uploads
yeah happy to you know what I'm sorry
who does this correct retro
looking-glass
first of all really nice to have you
here thank you for sending in the
question we'd love to be able to help
you and your grandma to be able to to do
this I don't know if watching the show
is something that she'd be willing to do
I know that's a bit of a time commitment
but maybe if you send in specific
questions or issues or is you know if
she has specific things that she wants
to learn
then you send those in to us and we'll
put those in Linux tech show comm for
you so that they follow as a part of our
beginner series or something like that
Linux is simply an operating system for
your computer and kudos to you for
trying it and for being willing to give
a go to something different I think that
for a grandparent for somebody who is
never you know is not very experienced
with computers for example Linux is a
great place to be because you don't have
that it's got to be like windows
mentality because you don't you you not
you don't really care what it out
operates like you just want it to work
the nice thing about Linux is you don't
have to worry about the viruses and the
pop-ups and the malware and all that
scams and all that junk that happens on
Windows like you do on a Windows
operating system so it just makes it a
lot easier for you watch some of our
stuff on on phishing scams at Linux tech
show com that's important for you
because I want to protect you from those
kinds of things people can trick you
into giving their credit your credit
card number and and things like that so
I want to protect you from that
as far as actually using Linux really
you know what you the grandson it would
be a good idea just to set it up as easy
as possible and I've done this for for a
wonderful man who came into a same
situation and we've talked about him on
the show before he was 84 years old when
he came to me and he had a laptop that
was Microsoft Windows Vista and it was
terrible and it was out of the box came
with all this junk that the hardware
manufacturer had put on there like trial
versions of antivirus and trial versions
of word and trial versions of this and
that constantly bombarded with junk we
put Linux on it and we put a WN dock bar
at the bottom which just made it kind of
like a Mac layout and then we I just put
all of the main applications I renamed
Firefox Internet I renamed Thunderbird
email and I set it up for him in such a
way that you know all the icons were
stretched to be really big because
that's one of the things you can do on
Linux that's really nice drag the
corners of it right-click on it and go
resize and you can drag the corners make
it big make it easier easier to see and
then you can rename everything just to
make it really really simple and
you know that's that's the way to get
things started and and just I guess be
there for and help her to it
she doesn't have to understand the inner
workings out but just how to get to the
point where she can email you or email
her other grandchildren her family
members I think that's an important
thing communication right so get her to
understand how to create a new email how
to put an address in the address bar
maybe help her by filling in her contact
list so that she can just type in you
know what's this guy's name it's you
know something crazy looking-glasses
so type in retro lookingglass and it
will get to you whatever your real name
is right so just make it easy for and
then and that will help to ease that
transition to to using the computer and
the easier we can make using the
computer for a novice computer user the
more likely they are to use it and to
get familiar with it and you know there
are times when it's like I would just
love to be able to receive an email from
from grandpa or something you know it's
just that's a really really cool thing
and really great way for people to stay
in touch and then just understanding how
to use the internet and and how to you
know use Google or whatever search
engine you want to set her up with so
but send us your specific questions we
love to help but good starting point
Linux tech show com takes you over to
our YouTube channel look at some of the
the stuff there that is for beginners
and that would be a great starting point
for you keep in mind when you go there
make sure you subscribe it's a YouTube
channel and it we just started it up
quite literally it's only been a few
weeks so there are a small amount of
videos there but it's growing because
every week we add more so keep that in
mind that you'll want to check back a
few times so and on a regular basis so
thank you very much for the question and
kudos for switching grandma to Linux
very good alrighty so I guess we're
getting shorter on time but you still
have some questions do you want to do
any more oh yeah yeah we got time
already so this one says hello cat5 I
recently viewed your YouTube video on
Wirecast from last April of all the
videos I've seen on wire
yours was the most helpful and
informative you know what I appreciate
you leaving that in thanks so thank you
one you put your camera's on separate
USB cards even though the cards are USB
3.0 yes I take it the cameras themselves
are 2.0 if the cameras were three people
would 13.0 card be able to handle all of
them at one time and that's this first
question yes and no well here's the
thing is that as soon as you put
multiple devices on to any USB bus it
splits it in two for two devices it
splits it in three for three devices so
if you've got a USB 3 card yeah that
does really good speeds but as soon as
you plug four cameras that are HD 1080p
into that traveling at a zip zappity 480
megabits a second I don't know you run
the risk of over saturating that bus and
then what happens with webcams they turn
off and you completely lose signal so
that's a problem so to avoid that not
that that would happen because we know
USB 3 is able to handle a lot more but I
am opposed to putting too many things on
any bus children for example no we're
not talking about that kind of us we're
talking about a USB bus the card that
you put in your computer so I didn't
plug any of those cameras into the
computer itself I plugged them into a
PCI Express card and I put three of them
one for each camera and that's so that
that's not because the card couldn't
handle more than one it's so that each
camera had its own separate individual
dedicated bus so that means it had its
own PCI Express port it has its own USB
3 port and it was not going to be
oversaturated by any means there was a
lot of empty overhead a lot of room for
even more power so yeah that's that's
why I did that
better safe than sorry there 12 bucks a
card so why not right there's more to it
yes has a second question I noticed that
one of your cameras I believe it's your
backstage pass camera it's mounted on a
standard 4 foot tripod is that a life
cam also if not is allowing people to be
mounted on a 4-foot tripod if you're
watching if you
backstage pass this is the camera that
you're talking about this is the old
backstage pass camera that I'm touching
right now
that is a Sony Handycam because it has
firewire and it has every kind of output
USB it's it's you know the quality is
not what it is from an HD camera but it
is it was the chief solution at the time
but it's a big honkin camera let me just
grab over here
that's a Microsoft LifeCam and you see
that yes this indeed does have a
threading for a tripod so that's
brilliant this is the LifeCam studio you
can get one at camp five dot TV slash
cam CA m and the reason you know one of
the reasons I love this so much is the
fact that it does have a threading it
can sit on a tripod you can put it on
sometimes I use just those little tiny
tripods and I set it on a desk and it
works as a kind of a desktop web cam or
it has this flexible kind of grip that
it can grip onto your monitor and
they're 1080p and they're cheap I mean
go to cat five dot TV slash cam and
you'll see that for a 1080p camera
dirt-cheap
so can't meet it and it works in Linux
I'm always looking everywhere for these
hidden cameras on the ceiling yeah
Microsoft LifeCam everywhere already
very important question from Chris right
hey Chris right please a scrubby how
commander tom is commander tom is doing
really good he's over there he's
swimming near the surface right now and
you can see the waters clean yeah always
clean
he smells all the time though he's like
stinkier than me ice I tell you like
these fish I mean they stink on the fish
it's gotta be the food he is belly down
Chris right yeah no he's doing good he's
doing good I don't know you can't really
see him Heather's just going over to
take a shot of him but he's there on the
on the fireplace mantel so yeah he's a
happy boy place of honor
all righty anymore time for question he
appreciates your fan mail - you know I
think that's all the time that we have
for for tonight but yes well the mailbag
is just filling up we love receiving
your questions it's live at category 5
TV - send those in to us and thank you
so much for sending them and we do our
best to keep up with them over the next
couple weeks you'll notice that we've
left some space in the calendar and
that's because we want to fill in with a
lot of the viewer questions that are
kind of pending answers so thank you so
much Rachel good to see you as always
yeah nice to be here again and see all
these new people
in the channel and everything new
viewers on first-run TV this week we've
got new viewers on YouTube of course
subscribing to our channels where else
blip TV thank you so much for joining us
blip TV blip TV I can't make the sound I
want to call them like yep sounds like
they're censoring their real name yeah
you can find us all the time 24/7
category-five TV if you can't catch us
live you can catch us there on demand
you can use those cool features that
allow you to zoom into particular
portions of the episode how cool is that
category 5 TV so have a great week
swissandy thanks for joining us tonight
drumstick a Jameson who else we got DN
LS Garbi FM a boo there's so many of us
I never you never get to the bottom of
the list but Dennis Kelly nice to see a
Dave may do fantastic seeing you gee pop
seven good guy Eric Andrews thanks
everybody
eight miles from TJ have a great week
and you at home make sure you tune in
again next week have a good one and
thanks for joining us tonight see ya
thank you - is this sexy pose
oh yes - get ready to make a really
dorky face ready hold it hold it
yeah yeah and we're off
Thank You YouTube of course can still
see us and hear us and hangouts again I
don't know if anyone wants to chat or
not tonight thanks John that was fun
how'd you like the cartoon oh I just did
it with like stick figures I just kind
of moved them around the screen it's the
best I could do
yeah so she provided the Photoshop
document I just took the layers and just
move them around and then wrote the
script and had Bill Berkeley come in and
read it for me well he does but he he
holds it back like he's learned to he's
yeah he's learned to kind of mellow it
out a little bit so just from being here
for a long time yeah but it worked yeah
Oh could you imagine that would be
hilarious I'd love to do it but the work
like if I guess if you had all the
characters all kind of already
programmed in and you could just let
them go but that's so much work okay
you're like okay here's a pen
