welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's give here's your host Ravi
Ferguson welcome to episode number 200
of category 5 technology TV it is great
to have you here and we've got some
fantastic guests who are going to be
joining us tonight right here in studio
one of them is trying to get on camera
right there so get into the chat room
category 5 TV on freenode its category 5
make sure you check us out and make sure
you join us there tonight we are
stepping outside of format in order to
celebrate our 200th episode and to start
before we before we start welcoming our
special guests into the hot seat we're
going to take a look back at the past
200 episodes and not in real time I was
saying don't worry it's not going to be
in real time but we're going to take a
look back and we're going to have a look
at exactly how far category 5 TV has
come in the past 200 episodes
we can get started with that yeah I try
to read and talk at the same time
because the stein Stein guard was
telling me that that's that's the one
downfall about the show is when I'm
reading the chat room I'm just kind of
sitting here like this and it's kind of
boring to watch so I was thinking you
know I could hum a tune I could you know
i was getting get a sound effect machine
or something program the jeopardy theme
song in that do good something like that
no so hopefully you guys don't mind but
I think eventually what would be really
cool is having a second host somebody
who can come on the show and carry the
show while I'm reading the questions
things like that like to introduce our
co-host Karrie Webb was joining us for
the first time tonight sounds like we've
got people from all over the world this
week posting in the viewer testimonial
it's great to hear from everybody and
certainly if you are joining us tonight
from Florida I'd like to hear from you
that's kind of find out how the weather
is down there I understand if you're not
able to be here live during the
broadcast but that certainly where our
thoughts and prayers are with you and
hope that everything is well with
everybody down there so what's you carry
well not to me you are a self-professed
non-geek absolutely grade nine business
are they go I can email and run the chat
room so okay so speaking of running in
chat room what's going to happen here
tonight it's gonna be quite a bit
different and of course it's going to
take a couple of episodes for Kerry and
I in particular to get used to the way
things are going to be working but
essentially you know if you have any
questions for me during the broadcast
you're going to be posting this in chat
room in category 5 CD and Kerry is going
to make sure that I don't miss your
question so that's that kind of what
she's there for and she's also I
couldn't be taking over email as well so
when you send in your email live a
category 5 feet she'll be able to answer
those for you all right so tonight is
that we're going to be stepping out of
our usual format because tonight as
always expression to the crowd just
before the show we'd like to kind of
look over the past year of category 5
technology TV and go over how things
have been going in our first year of
broadcasting with category 5 let you
kind of know especially those of you who
have never watched the show what it is
that we do at category 5 technology TV
so essentially category 5 started as a
dream of mine back in 2005 now you
should understand what I do is I'm an IT
technologist so so I provide services
for computer company companies I service
their computers and take care of their
networks and things like that so one of
the things that I started to see as a
trend is that companies like that you
know people would have personal issues
with their computers wanting to know how
to do this or that and not necessarily
being able to hire an IT to take care of
that answer for them so so I set out to
find a unique way to be able to provide
free technical support for for those
very users and that's what what came
about with category 5 so from two
thousand five to two thousand seven
basically was just the the preliminary
step of getting category five ready and
and getting our everything put together
and then in September of 2007 we
launched with our first ever live
broadcast so it's been a very exciting
ride since then
starting out I mean we look at numbers
we brought some pronounced with us just
to kind of let you know where we've come
from and where we are now yeah it's
pretty amazing like in march march nine
even 2008 he had 211 viewers and now
very proud of that that's awesome that's
correct so we're looking at numbers here
per week okay so these are viewers bye
week and these are based on our server
logs so we have a an aggregator that
breaks down those numbers and tells us
how many people were watching that week
so mmm and then looking down further in
June up to 344 in July 721 and august 10
that was the highest number of viewers
who we had 60 1821 viewers and that
those who watch the streams in the
archives to rest that's just the podcast
so that's like so that's one week of
people who are subscribed via miro
iTunes people who have iPods that want
to be able to watch the show syndicated
and things like that so we jump from now
my first show we had five viewers this
was episode number one we had five live
viewers and I was really really
impressed with that Tyler's joining us
tonight I think he was one of those
viewers and great to see you by the way
and so going from that to 200 viewers in
one week was really exciting and then we
started to see that you know people were
really taking to category 5 because it's
not only free tech support but it's a
global medium for people to be able to
ask their questions and that's exactly
how we set it up people are able to join
us in the chat room we have our
computers carries got her chat room
there I've got my chat room here we keep
email open at all times and when we're
in the studio back at our at my place we
also have a phone line there as well for
people to be able to call in from all
over the world so so we get a number of
questions each week a number of people
join us in the chat room right now great
to see everybody who's in the chat room
tonight we've got chasa Linux there I
can't even go through the list we've got
rag I see Pope he is joining us papi
good to see you and Robbie I watched the
very first episode the other night okay
you watched episode one I did watch
episode one and it was amazing just to
see the picture quality's change and
didn't have you didn't have that funky
intro tune that I like so much we didn't
have that in for sale you know what it
was it's not that I didn't have that I
was produced by Mick rip and a good
friend of mine from Australia but I
didn't have the ability to play it on
the stream ok and then in the later
episodes we actually started putting a
microphone up to a speaker pushing play
on the on the theme song so that you
hear the theme song so now obviously
everything is quite a bit more
technologically advanced and certainly
like this is the first time that we've
ever had to box everything up bring it
to another venue and then set it up
again so today has been quite the
exciting day so but yeah looking at
those numbers just going back to that
hitting 60 1821 viewers in one week back
in August yes scream it out yeah that
was just outstanding amazing and the
trend before that like we hit 19
thousand two weeks before that or three
weeks before that and then up to it it
stayed around there 18,000 34,000 in
August and what happened there is that
we got featured on the front page of
Miro internet TV and that's a program
that people can install on their
computer they can syndicate the program
in kind of like the same sort of way
that iTunes works with audio mural
internet TV works with internet
television programs people can tune in
to their favorite internet TV program so
we happen to have so many people
subscribed to category 5 at that point
because of our feature on the website
mural internet TV that that just gave us
that boom that we needed to to really
you know increase the viewership so and
we've been consistent ever since didn't
you wipe out a server or something yeah
speaking of what happened this year back
and now Kerry started just in in
mid-august a so yeah that's what it
looks like and just around that time
because we had the 61 thousand viewers
and then we're averaging about
forty-five to fifty thousand viewers per
week now our web host we had everything
you know put your eggs in one basket
right it's great it's cheap and you know
we put all of our MP for all of our
streaming video files on one server so
it turns out that we got so popular with
mural internet TV so many people were
downloading it on Wednesday morning
after our Tuesday broadcast that we
actually took down an entire server farm
so we're talking about
every website every client of this
server farm was completely offline
during that time so we got a very polite
email from the ISP saying we need you to
move off of our server and within a
couple of days we found a new host of
blip TV and they've been able to provide
us a very economical solution and that's
been working out great for us as well
for RSS feed so and this is kind of
difficult doing this without my switcher
now so we don't have end credits we
don't have anything it's just us and
we'll just be like okay now we're gonna
turn off our camera you want me to beat
Bob yeah please totally just change what
the show is all about I know yeah so now
to fill up the reservoir we don't want
to start pouring directly from the
refill tank because of course if you
spill it's going to cost quite a mess so
we're gonna use George over here just
squeeze the air out of him
ok
what's the word ubuntu mean to you and
why did you choose to go with the word
of them to ask the as the name of your
desktop linux operating system it has a
very special meaning it means this is
the essence of being a person and
particularly the idea that the
relationships between people are what's
really important and for South Africans
I'm South African and deficit Africans
kind of represents the the triumph of
bringing people together to bring their
best talents together for everybody's
benefit and so it just seems like a
wonderful word to use for for the name
of the project this one's from Thomas
Thomas says I've tried the new jati and
I saw that mana was on it and then I got
excited but unfortunately if you don't
know what mono is it's a free version
microsoft silverlight are in our in rage
because it's nice that word on ice is
that bad no it's literally okay yeah
sorry sorry we apologize on behalf of
category we're read an email here
guys come on because it's by myself a
lot I don't like
oh wow we shouldn't have to censor your
email I guess get that one Robbie you
can you through that later all right
I'll read through it later sorry for
those who are listening so Mia we just
like to thank you for joining us I'm
doing a feature on category 5 TV Andrew
says well tonight's show is going to be
bittersweet we're losing our wonderful
coast but not in vain she's going to
bigger and better things to help heal
the world with their smile and our
skills as a nurse thank you so much for
those of us who have watched the show
long enough to know that what it was
like before Kari we know she helped
bring sanity to the web of frustrating
tech babble that asking too loves that
much Robbie will have a hard time
finding a replacement to fill her shoes
for sure good luck in your new job carry
your category 5 family will miss you
hope you will stop in once in a while
for sure even if it's just as a guest
best of luck in your future endeavors
and God bless thank you very much and
i'll definitely stop back in fact we've
got the first and second anniversary
yeah two years okay yeah crazy
lots of people joining us a lots of
people it's been a long time since I've
been here Christie we're talking just
before the show I was like as its
seriously been like more than six months
yeah yeah I think it's been about six
yeah are you talking about the one where
you were where it was black and white
and you look like it goes that was 96
that was when we first got the lights
yeah so this week we did there was the
first one where you were chalk white I'm
kind of white anyways but you know it's
actually thinking I need to like get out
there and hit the streets and start
looking for a sponsor that's a tanning
salon okay yeah how would you like that
where we could just do your makeup that
way like spray on the face can get a
fake tan I'd be like completely bronze
and then your teeth never lonely tuesday
nights yeah his tea light will glow glow
in the dark hypercolour Technicolor like
like what's it called black light
that'll be on ina to be great 100
episodes 0 when I started this thing it
was me with a webcam literally I've seen
a lot of changes yeah we are joined
tonight by Hillary who is joining us for
the first time tonight and we're in a
mad scramble tonight it's madness chaos
absolutely
joining us in the chat room is great to
have you there and people say where is
Christy Christy say hello to everybody
hey how you doing surprise surprise
christy is our new news anchor at the
category 5 technology TV news desk it's
great to have you there send me your
weather yeah she's watching the channel
through your weather google has
announced it has begun to phase out
support for internet explorer 6 web
designers everywhere have been saying it
for years update your browser or switch
to firefox but having a giant such as
google finally put their foot down
should be a wake-up call for those who
still use the nine-year-old browser that
has forced expensive browser
compatibility service fees and is said
to have many resulted in the web being
held back from many potential
technologies with twenty percent of web
users reportedly still using this
antiquated browser web development
companies have continued to sometimes
futile effort of making it work with
their web services and so we reiterate
the voice of your local web developer
upgrade IE or better yet switch to
firefox well some speculate that the
entire project is a waste of money and
resources geeks and nerds are excited
what this could mean for when we
populate the moon perhaps then and only
then will we realize how incredibly
important it is to drill a giant hole
into our planet nonetheless you have to
admit it's a pretty cool drill while
Robbie was at work yesterday he was
called home early when it was discovered
that someone had smashed the patio door
leading to the category 5 TV studio and
made off with some equipment the thief
was easily able to wrap up Hillary's
laptop along with one of our 2 DV
cameras and a few lesser items forensic
experts from the very police department
were unable to establish solid evidence
as to who the criminal was and it's not
expected the hardware will be recovered
fortunately no one was home at the time
and the cat hid himself under a bed a
fund has been set up to allow able
viewer
to show their support in helping
replenish what was lost and we thank you
sincerely for your support to find out
more please visit our website at triple
w category five dot TV for those who are
unable to show support through this
financially we want you to know that we
appreciate your loyal viewership and for
standing by us if your thoughts and
prayers in robbie's words is read from
the category five dot TV the show must
go on are you talking about okay we
you're seriously not listening to that
what she's actually getting scared she's
bumping things in it okay look what you
will hit ok this is never wondered yes
we are ready to starboard what are you
doing now I haven't selected anything
yet having the choice i can either
require my password to login or require
my password to login and to decrypt my
home folder hmm what do i do it's up to
you hilary park I don't know pretty
weather fans Burton now some viewers
have mentioned that they have sent like
viet a card or whatever just to say
farewell to our postal box they have not
arrived yet so so this just card from us
and sign from the whole community but
also what we did is on the news article
that you saw like all the comments from
viewers and stuff so back in thank you
so much for those nice little comments
just just so you don't ever forget how
appreciated you've been here at the
community and with the viewers and
everything we've we've written out those
comments for you oh so that you've got
them on on the recipe cards
we love Kristi Burton oh we're gonna
miss you a ton o lion good luck oh I'm
gonna miss you guys so much and here
they are the little cards with all the
comments thank you Oh miss you guys I
can't stand up cuz I'm wired I hug on
behalf of the entire community hugs
well as you can imagine tonight's show
is going to be quite a bit different
than the usual broadcast from our
studios in Barry because here I am in
the great outdoors eagle lake ontario
speaking of ruling the world hilary
sprung some news on me this week haha
it's something that you've been mulling
over because you're trying to figure out
okay future and yeah so Hillary is
actually going to be taking a sabbatical
from a show for for a short time longer
than we would like but i'll let you kind
of fill us in on what's going on and you
got accepted at school I was it's a
broadcast journalism program partially
accepted because of my efforts on this
show actually isn't that one of the we
gotta stop we got to block all the
school being well they looked me up for
whatever and we're checking out some of
my stop and then saw me on here and one
of the admissions officer I was like oh
I saw your st. Patrick's Day episode and
I was like oh thank you anyways so i
will be doing that so for a few months
that's sounds exciting though that's
cool i was is journalism something that
you wanted to be into yeah for a while
now I kind of um jack of all trades
master of none but journalism was
definitely one of my areas of interest
so gonna pursue it a little further and
see what happens this is I think
category five is a very cool launchpad
but this launch is coming back down to
earth just like that rocket ship that
you were telling me about a couple
exactly yeah yeah on the news ones just
going up to orbit for just a little bit
of time and
crashing down gotta get my wings and
then land back here well safe back in
our studio in eight months so it's a
Hillary hiatus but don't you worry
people I'll be back periodically so you
never know when I will turn up I just
might show up and you'll be like oh
they're still reef I'm joined by my good
friend Eric Kidd tonight hey wait a
minute where's your pocket protector
dude do they know you've been watching
the show for three years they know
that's nothing they know and love you I
ones runnin why why you where did you
find me if I felt sorry for the lad he
look so homely you can see myself there
and it this is actually a channel on
Wirecast there I am on my microsoft
lifecam
and I can move this around the screen
that's on the green screen because using
chroma key there I am
so I can place myself there turn on
chroma key and now I've got this
seamless I put myself there because it
would hide the fact that I have no legs
because as a matter of fact this is how
the screen actually looks in reality so
with this picture for example I'm able
to get myself and I can position myself
anywhere on the screen that I like I can
zoom in and out
to make it work with the scene because
you want to make sure that everything
looks like it's proportional to the
scene itself and now if that's what I
save that's where it's going to place me
on the scene for my close-up shot
or let's use the bridge view for example
you'll notice that I'm actually sitting
behind the console this effect was
accomplished using an application called
GNU image manipulation program he writes
that he is greatly missed the day-to-day
interaction with customers and partners
that he has had while working in the
trenches with past employment and that
this is a part of what has made him
realize that while being a CEO always
good experience it's not quite what he
wants it's interesting to know yeah that
the people are watching who can't
necessarily here that's very nice to
have you here now we have them working
with YouTube's and Google's
speech-to-text I'm very excited about
what the service could entail but I'm
not too excited about the accuracy oh
like is it like okay you know how on ye
olde television when you were to put
closed captioning up it wouldn't
recognize some words it would be like
mom like that kind of let's just say
they've gone one step further and
they've compared the room where I went
on to a dictionary hello and said
phonetically
who this sounds like this oh and it just
starts randomly slapping in words gotcha
but don't really have anything to do
with what's being said this is last
week's episode I would like to see just
the intro all right pay attention okay
what you're a go to experience is a free
now let's begin
here's your host Bobby Ferguson's
welcome to this episode number 169
category 5 technology TV i'm your host
Ravi Ferguson and I'm Eric good
I didn't know that Erik was an
anti-american just something I realized
I had no clue eric is not a dimeric I'm
just so you know all of our lovely
American viewers those are real captions
from google is so funny this could be
you know your hard drive has crashed and
fortunately were you were smart and
you've created a clonezilla backup copy
an image of your computer two weeks ago
right and you've got it there like I
said it only took 30 minutes so what's
what's keeping you from doing this kind
of thing this is something you really
want to do you've just got your computer
set up exactly the way you like it and
before your kids start mucking around
with it and before anything else starts
at anything at all for an imaging
shutter decides of work like to welcome
crystal wells who's joining us in studio
tonight and you'll be able to kind of
talk a little bit about what you do but
Krista is a professional graphic
designer here with her Mac professional
to show us how to build websites we're
actually starting a series tonight we
talked about it a few weeks ago where we
are taking it right from the get-go
building a website right from graphic
design and concept all the way up to
programming and actually building it
into an actual websites we're talking
about how I was trying to push a boon to
linux on you and they felt bad for you
that well gamers are just not so sure
you know so I changed your mug this week
I don't know if Angie valves can see
that it is indeed yeah it's a spongebob
month now he had a game with the
endorsements I would rather it be in a
boon to but in order to make that
compromise we also have to viewer said
you know we're so offended about this
one particular thing on the show and you
really need to start censoring some of
the content of the show so happy to
oblige our viewers we are introducing
censorship this week which we don't like
to do but we are going to censor the
show just a little bit so there we go oh
you're kidding
I don't approve oh my poor Mac that's
for you
the evening is gonna be fresh gonna go
downstairs good breath of news got a
double check my kids sitting up
everything let's get going cameras on my
time everybody's reason to get things Oh
gotta watch the clock and not seem to
gene you win now it's time to be
it's Tuesday
a Tuesday
tuesday
card again
yesterday was Monday two day is Tuesday
it's gonna be fantastic so fantastic
we're gonna have a
tomorrow is Wednesday and Thursday comes
out
is gonna be really
went to the deck
I want to
dick show
and cardigan
this is episode number 200 of category 5
technology TV and it's so fantastic to
have you here neat to see a bit of a
look back especially those first ones
those are just amazing how far the show
was common and it's been such an amazing
ride and we've got some wonderful people
here tonight Kristin of courses are one
of our current co-hosts and and she's
joining us we've got Kerry Webb who has
never seen the Tuesday video it's cat
five dot TV / tuesday if you'd like to
see the whole video don't know if you
caught the the end there where we ride
to do a pan of the basically our viewer
locations map and one of the things that
that just astounds me over the years and
just how the show has grown is how we
have viewers all over the place and and
Germany and Germany is a massive massive
viewership and it's so great to have you
here I know who actually have Dominic
who is joining us for the third time
tonight not the first but has joined us
three times so far he's joining us from
Germany and among good company with lots
and lots of viewers over there and and
everywhere in the world we seem to have
a really great representation of yours
yeah that's it you don't really think
about that either you just kind of think
like you're doing the show you don't
really know or assume that everyone's
worldwide like that and we're looking at
a camera and yeah everyone looks like I
read cannon to me so so it's interesting
yes it's it's amazing to envision that
many people actually here with us and we
try to keep that perspective that we are
you know we're in your in your office in
your living room on your mobile device
and
and the interaction is there's always a
lot of fun as well the chat room is a
great way to get to get in touch with us
and always enjoy that I've got a couple
of new viewers bald scribe is joining us
from Ohio for the first time tonight in
our chat room a category 5 TV great to
see you and also we've got P to B and I
didn't catch where P to B is from but
hey it is great to have you joining us
tonight for the first time as well
anyone else who's joining us for the
first time make sure you say hey we are
not sticking to format tonight as our
usual show but we wanted to just kind of
take some time to reminisce with you the
viewers and and with us the the on-air
staff and the people who volunteer for
category 5 and make the show happen for
for you and and for myself and you came
along Krista at know you lured me in
yeah she did this he's like just um just
one show that's all and I was like okay
I'll come for the one show and then and
then the show's always like oh so see
you next week I was like a homo I'm skin
but I think it was kind of like well
that was kind of fun will you let me
come back oh so you're saying I was
begging to come back here huh I guess no
one will ever know I I think that when I
when I first asked you two to be a part
of the show that i had a just from past
experience that I had a little suspicion
that i was super awesome you might have
some fun and that you might find that
the community is amazing group of people
who even though we can't see you we get
your viewer images sent to us by email
every week live at category 5 TV we've
got you joining us in the chat room
during the live show there's always a
good number of people who are joining us
in the live chat room and then we hear
from you through the week with your
emails and so I think it's I think it's
fun to be a part of the show a lot of
fun so what has been you know you're the
newest one here mm-hmm my new be still
yeah so I have been having fun and and
so far yeah yeah it's still like
possibility for a downslide what's
Robbie you never know you never know
yeah what's been a memorable moment or
something about the show that you you
know you go home on a Tuesday night
anything now that this particular thing
about the show was was great you know
one of the moments I I just every time I
think category 5 no I can't help it it's
like the most the funniest the most
embarrassing and the most memorable all
in one and it's when I was a little over
enthusiastic about the news and then
Robbie laughs and then I laughs and then
I'm crying about the news because I
can't stop laughing that was a great
moment and I still got emails to this
day that say what what happened is she
on episode you'll have to you'll have to
watch back at some of the previous
episodes to see what happened but that
was yeah what happened there i I just
viewers want to know I mean I get email
saying what happened well there was a
shocking better news and I can't
remember what it was about either and I
just felt it needed like if somebody
would like a limb to Jay a little
punctuation I sounds like ah you know
and then apparently that wasn't needed
and Robbie thought is hilarious and then
I start laughing was my fault i would i
would have just continued on I mean had
you not started laughing we were fun so
it's not it was all my fault so now you
know it was Robbie's fault but watch
back at the clip and you'll see the
crystal started laughing first be
careful so that's kind of like a
memorable end I'm Barry and embarrassing
the same time that's kind of a little
package neat little wrapper there hmm
yeah knowing a little bit about you know
getting to know the community and and
what we do here on the show and again
because krista is the newest member of
our on-air team what does category five
mean like what do you see category 5 as
be at the community or what does it mean
to you as far as looking forward and
yeah that's a kind of a tough question
you know the community is great and and
something that I think needs to be
improved on in the future is a more mac
coverage
enjoy the same little prejudiced like I
feel like I'm cheating on my back right
now with this thing she's gonna Soren OS
running it's pretty sleeping yeah but
but really I mean I've learned so much
about pcs and non Mac platforms um that
more than I would ever want to know
really but I mean it helps everyone else
and you like talking about it so the
show hello nan max all about non-mac
stuff yeah I think it's important I my
perspective as far as the mac and
windows thing goes is that there are Mac
shows that already exist mm-hmm there
are Mac centric broadcasts there are
windows centric broadcasts out there
lots of them most of them in fact are
going to be about Windows but there are
Mac ones already out there so linux is a
i guess you would call it like a niche
market or an area of it has no tag a lot
of coverage it just doesn't have the
same level of of people like us who are
willing to step out and say ok I'm going
to dedicate a massive amount of time to
providing support for this product and
and I think linux is a fantastic product
and and so you know if if i'm going to
be that that guy or one of those guys
then then that's what i want to do so to
give you some perspective as to oh no I
and things are a little Lin eccentric at
times but at the same time I was saying
to Jodi before the show that we do try
to keep things on all different levels
that's not always easy because of the
fact that if we wanted to demonstrate
windows seven we would have to have a
windows 7 system running in order to
show it if we want to demonstrate
kubuntu we have to have a moon to system
running which is fine because my systems
running Lubuntu so justice or so so just
bring it there's a convenient thing yeah
look at that yeah I understand all that
but I mean I feel someone's got to make
fun of Robbie like take him down a notch
and otherwise she does this very well Oh
Eric is that is actually volunteering
thank you sir thank you sir but I other
other than that I mean it's it's uh
usually 24 hours/day can be found like
plugging away behind my computer so or
information behind my camera yeah well
no no the thought I said read between
the lines hmm I was going to say it's
interesting to be on the other end of
the camera or you know be like
interacting with actual people instead
of my email all day or yeah you know
stuff like that yeah I guess I just to
way because being the nature what what
you and I both do is that you were very
much looking at the airstream whereas
here people are looking at that I've
your screen and we're there weird yeah
so cool ish so you're having fun and
enjoying it and it's yeah always great
to have you here I I could say you know
thank you too to you for being a part of
the show and it's and it's like it seems
like okay we could say thank you or I
could no no I'm just like it's like but
we don't really what do you do that on
this channel is it you know category 5
started having seen some of those clips
you realize that category 5 started as
just me with a webcam as I said so being
where we are now and
and continuing to grow is an exciting
thing for me because as you saw in the
clips there one of the things that I was
struggling with when I first started the
show up until you know it was episode 30
where I said i really wish i had a
co-host because that person could
offload the the chat room and be able to
be pre-reading questions while I'm
explaining other things and that's
exactly where you know yourself where
you come in and all the other co-hosts
who are involved in the show so for me
it's a great thing but also I think it
improves the quality of the broadcast
for the viewers and so so I appreciate
that and I appreciate every animal hosts
as a part of the show but it's nice
having you a part of the show as of late
so no it's great that you actually lured
me into it I know and I'm still here so
yeah obviously I'm obviously having fun
so we're doing it i strategically set up
that hole 12 week series just so that it
would be yeah we're doing web design and
that's what you do so you know maybe you
could come and help them yeah very
tricky like what 15 16 17 18 weeks later
sounds like that realism cool cool well
thanks for being here tonight oh no
problem any questions for for Krista you
can message for in the chat room right
now like I say this is category 5 TV
this is episode number 200 so we're
doing things differently tonight and
just kind of just looking back and
giving you a chance to to just kind of
hang out with us here on the show we'd
love to you know if you have questions
for Krista for myself just to say hi hey
Becca Becca is joining us but she's
minding the kids at the same time
great to see everybody in the chat room
yeah switch it up Scorpio 55 commenting
that there's no phone live phone call
ins like the old days Kerry do we have
phone Collins but not really yeah that
could that was an adventure sometimes we
should talk about that because you never
knew what was going to happen sometimes
they were from all over the world yeah
and and what ended up and sometimes what
would happen is it would be really
difficult to get the question and then
interpret and and make sense of it in
such a way that live on the air so so
there's some stories there but Eric was
wondering if we ever had to censor
anybody unfortunately we were we were
really fortunate that that nobody really
required censorship there was a point
where we introduced moderators in the
chat room because it came down to that
and we appreciate our moderators to I
don't give our moderators enough credit
but everybody that you see in the chat
room who who is at the top with a star
beside them or an @ symbol those are our
moderators and they kind of keep things
running smoothly for us because that was
another thing that happened where we
just couldn't keep up with the chatroom
and moderating at the same time
basically censoring the chat room so so
we appreciate their their involvement
over the past long while as well it did
anyone send in any questions for you
know what I dog have destruction they're
just talking away Hey oh look it's
krista oh john says that he thinks eric
is actually going to chase me away every
time I
well we're not intentionally takimoto
great to see a final blogger yeah
alright well we'll give foul it's great
having you here i'm gonna give eric a
chance to come and sit down and chat so
i can you want to switch microphones
we're at all right that's great Wow
what's a category 5 technology TV is a
category five dot TV it's so great to
have you here for our 200th episode and
just having a nice time to reminisce
with you and and give you a chance to
interact with current co-hosts and and
people who have been on the show in the
past and and eric is joining us Eric kid
who o is very stylish tonight as a
matter of fact your mic on hey how do
you like it looks really really alright
see my god I think my mics on yeah
you're on can you hear me we've lost the
windscreen so we'll need to find the
windscreen and I will try to not huff
and puff and do anything too well crazy
like that well hey kids good to be home
hey kid but next to say yeah you've been
away for some time well like I said he
called me one day and said you know I've
come up with somebody way more charming
and better looking and the kids out
there and nobody had five land love me
true it's not what I sand yeah so we
don't get along at all though and that's
the problem so no it's a we've missed
happening on the show what actually
happened and I think you understand this
and you understand Krista broke all the
gear Krista broke it all up yeah chase
me away bro colleagues hear him into our
student and she's way better looking in
larger no sir she had the nerve to plug
in a Mac into our network are you knew
how dare you so anyways what what ended
up happening after the surge is that we
lost the ability to stream from multiple
cameras we lost two of our microphones
so then you know I'm still you know
where they can do and we're getting
we're on loan or hardware tonight to get
us through as well before we replace
that so and things seem to be going
fairly well so that's good yeah you know
and then that you know the Tuesday video
you know I got a lot of you were
fantastic fan mail from that yeah
actually I think it was your wife sent
me one yeah yeah say how awesome you
were well actually I got a lot of
comments like YouTube and email that say
because some people don't even know that
that's Eric kid they just know this guy
is well going at this music video on my
way cool green shirt that used on st.
Patty's Day a couple of times so as your
favorite in the Tuesday video cat five
TV / tuesday your comments about that so
when can we expect you back do you know
i am here denied work yes is a day yeah
but heck I'm as soon as you know we're
ready to go I'd like to make the odd
appearance fantastic if crystal will
allow cuz ask myself if I if I get a hat
can I be in absolutely okay I have a
cowboy hat you can be in with or without
the Hat sure alright so thinking back
over category five you've been with us
for quite a while and you started here
as you know you're my buddy and and we
thought ought to be fun to be on the
show and hang you invited me over for
coffee next thing you know there's a
camera in my face it all good that's
always day night yet heavens what are we
doing it why is mine area mighty you
mind sitting there what could you read
the odd thing for me urk look at that
screen over there yes okay um so with
you know your involvement in the show
what has been something that's memorable
do you have a particular memory that you
think hey then I don't know there's been
a lot of fun I actually really really
did get a kick out of your closed
captioning debacle um you know and we
got you know we got complaints and we
got I got death threats for the ante
America
and you know and the pride people
weren't happy about the intro so no wait
was no that was a lot of fun they are
having way too much fun bag there's a
lot of fun yet I hope you're having fun
at home oh yeah the people in the other
room the life in the room is it what's
going on in there what the heck yeah hey
I stole this from dr. was fun I'm where
that was he time your life that was that
didn't got an inside magnet you know i
said yeah i was thinking I'm in now I
mean what I really wanted to do was when
Robbie was on camera break one of the
balloons and see how that ago but I'm
trying to act like an adult tonight hey
too late or do you think it could happen
could happen could happen if you have
any questions for Eric in the he's
locked in his co-host co-host so make
sure you say hi yeah and you notice I
only were were the hockey equipment one
time hmm what was new jersey a couple
times yeah but only wore the gear oh
that was Halloween a worthy you know
hockey equipment it was it was talking
with the mouth guardian but but that was
fun this has reminded you of that yeah
dressed in Star Trek arm that is exactly
would the whole outfit night I have my
skates on which was really dangerous
under the test but trying to play
footsies with me here yes so no no it's
been fun and in the folks in the chat
room are pretty good natured and they're
willing to call me to task if I
mispronounce something but actually one
of my favorite things is correct in your
English or your pronunciations but
everyone's a mildly kicks me under the
table for that so I've behaved myself
there tonight to the most inert yeah
okay yeah yeah so so any embarrassing
moments on the show that pretty trainer
always trying to come over Oh somebody
take money off the top of an
embarrassing I don't get embarrassed too
easily i mean i mispronounce the odd
thing only Chris Reich is gonna call you
on that yes unlike me who has to sit
next to you and have
me every time I don't know I'm he does
it so kindly though he writes it down
and I usually so I think it's an
important know like your mic is off and
it's like it's pronunce for pronounce
yeah it's demo nandi mo bettah is baie
de nada bout that huh it's money bad as
a picture no I don't know me so sorry I
said I was gonna try to act like more of
an adult watching for um I've had a
couple of requests to grow the beard
back comments yeah I think you look look
good without the beard that's my hockey
stick scars a little bit I think
pronounced sometimes I think alike we
were in and even though the clip was
hilarious with the with the closed
captioning one of the fact true fact is
that we do have hearing impaired
individuals who Greg watch the show and
I understand that and I've been told
that they read our lips ah so when you
had the beard it was difficult for them
that's my story but it's all if that's
true of you pop us an email and i'll
i'll forward it on to eric facility
knows not to grow back the beard i may
grow back because this shaving every day
is really really becoming a tedious
that's tough julius you have to get up
and go to work indeed yeah no no it's
been a great run i really enjoyed the
folks in the chat room i really enjoyed
all the co-hosts even the one who won't
let me come back most days his foe
bitterness so once we get the the system
replaced we get the the camera and i'll
just randomly show up you're just going
to show out there and we're going to be
good to go now we've got our three
microphones these headsets we've got
three of these
that's all thanks to our community
supporting us and and and they've bought
us these three microphones but
unfortunately the adapter that allows us
to hook it into the to the XLR so that's
this guy you're not adopt well it didn't
they didn't work so well so the music
store music pro is still loaning me the
better adapter because the three that we
/ just didn't work so but I got an email
from him today saying out there that
they've ordered new ones they're gonna
be here next week well just beg for more
funding well no it's your foot in mouth
no no but but the fact is is that
they're on their way so we're gonna have
a microphone all right we'll have
another microphone sleeting come back
home so i'll come back in before the end
of the summer may be good and the best
thing i did all summer was i'll write an
essay and i'll make you listen to the
whole thing I'll read it okay yeah
that's it all right I'm gonna go and
hide over by the pretzels now I think
enjoy yeah thanks for being here akande
and the same thing goes for you as well
thank you for having me and yeah it's
it's a lot of fun having you here and
then you know we have a lot of fun and
tonight is is obviously laid back and
being episode number 200 we're just kind
of hanging out so but laid back you
didn't even make coffee tonight sorry I
was kind of running around yeah but it's
you know I love having you here I've
missed you I know the community is
missed having you here so we need to get
things straightened out so that you can
be that all right I will be back and I
was going to say I'll be here with bells
on but that would just be silly
yeah all right all right I'm gonna walk
away right it's gonna run away what you
mr. Eric in the chat room yes category
five dot TV for the check those cards
and letters coming in Thanks there this
is category five technology TV you'll
find us online triple w category five
dot TV and we'll get we'll get Jody to
join us next yeah now you you all know
her voice and we'll we'll let her talk
before I actually put her on camera so
you can try to try to picture Jody who I
don't believe we've ever seen because
what's interesting about my friendship
with Jody is that we've worked together
for we figured that we had worked
together for about 10 years so you're on
ok I think I'm on sale so before you
come on camera just ok introduce the
show or say something about category
five and hello toward oh that's all you
got there's hate mail no meaning the jad
this is Jody Crangle joins us tonight
for the first time we've never actually
met in person I know this was the first
this was actually the first time yeah
yeah needs to be so Jody has been the
the image voices the term but the voice
of category 5 4 must be players for the
been a couple years I think so cuz we
did that we did the brother giveaway yes
where we gave away the mfc 6490 CDW as a
member yeah with perfect diction I love
doing that one yeah that was fun so when
Jody and I worked together basically
i'll email you a script and enjoy gi's
the voice of course as you as you hear
off the top of the show introducing
category 5 TV and and introducing myself
as well but being that we've never met
it's all done through the internet yeah
interesting how high speed internet is
revolutionized the ability to produce
our theme song was produced by
a friend of mine who I've never met who
that's pretty is in Australia and he
produced it in Australia and he sent it
over to me yeah so it's interesting how
the Internet has changed our world is
far I've done vocals like for singing
yeah for a friend of mine named Chris
Conway who's in the UK we've
collaborated and he's put some stuff on
his CDs and stuff and we've just like
that yeah I mean I got through the
internet yeah well I have my own little
home studio so I have to I have to be
ready to do this at a moment's notice so
your involvement with category 5 up to
now has been strictly that as that we
send a script and I'm not used to being
here yeah this is weird you know I never
do it just kind of weird a because your
voice and I actually will see
commercials on cable TV where it's
Jodi's voice and you've probably seen
some as well if you're in Canada or the
US so there's the voice but getting in
front of a camera that's not something
that you're used to yeah no I'm used to
being in front of microphones but not
and then like voice tracks to do type
yeah yeah usually so like a glass room
well my home studio is out a little less
complicated than that oh yeah the
bathroom in the basement no not quite
the matter no no we're we're in a
townhouse so actually I found that the
quietest room in our house is actually
the top floor my office which faces the
street strangely enough that tends to be
the quietest room the house I don't know
why that is I think it's because I have
less Rumble from like the furnace and
stuff oh yeah dare down down here in the
basement if someone's running around
upstairs not to name anyone but any one
of the kids yeah yeah it resonates down
here so be at maybe on the top floor
carpeting and stuff it's true yeah and I
have foam underneath the
legs of my mic stand s'okay its regards
it from the from the floor do you like
eggshells around the room I don't but I
have something called an essay
reflection screen so what is around your
money yeah it's just a little round
afternoon saying was what she's talking
about that yeah yeah so we ought to get
you to make make the trip and income
will talk about your studio I would be
interested in in line more how you do
what you do and I think the viewers may
may get a lot out of that as well yeah
as far as your involvement with category
5 getting scripts and reading those what
is your experience been and it's a
little different never been on on the
show itself but you've you've watched
the show and you was just a chat room
for a while I think with the with the
folks there like three or four episodes
I think after I actually heard my what
my insurer in there I always love
hearing it it's cool do you usually get
that chance where you voiced a spot or
whatever sometimes and I have some stuff
on blackberry right now on their YouTube
station and I've done a slice show
called in law wedding Wars which was fun
so I've seen a couple of those episodes
and what's what's the deal with that so
you go in and your voiceover for a
television show yeah but again you're
not on the screen no I'm not on the
screen I'm the last person they call
like it's all done and finished by the
time they call me in and then there's a
director and an engineer and they just
tell me how to do what I need to do and
I take good direction I hope and do what
they want me to do and it's all there
and they clean it all up and put it in
where it needs to be in and they get you
have a show yeah so just as a quick
little plug you here Jody and you're on
that show so being that you can be at
voice track or
do remote spot recording anywhere in the
world and ISDN connections and things
where can people go to to hire you you
would go to my website which is
voiceovers and vocals com he actually
spell out the a nd or you can go to Jodi
jod I Crangle with a k dot com and
either will get you to my website and
it's all there piece of cake voiceovers
and vocals that's a no fault yes damn it
is no haha the yummy choice so I noticed
that one of your category five spots
actually made it into one of your real
it did yes I love doing that brothers
thought it was just so much fun it was
great writing I have to say well written
and you know sometimes when you voice
stuff you just power through the script
and you do the best you can I mean it's
my job to make it sound good even if
this script is hmm not so great so yeah
I mean you make do and you do the best
you can and you make it breathe and live
and whatever you can do with it but when
you get scripts that are fun to read
then you really can have a good time
with it and I guess with me as I'm
writing stuff for you it's like it's
like a you know somebody writing a song
for a singer yeah you write it
specifically for their key and for their
time so as I'm writing things for you
I'm being okay well this this would
sound greatest yes Jody says this so I
just remember that sassy part not
anything so well how did she do that so
well so chat room what would you like to
hear Joey say and make sure it's not
saucy but okay cookies no no se like a
radio boy cookies pizza Wow our chat
room is very creative tonight they're
hungry is what they are Krista ate the
cookies says jog is that jot or
John okay so this this is your first
time seeing our studio and what's your
impression of category 5 as a whole I
think it's fantastic I mean it was great
being in the chat room just you know
seeing that end when I was at my own you
know honest just logging in and chatting
but it's fantastic to see it from this
end I like I said I'm not used to being
here right right and I see how much you
can do with a small space it really is
again yes revolutionized yeah how much
I'm looking forward to when you guys
have the server all up and running again
you can do your green screen that's
telling me yeah Star Trek stuff and yeah
Star Trek definitely has to be done one
beam into every other prosper I am such
a geek so we'll get you into the chat
room more often than say so
supercalifragilisticexpialidocious okay
yeah that's just hahaha now you're just
playing it's we obviously are hugely
appreciative of your bowing down your
talents and a handy I I think the
viewers understand that everybody who's
involved in the show does this on a
voluntary basis and I'm not gonna bait
is getting pain yeah sorry just all the
technology has a it has a nice you know
warm place in my heart so yeah I'm
really big into the technology myself so
I thought this would be really cool we
appreciate it so much that you're that
you're willing to loan your voice to us
ramadan the voice-over see if thats your
pleasure uh and i know i'm not doing i
were swearing sorry no good girl so
message you can message jodi off of her
website it was again voiceovers and
vocals calm okay great so visit visit
her website and if you have a need for
for her voice talent and I
I'll recommend that you give her a call
thank you so much for being here tonight
thank you for inviting me I appreciate
it geez okay thanks to that nice to see
you a nice to meet you likewise yes Jody
and I actually met it was interesting
how we met because I was doing some
programming for her for a radio website
that she was doing and so over the years
like I say it's been we figured tonight
that has probably been about 10 years
since we first started chatting so but
again but that was before you know the
whole high-speed boom and all that kind
of stuff so at that time we were working
with we were just working over the phone
and programming through dial up and
stuff like that and I do need to get
this girl on the show during a regular
broadcast because we were talking about
XTS before the broadcast and 386 s X's
and all that kind of stuff so we've got
a lot of interesting things five and a
quarter inch floppies and RLL hard
drives and fantastic stuff Karrie Webb
joins us tonight hello is your mic on
just double check perfect Karrie Webb is
joining us a high category five team
carry it is so nice to see you as always
it's great to be back looking at those
old slavery great to be back I was
laughing pretty hard rocky I think one
of the most embarrassing things was when
I I used that that geek swear word I
didn't even know and then probably my
roomie bleeping it out so funny that was
that was a good clip for sure chatroom
enjoyed that I don't even know I don't
know what if you would like to say hi to
carry the chat room is up on her screen
over here and she's she's there to
answer your questions and we'd love to
hear from from you to talk to Carrie
Carrie was my first co-host as he
gathered from from the intro clips and
and that was a big turning point for the
show and and you really ushered in the
whole new
of style of category 5 with your ability
to question me so gently and be like hey
what does that mean you know so so that
really may help me to realize that
having a co-host and somebody sitting in
this position is a really good chance
for us to keep things at a level where
yeah I can talk tech but the co-host can
keep us at I make sure that it's
understandable to to the the novice user
and that's what category 5 wants to be
is available to every level of users so
which I really appreciate it too because
coming onto the show I was a little
intimidated right cuz I I didn't know
anything and I still don't know too much
about technology and you really made it
you know real for me and applicable
that's cool i have used guilt yeah
mm-hmm awesome and did really well with
that I'm sure we've got series if you if
you want to but I could help you with
that I'm so proud of you thank you right
now I'm probably blushing thank yous the
GIMP on windows keyboard manner so
memorable moments on the show we had so
many I think one of them with with you
was obviously doing the first
anniversary show yeah was a really big
deal it was it was a huge amount of work
to get that show to happen from
coordinating the venue to actually
getting invitations out and getting
people to attend and and so we had a
live in studio audience in which we gave
away tons and tons of prizes I think
like yeah there were a lot fifty percent
of the show was literally just giving
away stuff so
yeah Jody mr. heaven yeah why aren't you
doing an episode 200 he says so that
that to me was a really special show and
I and I look forward to our fifth
anniversary when we do something similar
as well yeah on a probably a grander
scale mmhmm yeah that was definitely a
highlight for me because it was I hadn't
been on the show too long right fryer
and yeah ring it was a great
introduction and it was nice to see the
actual fans of the show mm-hmm and get
to meet them and see what it's all about
and and really I know you mentioned
earlier with Krista book the community
and that's definitely been a highlight
for me being on the show and getting to
interact with the communities that's a
really neat thing I got going on here
cool yeah I think so I think so looking
back at at the anniversary show what the
viewers may not understand is that what
happened to Krista kind of happened to
you in that Oh completely I had called
that plane Carrie Carrie was a bass
player for for you know i was playing
acoustic guitar and she was playing bass
and that's how we kind of met um so I
had asked her because at that time i was
looking for somebody to help with the
first anniversary show because i knew i
couldn't handle it by myself because
somebody had to walk around with a
microphone that was my original thinking
I think that's what when I called I said
like would you mind walking around the
microphone on getting people in the
audience to ask questions yeah and she
agreed and so you started a few weeks
before the anniversary show and then he
didn't leave for a long time I was a
long do here for quite a while so what
made you say I just it was kind of neat
it was it was calling me if I wear to
the night but yeah it was something
totally different and something I wasn't
used to and I enjoyed spending time with
you and Becca and the kids and yeah
ricans him yes 3k yeah congratulations
that's exciting you started we must did
we just have tally
mom knows equus necklace here okay Zack
was here just a little guy just very
little that's Thursday Wow time flies
yeah but I certainly didn't know what I
was getting into when you asked me yeah
I'm really thankful you did it was the
long run and we we had a lot of fun and
I think the viewers who were watching at
that time we do have quite a few viewers
who are still watching yeah and who
recognize you and who are in the chat
room even tonight and it's just it's so
cool to just you know be able to
reminisce with them yeah so but as far
as so okay embarrassing moments the
bleep anything else stand out in your
mind okay because we were I don't know
maybe guys behind the camera they are
being naughty we were thinking we can
create our own new embarrassing huh now
it's like no new embarrassing moment um
I don't know maybe maybe the viewers
would like to remind me yeah if there's
an embarrassing moment any questions for
Kerry as she's here I don't know was
always kind of embarrassing trying to
pronounce things yeah like the tech work
12 what else I say um I i mispronounced
canoe when to beckon or something hmm i
don't remember now no genome what I can
oh you didn't say like genome right no
no that that would be considered correct
but you said like Jeannot Jeannot mercy
it was a rapper turn yeah yeah very well
I'm pretty gangster Robbie yeah it can
be back it's been so fun having you here
tonight and we're we're over time and
that's cool
and I've welcome people to you know if
you've got questions for Kerry will
probably be around for a few minutes
after the show tonight but it's so nice
to have you here and joining us you know
as as you sometimes are able to do and
as work then going well I know you left
yeah pursue nursing and oh yeah yeah
it's excellent yeah I love my job I work
with great people and yeah so this is
completely different from my day job
that's nice too yeah the break is candy
most people who leave the show are going
into radio we're going into savvy as has
been the case so Hillary working in TV
and that Christie who has left us for
radio yeah and you went into nursing
yeah completely different yeah I work
with people not computers one day they
will be one in the same Carrie perhaps
pursue and I retire yeah you'll be the
first to know dick introduced it right
there she has a very good bass player
you've been playing bass for long time
yeah I think I got it when I was 12 yeah
yeah a little red mini 1 i'm still play
the same one now she plays a big girl
base nope it's still the same rich
nearly yeah I'm serious I should bring
it in show you that's cool yeah I'm
doing it well it's great to have you
here yes thank you thanks for joining us
tonight thank you everybody for joining
us here category 5 TV this has been
episode number 200 really looking
forward to having you here next week for
201 as we continue our series on linux
distributions we will be in in and out
of the will be in the chat room for the
next few minutes so if you have any
questions or if you want to say hello
please do post in the chat room and
somebody will be certainly looking at
one of the systems here so great having
everyone here Christy and John could not
be here tonight Hillary sends her
regards as well and has actually sent us
a video just to say good evening to us
so I'll play that as we're closing out
tonight so you have a great week and
we'll see you next next week but thank
you so much everybody I didn't get much
time to talk about what the show means
to me necessarily but I think everybody
knows that to me that the
whole community and everybody who works
here behind the scenes to make this show
happen it's just it just means so much
to me because it never was meant to be
what it is and and Carrie knows probably
more than anyone how you know the show
started because I came along as it was
just kind of getting that that role
going so but just so great to have
everybody joining us and I don't think
people realize either which is one thing
when i first started what surprised me
is how much time you really do dedicate
to this and and all the editing and all
the typing out of all the writing the
news that's it just so that the news
people can read it mmm everything so I
know you've you've been super dedicated
to this and to the community and it's
completely altruistic which is wonderful
so that's one of the things that really
has appealed to me about category 5 and
something that I promote when I talk
about it to people cool thank you yeah
yeah I love doing it and i love i love
the community I like really I genuinely
like I feel an affection and like this
is a family to me and I think that
everyone else who is a part of the show
feels that way even though I'm sure the
community feels that way as well but
we're really just we're more than just
the TV presenters and viewers we're
really a community and I think that that
is what makes category 5 quite different
so thank you for being a part of that
community and thanks for joining us
tonight if you're new here of course
this is out a form at check out our
website category 5 TV we are celebrating
our 200th episode tonight and so next
week we're going to be back to regular
format and having a lot of fun with that
so thanks for being here everybody and
everybody who's in studio tonight Oh
Robbie I love you too man love you too
there's the lounge cam you guys are
literally lounging bullet cheesie's yeah
thanks for being here everybody oh there
she is okay that's a small couch to be
three people oh so nice to have
everybody here thank you so much and we
will see you this week we are definitely
having fun so take care and here's
Hillary sent this in it is Hillary's
birthday as as we all know and she's
also working at a camp so unable to be
here tonight but does send her regards
and and here she is so have a great week
we'll talk to you later see you next
Tuesday night greetings category 5 fans
Hillary rumble just wanting to say happy
birthday and happy 200 episodes sorry it
can't be with you guys to celebrate I'm
kind of a little occupied right now at
the camp and working at as you can see
by my lovely attire but that doesn't
mean I'm not celebrating with you in
spirit Robbie you've done an excellent
job keeping this show going and moving
forward and doing fabulous new creative
things every day and I just want to
thank you for that and thanks for
letting me be a part of it i'm looking
forward to 200 more episodes bye guys
you
