hi and welcome to new every day my name
is Kari and my name is Jen and on
today's show we're gonna check out
Matthew 13 and asked why is it called
the parable of the sower so stay tuned
that was really good cuz why is it
called the parable story doesn't talk
books or
hi and welcome back to new every day so
glad that you've tuned in we are just so
glad to welcome Jen back you were at
camp all summer
I wasn't camp all summer and it was a a
great opportunity to hang out with kids
and hang out with with I want to say
staff who are like older kids as I get
older everybody under buddy look kid
whatever she's not old really cool to
watch God move and to answer prayer and
for kids to come to know Jesus and yeah
so totally loved being at camp but also
realized that this is where I'm called
serve during the off months and the off
the off months but excited about the
passage that we're looking at today I
know coming back into our church I was
really motivated to talk about the fact
that we need to grow that Christ does
not call us just to be saved and that's
it I believe we've talked about that
before it's not just you know you're
saved for heaven and you're done it very
much is know you're safe now
now let's grow in this relationship and
so I was challenged to think okay well
how do we what are the things we need to
do in order to grow in our relationship
with God so I automatically go to the I
want to say the go-to list we need to
pray more we need to read her Bible more
we need to and not that doing anything
more is going to elevate us in Christ
that's not the reason we do anything
what do you mean by elevate us like oh
well I'm a better Christian okay if I
read my Bible more think Harry or I'm
you know like God and I are closer yeah
our Kerry is a better Christian because
she you know is more compassionate and
caring towards other people that's not
it that's not why we read our Bibles or
pray or show compassion that's that's
not it it is strictly the grace of God
the blood of Christ that saves us but
because we want to grow in relationship
with God to get to know him more we
need to read our Bibles more we need to
pray more we need to practice kindness
and compassion and and serving and
giving and engaging in discipleship yeah
the picture that you shared with me that
I'll share with you is when you come
into someone's home and we welcome you
into into our home here and each week
and the picture of discipleship is that
you when you welcome to someone into
your home first you start out kind of in
the lobby small talk and then you get
closer with the people that you're with
and you move into the living room and
maybe sit down and as you engage in
conversation and spending time together
slowly the conversation eventually ends
up in the kitchen yeah we're all the
closest conversations happen and
speaking of kitchen since you're
welcomed into our home I have apple
crisp in the oven and you're gonna hear
a timer go off and we're gonna take a
commercial break at that point and so no
we're not mailing you any just no it
wouldn't make it no no anyways but
that's the picture of discipleship
getting closer in relationship not not
not an elevation in status yes right
because the thing is the thing is with
relationship if I do things to make
Kerry think better of me just so she
thinks better of me isn't necessarily
the right motivation or the it key
because it can create pride and I'm I'm
doing things for the wrong reason versus
no I genuinely care about building
relationship and so I will choose to do
things there's a difference there it's
it's all the motivation behind it so
like I choose to read my Bible because I
want to know what God is saying I want
to hear him speaking to me alright I
choose to pray because I want to have
that relationship and so I was really
challenged because Paul talks about the
fact that we are to to press on right
it's not just about okay you're in the
race no like you're depress on to the
finish line like you're actually host is
taking steps for it and those taking
steps order are like growing in your
faith sharing your story all this
sighs ship things that we talked about
and so long that's a very long story to
get to the fact that
so my question came to mind that I
wonder how many people went when I said
give more me or she said serve more she
said sir four more what does she mean by
sir tomorrow and like their their blood
pressure starts to rise or when they
said when I said you know I'm challenged
to pray more like honestly I was
challenged to pray more over the summer
because I had been listening slash
reading to Billy Graham's when Chicken
Soup for the Soul 101 stories of people
who knew him right yeah him and I was
challenged by the number of people who
talked about his integrity but when
asked asked what would Billy Graham do
differently he said I would pray more
and I would study more and I'm thinking
Billy Graham is like the biggest
evangelist ever like he is I was
thinking about saying I wonder how many
you know people have come to know Jesus
because of Billy Graham and and his
association and I'm guessing like
millions like millions and millions of
people and so and yet there he is saying
I'd pray more it's study more and I felt
challenged because I thought man if he's
a lot and you do study a lot in my
opinion I want to do it more for the
purpose of seeking God and setting that
time aside and so I was really you know
so even in my inner inner being I was
like but how would I do that I actually
had to go before God to say God show me
how to do that hmm show me how to pray
more because every major revival every
major Church was started in prayer so
I'm like if I want our church to grow
and I'm gonna have to pray and not just
okay God I'm praying more so you do your
part no that's not it because that's
wrong motives it's more like I'm praying
more because I want to spend time with
God I want to hear what he's saying
because often it's not the first five
minutes that I honestly brains the Revel
it's like the last five minutes that
brings the revelation so often we think
it's like okay if I can just get in two
or three seconds it's good and sometimes
the Lord meets you in those very first
moments and there have been times that
I've just said we're gonna go to a
commercial not out
oh it just totally shut off yeah but
anyways before we go to commercial I'll
finish my story we wish that you were
here with us in our living room then you
could move into the kitchen and share
some of this I know but I can't you
remember what I was saying now well on
that note we are gonna go to a
commercial I'm gonna come right back
maybe after some Apple crisps so but
hold on to that question of hmm what is
god challenging me to do more of I'll be
back after this commercial break Jeff
Weston Jemma you're building a brand-new
beautiful website what
are you alright you're terrible actor
what the swear acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay I'm building
a really cool website are you building a
really cool website you need hosting one
of the things about a hosting account is
you don't want to have limitations put
on your website that's sure how much
harddrive space do you have how many
email accounts how many domains can
point to it well we've got an amazing
deal for you for a very limited time
cat5 dot TV slash dream host for just
five dollars and a bit of change per
month you are gonna get unlimited web
site hosting unlimited email accounts on
that hosting service you are also going
to receive a free domain name so your
own com dice to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat5 dot TV slash
dream host just don't put that of the
papers on just don't do it but hey it's
a great deal folks best deal you're
gonna find five dollars and change per
month go to cap five dot TV slash dream
host alright welcome back we've taken
the apple crisp out of the oven we're
ready to get started and Jen you were
just talking about spending more time
with the Lord and often he meets us in
the last five minutes rather than the
first five minutes yes where were you
going with that so I was saying that
sometimes we just need more we need to
press him you need to do more but often
we're afraid of doing more we don't have
to think we have time to do more or what
I'm giving enough I'm already giving
enough but the Lord starts touching us
and go tap tap tap tap tap I want you to
give eleven percent or 15 percent or I
want you to give 33 percent of your
income to me and some of us will go like
and the question is to ask why and so as
I was preparing I got thinking about the
parable of the sower how is that
connected because there's four different
soils in the parable of the sower and it
talks about the reset
to the Word of God and so if we can
analyze our responses based on that so
we're gonna actually read through that
passage so you get an idea of what I'm
talking about so this passage is in
Matthew 13 and Mark chapter 4 and Luke
chapter 8 but we're gonna read from the
Matthew 13 passage so all right you want
me to read from New King James sure all
right on the same day Jesus went out of
the house and sat by the sea and great
multitudes were gathered to him so that
he got into a boat and sat and the whole
multitude stood on the shore then he
spoke many things to them in parables
saying behold a sower went out to sow
and as he sowed some seed fell by the
wayside and the birds came and devoured
them some fell on stony places where
they did not have much earth and they
immediately sprang up because they had
no depth of Earth but when the Sun was
up they were scorched and because they
had no root they withered away and some
fell among thorns and the thorns sprang
up and choked them but others fell on
good ground and yielded a crop some one
hundredfold some sixty some thirty he
who has ears to hear let him hear and
the disciples came and said to him why
do you speak to them in parables he
answered and said to them because it has
been given to you to know the mysteries
of the kingdom of heaven but to them it
has not been given for whoever has to
him more will be given and he will have
abundance but whoever does not have even
what he has will be taken away from him
therefore I speak to them in parables
because seeing they do not see and
hearing they do not hear nor do they
understand and in them the prophecy of
Isaiah is fulfilled which says hearing
you will hear and shall not understand
and seeing you will see and not perceive
for the hearts of this people have grown
dull their ears are hard of hearing and
their eyes have closed lest they should
see with their eyes and hear with their
ears lest they should understand with
their hearts and turn so
should heal them but blessed are your
eyes for they see and your ears for they
hear for assuredly I say to you that
many prophets and righteous men desired
to see what you see and did not see it
and to hear what you hear and did not
hear it yeah keep going
verse 18 here we go hold on therefore
here the parable of the sower when
anyone hears the word of the kingdom and
does not understand it then the wicked
one comes and snatches away what was
sown in his heart that is he who
received the seed by the wayside but he
who received the seed on stony places
this is he who hears the word and
immediately receives it with joy yet he
has no root in himself but endures only
for awhile for when tribulation or
persecution arises because of the word
immediately he stumbles now he who
received seed among thorns is he who
hears the word and the cares of this
world and the deceitfulness of riches
choke the word and he becomes unfruitful
but he who received seed on the good
ground is he who hears the word and
understands it who indeed bears fruit
and produces some one hundredfold some
sixty some thirty mm-hmm so the reason
why my mind went there is because of
those four soil types and how they
received the word so when we are
hardened in a certain area and and the
thing is if we are surrendered to Christ
then we have been saved but we have to
ask the question why am I not growing in
this area isn't because it's not
surrendered is it because I have a
mindset is it because I'm afraid of
something
and so by looking at those parables we
can actually ask ourselves or looking at
those four soils we can ask ourselves
like serving
why when it comes to serving do I not
want to serve or serve more is it
because you know growing up I just was
always told no you don't need to serve
like you go to church on Sundays and
that's all you do so you have this harsh
mindset right almost like a hard ground
that has been again like affirmed again
and again and again and again no you
don't need to do that right and so is it
hard packed so when that seed of serving
comes in you immediately go like that's
not for me that's for someone else so I
let's talk about what this seed actually
is yep are you going to it I mean let's
talk about it so I was understanding
that this seed is the gospel like the
actual Word of God that we need to
repent of our sins and accept the gift
of salvation through Christ and then be
changed submitting our lives to him and
receive the Holy Spirit and then bear
fruit right I'm not disagreeing okay I
am agreeing but then there's the next
step when we go beyond and continue in
the process of sanctification so this is
the soils are not just people who have
not yet received the gospel you're we're
talking that these are believers I yes
so I'm reading in two different ways
because it's the Word of God it isn't
just the gospel it is the Word of God
and when when you read that passage in
Matthew it says maybe it's not Matthew
maybe it is Mark but it talks about how
it is the Word of God and so but the
thing is it's truth right it's true so
whether it's the truth of salvation or
the truth of sanctification there is
something in the Word of God that he is
handing out right because the sword goes
out and sews but it's not being received
so the question is why is it not being
received so when you know an elder
stands up in church and says you know we
feel that we're called to add on another
wing to our building or to sponsor this
missionary whereas going to ask you to
give more and everything within you goes
oh I couldn't possibly do that because
of this this isn't this rather than
saying okay Lord what is my
responsibility so what what is the so is
that like the thorny grounds right where
the cares of this world and because all
of a sudden you went to your bankbook
right your online statement and you're
like well no I have my cell phone bill
and I have my mortgage and you know I
have braces to pay for you have all of
these things right because it says the
deceitfulness of wealth was like thorns
and so does our this that is the
deceitfulness of wealth rise up within
us to say oh no we couldn't possibly
give to the Lord in that area because we
need our money to do these things so
because it's very interesting because it
says the deceitfulness of wealth and and
it's not that money is wrong it's just
the spirit around it can be very
deceitful and believe it causing people
to believe well this is this is it right
rather than relying on the Lord hmm and
so that's that's what took me to the
parable of the sower but what's
interesting and this is the question we
first started with is but why is it
called the parable of the sower right
because he actually talks about the soil
yeah all he says about the sower is
Nisour widow or farmer went out to sow
his seed that's it so really like should
it be called the parable the soil and
actually I was offended on YouTube today
when I was googling you know researched
because it said the parable of the soils
I'm like uh-uh
like cuz Jesus himself calls it the
parable of the sower it wasn't some you
know Bible translator who went in cuz
originally there wasn't verses in there
either a Bible translator went in and
marked them
he said behold a sower went out to sow
no well yes but in the end if you look
around verse therefore here the parable
of the sower yeah so why does he call it
the parable of the sower that is what
got me because I'm like Jesus calls it
the parable of the sower so what is it
about the character of the sower that we
need to know about and okay just said
add to that I was listening to a couple
discussions about about this parable and
if the Great Commission is to go into
the wall of the world and preach the
good news and make disciples of all the
nations right then this is a key
scripture to understand how people are
actually going to receive that word that
we're going to be spreading out mhm and
the value is actually in the seed that
you're spreading and the fact that the
sower just I the action of the sower is
just to sow the seed yeah the goodness
of the seed yeah but he actually has to
but you have to know you sorry you and
oh no and go yeah and know what kind of
people are going to be out there and
that not everyone is going to turn and
receive the gospel right away but they
still have to go and that's the key
thing and that's why I wondered if
that's is that you know if that is why
it's called the parable of the sower
because it's not about the reward right
because so often when you think I'm
going to do this because you know I'm
gonna shop at Costco because I'm gonna
get this or I'm going to use my card
here and get my extra points like at
this the sower is just commanded to sow
and to so lavishly on all people and so
it really is actually quite convicting
when you think about that because so
often we think well I don't want to
waste my time on that person mm-hmm
because my reward won't be as great
and that's not God's heart God's heart
is that all people come to know him and
we are to so lavishly then someone told
me to pray for the person who you think
is least likely in your own mind with
your own lens that you're seeing that
person who is the least likely to
actually accept Christ and become a
Christian pray for that person because
you don't know what God is actually
telling in their heart yes and there's
so many places I want to go with this
but it's actually God who prepares the
soil mm-hmm head of time for his seed
and our job is just to be faithful in
sowing the seed I agree
mm-hmm we got to wrap up we got her that
went fast but we have a lot more to say
on this and even now I'm thinking of so
many questions I want to ask and Jesus
when after Jesus shared this pair of all
the disciples said can you explain that
to us like well I don't really get it
and he said if you don't understand this
how are you gonna understand the other
parables about the kingdom so it's
really key that we actually look into
this so I'm excited for next weekend
sure hope that you'll join us and tune
in to another episode of new every day
where we're going to dig a little bit
deeper into the parable of the sower do
you want to pray for us Jen sure
Heavenly Father help us to be good
source help us to lavish your seed to
freely give it and to trust you to take
that seed and to bring forth fruit thank
you for our viewers today bless them and
encourage them and pray this in your
name amen amen
thank you so much and we will see you
next week and thank you to one of our
your viewers Cora yes who made these
amazing cups for us the new everyday
mugs I know with our favorite verse on
the back here we go Cheers Thank You
Breck
Thanks
you
