welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Ravi
Ferguson welcome to episode number 231
of category 5 technology TV it's Tuesday
februari the 21st 2012 nice to see you
great to have you here welcome everyone
to the best show on earth so enough said
simply put that's high praise is high
praise exactly we've got a good show
tonight let me tell ya I know for my own
wisdom and insight into what is coming
the news is going to rock and this is
why Europe's Herschel satellite has
entered with its cool with likely in its
last year of operation Apple want its
first-ever patent dispute against
Motorola artificial blood vessels may
soon be used for transplants then lastly
a Canadian astronaut Chris Hadfield will
command the International Space Station
stick around cuz these stories are
coming up later in our show well that's
cool mm-hmm thanks hail wats hap'nin
there is a lot going on tonight and
tonight we're actually gonna be learning
how to monitor your server whether it be
your website whether it be an
internet-connected server whatever it is
we're gonna be able to monitor that with
free software so stick around we're
going to be looking at that we're going
to be talking a little bit about
security and how to protect ourselves
from issues online so stick around we'll
be talking about that a little later on
in the hour as well we've got your
viewer questions you can email us live
at category 5 TV and that tab that gets
to Hillary so yes and join us in chat
room category 5 TV and its category 5 on
freenode if you're using an IRC client
speaking of chat room actually just want
to give a little shout out to Toby hey
don't Wales has been watching the show
for a while now this is this first time
in the chat room cool so thank you for
being there because the chat room is
where it's at lots of dialogue
discussion fun jokes tech tips cooking
tips somehow we always get talking about
food Oh somehow somehow it's a marvelous
place to be yeah I think it's
interesting that somebody like Toby has
been who's been watching for a long time
and I know there's tons of you I mean we
look at the logs and we know we know
approximately how many people are
viewing the show through our server logs
and it's amazing to me that that so many
people choose not to interact because
yes it's it's you know we hope that it's
entertaining for you and we and we do
you know we do our best to provide you
with good content but it's so much fun
to interact if you're able to join us in
the chat room during a live broadcast so
much fun and you know maybe Toby at the
end of the show you can let us know you
know was this a better experience was it
more interesting pop as an email send us
a viewer testimonial Toby at the end of
tonight's show and just let us know how
it was compared to past experience
watching the show this is fun to
interact with the other viewers and
messages flying by at three messages a
second what's going on it to happen in
place yeah we have our mobile site up
and running go to mobile cat five dot TV
can hold that up it's pretty heavy so
pretty heavy QR code so I check that
over all right scan that code okay sweet
what else have we got yeah well stick
around we are gonna just well we've
gotta run a commercial or something some
free to check out we got a lot of stuff
to talk to you about after this so
please don't go anywhere we'll be right
back your last chance to relax is on the
way up the hill with liquid image Canada
you can capture all the action like
never before
now a bulky sports cam that's a
high-definition video camera mask from
liquid image Canada Tucker has free HD
video recording even low light you'll
capture the memories just how you
experience the summit series meal since
seven
available now from liquid image
canada.com so world I'm always curious
to know where where are you where'd you
come from and we also love snail mail
putting those are we ever things
together we loved your post cards so
we've been getting postcards from all
around the world it's been pretty wild
getting to see little snapshots of your
city or town and highlighting them on
the air but what is even cooler than
that is what is coming next and the next
few phases of category 5 the website is
in the works of becoming a totally new
revamped website some of you actually
are a part of the bed a team and
developing that and moving forward but
one cool groovy thing that we will be
doing can I tell them Robbie it's really
exciting I don't know it's filling in on
some secrets here it's totally awesome I
can't keep it inside I'm going to tell
you anyway when we get your postcard
we'll be reading them and some of them
will highlight on the air but also what
we're going to do is scan each one so we
can see the messages that you have
written and also the the picture on the
front and on the website we're going to
have a map of the entire world with a
pinpoint pinpointing your town or city
or what have you and when you see the
little pin which will appear but the
postcard so not only will you see the
postcard like if we're holding it up on
the show because my not be able to get
to all of them but will hold it up on
the show and then also it'll be on the
website so good to see I think that's
pretty world yeah and so if you're
curious how do i send a postcard a
seemingly archaic technology while you
can do so by addressing it to category 5
technology TV peel box to 9009 Barrie
Ontario that's in Canada case you didn't
know l for n7w 7 so send us your
postcards because we're gonna put them
on the interwebs and highlight where
you're from that's gonna be so neat it's
and it really it looks cool i mean i get
to see this stuff in advance right it
doesn't serve it knows this week
sneaky on the bed LOL speaking about the
betta website if you'd like to be a part
of the betta team so there are a group
of viewers who are already involved in
this the betta is going to be starting
in about two weeks time so what that
means is that you're going to have an
advanced chance to experience the new
website during the development phases
there are four phases to development on
the new v3 website and we're going to be
starting phase one in two weeks time so
if you haven't already done so and
you're interested in becoming a betta
tester all you have to do is email live
at category 5 TV with the subject line
v3 betta and we will send you the
information what you need to know with
regards to the betta program that sounds
pretty very excited about the new site
oh yeah sure always movin and shakin new
development all time always knew but
also we've really outgrown our current
site as far as we just get too much
traffic for such a heavy website so
we're making something that's very fast
very streamlined very very cool has got
some really nice features so you
definitely want to check that out when
it's released garbe just backing up a
little bit was wondering if he could
send a package to our postal box the
address that that we accept the the
postcards at and the answer would be yes
of course of course now what's gonna be
in that package like way too tacky ice
cream cookies cookies yes yeah toys
costumes yeah lots of fun stuff
delicious these are cookies from my area
wait yeah we accept pie it might be
moldy by the time it gets here but hey
thanks for thinking of us Chris Reich is
joining us the chat room nice to see ya
I'm trying to keep up with the chat room
but it is actually flying all right go
go go I can't even read it nice to see
Dennis Kelly overload Greg and Texas
Smitty Smith Agra moto the whole gang
everyone gangs there tons of people
there you can be a part of that gang if
you want excellent alright well we we do
have a packed up Joe we're gonna jump
into some viewer questions I'll let you
take it away two nights for your
questions are brought to you by garden
gate farms com for certified organic
broccoli sprout and wheatgrass juice
visit garden gate farm
dot-com thank you and also thanks to
garbey who sends us the first email
overnight thanks Gabby hello Robbie and
co-host AKA Hillary does Robbie feel
like explaining a little bit about file
and folder permissions on a linux web
host i'm installing a CMS Clemens stand
and it asks me for what I want the files
and folders to be assigned but I'm not
sure exactly how to do it since when I
think I give them enough permissions to
do everything it fails only 777 seems to
work for me but I know what this isn't
safe could you please explain this a
little bit for everyone yeah okay so
what what he's talking about here for
those who are saying what is he talking
about here is basically file permissions
on your server right when you're running
a website every single file that's on
that web server every file that's and
folder that are on that server have
permissions set that say what people are
allowed to do and what people are not
allowed to do basically can they read
the file or folder can they write to it
and can they execute code okay with PHP
it's cool because you don't have to have
the execute bit set because it's it's a
Apache module for example so with your
scripts Garvey you could have for
example read and write access for the
owner but only read access for other
users so that would be 6 44 right so
that would be your PHP scripts for
example your directories though you
definitely do you're right in thinking
that 777 is really dangerous because
what 777 does I'll just kind of explain
so read is for right is to and execute
is one okay so seven is four plus two
plus one okay so if you have 6 that's 4
plus 2 so you've got read and write but
not one so you don't have execute bit
set so if you have 777 you've got read I
should back up okay so the first number
seven is your owner the second number is
anyone who's in the owners group
and the third number is anyone in the
world doesn't matter who they are what
kind of permissions they have so if you
have 777 set that means the owner can
write can read sorry can read can write
and can execute the owners group can
read can write and execute and anyone
else in the world can read here's the
dangerous thing can write and can
execute so with 777 somebody with a
little know-how would be able to put
files on your server execute them
destroy your website install malware get
viruses going on your server and
distributing through your website and
things like that it can be a real mess
so for directories you want seven for
your owner so seven and then five which
is four plus no pardon me you'll be
looking at four plus one yeah so you'd
have read and execute on the folder and
read and execute for world so 755 on the
other hand for your scripts like I say
644 that's going to be six is read and
write write four plus two and four is
going to be read and read 644 okay hope
that make sense can you have a
permission of one Chris Rika's wondering
which would be execute that only so that
you could execute while not having
permission to read and and yes you could
but then you would have the issue of who
has access to actually reading that file
so it be that would be a tough call and
I'm unsure that would be kind of a
paradoxical situation but it's possible
so the only other thing to look at and I
see a lot of stuff going by in the
chatroom Hillary maybe you can let me
know if there anything that that I need
to answer but garbey the only other
thing is ownership if you create an
Apache server that's your web server
right let's say you you put files in
that server okay I'm going to bring up
my terminal and I'm going to actually do
this
okay we've looked at this before we're
okay on my server I've or my computer
wherever I've got / VAR / WWE put a
couple things in there but look at index
index dot PHP is currently owned by root
and root right so that file was popped
there by the root user but that's
probably not the best scenario because
you want it to be probably running as
the same user as is running Apache so
you may want to do some CH own as well
and I'm going to get a command for you
here probably be awk or something yeah
well I can use crap yeah
so my httpd which is the HTTP Damon I'll
see if a patch is running yes ok so what
I did here I'll put the command in your
in the show notes for episode number 231
but basically that command there it's
going to tell me which you which user
it's going to basically grep through
what running processes have the name
apache2 so you'll see apache2 ok and
this is being run by ww data so what I
can do because that's the running user
who's running Apache I might want to go
CH own wwwww data so that's user and
group index PHP now look ownership not
permitted changing of ownership that's
because i'm in VAR w w so on ubuntu i
need to use sudo if you're on debian
you'll need to use su so now if i do LS
dash all you'll see that that file is
now owned by the same user who's running
apache which is ww data now in some
scenarios the reason that I wanted to
show you that is that in some scenarios
if you drag and drop your web files as
root you won't be able to execute them
because the running user who is Apache
this is probably what's happened to you
Garvey because you're saying that you
have to set it as 777 so I'll bet you
those files belong to root because you
dragged them and drop them as root you
haven't CH own them so they are not able
to be accessed by the ww data user for
example if that's the running user and
therefore the only way that you can get
access to those are to go 7 whatever 7
right because that last bit everyone has
to be seven in your case so I think
that's probably what's happening to you
and I hope that all that makes massive
amounts of sense all right all right
very good to kind of put take something
with a little complex and
hopefully put a spin on it that that
makes it actually makes sense a little
bit more clear 747 an emotive sense all
right cool cool all right well I got
another crappy yeah cuz I always do well
actually I don't Dave may do does in the
chatroom just asked I'm building a media
center pc and i was wondering which the
distro is bistro district district is
the best to use i also want to browse
the web email and play my warzone 2100
also really depends on what i would
expect that my rule of thumb will be
which capture card you're using for that
media center pc if you're going to be
doing PVR type setup there are so many
different ones that are out there
chatroom I'll welcome you to mm-hmm make
some suggestions but bhuntu of course is
based on ubuntu but it's got myth at its
you know it's kind of core designed to
be a home entertainment system again I'm
always I'm a little shocked when that
when they really have lousy screenshots
on their websites but essentially you
know that is what it is right the media
center pc now there are tons of other
ones available out there so what is this
is a chance well Dave's just adding
saying that he has sky+ HD okay XBMC
exceptional probably one of the the more
attractive ones I see Rob gore
recommending it in the chat room as well
XBMC is a media center piece of software
linux-based let's see what kind of
screenshots that they've got here hmm
and definitely is you know a higher end
kind of system more probably what you're
looking for if you're looking for a nice
sleek interface you've got a remote
control essentially you know that's
really really nice that's called XBMC
but really it's a matter of personal
preference and taste when it comes to
your media center also the hardware that
you're using so feel free because these
things are all available for you for
free because they're linux-based and
they're open source in a lot of cases
you're going to be able to get them for
free give them a try don't be afraid to
experiment if you need to stick a hard
drive in that is just you know to test
with or use live CDs and see which one
you really you know personally prefer so
let us know what you decide on yeah but
I think those are between mythbuntu and
XBMC I think those are two very strong
candidates for for doing a media center
system based on linux sounds good to me
hmm sounds really good to me another
question also sounds really good to me
this comes to us from Craig hey Craig
I'm saying that running ubuntu how do
you redirect a domain coming in for
serving for example www RDS da com from
a domain server to a web server but have
a different domain say www broked
computer com go to another server on the
same subnet uh-oh he's saying you could
just email your aunt me your answer but
no we are going to address it right now
if we can try your hint about the vbox
toys for linux was simply awe inspiring
yes so here you go I'm trying to grasp
what your question is here Craig sounds
to me like you might be asking about
setting up da dns pardon me at the
server level is that what you're looking
for if you're looking to redirect so
that you're you know if someone loads
your one domain it automatically pushes
them over to the new domain you can look
at HT access which is a feature of
Apache if it's an Apache server you drop
a little HT Access file with a 301
redirect and that will allow you to
that entire domain over to to another
web URL basically so really depends on
whether you're looking for DNS set up or
something like that but htaccess is what
I would look at if you're just looking
to redirect a domain to a new domain but
not entirely sure what you're asking for
their so let us know if you're in the
chat room yes if you'd like to clarify a
little bit then gonna be good as far as
dns goes if that's what it is then you
know that you're looking at a name
records and and getting that setup you
probably need to read the manual on that
because that's a big thing getting dns
setup but your web host may be able to
assist you with that as well ok good
luck I hope that I hope that you find
the answer you seek ok I have another
question all right actually it's a
three-tiered multi-layered question Wow
so we may have to break this up
depending on on how it goes this comes
to us from Ron Smith saying i'm in new
user to linux and virtualbox would like
to set up a virtual server then convert
my operating systems to virtual guests i
presently use a pc with swap drives i'm
hoping not to have to rebuild the
operating systems on the Virtual Box
server question number one do you have
to install a 64-bit version of Linux and
virtualbox to run 32 and 64-bit virtual
guests we should probably hit each
question as they come in okay so we're
talking about virtual machines having a
host operating system and guest
operating systems plural having multiple
operating systems running at once if you
want to be able to run a 64-bit
operating system on your host as a
virtual machine you have to have 64-bit
extensions on the host so you will need
to have a 64-bit OS but don't despair
because there are other advantages here
let's say you've got a 32-bit host
you're limited to four gigabytes of RAM
essentially unless you're using like pxe
extensions or pardon me if you're using
pae so
you really you want to have 64-bit as
your host anyways okay because you're
going to have the ability to stick 12
gigs of ram in there and that sounds
like a lot to some but if you consider
if I have a windows seven installed with
that's using eight gigs of RAM as a
guest and I only have 12 gigs of ram
that only leaves me for for my host
right so it really becomes not that much
when you start doing virtualization if
you're going to be doing like Windows XP
with two gigs of RAM that's okay so you
know with with eight gigs of RAM you
could do one at 22 at four right and
that's about as high as you want to go
you don't really want to surpass the
halfway mark on your actual physical RAM
so if you're going to host four of those
machines with eight gigs of RAM being
used you'd want to have 16 gigs in your
system essentially so having 64-bit as
your host is critical because otherwise
you can't put that much RAM in your
system logically so okay okay part two
more to what is the best way to convert
a physical pc to a virtual guest the
best way I love it when I get that
question because that it really is just
Robbie's opinion poll you know it's
gonna be my opinion the best thing to do
i think is to always you know if i walk
into a grocery store it's like i'm gonna
i'm gonna try the no-name one as long as
the ingredients are okay i'm gonna try
the known in see if it tastes as good as
the brand name before i go for the brand
name because i'm gonna end up saving
money right so similar kind of thought
give a try to the open source get
clonezilla okay if that doesn't work for
you get out there and get akron asst
true image something along those lines
okay but start with clonezilla basically
you boot from a CD that you create off
the internet you can download it off of
their website I'll just I know it in my
head I just want to make sure that I
give it to you correctly totally fine
better stand it is clonezilla dot org
okay so this is the this is the No Name
not really it's actually really really
exceptional it's very good I often
prefer clones a lot to the to the
commercial product but I say that
because it's free it costs you nothing
so you know in that comparison it's the
cheap alternative as far as costs out of
pocket goes so start with this one
clonezilla it's free downloaded and put
it on a CD you boot from that CD and you
create an image of your hard drive
create it as you know whatever kind of
image you want okay and then you create
a new virtual machine that is going to
mimic fairly closely the specs of that
original computer so yeah you know
however much ram whatever you need to do
to it to make it you know as a virtual
machine be pretty similar to the
original machine then again boot up into
clonezilla in your virtual machine now
okay so you can use the eye so you can
mount it as if it was a CD and then tell
it okay now grab that image that we've
created and put it on to my virtual
computer hard drive clonezilla doesn't
know the difference neither does the
operating system it thinks that you're
just moving it from one computer to the
other what you're actually doing is
taking that cloned image of a physical
computer and unloading it or extracting
it setting it up on virtual hardware
there are some things that you may have
to go through with Windows you may have
to do a repair install which will leave
your files intact but is required to fix
up the registry for the new system so
you may run into a couple of little
headaches like that but essentially
that's where I would start and then
again Akron estroux image if the if the
free software is not going to work for
you okay okay and now moving on to power
23 mm this lovely multi-layered question
is there another way besides VNC to
access Linux guess on VirtualBox from a
Windows workstation okay so you're
wanting to bring up the virtual machines
desktop on a separate server
I would expect so because you're
thinking DNC but yes absolutely you can
go about now last week on episode number
2 30 i was talking about how to set up
the ultimate virtual box setup which
allows you to use just a web browser
console not ideal if you're going to be
doing more than just server
administration probably you want
something a little more native so you
can actually because here's the thing is
you you're creating a virtual machine
where again the operating system really
doesn't know any different it thinks
that it's running on a computer so with
that you know if we've got windows seven
installed in a virtual machine or
windows XP installed in a virtual
machine it is in every essence windows
XP or Windows 7 running on a computer so
set your network card on that computer
to be bridged okay so set that to
bridged mode on that virtual machine and
that's going to allow your other
computers on the network to communicate
with that as if it was a real computer
on your network then run remote desktop
tell windows XP or Windows 7 that you
allow administrators to connect in and
use remote desktop and then what will
happen is you just remote desktop or our
desktop from Linux over to that computer
and it's just like sitting in front of
the computer it pipes the audio over so
I could be at a computer in another room
I could be at a computer halfway across
the world and remote desktop into it and
boom good to go so yes you can you can
use remote desktop you can use VR DP is
a feature of virtual box if you want to
get a little more advanced VR DP is a
little bit cooler for a server
environment because it's it's the
virtual remote desktop okay remote
desktop in windows requires that you
first boot your computer so Windows
comes up and it's running then you can
remote desktop into it with VR DP you
can actually see the the computers post
screen for example so it's it's actually
at the at the host level as opposed to
it the guest level so you'll be able to
go into the virtual BIOS and things like
that so it's a little bit different
alright cool thank you so much for all
your questions and everybody well I
suppose you can let them know how to get
their questions in yes if we love
getting your questions we do and one way
is through the chat room so sometimes as
things are happening through the shell
people have questions and we're just
pulling like little tidbits and
answering them on the spot and also we
can answer your questions via email so
if you want to shoot us an email yeah
just a simple alive at category five dot
TV easy stuff and then you can go into
maybe more detail in your email about
your question and provide us with all
that info in one section rather than
just a maybe a quick one liner in the
chat room depending on what need so
anyways email do it live at category 5
TV will answer your questions it's
pretty simple stuff that's a good call
to action right there email do it I
don't know what what else what else I
can say it's just pretty simple stuff
pretty much I think category 5 is an
interesting platform because it gives
you a chance to get your questions and
interact with with us live but if you
can't be here live sending us an email
is a great way to still be involved in
the show get some answers and it's free
of charge so definitely would welcome
you to send in your questions certainly
and while we have had marvelous all time
answering questions I think it's time to
get down to the news yeah so here we go
here the top stories from the category 5
TV news round herschel Europe's billion
euro space observatory has entered what
is likely to be its last year of
operation the telescope studies the
formation of stars and has taken some
remarkable picture since its launch in
may 2009 but it's detectors require a
constant supply of superfluid helium to
keep working and the store of this
coolant has now dropped to less than 100
kilograms Herschel was launched in May
2009 and sent to an observing position
1.5 million kilometers from Earth its
goal has been to study the processes at
play in the formation of stars and the
evolution of galaxies
it's detectors pick up the light coming
from frigid clouds of gas and dust that
are being warmed by the brilliant
newborn stars buried within them this
past week saw Herschel begin what
engineer's believed to be the final 365
days of its mission life so sad Apple
has one that is pretty incredible Apple
has won a patent dispute against
Motorola Mobility regarding slide to
unlock feature on the smartphones the
judgement marks Apple's first patent
victory over Motorola in any part of
that world Motorola says it planned to
appeal and the judgment would have no
impact on the supply or future sales of
Motorola devices that's unreal hmm
artificial blood vessels made on a 3d
printer may soon be used for transplant
of lab-created organs Wow until now the
stumbling block in tissue engineering
has been supplying artificial tissue
with the nutrients that have to arrive
via capillary vessels a team at the
fraunhofer institute in germany has
solved that problem by using 3d printing
and a technique called multiphoton poly
metter ization Wow the findings will be
shown at the biotechnic affair in
Germany this October and lastly
astronaut chris hadfield already has a
number of first to his name he was the
first Canadian undertake a spacewalk and
he was the first and only Canadian to
board the russian mir space station he
was also the first Canadian to operate
Canada's major contribution to the space
shuttle its robotic arm called the canid
arm now he's about to become the first
Canadian to command the International
Space Station or the ISS I'm being asked
to command the world's spaceship it's a
big responsibility Hadfield said his big
moment will begin when he launches to
the station on a soy soy is rocket at
the end of this year for three months
the 52 year old will serve as a flight
engineer on the expedition 34 crew then
in March 2013 he will assume command of
expedition 35
three months before returning to Earth
in his soy is capsule it will be Chris
Hadfield third trip into orbit his first
was a little more than 16 years ago when
he flew on space shuttle Atlantis to the
MER space station you can get these full
stories online at category 5 TV /
newsroom the category 5 that TV news
room is researched by roy w Nash with
contributions from our stellar community
and viewers if you have a new store you
think's worthy of honor mention send us
an email at newsroom at category 5 TV
from a category 5 TV news room I'm
Hillary rumble Hillary I get to look at
these pictures for a couple of moments
as you're speaking it's just kind of up
in front of me and those on backstage
pass can can see that but that just kind
of stood out to me the guys from Canada
and he's got his mittens Chris Hadfield
definitely a an awesome thing to me what
a privilege for him to be able to to
actually run the space station for a
time that is an honor for sure the
founder of ubuntu mark shuttleworth
spent some time there as well one of the
well actually the first self paid space
to really that's cool so very
interesting fact for you but he's
actually well sarnia is his work with is
wrong no not very far from where we're
located here I guess a couple hours
drive kind of south southwest I think so
if i'm not mistaken so very very cool
tonight the news is brought to you by
quarter e electric the official
electrical company of category five
technology TV please pop them an email
contact them if you need any electrical
work done within about a hundred
kilometers of Barrie Ontario our quarter
e at quarter e electric com and the rest
of their contact information is up on
your screen as well thank you to them
for all the work that they've done here
the studio as well things have been
running a lot smoother as far as our
power goes since they've been in so we
definitely appreciate quarter electric
most certainly we don't like those
glitches when I see the lights
tank hasn't halfway free hasn't happened
worse worse smooth sailin now clear I
was saying a couple weeks ago I think
Eric was on the show and and it would be
really interesting to get the guys from
quarter electric and on the show just to
kind of explain some of the things that
they encounter because power is one of
those things we don't we don't
necessarily think about when we think
about our computers but when it really
boils down to it power and having clean
powers is something that's just
absolutely key to your systems and what
shocked me about the problems that we
were having here at the studio is that
UPS is weren't enough to protect us and
that's kind of a unique scenario but
we'll definitely will definitely want to
talk to them so that you can understand
what it is that was happening yeah it's
very interesting stuff there sure
speaking of potentially having problems
if you run a website or you have a web
server somewhere in the world whether
you're hosting websites what whatever it
is that you're doing I mean a lot of us
are interested you know maybe we've got
a blog running or something along those
lines maybe I've got an ftp server
running maybe I just want to know you
know is my email server reliable do I
need to switch who my provider is so
there are a variety of different times
that it seems appropriate to to monitor
a server certainly there's the scenario
of you know the IT guy who you know is
possibly running a small IT firm and
wants to be able to monitor his clients
servers you know these are actual you
know say like actually the main
controllers things like that right there
web accessible maybe find out if their
clients internet is up or down things
like that so so it's important to have
some form of monitoring service running
there are amazing open source tools like
nagios or NAT Geo's depending on how you
want to say it that is freely available
for you to download and build a server
and install it but it's complicated it
can be complicated to create scripts for
that kind of monitoring system it's
fantastic but it's complicated so
tonight I'd like to actually go through
the setup of a tool that is just going
to be absolutely easy breezy for us to
get up and running on
oh yeah so in the chatroom let us know
do you administer a server do you have a
web site where you'd really love to know
you know how reliable is my service do
do I have any downtime how much down
time do I have is that something that
that would be of a benefit to you and
that's what we're going to learn tonight
so I'm going to bring up this website
alrighty first of all I'm going to
actually log into my own email here so
that we can receive e-mail when we sign
up for this because we're going to do
this in real time we're going to see how
easy it is to to actually get this setup
good idea very good idea okay I'm going
to go to a website and feel free to
follow along it's called up time robot
calm this service is fantastic it is
free okay it allows us pardon me it
allows us to monitor HTTP HTTPS it
allows us to ping our servers it allows
us to to scan ports not a port scan but
actually just see that the ports are up
and running so good for imap or smtp
pop3 things like that so email right ftp
is on port 21 so if you want to know if
your ftp server is up you can check at
port 21 is responding also it allows us
to check for keywords so with a little
bit of PHP know how or any server-side
programming language for example you
could just put a little bit of keyword
action into that website and it would
set off an alarm if a certain keyword is
found for example you have with for free
okay Oh uptime robot will allow you to
monitor up to 50 sites and I'm not
talking websites I'm talking that could
be your clients website your web site
your blog your personal website and okay
we're up to 4 I think now and sites also
include your computer network at home
let's ping it from the outside world and
make sure that you've got internet
access it could be a client site it
could be like I say it could be is there
I map on their exchange server is it
responding
well if it ever went down everybody in
the corporation's iPhones just stopped
working right so so it's important as an
administrator to know this kind of stuff
so back at this website it's fantastic
it allows you to send push notifications
to your iDevice or to your Mac computer
it allows you to receive email SMS RSS
feeds or even Twitter messages for those
different kinds of alerts that are going
to come in so let's all we're going to
do is just click on start now up at the
top here I'm going to give it our name
here category 5 TV enter your email
address demo at category five dot TV in
this case and I just made up a silly
little password do I want to be informed
about new features and updates in my
case i'll leave that on might be good
here we go ok successfully entered is
successfully registered that's all it is
ok I better write down that tasks were
diving down the password don't ever
forget hmm make sure your password is
real strong you don't want to use
passwords that can be brute forced or
otherwise compromised we've talked all
about that a.m. oh yeah there I go I've
already got an email here from them
account activation to start monitoring
your websites please activate your
account by visiting this link there we
go your account is now activated you can
start using up time robot let's sign in
use your email address
you can tell it to remember you if this
is going to be you know on just your own
personal computer successfully signed in
and there we go so right off the bat
we're able to start setting up these
monitor monitors and the alerts that
coincide with those monitors as well and
again you can do up to 50 so let's get
started with something that is going to
be fairly practical i'm going to go ad
new up here select type i'm going to go
HTTP or https so this will monitor both
secure and non-secure so friendly name
category 5 website so i'm going to see
if the category 5 website is up and
running ww category 5 TV under optional
settings you can set off n occation if
it requires HD password for example who
do you want alerts to go to now in my
case so far i only have my email address
set up but i'm going to set up to send
to that and i'm going to add the monitor
to that instantly it's going to start
monitoring my website there it is so
status is a hundred percent up time it's
green at this point now i want to know
you know how's my email working so i can
go to tcp ports i can go my email or
this could be my client email because
you're going to be using a URL right so
in this case it'll be lets say male
category 5 TV and we're going to scan it
for imap send alerts to demo at category
5 TV and go we go see how quickly were
able to set this up a mm-hmm they're
hundred percent up time on my email
keyword checking as I was describing you
can actually tell it to look for
keywords whether they exist or do not
exist that's interesting from a web
programmer standpoint and then of course
pinging just to see if things are up and
running so in that case I can go you
know category 5 is responding
so a ping is simply going to see that
that server is responding it doesn't
tell you if the websites up because
Apache could be turned off Apache could
be crashed but a ping will just tell you
that it is responding to the web so
that's a good way to test things like if
your internet connection is up stuff
like that so and again you can intermix
all these different kinds of tests so i
can add more tcp ports right and you can
go you know is my web server port 80
right up and running and this could be
whatever website this could be my own
personal website right so this is going
to tell me if apache is responding on
port 80 add my monitor okay and then
what do we do if we're using a
non-standard port or whatever else or if
we're using a piece of software that we
want to monitor where the port isn't
there we actually have the ability to
set a custom port to monitor so this
would be a case where you know we're
using port 1022 you know or whatever one
two three four if you're using that port
for something you can actually scan that
you can name it you can tell it where to
find it whether it be a URL or an IP now
that in conjunction with something like
din DNS to allow your dynamic IP address
to receive a host name is fantastic
because you can set it up to
automatically you know if you tell it to
go through as a URL your din DNS address
you can check your home network you can
check your your home internet service is
up and running if you've got an ftp
server or something running at home you
can double check that stuff so do check
it out is called uptime robot it's
available again free of charge and will
allow you to monitor up to 50 sites
whether those be computers or whatever
else they be websites services anything
at all check it out uptime robot calm
cool this is category 5 technology TV I
just realized we haven't actually
introduced ourselves hi hello I'm Robbie
I'm Hillary I see ya see you thank you
yeah and and we're here on category five
and we're here to answer your questions
we sure are do i do our thing do our
thing the free awesome way yep that's
what any comments like that in chat room
at this point we'll watch for them too
so garbe is just saying well i did not
have a way to monitor these things and
now i do now you lost and as I was
saying it's it it's just there it works
it's fantastic I got it that it goes
through to my mobile device as an email
so it goes right into my inbox and it
dings me because it you know there's a
new mail it's fantastic so do you have
any sites Raven yard says thank you i
needed that i was gonna say you have any
like maybe I know a junk site something
you have that isn't really functional
that you could like to show us that it
will detect it if it's not working you
don't I mean that make sense do I have
any junk sites that i can test with ya
like anyting i have time robot yeah well
we can create serious just to see what
would happen that's usually being
curious i don't know maybe that's silly
but yeah I've got one um like are not
junk but you know what i mean like sure
i think the old ones you had a while but
then me want to actually test this is
hillary wants to see that this thing
really does yeah i do i want to be a
full believer but i guess also you could
test a site that you haven't launched
yet in theory right cuz then that
wouldn't exist exactly something like we
would need something that I can knock
off the web that's the tough thing ah
what can we possibly knock off the web
without revealing too much about v3 know
what I could do I'll set up a monitor
for okay I'm gonna go back here I'm
gonna go into my settings okay I didn't
mean to make this part no this is just
after
oh pardon me my monitors okay add new
I'm going to go HTTP the viewer map ok
we're going to knock this off line for
just a moment map can't five dot TV
alright send alerts add monitor okay so
map can't five dot TV the website is up
this is live viewer locations for people
who are on our website do you in the
show right now hello to Israel we just
had somebody sign on Oh from colon
Israel very cool okay so that's up so my
monitor should show me that the viewer
map is one hundred percent up now I'm
going to do something kind of crazy for
those of you i just showed them the map
and now they're everybody's going to go
to it i'm going to break the website
because i have the power great internet
dead found now i wonder what's going to
happen to uptown I don't know whether it
responds to a not found because that's a
little different than that an actual
server offline right now again I could
use like a keyword but we'll see we'll
see if this does anything to that and
I'll put it back after I wonder if i can
just refresh if i can force it it does
automatically change every five minutes
oh look seems off current status is up
new status it seems off we will recheck
quickly so it looks like it it's
detected it oh look at that it has it's
gone yellow so we'll wait and see if i
actually receive an email here which it
would just push it right out right yeah
and they detected that quicktime very
very quickly so hark
this is uptime robot the monitor is
currently down wow that was like instant
instantaneous just like that
unbelievable it worked I'm a believer
now you know now we know the rest of the
story so now if I put it back online see
what's neat is that you actually get
these graphs at the end 20 so you can
kind of you can get an overview for all
of your down time I'm gonna put the mat
back because everyone wants it was like
where's the thing was the map where did
it go there its back so what's gonna
well let's see if this knows its back I
think it will it literally just changed
as I changing camera it new wild stuff
my so smart you had a bit of an
adventure oh my lanta well yeah
technology a very important part of my
life so what happened I'm just doing my
thing mm-hmm on the Internet to do
google and stop trying to find stuff
leave the computer going doing its thing
note it is not my computer it is my
fiancé's he loves you right I'm pretty
sure okay and i hope you will after just
stay hold on just hold my thought so
anyways i left the computer just
whatever then i went to the kitchen had
some dindin come back the screen is just
full of chaos those little boxes of
death that like layer and then they're
like do this do that and then you try to
exit them and then you're like exiting
like 72 low squares and it was
performing a scan only it wasn't it was
a nasty nasty virus now I don't even
know where this virus came from like i
was just googling stuff like sure
recipes doing this doing that lake yikes
nothing crazy nothing too wild on the
world wide web and then it just went
mega crazy mega funk
and then died what's your ID what's the
operating so I'd rather not say cuz
he'll get mad at me because he knows
what it was and what it should have been
it was Windows Windows 7 it was windows
this I believe is the case for linux
somebody says to me well what's you know
what's the difference with with linux i
was visiting with a friend recently and
they are fed up with the problems like
this on windows 7 on any version of
Windows I mean it's plugging the windows
user and really I mean okay so what what
does your fiancé use his computer for
for work so all of his crucial invoices
and what software is used for invoices
there's a web-based um it's not
web-based it's like a piece of software
yeah could be virtualized if necessary
could have been like QuickBooks or
something like that the the the biggest
case I mean the home user especially
usually I mean what do you if you ask
the question what do you use your
computer for well I use it for the
internet i use it for email but i use
gmail or you know something like that
that's a common thing that I here and
this particular friend that I was I was
visiting with it's like I want to go to
Mac because I'm just sick of Linna of
Windows but I said have you ever heard
of Linux no no I think I've heard of it
but I'm not too sure what it is and the
fact is it's an alternative to Microsoft
products that you can get for free you
can install it it gives you all of the
core funk or functionality that you
would expect from your computer so
internet browsing and email and games
for the kids and whatever else there's
lots of great games on it as well plus
the virtualization features that we've
looked at so so I think the case for
linux really becomes that I'm not
susceptible to those kinds of things so
when I talk to someone such as yourself
or your fiance and you say well I don't
want to make the switch because it
sounds like it would be a lot of a
learning curve
or I think there would be a little bit
of problems adapting to new software you
know firefox versus internet explorer or
thunderbird versus outlook express or
Windows Mail it's really not that big of
a learning curve but here's the thing
how how stressful is it for you that you
sat down to that computer and it was
like wiped all the files gone I'm very
stressful I felt terrible because there
goes his livelihood down the two because
I killed it but on linux that would not
have been the case guaranteed that would
not have been the case and i always say
that because when you think about the
learning curve when you think about okay
well could I really transition to linux
it's like can you not because that
stress and that burden of and the
potential loss of data and the problem
and the and the ongoing expensive
antivirus and trying to maintain a
Windows operating system it can be a
real headache oh yeah so and no
operating system is perfect but I look
at problems like that and I think about
the novice users especially I mean for
us that really kind of really know our
way around computers I can use Windows 7
just as well as i can use linux and i
don't really have any problems and
garvey will say oh i use windows and I
don't ever get any viruses as well
because your your computer guy you know
what you know what to watch out for and
you know how to get rid of stuff if it
happens so but when we think about the
novice user who thinks okay I'm going to
buy a Windows system or a Mac system
which one will it be well I'll go with
the Mac because it's not prone to the
viruses and it'd be a learning curve but
whatever but then there's Linux which is
going to again just like the mac is
going to basically eliminate your
problems as far as that kind of problem
goes you can still have problems if you
mess up tip but it really takes a lot
more on a Linux system to mess it up
than it does on on windows for example
so if you're considering the change
thank us even a little or if you're just
frustrated with windows and encourage
you to check out linux and i'd love to
help you to do that just pop us an email
live at category five dot TV tell us
what you're currently running on what
you want to you know what you use your
computer for
what you need linux to be able to do for
you and and i promise you will will show
you how to do it so i'd love to get that
email this week cuz Robbie knows the
headache that can go in to trying to
start breaking it's heartbreaking I mean
Hillary is is devastated folks about
this this poor laptop that we're going
to we're going to do data recovery on it
we're going to get the files and so
there's no concern there so rest assured
we'll take care of that but what a
frustrating thing to have to go through
for for you like think of a user who's
not at your level who simply sat down at
the computer and everything is wiped and
it's like you as a computer users you've
gotten used to it okay if your Windows
user you've gotten used to oh well this
is normal i gotta i have to deal with
this kind of stuff and I've got to
inoculate viruses all the time you've
gotten used to it it's not right it's
not normal it shouldn't be the case it's
wrong it's just wrong it really is it
should not exist but they do here you
ate me but you could switch operating
systems that will help it'll make a big
difference I want to show you something
that came in to my inbox and this is
exactly the kind of thing that's going
to happen to you you're going to get
these kinds of emails this is fantastic
this is a prime example of an email from
paypal okay so if you as a novice user
were to look at that what would you
think Hillary what do you think of that
it's an email from paypal it looks
brilliant like I would look at it you
know yeah be like oh yeah so we've got
okay due to upcoming march 2012 and so
think about the novice users it another
computer okay I just got this email I'm
a paypal user okay recent changes in
paypal service agreement oh we hear a
lot about that's kind of stuff with
Google and all that and posting their
new service agreements you need to
submit additional details to your paypal
account starting on march 2012 all
paypal accounts will come with complete
detailed information identity protection
matters and paypal works day and night
to help keep your identity safe
according to the changes in the service
agreement unverified accounts will be
deleted from the system within 72 hours
after receiving this letter okay that
now
has me scared little bizarre I've got
money on paypal what you're going to
delete it i need to do something about
this what am I going to do I'm going to
get verified obviously that's what the
email here which is perfectly legit it's
got the secure icon so we know it's
secure no it's not seemingly just so you
know okay so what am I gonna do click on
get verified what we're gonna do I'm
going to right click on that and go copy
link location okay just for your peace
of mind here I'm gonna bring up a text
editor we're gonna see where that link
goes to that's not paypal my friends
that is not its linking to a file called
ww paypal com HTM alright so it tricks
you into thinking it's paypal so we're
going to go into accessories terminal CD
/ TMP make tur virus CD virus and I got
a double-double you get that file oh and
it has forbidden the receipt of that so
I can't even get it in w get at this
point but see there are it's it's
obvious that that it's trying to source
you with a file that is going to contain
some JavaScript headers it's going to be
virus-infected I guarantee it's going to
do things just like what you experienced
recently so I gotta watch out for that
kind of stuff tell my grandma ought to
open that email mm-hmm she loves the
paypal I have just a precious customer
to me he's 87 88 years old now I started
talking about him when he was 86 a
couple years ago on the show so he's got
to be 87 88 years old he's just the most
darling guy and he'll call me up having
received emails like this and and he's
gotten he's gotten hit a couple times he
got really scared recently because he
clicked on something and I went all
weird and stuff but i have to remind him
you know what we put you on lenox 87 88
years old he's using Linux so you know
how you just hit cancel and it just and
that virus just went away that's the
experience of Linux
as long as you don't you know give it
I'll be honest I never gave him his root
password okay so for those of you who
are wondering he doesn't have the root
password if he needs it I can give it to
him and we've got it on file but so
here's a guy who just is not susceptible
to those kinds of problems but he still
gets the emails those are viruses now
these kinds of things and you get them
from they look like they're from Twitter
they look like from there from paypal
you can click on that link it will look
exactly like PayPal it'll ask you to log
in and what it's actually doing is it's
it's getting you to give them your
paypal login credentials or your hotmail
login credentials your twitter login
credentials be very very cautious never
click a link from email for those kinds
of things paypal's not going to send you
that ever okay and when you type in your
username and password at that website it
looks like PayPal but it's not paypal
they get your data then they get your
money they change your password on your
account they change your password on
your hotmail account so you can no
longer get email and they blast all your
people in your email list can be a real
mess so be careful oh that's just more
tidbits of information from category 5
just a little more and would you believe
it we're we're we're out of time it's
about that time folks time flies thank
you so much for joining us tonight it's
been great having you here nice to see
some new faces to Hillary it's always a
pleasure to have you here thank you is
good to be here so I have a great week
everyone we'll see you next time we do
expect your email and your postcards yes
see folks have a great night
Bobby
