welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 dal TV
and now let's begin here's your host Rob
Ferguson welcome to episode number 236
of category 5 technology TV it's Tuesday
March the 27th tonight mmm and as a
beautiful nights my first time on there
it was a great day here and buried sunny
skies and we are excited to welcome
Erika lalonde into the studio for the
first time tonight you're saying that
this is your first time actually live
yes it is my first time live on a
broadcast I've always been behind the
scenes type of person so it's nice to
actually be on air cool we're going to
talk a little bit about that I want to
hear the skinny on that I'm what it is
that you do and and how you found
yourself here good to see you joining us
in the chat room from all over the world
I want to let you know tonight is a very
special night I'm very very excited
about it and a lot has been leading up
to this because we are taking you on the
first ever tour of the category 5 TV
studio in addition to that I'm going to
be showing you how the software that we
use works that's Telestream Wirecast and
at the end of the show we're also going
to be giving away or announcing the
contest telling you how you can get a
free copy of telestream Wirecast so make
sure you stick around
so you are well I mean we're your BIOS
on the website yeah very cool go to our
website category 5 TV and you'll be able
to find out more about Erica but how did
you get involved in broadcasting what
brings you to the category 5 well you
know I started off doing some random
videos for school projects and my dad
noticed that you know they were kind of
pretty good for school videos and then
he just kind of started asking me to
actually create some internet
commercials for his company and I
started off with a paintball video for
liquid image I saw that yeah and it was
a lot of fun you know shooting you got
to shoot my dad got a shoot to people
like you know I gotta love paintball and
it was a lot of fun got to shoot it then
I got to just you know spend hours and
hours editing it and then you know
getting to actually see it play on the
Internet great and then after that um
did another commercial I did the ski
commercial we shot it and then also I
was you know kind of doing some little
tricks for everyone and then we brought
it here and then from there that's how
we kind of met up very cool and I know
that the questions going to come up
people in the chat room and people in
the category five community are gonna
wonder about they always say like how to
do how did you find out about the show
or how did you get involved erica was
actually the the lady who was on the
skis in the the latest snow camera mask
commercial that was here on category
five so and you've been following the
show for some time as well I yes I've
been following it for for myself I'm
really interested in learning about
Lennox cuz for eyes finally we got 15
I'm a PC user and for myself I'd love to
learn something new you have like a
laptop or something that we can uh yeah
I'll have to bring my laptop the next
time and like maybe we can just like
switch it over and just next time when
eric is here we will be installing
ubuntu 12.04 and
yeah you know I don't really don't tell
my dad it'll be okay yeah windows guy yo
forever ever since we've had a computer
since I was four it's been yeah pc sorry
linux is is a lot of fun to use it's
it's it's a pleasure to use really and I
think you've seen on the show from from
the viewer perspective that it is a very
viable alternative to Windows or Mac so
and I'm just thrilled to use it myself
great to see people in the chat room I
saw an email that came in from cyber
Smurf just welcoming you I'll get you to
bring that up on the screen there well
from cybersphere if it says well welcome
Erica skiing paintballing nerding out
with computer tech 350 artless of my
favorites looking forward to seeing
Erica on the category 5 team well thank
you cyber Smurf you know when I'm not
doing anything active I'm usually found
in my basement hooked up to xbox live
and all I guess I call it pony noobs but
that's what I do I'd be one of them um
Erica a her bio is on the website as I
said go to category 5 TV and you'll see
you there I under about us and the
category 5 TV team yeah it's so good to
see everybody joining us in the chat
room garvey is is here John who has been
away for a couple weeks having locked
himself into a video a particular video
game good to see ya nice to see
everybody tally bc YG have no idea how
to say it but welcome I've got a couple
of guests joining us in the chat room is
well nice to see you and those who are
here from the telestream Wirecast forum
it's nice to have you here I've been
chatting with some of you online and and
it's a pleasure to have you here joining
us for a live show and if you're
watching this pre-recorded after the
fact as well it's nice to see you so
stick around were going to be learning a
whole bunch of stuff so we are really
cramped for time tonight because we've
got this really exciting future coming
up in the tour of the studio I'll just
make a mention that if you have a mobile
device we have this mobile website you
can scan that code
it's mcat 5 TV that's going to take you
to a very special mobile version of our
website and you can check that out on
your mobile device should work with all
of the above well I'm getting a lot of
notes from the text line that I don't
use the computer games yes I do play a
lot of computer games I mostly in the
creative computer games I like to build
cities like sin city's age of empires
you know more about that so old school
doesn't it I know I'm gonna be old
school I'm a very old school type of
person I still got a record player I
still have everything like you know i
still bring my CD player around i like
my cds my old friends was on facebook
and said that they were gonna sell their
LP collection no and i went in there and
I went no he's like but it's taking up
so much room and this is a guy an old
radio jock right so he has tons and tons
of LPS just lining his basement well
goodbye them yeah thing with these LPS
is this like that is a big part of your
history and if you still have that kind
of stuff that's the kind of gear that if
you if you get rid of it you will always
regret that mmm at least keep you know
the core of those things there's some
things that just don't belong in storage
and don't belong you know you shouldn't
be given away or selling that's one of
those things so I hear you about the LPS
yeah I don't know I'm the type of person
now go to a garage sale and try to find
though man that's what I've been doing
lately I don't have an LP player but I
i'm watching for like band on the run
and you know the classics and stuff that
I listen to as a kid and if i could get
those on record then i would i would be
getting a record player for sure there's
just something about it it's just the
sound quality for myself I just like
listening to a record and you know
reproduced Otis Redding on CD imported
from lv it's just not the same the
scratches aren't genuine that's true I
just kind of feel a little bit different
like you know i'll be on my computer
gaming and also and i have like oh
there's like technology hooked up like
wireless
and then I have like my old people and a
bath with the speakers that are taller
than me she wants that rumor like are
you nervous not really i'm having a
great time like i'm just starting on
yeah you know having a cake time not
really that nervous sigh i like i like
doing TV stuff it's fun well it's nice
to have you here we we always have a
call for postcards and we love to oh yes
those cards well this post cards
actually from afghanistan and it says
hello Robin cast this is specialist
Philip Guerriero and the soldiers from
the 236 engineer company and we wish to
thank you for your hard work and
dedication we especially enjoy the photo
manipulation series and we're also using
the GIMP also thanks for the mp4 RSS tip
and at bottom I have no clue at this
says like I don't know if anyone can
somehow look at them they stand it yeah
they stand over top and you know I'd
love to read that last little blurb but
i don't know maybe specialist if you
could email us what that last line says
we could try to make that it this is
what happens folks if you send in a
postcard keep in mind that the the
posted the post office or whatever they
stamp this thing down here so we always
lose what is at the bottom it looks like
to me this is what I I'm picturing a
specialist saying this a big hooyah from
Afghanistan is it or is it hooray Orson
I'm thinking who yeah yeah yeah alright
yeah I would say so stuff very cool well
thank you so much but as specialist for
sending that in means a lot to us here
at the show to receive that from you and
awesome that you guys are are enjoying
the show and we love having you here and
certainly you know I would love to
receive I mean we'll just take one step
further specialists if if we could get a
photo of you and and your
true watching the show or using
open-source software or something send
it our way digitally is fine you don't
need to try to get it through customs
and and that would just be awesome it'll
be great seeing like the crew getting
there like I guess their technology on
or something in the GIMP I can you image
manipulation program what an awesome
piece of software and I'm glad that we
were able to introduce some of you to it
this is category 5 technology TV and
lots going on tonight stick around we
are going to be going to be taking you
for a tour of the studio here we've got
your viewer questions as well don't go
anywhere lots coming up after this at
eco alkalines we believe you should be
able to trust your batteries not just
here but here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here Eco alkalines
of the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco outlines provide performance
the rivals leading national alkaline
battery brands at a comparable price
find out more about the Eco alkalines
difference eco alkalines calm this is
category 5 technology TV welcome back
you'll find us online at triple w
category 5 TV and category 5 is also a
member of the tech podcast network for
tech podcast calm and here's a viewer
question we had so here's a question for
the category 5 guru it isn't is it
possible to use a USB adapter on an iPad
1 and get a webcam and use it to skype
Oh would that be awesome if you could
the first gen ipad is the one that
didn't have the camera right mm-hmm
planned obsolescence folks Apple is
brilliant at it they bring out a device
super cool but they leave out the camera
so then they bring out the 2nd gen oh
it's got a camera and then they bring
out the 3rd gen and it's oh it's faster
it's got a better screen and a better
camera and it's just it's like
strategically growing their product and
unfortunately that the USB adapter that
you can use
use for importing your camera photos and
things like that it cannot be used for a
webcam it would be nice and it does work
with some devices usually headsets or
microphones USB microphones and things
like that it can work for that so you
can use skype for audio but you can't do
video so kind of a problem there there
are some attempts out there I'll bring
onto one here Jamie Kapp five dot TV /
cam a it looks like gamma and that'll
take you to a website that introduces
you to camera a camera be and what that
software does is it basically lets you
use your iPhone as a camera on your iPad
that's about as close as you can really
get basically streaming the iphone for
camera through Wi-Fi to your iPad it
doesn't work with skype but it lets you
do things like put your iphone in
somewhere that's hard to get to mm-hmm
and you can actually see it on a bigger
screen with the ipad but kind of useless
because then why wouldn't you just use
your iphone yeah realistically only
other option that i can think of for you
is to maybe go over to B&amp;H photo-video
cat5 TV / bh and when you're there you
could you could get an ipad 1st gen
camera something like the Sachar cameras
for ipad but this will be funny you're
gonna love this how do you like those
alright definitely like the Minnie Mouse
Minnie Mouse ok I'm thinking Minnie
Mouse then there we go so check this out
it's a bit of a camera at 60 bucks right
but it's compatible with the first gen
ipad yeah I mean it's really your only
option if that's the route that you're
going to go a lot this is the way that
they planned at right it's to try to get
you to upgrade and it's frustrating I
think for hardware vendors as well
because you know you build something to
their current spec and then they change
the spec so but those those products
from sac are still available and they're
compatible for 60 bucks with the iPad
and they look awesome yeah the kids dig
them yeah I would definitely have one of
those on my iPad
got to get the skin to match though like
the yeah you know have a mini moto side
pad there you go the more you know well
we have a question from Eric's tweets
and this question of this one from last
week yeah and now it can finally be
answered so last week I saw eric's tweet
and I wanted to see him perform at doc
Marrone's on Saturday unfortunately I
wasn't able to drive that last four
thousand four hundred and fifty nine
kilometers in the time for the show I'm
sure Eric for four months was great
nonetheless so I was wondering if there
is somewhere in the web where I can
enjoy some of eric's music and this is
from cyber Smurf all right Cyrus Murph
now we took this question last week and
I didn't really know but I did some
searching after the fact right and I
found it cat5 TV / doc for Doc Malone's
dlc it's going to take you to our
ustream channel where as I said last
week I actually was there and i streamed
it live from my camera from my ipod
touch so it's it's terrible quality as
far as the quality goes and there's a
commercial off the bat but you'll see
that there are a couple of there's more
Eric more Eric Eric live etc so you'll
get to see them play live quality is
lousy as far as the video it's just me
with this on a salt shaker but at least
there's something for you all right cat5
TV / doc and there you have it thank you
for the question yeah
there are other any other questions here
um yes we have a question we have also
cyber Smurf so you showed man this week
I know Sandra Smurfs comments I Mercer
Smurfs questions so you showed the
category 5 info on the TV DB com web
site in episode 227 some of the season 1
episodes had topics that I'm interested
in I could not find any ackman oh man
that's a long time I could not find any
access to the episodes himself on TV DVD
or cat or category 5 but I thought that
Eric mentioned on air that the episodes
archived on site although he did not
give the URL what would you have the URL
for that site I'm cybers man you know
that trash bin right and thy way that
you empty it that's that's pretty much
season one I mean we're in the midst of
season 5 here so season 1 was like when
we were first getting going Wirecast
didn't have you know I don't even know
it existed back then our camera was like
a 320 x 240 webcam something like that
which we still have by the way it's a
collector's item season 1 here's what
I'll do go to cat five dot TV / archive
and this is less than ideal because
these videos strictly do not exist right
now on the web but this is going to
automatically throw you over to the very
very old video player you'll see that
there are three zeros there make sure
that there are always three digits and
start with one two three so 004 is
actually going to launch for you episode
four that's the fourth episode of
category five like we're talking really
2007 completely differently completely
different what do you think of the
quality difference I mean really so you
enjoy that because everything's just so
current I mean the stuff that I demo
doesn't even exist anymore do you want
to learn about the barrel project I do
good luck finding it there you go all
right well suppose that's really all the
time that we have for viewer questions
if you can believe it yeah and we're
forgoing the news because I want to take
you for a tour of the studio here so
make sure you check out our website
category 5 TV before we skip over I'm
not forgetting anything am I I'm pretty
sure we're all good for tonight I think
everyone's kind of excited to see how
everything works here I know I was when
I first entered here and I still am
learning new things so awesome well the
feature is pre-recorded we're we're in
the chat room we're going to have a
short question and answer after the
after the feature so stick around after
that and don't forget and we'll mention
this in the chat room as well we have a
free copy of Telestream Wirecast to give
away and that's going to be announced
just after this feature so don't go
anywhere enjoy welcome to the category 5
technology TV studio today we're not
just taking you on a tour kind of like
an exclusive behind-the-scenes to show
you how we do things here at category 5
TV but we're also going to be showing
you how you can do a similar setup using
Telestream Wirecast which is software
available for both the pc and mac
computers so stick around first of all
we're going to start things off with a
quick tour of the studio working our way
down into the category 5 studio you'll
see major tom our space fish some people
have asked where he's been these days
and that's where you'll find him
telestream Wirecast up on my screen
controls all of our cameras and you'll
see that I've got a microsoft lifecam
studio in front of me and to there and
also the demo computer screen is
captured using their software desktop
presenter and there is the co-host
screen on the left and that allows
Hillary and other co-host to follow the
chat room and also read email of course
there's our cat Winston who sometimes
hangs out at our feet and of course
backstage past the camera that allows
you to watch behind the scenes as things
are taking place what self-respecting
geek studio would be complete without a
serious collection of Star Trek novels
Susan
and of course our main broadcast system
this is where all the cameras plug into
and it is an intel core i7 2600 k
running inside the thermaltake level 10
snow edition chassis and as I said using
telestream wire cast on the Windows
platform this is kind of what it looks
like from the studio as far as when
someone is standing in the studio and
seeing the show taking place alive they
can see everything up on that screen
there and that can sometimes be used by
the camera person as it is in this case
but also you'll notice that all of our
cameras are stationary and yet we're
able to move them around here's the chat
room somebody's watching the chat room
on their cell phone while watching the
show live from the studio and as I'm
saying you'll see that the cameras are
all stationary but yet we can change the
angles so we're going to show you how to
do that in just a few minutes using
Telestream Wirecast very cool stuff
there's our feet where mr. Winston
sometimes hangs out and again kind of
the wide shot you'll see all these poles
sticking up from the ground we've got
lighting rigs and all that kind of stuff
the zoom on the screen there is provided
by comp is which is a part of Linux on
our demo system and that demo system is
the black one there in the frame also in
a thermaltake chassis the laser six so
let's take a look at how all this comes
together and makes category 5 technology
TV possible one of the questions I get
most often about category 5 and how we
do things here is how we're able to get
the sound so good during a live
broadcast big part of that is our
behringer 1000 to be console and this
can be done with any kind of console but
of course this is nice and portable and
does a great job it's got phantom
powered and you'll see that we're
plugged in directly to XLR this XLR
cable goes out to an adaptor which plugs
into my headset microphone directly
we're not using any wireless microphones
we've done that in the past and had some
interference and that's not a good
situation so from this board you'll see
that we've actually got we've got the
quarter inch to XLR outputs and those
XLR s go to Anna did well they actually
go into the back of a BBE sonic
maximizer the Maximizer is a signal
processor which basically cleans up the
signal makes it sound real nice
and then of course it goes straight into
an ultra miser pro from behringer and
this is a compressor it's an audio
compressor so that if I speak loudly
watch this dot dot dot dot dot da the
red is actually basically turning down
my volume so it will never clip and it
just keeps things nice and level keeps
things sounding great and if I get loud
it doesn't matter it's not going to pop
your speakers on the other end so that's
a very very important component of our
audio setup from the sonic maximizer our
compressor it goes straight out into the
back of the computer you'll see here
going into the blue we actually have a
cable that is coming directly off of the
back of that device itself off the back
of the compressor and here while I've
got you here I'll show you our cameras
are in fact going into USB 3 cards I've
got them staggered and I've only got one
camera going into each card these are
USB 3 cards because they are going to
give us the best throughput on any on
any camera the reason that they're on
individual channels the reason we have
one card per camera is to make sure that
we don't max out the the bus on the
computer itself cooling is a big deal to
us so we have the thermaltake frio
cooling our cpu and down from there you
see the USB 3 cards there and one of the
things you'll notice is the cable
management on the thermaltake level 10
is extremely clean this is also a big
thing a big part of our cooling system
having the fact that most of the cables
are well hidden behind the the mainboard
there the fact is just plain simple the
airflow is good and so we get a very
very cool core i7 next up is our demo
system in a thermaltake sazar 6 another
awesome chassis from them die hard with
liquid cooling and retractable ceiling
to change your liquid cooling and of
course just a fairly basic system which
is the system that I bring up on the air
right here whenever we want to show
demos of Linux next up is our lighting
and you'll see that we have proper
studio lighting here at category 5 TV
and it's very important when you're
broadcasting live that you do have
proper lighting you're not going to be
able to do correction after the fact
like you can with pre-recorded and
things like that proper lighting in the
studio is extremely important especially
when using digital imaging devices such
as digital video cameras webcams etc
because the lighting plays a big part in
your actual frame rate our cameras for
ultimate maneuverability are actually
mounted on microphone booms and we have
these adapters that convert them over to
standard camera mounts this is the
microsoft lifecam studio 1080p webcam
and of course it's able to capture in
full 1080p and does a fairly nice job as
well and having it on this boom allows
us to have ultimate flexibility as far
as making sure that we're able to look
like we're looking at a camera even
though we're in fact looking at a
computer screen I think if you want to
start an online broadcast here are three
things that you absolutely critically
must have first thing you've got to be
able to take the cameras and bring them
into some form of a system that's going
to allow you to switch between the
cameras between video clips and even
images and text you need to be able to
seamlessly transition between those the
reason for that is because when you're
live you don't have the opportunity to
do post-production to be able to edit
those things in after the fact because
people are watching live second thing of
course as a live show on the internet
you have to be able to source that to a
service provider such as ustream TV or
justin.tv you've got to be able to use
your internet connection to send that
feed out over the Internet and then let
it be rebroadcast to your viewers from
their third thing and this is something
that I learned the hard way when we
first started the show back in two
thousand seven is that you have to be
able to record two discs I say that I
learned the hard way because what
happened in our case is you'll remember
up until episode 11 we were actually
streaming to ustream TV and using that
as our recorded video so we'd hit record
as we were streaming it to the server so
if for example my internet connection
would go down all of a sudden I've got
these pieces of files saved on the
ustream server and I'd have to download
them splice them together re-encode and
upload them and that could be a bit of a
nightmare but here's the other thing
when you're streaming to a server online
you're limited based on your internet
connection so in my case it was about
four to six hundred K that I was able to
to upload as far as my upstream goes so
if you can imagine if I was recording
just from that file now I've got a file
that's a 600 k 600 kilobits per second I
mean so in that case that's really
generally I mean that's low quality it's
good for live streaming but it's not
very good for on-demand viewing and
being able to watch it full screen on a
TV for example from an RSS feed on a
set-top box or maybe mural internet TV
so that's why you absolutely need to
have the ability this is my third point
to record directly to disk because then
you can go 2,000 kilobits per second you
can go 3,000 kilobits per second if
you're moving around a whole lot you
need that kind of frame that kind of bit
rate so that is essential what's very
very cool is that Telestream Wirecast is
not only able to do these three things
but it's able to do them very very well
i'm going to show you tonight as we are
using a microsoft lifecam studio in fact
we have three of them here set up for
the demonstration i'm going to show you
how to set these up in Telestream
Wirecast and we're going to look at some
of the more advanced features as well
this is by no means a de facto tutorial
on how to use Wirecast but it's
something to get you started and to show
you that these things are possible with
this amazing software alright so this is
what Telestream Wirecast basically looks
like out of the box first thing i want
to do is turn on my layout and master
audio so that i can see levels as they
come in also layout and output
statistics helps me to see my frames per
second cpu usage and things like that my
data rate next up i want to add my first
camera so i'll click on the camera icon
down here and you'll see that I've
already named my cameras uniquely so
Robbie shot main shot and co-host shot
I'm going to add the Robbie shot what's
really really cool about that is that
telestream Wirecast even though i have
three microsoft lifecam studio cameras
it identifies each one individually so
that i can rename
and actually give it something that's a
little friendlier like this one I call
the Robbie cam because it's my camera so
there we go so you'll see that I am in a
4 over 3 mode right now so first thing I
want to do is go sources show source
settings click on the Robbie cam and
you'll see that out of the box is giving
me 320 x 240 so let's change it right up
to 1080p there it goes ok so now I've
got a 1080p source still within a 4 over
3 or 3 over 2 window so what I need to
do is change my canvas size and Intel
stream Wirecast click on file canvas
size and pick one of these 16 / 9
options for a 16 / 9 camera I'm going to
go with 1080p because of course this is
a 1080p camera so now that I've got my
1080p source running on a 1080p campus
what do I want to know I want to know if
I can add more than one camera so back
at Telestream Wirecast again let's add
another shot our main shot there's
another camera here and you'll see that
I'm getting cut off because it is also
in for over three modes so go to sources
and show show source settings go into
main and there you go main of course
it's just the name of the camera as I
named it you can name your cameras like
I have nice and unique by right clicking
on them here and going rename source
close out of that and now I've got to 16
/ 9 1080p true camera camp cameras
coming in to tell stream Wirecast okay
next camera co-host shot there it is
let's change the settings 1080p and now
it's there ok I'm going to switch to cut
mode here of course we've got things
like bowstring how cool is that right on
the fly cgi and then of course just
straight cuts as well live cameras of
course we see that we can actually run
multiple cameras in 1080p mode here in
Telestream Wirecast on the system so
that's a great thing but let's say we
don't need 1080p we're doing a web
broadcast so do we really need to be in
full 1920 x 1080 p chances are pretty
good that 720p may do nicely for what
you're going to in fact it works very
well for
here at category 5 TV the advantage to
using 720p / 1080p is clear you're able
to use lossless digital zoom let's take
a look at how that works I'm going to
remove these sources and I'm going to
change my canvas to 720p now there's my
camera you'll see that it looks exactly
as it did however my canvas size is 720p
so what that means is anything that I do
in Telestream Wirecast if I'm saving to
disk is going to be a canvas size of
720p you'll remember from Photoshop or
using GNU image manipulation program if
you take a photo that is this big and
make it this big it's going to lose
quality however if you take a photo
that's this big and you make it this big
it's going to stay the same as far as
quality goes you're not going to lose
anything because you're going down not
up that's what we can do here we have a
1080p source we can take it down to 720p
and we can do some really cool things
using the analogy of the image in your
image editor think about something
that's this big and instead of resizing
it think about cropping it creating a
canvas that's this big and being able to
move it around that bigger image so
you're still not losing any quality it's
still this big as far as the image is
concerned but you're able to move around
and look like you're zooming in on that
image check this out so now i have if i
go to sources source settings go to the
rabi camera you'll see i have a source
that is 1080p so that's a full 1080 and
i have a canvas that is only 720p so now
let's take our camera i'm going to take
this off of the tripod here and i got to
put it on this little thing here and i'm
going to put it right in front of my
computer monitor and with this graphic
up on the screen we can see that the
green is 1080p and the red is 720p so
let's fit the outer edges so the left
and right edge of the green into my
frame so that it's just touching the
edge of my camera frame remember that
the camera is capturing at 1080p
there we go okay I need to also make
sure that I can see the red okay I don't
need to fill the entire frame now I'm
going to bring up the shot editor and
I'm going to hold in my Alt key and tell
a stream Wirecast and pull back that's
going to zoom in move it around a little
bit and I want to get that red portion
and do the exact same kind of thing I
wanted to touch the edges of my frame
without going over because that's
lossless so what I'm basically doing is
I'm zooming in digitally on a 1080p
source all the way to 720p that's about
as close as I can go so now if I click
here that is now my frame I'm going to
move it back up into the frame there
there we go so let's put this back on
the tripod and see how this affects us
so now you see that the camera is
actually very very close to me so here's
what's really cool you can see that for
example my chin is kind of a little bit
too low there's too much room up here
above my head so I'm gonna bring up that
shot and I can in fact move that shot
around the screen losslessly that means
I'm not losing any quality and I can do
that so now if i duplicate that shot
I've got two of them now i'm going to
rename this one main camera and the
reason that i duplicated that is because
now i have one that's already zoomed in
at 720p from a 1080p source i'm going to
select my main camera there it is and
you'll see that now with my main camera
zoomed in like that i can move like that
or i can move like that so let's start
with me there's me
okay duplicate it again bring up that
shot and move it over to my co-host
chair so if I click to enable smooth
transitions on my shots here then you'll
see that what i can do is take the shot
from me click on the next one and it
automatically pans over to the person
who's sitting next to me it's perfect
it's a great economical way to be able
to use for example just one HD webcam
which costs about fifty to sixty dollars
if you go to our website cat5 TV / cam
you'll see it there and then you're able
to move around that scene losslessly and
be able to make it look like you've got
either multiple cameras in the case
where you use the cut or you can use
smooth transition and it will actually
pan as if there's somebody operating
your camera for you to help you set up
your lossless digital zoom I'm going to
put that up on the screen now feel free
to pause the video so that you can get
your camera all set up so if your system
is not performing quite as well as what
you're seeing here I'm going to give you
a couple of tips first of all remember
that 1080p is a lot for your system to
process it's got to be a pretty fast
computer you've got to have good hard
drive read and write we have three hard
drives in a raid 0 for our reads and two
hard drives in a raid 0 for our rights
so anything that's happening is
happening between those five hard drives
and they're all raid 0 our data storage
is done on a separate server so we're
not concerned about data loss if the
drive crashes or anything like that it
would be devastating to the current
broadcast but would not affect past
broadcasts and things like that so very
important but aside from performance
keep in mind as I said before you have
to have each USB camera on its own
separate USB card are there PCI Express
x1 s and so I only plug in one camera to
each card it's very important that
you're not sharing it with any other
devices you're not sharing that bus and
you certainly are not plugging into your
motherboard because guaranteed your
motherboard is going to have other USB
devices running off that bus that you
may not even know about for example my
computer has a card reader did you know
that that's USB if your laptop if you're
using a
top has a built-in webcam that's
actually USB so you may think well I
only have this one camera plugged into
my USB bus will really know if you're
plugged into the motherboard or a laptop
you're actually using the USB bus that
is part of the the whole grand scheme of
things as far as the system is concerned
so in our case we have three individual
USB 3 cards very important we went with
USB 3 instead of us be too even though
the cameras would function with USB 2
because USB 3 gives you that added
bandwidth so if it's going to come
really close to maxing out a USB 2 card
it's going to come nowhere close to
maxing out a USB 3 card at five gigabits
a second versus USB 2 which is 480
megabits per second so big difference
there you want to go with the USB 3
option the cards for us we're only
twelve dollars each so it's really
economical it's really worth doing so
that said if your system is unable to do
what we're doing here today there is
another option for 1080p lossless zoom
i'm going to show you that now and it is
relying entirely and exclusively on
microsoft's drivers so watch what we're
going to do I'm going to in fact go to
my sources show source settings and I'm
going to set my camera down to 720p now
that may be the case that may be what
you need to do if your system is unable
to process in Wirecast the full 1080p
because remember Wirecast is decoding
the 1080p compressed signal from the
camera it's doing a whole lot of
conversions is doing live CGI on top of
that it's doing transition effects it's
doing encoding to the hard drive it's
doing encoding to the stream it's very
heavy what this program has to do but as
I said it does it really really well and
as long as you understand the inner
workings of how codecs work and how the
actual frame sizes affect your
performance and things like that and as
long as you've got a fairly decent
system that's able to handle what it is
you're trying to pump through it you'll
be able to do this in my case let's
pretend that we don't have a good enough
system so we can only do up to 720p but
oh we really wish we could do that
digital zoom losslessly we can actually
create a 720p lossless zoom using the
microsoft lifecam driver
themselves so what we'll do is we'll go
back over to Telestream Wirecast and i'm
going to go sources show source settings
and i'm going to change my camera to
720p so there we have it now remember
that I've already zoomed in on this so
now this is going to be lossy because my
source is actually 720p so I'm going to
remove that delete let's delete all
those sources because they were designed
for 1080p let's create a new shot for
the rabi shot and there we go so now we
have a true 720p source going into a
720p canvas so now what I can do is if
you click down here you'll see that you
have three in my case three because I've
got three microsoft lifecam cameras
three lifecam dashboards so I'm going to
single click on the one that corresponds
to my camera you'll be able to determine
which one that is by going into settings
properties of one of them turn off auto
focus and adjust your focus and if it
works for that camera you know that hey
I'm on the right camera obviously so
while we're looking at the focus fix
that you don't want to use auto focus at
any time when you're doing a live
broadcast make sure you turn off white
balance and exposure autumn automation
and adjust those to a setting that's
going to look really good for you and
match it up with all of your cameras as
well so that they all look the same as
far as the colorization the saturation
the contrast so beyond that now that
we're using the microsoft lifecam
drivers and the source is going in a
720p to wire cast on the 720p canvas I
can use the zoom tool built into this
driver and that of course is also
lossless you can see that it doesn't
give me quite as much control and of
course if I brought up this I can't
actually move it around on the canvas in
Wirecast because remember Wirecast
thinks it's a 720p camera at this point
but of course the Microsoft drivers know
otherwise so here I am zoomed in 720p
losslessly on the 1080p camera and this
is done strictly with the drivers what's
nice about this for you is that this
does not use the amount of resources of
running in 1080p mode so you're able to
get that lossless zoom at 720 but you're
actually running at 720p so that way
you're using a lot less resources things
are running really smooth even on a slow
system a couple more things that I'd
like to show you tonight with Telestream
Wirecast let's bring up our camera
source here and we're going to add first
of all a sound card so I've clicked on
the Add button down here that's added a
media layer here and I'm going to click
to add my audio mixer it would say line
in or something like that and i'm going
to click on it and now it's assigned
line in to that particular scene it's on
the layers so now if i highlight that
layer you'll see that my levels on the
right hand side here are moving around
they weren't before because I didn't
have an audio capture device so make
sure that you create an audio device on
all of your tracks that is the
corresponds to what you want to be doing
with that audio track so in our case
because it's coming off of the mixer
I've assigned my line in as the audio
device for that let's create another
layer here and we're going to go a text
layer and let's just add something like
that click on text and go Robbie
Ferguson category whoa category five TV
something along those lines so now if I
click on that now I've got a title as
well really the only thing that we have
left to do to really get into Telestream
Wirecast is making sure that we can
broadcast of the web making sure that we
can record to disk so i'm going to show
you that now keeping in mind that there
are obviously so many different things
that you can do here so many different
ways that you can set up your cameras
and your effects and the way that you
want to transition between them but i'm
going to leave that up to you i'm going
to let you experiment and you can in
fact download a free trial of wire cast
at cat5 TV / Wirecast give it a try see
how it performs on your system see if
it's going to do really well for you and
then you can take the next step let's
take a look at how we can set this up to
broadcast i'm going to go broadcast
broadcast settings in Wirecast i'm going
to add a new stream here and first of
all i'm going to choose an encoder
preset this is going to be for our
broadcast so if i have a really good
internet connection i might choose flash
high bandwidth 16 / 9 let's click on it
and we're going to click Edit to see
what that entails you'll see that it is
960 x 540 600 kilobits per second so if
you have a 1 megabit
connection and you're not doing anything
else online you'll probably be able to
withstand 600 kilobits per second if you
have way more than that you might try HD
bandwidth and look at that and you see
that that is a thousand kilobits per
second so if you have say for megabits
per second upload you'll definitely have
enough to handle that then you start to
run into will your viewer be able to
stream it down to them maybe it's going
to be too much for them in which case
you might want to bring it back a little
bit of course you're also able to create
your own by going new and you'll see
that we actually use our own custom
encoders here and you can go through and
set everything up the way that you like
so in our case we're going to go with
the de facto flash high bandwidth 16 / 9
we're going to choose justin.tv you can
choose any of these options and we're
going to be able to stream just by
entering our username there and then
clicking on generate rtmp so now we want
to add the ability to record two discs
as I was saying earlier so I'm going to
click on add a new output here highlight
that and we're going to go with flash HD
bandwidth 16 / 9 and hit edit and you'll
see here now I've got the defaults from
flash HD bandwidth 16 / 9 but I want to
go new and i'm going to call this my
preset for present how did i do that
preset for record to disk okay and hit
okay the reason that I wanted to do that
is now I can manipulate these settings
without messing up the original flash HD
bandwidth settings so I'm going to
change that to 2000 kilobits per second
because I know that I'm actually
recording this two-disc I know that my
canvas is 720p so that's what I'm going
to set of course if you were running in
1080p you could set those to 1080p make
sure you set to h.264 for your encoder
that's important and of course
everything else looks ok you might
increase the sound quality 192 or
whatever you want to do and then hit
save now this is important what we need
to do now that we've created that is
again click on our encoder preset notice
that is left at a flash HD bandwidth 16
/ 9 I want to actually change that to my
preset for record to disk
now choose our destination as record to
disk tell it where you want to save it
to you can browse and change your type
to mpeg-4 now when I save that I'm going
to actually be able to record two discs
by simply clicking on record so now i'm
recording this is what it looks like
it's 720p just as we've set it up right
here right now this is recording
directly off of wire cast during this
demonstration so now that we've
accomplished all that we can feel
confident in using telestream Wirecast
and go back to here click on our blank
shot and fade to black so there you have
it that's essentially how we do things
here at category 5 technology TV I hope
that you've learned lots i hope that you
had fun and of course if you have any
questions just pop us an email live at
category five dot TV and i do encourage
you especially if you're considering
setting up some kind of an online
broadcast or if you're a church that
wants to be able to broadcast your
services if you want to just be able to
record and make it look really good and
then broadcast it through RSS having
pre-recorded two-disc whatever it is
that you're looking to do if Telestream
Wirecast looks like the thing for you
make sure you check them out cat five
dot TV / Wirecast and again if any
questions are raised make sure you pop
us an email live at category 5 TV for
category 5 technology TV I'm Robbie
Ferguson and we are live at category 5
TV live at cutaway 5 tv.com is our email
and at 2545 cat5 TV for phone or to 5 45
52 to 85 88 thanks everybody i hope that
you enjoyed the feature and learned a
lot from that make sure you do get on to
our website is category 5 TV and check
us out say hello papas the email and a
nice to see so many people interacting
in the chat room very cool XJ BSC see
full 422 nice to see ya cheers you al
all right one of the things that I had
talked about briefly that I didn't get
to actually demonstrate for you was the
BBE sonic maximizer I thought it would
show you what the difference is so right
now I've got BBE sonic process going on
what I'm going to do is I'm going to
turn it off now
so now you'll hear that there's a little
bit less kind of they call it the sonic
maximization and so if I turn it back on
all of a sudden it just has that a bit
more of a brightness to the sound and
that's just a simple device that that
does a really really nice job and just
kind of tweaking things so just for
those who are wondering what does the
sonic maximizer actually do it's it's
easier to describe the compressor than
the Maximizer the Maximizer give you've
really got to hear it especially like if
we're chatting or singing they're doing
whatever yeah garbey really summarized
it well it maximizes sonic stuff Thank
You chef so we've got a copy of
Telestream wire has to give away very
very excited about that and have a
couple of moments to answer your
questions in the chat room I did see one
question there which is perfectly
awesome sorry it the chat room has been
flying by somebody had asked about
desktop presenter UL I didn't mention
desktop presenter because we didn't get
right into every little thing about
Wirecast at the end of the feature there
I was just kind of saying there's so
much to it desktop presenter is
fantastic in fact you were a little in
awe of this setup because at your studio
you have kind of everything as
hardware-based yet software so in order
to bring a computer screen up on the TV
would be a challenge i would assume yep
we have four actual computer screens and
we have the old-school mixer where you
have to hardware hard-wearing cables
teleprompter we have five screens total
we have camera one screen camera to
screen we have our commercial screen we
have just really just really old HD
cameras at least they're hdj their HD
what's our 720 it's still not 1080 yeah
alright that's decent enough but yeah
the fact is is that this type of setup
there's so much less as far as big bulky
cable skill and things like that i'm one
of the great things about telestream
Wirecast is this desktop presenter
software and it's in fact what allows us
to bring the screen up on your screen so
if i ever want to show you a demo of
what's happening on linux it's all done
by this program or it could be windows
or it could be mac when we had a mac in
here when when crystal was doing a demo
we installed desktop presenter here I've
got it running on Linux and of course
it's running under wine really really
simple so it works fantastically as you
know because you never even know that
it's running you probably didn't even
give it any thought but so there are no
cables going from one computer to the
next for me to be able to capture that
it's literally a piece of software
that's running on that linux computer in
the background and like i say that could
be a windows computer to it could be a
mac computer it you could have a hundred
of them and they could all be cyclists
so all i do is i just click on it and
there's my screen so I can bring you up
a demo or whatever so and it just does
that through the through the ethernet
it's crazy i I walked in here and I was
just like he was the studio takes up
just a little corner you got to see it
tonight it's amazing yeah when I first
signed up I thought you know could be a
nice big studio but lean room you know
where do it all on her own well yeah the
question here for myself is foremost
fahd cats why would you need anything
about 720 well for for my studio it's
very very close and you have a camera
right in your face and I find with 720
it's not the resolution that I kind of
want um
media your medium is traditional
television yes so a little bit different
than I would think Internet broadcaster
yes and you know you have it right up
close you're reading off the
teleprompter and it's just kind of like
for me 1080 looks a lot better when we
get the chance to use the 1080 cameras
it's I find with see when I put it
through our real premiere program it
kind of works better and also with the
blemishes we have I've kind of figured
out a way to set up the lighting quite
well and you know I can make a nice
stocking over the world yeah it works
like it kind of makes everyone look nice
Amy a little high school kids so they're
all fine so we have a copy of Telestream
Wirecast now you know what it is now you
know how it works and what you can do
with it and I definitely want to give
this to somebody who is basically going
to be able to use it so it is a draw the
way that we're going to do this is
strictly a draw there is no favouritism
whatsoever but what I want you to do is
I want you to give some thought to if
you're going to participate in this
contest and you don't have to John I
would encourage you just to step aside
you've won enough man no I'm so kidding
but give some thought as to what you
would do with Telestream Wirecast you'd
probably revolutionize your studio all
of a sudden you'd be stripping yes I
mean I'm going to talk to my professor
and you talk to a lot of people right
now look at a copy of telestream
Wirecast is valued at about four hundred
fifty dollars us and I'd love to be able
to award that to you so as I'm saying
just give some thought what would you do
with this software what what is it that
you would plan to do with telestream
Wirecast and with that thought just
throw me a quick email and you're going
to throw that over to contest at
category five dot TV those emails are
going to be accumulated throughout the
week I want to be fair so I know that a
lot of people are unable to watch this
live so this is for you if you're
watching on RSS feeds if you're watching
on a
demand box if you're watching on Miro
internet TV youtube itunes any of the
above this is your chance to also
participate pop an email to contact a
category-five TV simply tell me what you
would do with Telestream Wirecast if you
were to win again that's not going to
skew the results whatsoever however the
winners basically what the winner says
they're going to be doing with it will
be quite possibly announced on the air
next week so the draw will be taking
place on next week's show that's April
third of 2012 and we would encourage you
to watch live but if you're not here
live will also pop you an email in that
email make sure you give me a name that
that we can announce on the air as well
contest at category five dot TV contest
at category five TV thank you for
pointing out my error shot and we also
have a question it's a quick estimate
from Greg in Texas about how much it
costs to build a studio just how you
view built yours that's a that's a tough
question did add up see because the way
that we've done things here at category
5 and you can do the same is I mean go
back and use that cat 5 TV / archive and
then change the last 0 in their 20 to 21
right so it says 0 0 1 and you'll see
how far we've come and the way that
we've done category 5 is that we're
always very slowly very gradually just
kind of trickling in little things and
we've been so blessed by you know just
having viewers who support us sponsors
who support us as well our lighting rig
for example this is these have been
around for a long time those were
purchased by viewer donations the
computer that you're using was purchased
by viewer donations a lot of the
hardware that we're using on the air the
actual broadcast server was partially
donated by sponsors and partially
donated through viewer donations so a
lot of it is just kind of it we build as
we as we go and we grow every year and
we're always doing our best to put on a
good show for you and to have some
and to most of all be informative but
also provide you a show that you're
going to enjoy so mm-hmm so I don't I
couldn't put a dollar value on it it's
it's all blood sweat and tears and lots
of love a lot of hard work hard work so
mm-hmm that's that just about all the
time that we have everybody nice to see
you Garvey's off to watch episode one
don't do it folks don't do it someday
I'll show you the webcam that we used
for that broadcast it's amazing because
this was never meant to happen this was
never meant to grow to where it is I
mean we we started this thing it's just
a small project and here we are in
season 5 so and that's crazy what was
going strong yeah yeah 5th anniversary
coming up on September 25th i was saying
yes for the show as well so make sure to
be there it'll be a lot of fun it's
gonna be a lot of fun make sure you are
in barrie that night oh yes where is
everybody joining us from in the chat
room just really quickly shut out your
yeah definitely cheers drumstick we've
got a meal from part a yes 68 33 is
joining us from the UK we've got
Australia's pires rock jawed is in the
netherlands WK dave may do michigan yeah
it's flying by faster than I can read a
note looks Wow we've got guests 7788
joining us from very nice to see you
from her yeah down here and Barry got
Toby is joining us from Wales just shout
them out of years we got you ill from
Pittsburgh and we have DJ mike from Fort
Myers Florida we used to Lulu apples we
did not miss you from Florida as well oh
yes Florida is awesome and warm i wish i
was there all i need oh no man um we
have michelle ova from ottawa we have
invincible mune i'm in the UK nice and
number one o'clock in the morning it's
ok joining us for me the Ontario nice we
have our d streets from South Carolina
and
and we have ice right rochester new york
well we have silicon valley which is for
a scientist from but you can watch the
you can see the chat logs if you want to
see where our roots are from tonight and
lovely to have everybody here just
representing the entire globe tonight
nice to receive a postcard as well from
right in Afghanistan sent to us right
from Afghanistan so send in your
postcards this week as well just as a
final thought you can mail them to
category 5 technology TV postal box 29
009 Barrie Ontario Canada l 4 and 7 w 7
we'd love to receive those Erica it's
been really nice having you here yes
hope you had fun a lot of fun you know
for my first show was awesome and I love
knowing that everyone from around the
world is viewing this you know I teach
people from the ski how all around the
world and it's awesomeness you know to
actually see other people who are
interested in technology as I am oh well
great to have you here in this part of
the team and do remember to check out
Erica's bio you can go over to category
5 TV and find that this week so have a
good one and I'll talk to you next
Tuesday night Eric Kidd will be here and
we will be giving away that copy of wire
cast so we'll time it's Tuesday night
see you later
Bobby
