for those who prefer Linux or are simply
curious about Linux and other open
source technologies this is category 5
technology TV
you
welcome to episode number 280 of
category 5 technology TV great to see ya
welcome to the show welcome everyone I'm
Robbie Fergus out hi Hillary Rumble
hello everyone in the entire world
welcome to you especially those in
Australia celebrating a belated
australia day happy belated australia
day I ate some Vegemite today I'm not
even getting we didn't get it from an
Australian exchange teacher our seed
Rotterdam that oh yeah wow she gave me a
bite is a wee salty for my taste yeah I
felt cultured eating it let me tell ya
that's what it's about that's what it's
about great to see it ready nice to have
you here lots of lots of new faces today
i noticed that a lot of people are
joining our community it's so nice to
have you as a part of this and and i
hope you enjoy the show tonight we're
calling this our hodgepodge episode
where we originally gonna be looking at
steam tonight steam the gaming platform
it's come to linux i'm so excited about
it i really want to show you everything
about it and unfortunately our demo
system is not quite compatible with it
yet so we have to actually run some
upgrades and go through the whole
process unfortunately but this will be
part of it to be part of the review yeah
ah so we've got to go through all that
before i can review that for you so
unfortunately that was that wasn't known
in time to let you all know for those of
you who are really really excited to
learn all about steam tonight that's
kind of what happened it's okay wait
till next week yeah so tonight we've got
your viewer questions we've got lots of
your questions I've got the cat phone
here if you want to give us a call it's
2 545 cat5 TV 2 5 45 2 okay so that
translates into 2545 228 588 cat phone
it's on the bottom of our website it's
all it's always there yeah anyone wants
to give us a call ask your questions say
hello do it i dare you right now derya
i'm waiting sleep you're signing until
your call come on ring come on John I
I wanted to give a quick shout out to
those of you our viewers who have been
supporting the show with your donations
I don't know if you realize how much
that really helps category 5 in the
community and really pushes us along as
well it's an encouragement there's that
part of it it's also you know it if for
those viewers who just loved the show
week to week it's really these viewers
who send in their donations on a you
know on an occasional basis or some of
them some of you as you know are also
subscribed to donate on a monthly basis
and every every little bit helps and and
that's just you know that's what keeps
us going so thank you very much for your
support and if you're interested in
supporting us in that way and able then
feel free to go over to our website of
course this is a free service though and
we don't charge for you for anything
that we do here so feel free to to just
enjoy the show as well but but get your
questions in join us in the chat room
its category 5 on freenode also we've
got the email live at category 5 TV goes
over to hillary and she's also watching
the chat room and we're gonna do our
best to keep up with your questions
tonight we will and in addition to your
awesome questions we'll also have some
fabulous news and this is what's coming
up dented it up the Pentagon has plans
to dramatically increase its cyber
security staff hmm what does I mean you
will find out your accelerometer could
reveal your PIN also securing what that
means you'll find out sony has been
fined in connection with the april 2011
data breach of the PlayStation Network I
remember that couldn't play my games
uh-huh Toronto jewelry company has
developed a method of 3d printing your
own head onto a PEZ dispenser how well
is that I'm I would like my own stick
around cuz these stores are coming up
later on in our show excellent okay
we're gonna take a really really quick
break when we're back we're going to
we're going to talk about a whole bunch
of exciting stuff that we've got going
on also we're going to hit your viewer
questions we've got lots of them tonight
we're going to do our best to get
through all of them and of course if you
haven't sent in your question yet live
at category 5 TV or go over to cat five
dot TV /
or join us in chat room category 5 on
freenode we'll be right back after this
at eco alkalines we believe you should
be able to trust your batteries not just
here but here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here Eco alkalines
of the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco alkalines provide
performance the rivals leading national
alkaline battery brands at a comparable
price find out more about the Eco
alkalines difference eco alkalines calm
hey gang you're watching category five
and we are a member of the tech podcast
network if it's tech it's here and the
international association of internet
broadcasters awesome I want to make
mention you know if you've got a mobile
device if you haven't used it yet mcat
five TV is a really great website to go
to you can also add that to your your
your dash or whatever you want to do but
you can scan that QR code go over to
mcat live TV and that is our mobile site
for watching watching the show live
watching it on demand you can do that
right through your mobile device you can
and that's pretty high-tech that keeps
you in touch with the modern age but
let's take it back to yield snail mail
that's a good technology nobody uses
anymore my long we would love to see
your postcards from the World Wide Web
how can you do that send them to
category 5 technology TV p.o.box to 9009
Barrie Ontario which of course is in
Canada oh 4 and 7 w 7 we'd love to hear
from you yeah I certainly love receiving
your postcards now one other thing
there's so much stuff going on with with
the way that the show is growing into
you know we're in the first month of
2013 one thing that I wanted to mention
as we look at you know where category 5
is available blip TV is one of our
service providers and they stream
category 5 TV so we're on any device
that they're on
so if you're looking for the show on
your device's blip TV is now available
on iOS it's available on android kindle
and xbox so that's that's reasonably
recent as far as availability goes and
there that you know they're available on
a whole ton of platforms but that's
those are some new ways that you can
catch the show as well so log into
whatever whatever marketplace that
you're using in order to get your apps
and look for blip TV spelled bli p and
you'll find category 5 technology TV
actually on that device very cool hmm I
like that lots of viewers from all over
the world tonight if you'd like to see
where everybody's coming from you can
tap Matt cat category 5 TV or map cat
five dot TV this is the coolest thing I
love this thing mm-hmm I love seeing
where everybody's coming from look at
that their way this is this is our
geo-located to IP addresses and pins of
where our viewers are from right now
crazy here we are even viewers in Sudan
and South Africa huh nice to have you
hey any viewers in the dr where do i go
for the Dominican Republic I don't know
geographically a central america uh yeah
okay don't dare there we go there there
there are would you look at that well
there we go where's in the demeanor of
your in the Dominion yeah and a couple
just over in Puerto Rico as well a very
cool matter of fact very good now what's
what's with your interest in in the dr
well i just got back hello you can't
tell i'm not super tan but i just got
back from the dr i was little vacay it
was fabulous we had an excellent time
the weather was amazing excellent i
couldn't have asked for a better trip
she sent me a picture said she didn't
bring her cell phone but she did bring
her shell phone so there's a there's
Hillary always with the puns keeping it
real yeah I having a good time in
Dominican
I am glad that you had a good time I did
I had on for we run for a week and my
husband and I and we had like a ton of
fun we mostly just beached it but we
also went on a crazy adventure on old
Crazy Horse's up a mountain to a water
crazy they were crazy crazy horse and I
went ziplining down a mountain really
yeah that sounds fun I was like
adventure girl yeah it was really cool
how cool is that so our viewers in
Dominican Republic make sure you send us
an e-mail say hi live at category five
dot TV we'd love to to actually hear
from you and and even tell us where
we're about Cindy are you from and we'll
see how close you worked even could have
been next door to yet he brings a
postcard I don't know if I did or no my
stuff oh you at home in the Dominican
Republic you need to send a supporter on
behalf of you know just just to make up
for Hillary for you slacker we've got
viewers tonight on youtube as i
mentioned blip TV nero internet TV first
run TV welcome to our new viewers there
as well as roku we're on our coo device
all over i mean you can catch the show
no matter where you're where you're from
all across all these different platforms
awesome we love to know how you're
watching them and how you heard of us as
well so i love those emails keep them
coming in that's um emails for us
tonight oh yeah got other stuff that you
know okay yeah well i got i got lost
it's like where do i start my list is so
long hmm i think i should give the
viewers what they want you have to give
the people what they want know what
hillary was looking for so let's do a
little question Q&amp;A here this comes to
us from ehow um asking hey mijo
regarding debbie and six can you install
gnome shell on debian six or is it daddy
takes a gnome shell i'm not sure okay
well with debian squeeze stable squeeze
you you can't because it's not in the
repository I i think i've had this
question before where we looked at the
fact that on debian testing you can
actually install you know like gnome 3
and all that kind of stuff I'm going to
hop over to our website just see if I
can find let's say gnome 3 on debian
squeeze squeeze being wn6 let's see if
that turns up anything just kind of
looking at what's what comes up here
okay so let's try a different search
here gnome 3 debian just simplify it
it's got to be there I encourage you to
do a search I'm sure that I've talked
about it in the past but yeah under non
stable you'd be able to like you know
under testing for example you'll be able
to install that and we could probably
find you some resources on how to do
that I don't have debian installed on my
system but keep in mind that it would be
considered unstable in order to do that
so you might unless you're you know just
want to tinker around but if it's a
production system you might consider
actually going with an OS that is that
they've already got all the dependencies
already taken care of for you you may
you know want to go that route just to
just to save you some some headaches and
frustration but if you're just looking
to play around i look at debian testing
ok ding round one now we're on to number
two this is a 33 question email so
hopefully we will bring we will bring it
for you okay second question from you
how is their way to plug my cell phone
into my computer and use internet
through it because my internet is wired
and has no wireless he has no oh like
your computer has no wireless internet
yeah but you could do like a tethered
ethernet or something like that hi that
is i would say probably dependent on
what type of phone you have and that in
nation I guess yeah is that you haven't
mentioned if you have like a zack morris
phone from nigeria 91 even the reference
she just ding ding ding smarter than I
look probably when or um yeah I think
phone to phone is different but as far
as tethering to a cable I don't know of
any that really have that now my old
dumb phone did indeed have a USB to its
own proprietary interface and through
the USB share your internet connection
but it was terrible that's that was back
in the day these days I think a lot of
times you're you know you're creating
like a wireless hotspot or something
like the blackberry for example like
blackberry torch or something you can
you can share your internet connection
your iPhone you can share your internet
connection does it over Wi-Fi android as
well you know it's not exclusive to any
any one device but that's usually done
through Wi-Fi as far as hardwiring goes
maybe the chat room has has some ideas
or maybe Google would be a good search
place as well but that said a USB Wi-Fi
dongle for the you know that you can
plug into the back of your computer
which will work with Windows Linux Mac
whatever you plug it in all of a sudden
you've got a Wi-Fi card there about 30
bucks so if it's going to be
advantageous for you to get your
internet service from your cell phone
and you can set it up as a Wi-Fi hotspot
then I would say just grab one of those
and do that but be mindful to check with
your service provider because data is a
lot more expensive than just phone calls
yes so if you start sharing your
internet and all of a sudden you know
you tune into an episode of category 5
that example because you really want to
do that ha but you're looking you know
it could be 400 Meg's if you're watching
live for a one hour show or if you go to
youtube and you watch a few videos all
of a sudden yeah you used up a lot of
your bandwidth so it can get pretty
pricey so be mindful of that and be very
very careful that you don't go over your
your limit otherwise you can get a
really unreasonable cell phone bill
so good point well made mm-hmm valid
okay and dang round two okay question
number three do you think it is right
for okay this is a peg in question but
we'll just discuss as a whole
Microsoft's ability to record all text
messages and video calls on skype I
don't know about this question my do you
think it is right for Microsoft to
record all text messages and video calls
on skype I don't know about this have
you watched person of interest yet
that's though that's what the world is
coming to i'm sure i don't know i mean
the companies are gonna monitor what
what you do or what you don't do I don't
know anything about it actually but
their software right is it yeah I guess
it would fall if that was true if that
if that is true then I guess it would
depend on what the you know what the
privacy glass say about that they would
say that Microsoft would by law not be
allowed to to share that information
except with law enforcement personnel
should it be d necessary by the law so
if somebody were plotting a terrorist
attack and using skype to do so then it
does make sense the government to be
able to say give us a copy of those
tapes and Microsoft have to give those
up but then it becomes the fine line of
other people would argue that that
violates your your own confidentiality
and privacy but I think they would have
to have yeah probably to give that up
right makes sense but is it right for
Google to log Wi-Fi usernames and ssids
around the world and share those is it
right you don't know that it's all gray
area depends on what it's being used for
I think that's what it boils down to
don't be doing dumb stuff off the
internet in this the information age or
something right like you can walk down
the street and you can get so much
information about anybody digitally just
by using you know just by some some
know-how and being able to access Wi-Fi
networks and things like that so but is
that
is that wrong the stuff is already there
it's what you do with that it's what's
done with that stuff yeah not to use a
really good example but you know I mean
so I buy what you're selling hmm well
thank you that's you know that's an
opinion opinion question as Hilary said
and you know maybe the chat room has
some some thoughts sure they do I'm sure
they do okay sure they got lots going on
there tick tock says the NSA knows all
and sees all it just comes down to
person of interest have you seen again
no oh it's so good it's so good it's
like it's the one show where where you
know there's not there's not
over-the-top violence or anything and
there's no blood or gore or anything
like that so it's nice and clean that
way but but yet it's still a good kind
of cops and robbers show but interesting
show we've been enjoying it but the
whole premise is that they have a
machine that uses all the surveillance
cameras and taps into that and
accumulates all the information it's a
machine so nobody's actually seeing the
data it's like the whole Microsoft
scenario right nobody's actually seen
the data until it's required but it
accumulates it and puts all the pieces
of the puzzle together and says okay we
think this is going to be an attack on
on whatever because we've taken this
this and this and the computers done
that so they know that that's going to
be a terrorist attack for example hmm
hmm so that if that ever happened in
reality I think we have the data storage
for it but it could happen Big Brother
machines with sandy says in the chatroom
creeps me out thinking about it yeah
watch the show and and see what you
think seen anything like that could
actually come to me I'm sure it could
who knows who knows I mean we talk on
cell phones and portable phones and
telephone services and really how can
you get away from it right truce a
holistic Lee oh i just made a whole
bunch of people paranoid so I'm freaking
out now I'm like what am i doing it on
this internet worldwide TV show where
people are watching me listen I know
everything I'm saying hmm it's not a
real name that's a fake ID n am in the
witness protection program now I have to
be relocated okay new question this
comes to us from I means it
ai means it we realized on the show
Erica actually that depending on how you
read your name it does say you look at
it again I mean that's true I mean
sit I means it I mean sit yet something
you say to the kids when their baby hey
it's tricky no snow spacious random
little tidbit I need punctuation okay I
recently reviewed episodes 103 and 104
and they were regarding unraid as I am
wanting to set up a network storage
server on my home network I was just
wondering how on raid has served you
since 2009 yeah what does your current
on right system configuration look like
the number of drives you have and have
you seen other solutions that you would
go for now if you weren't already
invested in unraid and one final
question oh maybe let's address your
thoughts on at first and then address
the question sure the other question
episodes 103 and 104 we looked at this
really amazing data storage software
called unraid and it allowed us to build
a data storage array that used just
rickety old hardware that we had laying
around we didn't have to buy a whole lot
of stuff and took a whole bunch of
random hard drives that I just had
sitting around and put them into an
array where a traditional raid array
requires you to have you know specific
hard drives and they have to be matching
hard drives and if if one fails you have
to find a replacement that matches all
the other drives otherwise you can't
rebuild the array with unraid and why
it's kind of unraid it's not a raid per
se it operates like a raid it creates an
array of disks so but just to put it
really really simple so that you
understand what that means let's say
I've got to one terabyte hard drives now
all of a sudden I can put them together
and they become one two terabyte hard
drive and then I add another one
terabyte hard drive now there are 3
terabyte hard drive and a 4 terabyte
hard right and it really just to me
shows up as one hard drive gosh at speak
but I can keep growing the size of it
what else is neat about that type of set
up and raid or unraid or any
like that if one of those hard drives
fails which hard drives do you take out
that hard drive you put in an empty hard
drive and the rest of the hard drives
rebuild the data on to that new hard
drive so you don't end up losing
anything smart it's really really hard
well thing unraid got a lot going for it
so you look at those episodes they were
back in 2009 we walked through the
actual build process if you haven't seen
it and your interest in that kind of
thing look at epsilon 0 3 am I you know
am I what are we doing now you know here
we are it's 2013 right and I brought
something up on my screen just for you
cool we're still running up still
looking pretty good there it's still
there and that is what my array looks
like i have a parity disk this is the
one that allows it so that if a hard
drive fails it'll rebuilt the the failed
one hmm pardon me I have just one two
three four five six seven so I have
eight disks all together they're just
random disks you notice the models do
not match and it shows me you know how
much reads and writes and errors and
you'll notice that there are no errors
on my array and everything's wait it go
yeah now the one thing you'll probably
notice if you're if you've been
following unrated all is that we have an
older version because I built this back
in 2009 and it has just worked state I
haven't spent I haven't spent a lot of
time maintaining it it just works and it
works fabulously I mean right now those
disks are in what's what's called like a
spun down mode that's why they're
flashing so that it's not the whole
array is not really using any power
because the drives are turned off right
now they're spun down if i were to
access the array like if i were to
actually bring up one of my network
shares on the array then it would spin
up the hard drives and and i would have
access to those files we use it for all
of our data storage and we back it up
through the internet so that there are
backups of that and it works
fantastically well I highly recommend it
so check it out sweet okay so that is
good for part one your thought and junk
and the longevity of this thus far
hours and counting that's pretty sweet
but if it ain't broke don't fix it right
yeah I think I've replaced a hard drive
once or twice maybe maybe only once
where a drive had failed and so I
actually pulled out the broken drive and
replaced it and it rebuilt flawlessly
sweet sadly was a test I upgraded my
parody drive you'll notice if you watch
that old episode my parody drive was
smaller upgraded my parody drive so that
I could see it's like a 1.5 terabyte so
that I could add bigger hard drives hmm
because the parody drive always has to
be the largest hard drive in the array
makes sense so and so I then I even see
disc 6 is actually a one terabyte so
gave me added space so I took out like a
400 or 500 gig card replaced it with a
one terabyte and God you know 500 more
gigs of space that's sweet that is cool
um oh sorry javidi of it yeah yeah
seriously hello as you need it yeah um
I'd like to set up dropbox like
functionality on this unraid server so
that i'm using the most up-to-date
version of a file no matter which
machine i'm at any on any ideas on how
to do this maybe using mint /a bhuntu
thanks so much hmm i'm not sure if
dropbox is the example if i'm following
you correctly you just want to have it
so that no matter what computer in your
house you're using your active you've
got the latest and greatest version of
the file it uses what's called samba
it's a windows protocol for file sharing
so what you would do for example give
you an example in my FS tab file on my
linux system i have it routing my
documents folder to a document share on
the unrated net server so when I bring
up documents on my computer I'm not
actually looking at something that's on
my computer i'm looking at something
that's on the server now if my wife goes
to documents on her computer she's in
fact accessing that same folder so she
can edit the same file and it's the same
the same file as what i'm editing so
then you know it's basic networking but
with the twist that it's on a server
that is centralized and read
so that you don't lose anything if a
hard drive crashes and then you just
have one place to back up but you can
connect as many computers into that
unraid server as you like and and you
can just edit the file directly on this
on the server and press save and it
saves it just like it's a hard drive in
your computer that's really you know
it's it's just a network file server so
works really really well and you know I
know it's been a long time since I
actually did that build but I'd be happy
to look at that again and you know if
you if you care to give it a try go
ahead give it a try unraid has a free
version that you can run up to three
hard drives with and and and then if you
decide you want to do five hard drives
you just buy the version that supports
five hard drives so it's up to you give
it a whirl give it a try with three
drivers you can't go wrong I'll let us
know how you fare with all that mm-hmm
thanks for the questions mm-hmm very
cool we have some more questions coming
up later in the show but now I think we
should have a look-see at current events
in the world of technology
here the top stories from category 5 z's
room according to media reports the
Pentagon will drag what Tory's gotta
read better will dramatically increase
its cyber security staff over the next
few years to counter threats against US
government computer networks US Cyber
Command established three years ago
could grow as much as five fold over the
next few years the Cyber Command
currently has 900 staff members both
military and civilian the plant
expansion comes amid a series of
successful attacks including a virus
that wipe data from 30,000 computers at
a Saudi oil firm hmm takes next security
researchers have discovered that data
captured by smartphone motion sensors
could actually help criminals guess the
codes used to lock the device hmm by
analyzing data gathered by
accelerometers the research team was
able to get a good idea of the pin or
pattern used to protect a phone the data
was usable because sensors can gather
information with more freedom than apps
loaded on the device according to their
findings several different smartphone
sensors could be subverted huh Thanks
that's kind of scary I mean it makes
sense though that you know as you as you
use your device accelerometer being the
thing that allows you to ya do motion
control and stuff as I push something
Nick it kind of you know if I go like
that you know where I yeah pushd right
so there's got to be some kind of record
of if they developed the right software
that's kind of scary stuff freaks me out
mmm neways show is freaking me out new
way to hack speaking of hacks Ventura
remember the PlayStation Network hack
that took service offline for what
seemed like decades hello while sony
computer entertainment europe has now
been fine the equivalent of about three
hundred and ninety six thousand dollars
based on the data protection act UK
authority said the hack in april 2011
could have been prevented the
Information Commissioner's Office
I co criticized Sony for not having
up-to-date security software sony has
says that it is strongly disagreed with
the ruling and plans to appeal hey
Toronto Ontario jewelry company has
designed funky Pez candy dispensers that
feature individuals heads as the top
part which means they've been waiting
for this you flip your own head to get
the candy hello hot pop factory
generally makes 3d printed juhi but it
branched out when a business client
asked for some quirky employee gifts it
convinced each of the client employees
to submit their heads to 3d scanning
under the guise that it was for an
undisclosed research project employee
sat in a chair while someone scan their
heads using an Xbox Kinect remote they
clean up the images and then 3d printed
them which apparently took many hours
then it was good by Disney Princesses
hello custom pez dispenser heads oh I
still want some me too wouldn't it be
amazing if there were category 5 / oh my
god Trek Pez dispensers so my dreams
really amazing amazing second to
bobblehead this uh would be like Colonel
and true for me yeah I mean I think
enough the pez dispenser / bobblehead
idea together oh my lanta hmm you know
what we're gonna come up with you you
just don't that would be awesome
somewhere to give me that I would be
like happy forever anyways you can get
these full stories online at our website
at category 5 TV / newsroom the category
5 TV news room is researched by roy w
Nash with contributions from our amazing
community of viewers if you have a story
you thanks worthy of on-air mention send
us a quick email at newsroom at category
5 TV from the category 5 TV news room
I'm Hillary Rimbaud awesome Hillary
we've already got 14 orders for a
Hillary Rumble pez dispenser in the chat
room it's a dream come true I'll under
famous I'm so we
to Canada and the United States and
anywhere else in the world so hilarious
would how much that costs a cuz I don't
know I didn't look like they painted it
so but somebody with a little bit of
acrylic yeah be able to make them agree
on artists yeah I I still kind of think
it's comments people are using the
Kinect to do this and you see there are
videos on the internet if you want to go
you know Google was the name of the
company it's know that will help you
find it anyway hot pop factory hot pop
factory three words if you google it go
onto YouTube Google and Bing it you know
whatever altavista yahoo it multan vista
hurt without a long time holy um so yeah
I mean it was neat to see that they're
standing there with a connect remote
plugged into USB on a laptop and going
like this and it's like it's scanning
the the head in a 3d model in what
looked like like light wave or something
like that like just amazing yeah really
cool thanks mere wonder what could be
done anything's possible guys make like
a 3d movie just based on using a connect
remote or something could be done hmm
that could be done hey tonight's show is
brought to you in part by quarter eee
electric quarterly electric com if
you're looking for any electrical
contract work make sure you give them a
call also we love to give you a one
month free trial of netflix which you
can obtain by going to that special URL
there on your screen cap five TV /
netflix this is category five technology
TV i'm your host Robbie Ferguson I'm
Hillary Rumble keeping it real for the
evening thanks for being here no problem
if you're new here please let us know
that you're joining us tonight and even
if it's after the fact if you're
watching this on demand if you're
watching this on first run TV or miro
internet TV wherever you are make sure
you pop us an email live at category 5
TV just to let us know what you think of
the show or ask your questions
we love to receive your emails anything
else that just any kind of
correspondence we just love to hear from
you we do yeah sometimes we get pictures
i'm pretty sure got some pictures sent
my way just for kicks for some people
maybe they're inside jokes me rod we can
pull them up I I got I mean chat room
jot was mentioning that that the company
that makes those Pez dispensers had
tried to mold my head but it looked like
an easter egg Oh burned you want some
ice Oh John always pulling out these
one-liners yuck I tell ya what a guy
we're up to 17 orders for Hillary's oh
my gosh this is the best day ever if we
could actually get one okay I was trying
to secretly pull up the website so I
could look well you know aim that's
pretty cool yeah I have to look at it
later to see how much PES head costs all
right certainly you have any more
questions site oh we too well like they
said some people sent me pictures I will
convulse ok can I bring one of those up
on them certainly let me see who's this
from this is from Dennis Kelly oh hey
Dennis Kelly just sent us this cute
little picture of himself it's actually
quite grand but we like pitchers be like
emails we like anything funny because
that's how we roll ok so what do we got
technology and comedy on this show
Dennis Kelly so this is from knows Kelly
oh oh hey cute cute hat hey Dennis Kelly
you know I know what's going through his
head there though it's the linux penguin
Annette it stucks so well done sir well
spotted good find very good and then I
have another photo oh yeah sent to us
from Harry Harry and he was the winner
of talk buds I think sure yeah we had a
good assortment of talk buds the win out
actually so he got a special special
present in the mail from category five
and was super excited so he took a
picture of himself and send it to us
fantastic which we love see harry area
there is with his talk buds look at that
yeah very cool very cool
so thanks for sending it in we love your
email to love your postcards we love
correspondence we left testimonials we
just love it we just love you can I can
I just mention I mean beyond the the
obvious love that we have for Hillary
just can't stress that enough I can't
Harry guest Harry as a matter of fact
judging by the the the name of the file
notice that he what he's holding in his
hand he's holding up Prezi from category
five foot nine that's all we can say I
mean you win stuff here at category five
we love descending stuff now on january
first we had our big annual giveaway
loads and loads of prizes and i'll just
let you know there's a couple days left
if you have not claimed your price there
are a few arises I've got my checklist
and there are a few people who have not
claimed their prizes yet what that means
is that they haven't they haven't sent
us their address to mail the product to
dry and technically you get 30 days
according to the contest rules in order
to to respond so what I'm going to tell
you is if you submitted a ballot for our
Christmas special and our new year
special and you did not watch the new
year show make sure you go back to the
January first and that was episode
number 276 okay make sure you watch that
because you might be one of those lucky
winners who should be standing there
with a prize in your hands sending us a
photo because wow I think there were
three or four prizes that didn't get
claimed yet so and that just simply
happens because you know some some
people don't catch every yes so that's
true you might be behind on the feed so
just tell you make sure you watch that
episode so who doesn't love prezzies
hello Rosie's if not send me to me just
send them my address okay foxtail 9009
no that's funny uh anything else for us
okay oh here got another one comes to us
from sweeney wondering what headset we
are using for mike's cuz the audio
quality is really good hmm
the audio quality of the show these are
apex 575 that's what these are so yeah
they sound good yeah I'd say they're a
bit more awkward than some headsets that
I've worked with before well I guess
they sound really good yeah so thanks
there you go apex 575 now you want to
know the rest of the story mm-hmm um one
more question and then do you have some
some secret things lined up we got lots
of stuff to talk about yeah I just want
to get I just want to help our viewers
and answer any questions that we may
have the perfect questions in the chat
room Ernie send those our way as well
I'm not sure actually this is a question
or just a nice message but i'll read it
regardless this comes to us from gustavo
vaani from Brazil Gustavo hi Robbie and
Hillary I just want to thank you guys
for the one-year license of the ESET
nod32 that I've wanted the new years
draw that was exactly what I was looking
for for the past two bonds wowzers my
free avira got updated to the latest
2013 version and it started to eat a lot
of ram lately so i tried others like a
bee av's like panda cloud okay why the
other free AV sorry like panda cloud avg
avast but I didn't like any of them so I
installed ESET nod32 uh and registered
it sorry with the key that you gave me
and it's working wonderfully ever since
fantastic yeah it's lightweight they
just brought up version 6 2 i'll tell
you a little bit about it but yeah it
makes a difference i mean when you have
a commercial good product like ESET
nod32 antivirus or ESET smart security
they're lightweight products and they do
a really really good job protecting you
against stuff well we get a lot of the
you know the computers that come in with
free antivirus on them or whatever avg
is a popular one the VR you mentioned
and quite often times think they've got
malware infections or things like that
the one that takes over your screen you
lose access to all your files and
pretends to be there was a new one that
just happened that that has really kind
of hit Canada hard and I don't know if
you were affected at home as well but a
new one that took over the the screen of
the computer I'm not sure if I actually
have a copy of it or not but took over
the screen of the users computer and
basically said that the FBI or something
had taken you know had locked down their
internet service Oh wonderful it was
very threatening and very scary and we
actually had people bring in computers
to the office that had said you know
what's going on here apparently the FBI
thinks that I'm looking for illegal
things on the internet so it really just
played into the fear that that people
have of just you know what does someone
spying on me or something and really it
was just a malware attack unfortunate I
don't have a sample to to show you i was
just quickly looking through my email
but it really really hit hard all of a
sudden and phishing scams and things
like that and and these days with a
windows computer especially you could
just accidentally click on the wrong
website even in a Google resilient it
would infect your computer instantly Jap
of ulnar abilities and things like that
can get into your system and so you know
these things lock down your computer you
can't do anything until you pay the
three hundred dollar fine that the FBI
has on your head you know if you pay
within 24 hours will unlock your
internet and it looks completely
legitimate you give them your credit
card number to unlock it because you
think oh this is scary stuff I've only
got 24 hours knee is after me because
I've been doing this or that or I
downloaded a movie last month and I
really shouldn't have but you know
that's that's the kind of fear that is
put into people so that you know that
said you know not 32 version 6 just came
out so if you downloaded version 5 make
sure you bring it up and look at the
updates tab you'll see that there's a
new update to version 6 that gives you
some new stuff and version 6 of ESET
smart security I just thought I'd
mention this we weren't intending to
mention it but really really cool
feature that they just added to that
it's called anti-theft we've talked a
little bit about this whole you know
we've looked at endpoint protector and
we've looked at some of the ways that we
can protect ourselves from data theft
and things like that this is actually
like if somebody steals your laptop you
can track them down and is built into
the antivirus that's cool that's smart
sick ESET smart security around six so
for example your laptop look at your
laptop if you're watching this on a
laptop right now laptop has what right
above the screen camera a camera laptop
has what internet right first thing
somebody let's say someone finds or
steals your laptop right what are they
going to do they're going to connect it
to the internet you know if their
malicious they'll probably look at your
internet history try to get access to
your online banking and things like that
if they're a thief that's what they'll
do either way they're going to connect
to the internet so so you you have ESET
smart security version 6 you turn on
anti theft and you can actually see the
person is sitting at the laptop because
it uses the webcam that is so Bruce
hacking it's like it's like hacking the
hacker and then also through the
internet IP address you saw our location
map or viewer location map what it does
is it uses IP addresses because every
time you're on the internet your IP
address it doesn't show that's my house
it's not that creepy that it but it
shows the approximate location yeah
you're located similarly ESET smart
security 6 will triangulate the Wi-Fi
signals get this triangulate Wi-Fi
signals and put a pin on the map so that
you can see approximately where that
laptop is actually sitting so then you
can turn around to the police and say
here's a picture of the person here's
approximately where they live or where
they access it from and it's all part of
that software so but then can't somebody
figure out how to mega creep that and
then but you could track somebody down
like bad guys could track down the good
guys mmm i think it is reversed remember
to see what
so I hear your fear there and it's a
good point what what happens though is
this so I've got it activated on my
laptop the the anti-theft feature right
so it's turned on yes that's it it just
is it's on and it's active that's all
then somebody steals my laptop I
actually log in with my password to the
anti-theft system and I mark my laptop
is stolen that's when it starts fine
that's when it starts geo-locating
taking pictures all that kind of stuff
but what what this show is made me
paranoid my dress so many issues today
I'm just kidding it's astounding it's a
really cool feature really so that is
really incredible hmm hmm check out a
smart smart antivirus dot CA is a good
place to pick up a copy and it's it's
affordable it's really good and as our
viewer was mentioning it's it's
excellent software even speed ride all
that other stuff so mmm I should do that
because i just bought myself a new
laptop hmm because well what's going on
with your old one I don't even know you
may remember yesteryear when I killed my
husband's laptop with a virus now my old
one I don't know it just went mega funk
and like died a funk these are technical
terms people write them down but for
real no my laptop when megaphone I don't
know what happened and so I I just got
frustrated I didn't want to bug Robbie
oh no so I just why don't got new one
that's it that's how you fixed it yep
what you I don't really want to be bug
Ravi today no I bug him all the time so
today before goodness me but anyways
descent in your question is an anonymous
viewer um hi huh well have this problem
uh guest 1 2 3 yeah anyways that way so
what do you what did you get and what's
happening with the old one I got an HP
something something good and the old
ones at HP but I don't know what to do
with it happen like what's the symptom
basically I was just using it like a
normal person would and then it died and
then I couldn't even get yes but the
battery wasn't dead it just died it went
black and so yeah and then I tried a leg
started up and log in with my little
name and password and it wouldn't even
do that where did it get to don't wear
the login screen so then I gave up four
months sure then I gave it to my friend
and he magically got it to turn on but
then he said that something is wrong
with it that the hard drive is funk okay
so right now it's sitting in the
category five studio I thought about
smashing it okay but then I thought
there's probably a better way Robbie
there's got to be a better way we should
we should take a look at that we don't
have a really the time tonight data but
certainly I don't know if you want to
maybe next next show when you're in we
could take a look or I could even take a
look at it next week and we can say this
is left what can we do with it if the
hard drive is poached oh how much did
you pay for a new new laptop I don't
remember actually well 100 kind of idea
but yeah tumor grade well okay actually
my husband bought it for me technically
for me attack oh one of those so I don't
know I don't really know where to Spain
but I still don't know like I don't know
I don't know guys well if it's a hard
drive then you look at you know the hard
drive can be replaced and it's you know
between 75 and a hundred dollars kind of
thing to get the hardware for that and
labor usually you know somebody would
have to install that and put an
operating system on it if you wanted to
play around with linux if you'd be
willing to give it a go we could try to
breathe new life into the system that
way it's worth a try so worth a shot
right now it's dead to me yeah well so
we could bring it back to life rescue it
and save it it's interesting that all
even old computers that don't work very
well you stick linux on it and all of a
sudden there good as new so you know
be that simple could be an elastic it's
worth it's worth an investigative come
on is there anything on it that you need
backed up data recovery done on it I
think I think it's all off there I think
it's every if we are yes okay somewhere
she said she thinks cyberspace next week
as I format it and install Lubuntu she's
at home she's like oh no those pictures
I forgot yeah well maybe I don't know it
stresses me out like i said i just
bought a new computer cuz i couldnt even
deal with it so hmm on our upcoming
series we're gonna do data recovery
first then we're going to do hard drive
repair and replacement then we're going
to do installation of linux okay yeah
get this girl cruising on linux what do
you say and if that doesn't work we'll
smash it and if that doesn't work then
we are going to be doing a feature on
how to recycle e-waste which has to do I
think we've had this discussion before
where yes you know your computer has
mercury and lead even gold in in the
system yeah gold so you know you can go
to the the hassle of trying to get all
that out of there or you can take it to
an e-waste facility such as green go
here in very if you're if you're in a
single song is there a song for them
greengo recycling they recycle
everything I love that song that's
awesome I hadn't heard that but now it's
starting my head thank you very much no
prob but you go there and what happens
they say oh you've got a laptop it has
gold in it here's some cash how much
cash buy it from you billions well it
depends on how much gold that's a tramp
and it is usually is done by weight like
it's like 25 cents a pound or so I don't
know who knows you have to call them
this is the number in the jingle no but
so that's something we can look at two
but never ever feel that kind of thing
in the garbage because it has all these
things you're right you don't want to
well we will have to investigate this
further because I also have another okay
this hop this has happened to meet well
this happen to you again it before like
this is the replacement of the replace
yeah so we have the old acer something
something from a million years that one
will go straight to e-waste so there's
that bad boy then there's this okay well
i could probably get my hands on a
couple more that are kicking around it's
bad guys oh man I'm so embarrassed Oh
confession but now yours are gonna think
so terribly of me no not at all not at
all right well is that all the questions
that we have coming into the chat room
and all that mom well oh no I lied I
don't know any for me just cuz we're
running low on time so I'll just decided
we want to go right yes of course last
statement um huh this comes to us from
Ravens Lord from Ohio hi everyone I
category 5 I was going to see if you
could help me set up email associated
with your website URL using turnkey
Linux lamp server so I can get my
teamspeak 3 and p mmm i'm afraid i don't
i don't hear the question there like I
don't know what it is that you actually
are asking for set up my email to get
associated with your website URL using
turnkey Linux lamp server I'm sorry
Raven Lords maybe you can resend us a
question for next are you hoping to put
together a teamspeak 3 server on turnkey
with lamp but what does that have to do
with our website URL don't know you
could you Raven Lawrence could you
kindly just break down the question for
me and resubmit and I'll gladly do what
I can to help you okay sorry about that
maybe I'm reading it wrong but we could
always I could always use clarification
that's for sure okay one more it's okay
Emily maybe I'm just not there no you're
there okay Patrick Dickie rights to us
and Patrick my question is where can I
find a more recent version of the
perfect boon to script the wiki points
to perfect boon to category 5 TD but
that's no longer valid I have an ancient
copy version one point five point three
I've been playing with a modifying but I
would like a more recent working copy
Patrick I'm very sorry but unlike unraid
perfect bhuntu does not have the
longevity of a bun right perfume too was
a script that was developed to help to
take early versions of Ubuntu into
multimedia so it gave you the ability to
play mp3 files and play all different
multimedia codecs and things like that
it did a lot of that stuff and installed
it for you but now these days is no
longer necessary because Ubuntu comes
out of the box you know with as you're
installing it it says do you want to
have mp3 support and install flu endo
and ya say ok so unfortunately that left
the script no longer necessary so that
said I mean perfect booms who did some
other things such as helping you to
install the GNU image manipulation
program alongside of a whole bunch of
cool plugins and it configured them so
that you could have used those plugins
with gimp so you know if those kinds of
things are what you're more looking for
then maybe we can break those down into
tutorials or even other scripts or
something but unfortunately perfect
perfect boom to in and of itself as a
project is dead and that's because it's
no longer necessary so true type fonts
good guy is mentioning so yeah that's
that's certainly a possibility so maybe
we do we throw together a script for
true type fonts based on the old perfect
boom too that's perfectly doable so if
there's a you know everyone who's
viewing not just Patrick but also good
guy I mean you make a good point there
so please send me an email live at
category 5 TV and say look here's what I
want that used to be in perfect boon to
what can you do and what I'll do is I'll
put together individual scripts for each
of those little things or tutorials or
whatever and we'll do it on the show and
we'll will create something that's going
to this going to do it for you perfect
boom true though was like a package
managed system where as ubuntu came out
new versions of perfect bhuntu were
automatically ok deployed to your system
and you know it was a whole package
distribution mechanism so using apt-get
as it's at its core so it was much more
sophisticated than what we would need
for
or Microsoft truetype fonts for example
we just throw together something john
wants it to make coffee which never did
it did install Java so we could we could
do that java kind of sdk haha John John
his one-liners oh yes where they come
off the stove hey it's been so nice
having you here tonight no thank you
well I mean no the Christmas special
being kind of you know just the
Christmas special and then with January
first falling on Tuesday as well it's
like that's like 2-3 weeks that just
disappeared it's crazy so just went by
so fast so it's hard to believe you
haven't been here since last year's up
since last year technically I mean happy
new year and thank you it's almost
februari wild yeah but I enjoy being
here thank you everyone for your kind
words wisdom not kicking me off for my
unruly confession okay technology abuse
we're gonna be looking at open-source
alternatives to commercial applications
in the near future possibly on the next
show as well here category 5 if you have
a suggestion for applications that you
think there is a great open source
alternative for we'd love to hear from
you pops an email live at category 5 TV
we're gonna be looking at Microsoft
Project and how that compares to a
program called Project Libre that's one
of the pieces of software that we're
going to be looking at and we certainly
welcome you to submit your alternative
software as well so uh yeah it's gonna
be a fun feature I'm looking forward to
that so just to show you that there is
some cheap and free stuff that's
available that will save you a ton of
money and still be able to do things
that you need to do that's what's so
awesome about open source and Linux in
general lots will be like free how long
are you like free fries cool yeah that'd
be
off thanks so much for being here this
week Hillary have you here how to glass
thank you thanks everybody and yeah have
a great week and looking forward to next
week every week is new and and we're
just we're going through such a time of
transition and so you know we're
introducing new platforms with YouTube
and first run TV and our hangouts that
we do every week now on google+ so
really really an exciting time for the
show and as we grow we just appreciate
you hanging with us and growing with us
just enjoying the ride and it's gonna be
a really really fun yet thanks everybody
bowl for 2222 to do in the chat room
scott l great to see ya again this week
Swiss and E Hagin moto nice to see ya
again watch full games and ethnics great
to see you and of course John dnl ass is
here again this week
and grats thank you thanks for joining
us tonight stick around on the chat room
after the show and we'll we'll say hello
and we'll talk to you on the Hangout as
well so have a great week
hope you enjoy the show category 5 TV
broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada
if you're watching this on to me
from cable TV check out the local show
times in your area at Ted aghori five TV
and
you can watch live and interact in the
community chat room category 5 is a
production of quantity to Jewish
solutions and is licensed under creative
commons attribution 2.5 canada we'll see
you next time thanks for tuning yet
