welcome to category five technology TV
this week we are going to be looking at
the wise cams the wise cam v2 and the
wise camp an we unbox them last week but
this week we're gonna actually connect
them to our phone and see how they
operate so if you're interested in
setting up surveillance in your smart
home for as little as $25 well this is
for you stick around we've got a great
show planned though don't go anywhere
[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit our website
category 5 TV category 5 TV is a member
of the tech podcast network if it's tech
it's here cat5 TV slash TPN and the
international association of internet
broadcasters cat5 TV slash ia IV welcome
back it's another week here we are at
category 5 TV episode number 591 we are
almost at 600 episodes I still find that
mind-blowing mind-bending and when
people are asking about hey you know
what's category 5 all about it's like
they are blown away there were 12
seasons into this thing right that's if
you were really first-time viewer today
how many hours of viewing is that then
well 500 so we went over time sometimes
in the early days don't worry it's not
gonna happen tonight right but that's a
lot like that say my brain doesn't
number crunch but what's 591 divided by
24 how many days straight would you we
need an Amazon echo here to ask those
kinds of questions too
what's the question 591 divided by 24
like how many days straight oh how many
days would 591 episodes be right you
know what I would do when when I just
need like quick answers is a hot I hop
over to Google and I say 591 /
24 and it actually has a built-in
calculator and it's like there are
actually 24 days 24 so if you want a
binge category 5 you are that doesn't
sound like a lot when you put it in that
context no it does not say that's 24
hours no eating no sleeping no no you're
just reducing the show like this is a
unique form of torture folks you are
sitting there watching from day one in
320 PE so I'm expecting people will like
sleep and take food breaks so you're
gonna watch for 12 hours a day of course
Oh 12 hours difference so now let's
multiply that by 2 right and now it's 49
point 2 5 that's entire the entire
summer season holy 12 years of my life
and you just took it and made it into 2
months I should have just like bins
created the show and I could have just
been sitting back on a beach somewhere
but no you just destroyed the value I
was actually not very excited and you
destroyed it for 12 years in we're 12
years well if you watch one hour a week
which is approximately the average that
category 5 to 10 right that's right yeah
you've watched 2 hours a week you'd
watch the first and this one and then
the second and next week oh right
mind-bending right so then you would
eventually see me when did I start
season 5 season 5 right so you'd see me
like season 5 and then like well fights
have season 5 you'll see me in season
what I started in season 1 does that
count
I kind of like if you watch it as a
stop-motion you'll see the hair kind of
growing on the side a little bit and
then shave and grow in the second that
that's just winter months that's all
that's how you can tell it's cold
outside is that Robbie's got a bit of a
goatee going up the best thing is when
you were trying to do like continuity
for like particular shows where you had
to like keep your facial hair exactly
exactly as I had to tape it on so that
it matched the the one from three years
prior yeah hey we do have a really fun
show for you tonight it's not all about
looking back and Sasha taking it and
making it sound like it'll only take you
two months to watch a show it's about
smart home tonight we've got we've got
these cameras that we opened up from
wise cam we looked at these last week
we've opened the box we did an unboxing
and try to these days we're trying to
keep the unboxing separate from the
actual product demonstration right part
of that is that when you unbox something
well you haven't experienced it yet so
you know we don't really have a lot of
knowledge about hey how does it work if
we just opened it right so now I've had
a few days anyways to play around with
them we're gonna look at those and see
how those work so it's basically the
smart home surveillance system so you
think about a surveillance system and it
might cost you a couple hundred bucks to
install one on your home but you can do
this for only twenty five dollars right
so it's a really really good price point
for somebody who wants to just add a
little bit of surveillance that's not
complicated to set up right I have been
personally waiting for this episode
because I am so interested in these that
you'll have no clue so Dave is watching
so that little fantastic hi Dave and
about Dave is a pretty common name so
there were a few people right there hey
that's me yeah nice to see you so that's
what we're gonna be looking at tonight
predominantly I've also got a device
from Odroid that we're gonna be unboxing
and taking a look at Bob because we love
our single board computers speaking of
smart phone controllers and being able
to mash things up and create some really
cool stuff anything cool in tech world
this week
well I received my boogie board sink you
did I did so this is so the boogie board
sink that Sasha dropped okay so we'll
just hit we'll just rewind it dropped it
from such a small spot I just don't want
so you dropped it I called I yes and I
called them and
they offered me a replacement and then
that's wonderful and then they were
really busy so they said oh yeah we're
gonna send you your replacement no
problem once what's the product number
of your machine sure and I didn't have
it on me except calling from work so I
was like oh I'll just call you with it
tomorrow so I called and no answer then
I called again no no answer then I call
just left the voices tricked you and
then I called like four days in a row
Yeah right whenever I had a moment and
you left another voicemail so there are
three more boogie board sinks on their
way anyway so Chris who is the guy who
was helping me out of boogie board he
finally was able to answer the phone one
of the times when I call he's like I'm
so happy you called again I've just been
swamped it's taking in calls I haven't
been able to yeah right so like I'm so
happy that this company is as busy as
their because they're amazing they make
a great product I have to hand it to
them and they he got my address and
within two days I had my new product
like I can't ask so you brought the the
broken one and I see the broken one it's
on the set here but it's just kind of
off to the side yeah but I don't want to
show the broken one we'd love to show
the the good one but what it is is it's
an ePaper tablet that you can write on
you can take your notes on and it saves
two files like PDF files yeah you can
sync it to your to your phone right save
those PDF files directly to your phone
and be able to actually stream we've
shown it on the show right so here's the
thing that I I was explaining it to my
class yesterday and I was saying okay so
you draw a picture say a diagram of a
skin cell will say sure you draw you
draw a picture you can save it right to
Google Drive and then you can just add
it to slides presentation in front of
the class with pictures that maybe you
couldn't find in stock photos but you
could draw or you can write notes right
you can think it's so versatile in the
way you can use it it's paperless and
it's amazing you can find out more a
cat5 dot TV slash e paper about this
particular product but what I love like
I love a good product and I do love the
the boogie board sink but I love I
absolutely love when a company supports
their customers in a way like that where
is your fault to drop it it was but they
said it was something like well you
bought the case that was supposed to
protect it so we'll send you a
replacement exactly that is exceptional
service I will never ever in my life
diminish good customer service like for
sure good customer services is
absolutely what makes this world turn
like it's when you people treat people
like actual real human being sure
amazing yeah yeah love it so thank you
Chris great job Chris and boogie board
yeah and great product and that's very
good very good indeed if you are a
patron on category 5 we just want to say
thank you very much for supporting
category 5 TV of course our network
provides free family safe content every
single week we mentioned at the top of
the show that we've been doing this for
12 years every single week we've got new
content for you it's all you know our
goal anyways is to create family safe
content that you can enjoy with your
with your kids and and you don't have to
worry that there's anything in it that
is gonna be inappropriate and so that's
that's really our goal but yet making it
entertaining and fun and educational at
the same time and to be able to present
you with some cool text so our patrons
really helped us to make that happen
there are other ways to support us as
well like shopping through our partners
and so on but our patrons are like that
consistent it's like we don't take an
income here but if I could compare it to
something like a salary it's like just
knowing we're gonna have X number of
dollars every single month and that is
going to be there so it's like we can
count on that
that's what patronage is to us because
we know that that's going to be there
every single month and so we thank you
for supporting us in that way if you're
not already doing so please check out
our patreon page as patreon.com
and you can read all about what we're
doing and how you can participate it's
only $1 a month so it's not a lot to
spend but everybody combined together
supporting category 5 can make it really
strong so we thank you for that we do
have to take a really quick break but
when we come back Sasha
finally gonna be hooking up these
cameras we unbox them last week we're
gonna be setting them up trying them out
yeah and actually testing them and
showing you kind of how they work so
that if you're on the fence about a wise
cam we'll show you our experience
anyways right here live in studio and
then you can make the decision yourself
so don't go anywhere we'll be right back
whether you shop on think geek gear best
PNH photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category-five TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching welcome back
this is category 5 technology TV and
tonight we are looking at the wise cams
now we've got the wise cam v2 and we've
got the wise camp and now both of these
cameras combined are gonna give you a
very affordable surveillance product
it's a smart home device and we unbox
these last week so if you haven't seen
it yet please go to our website category
5 dot TV or click cap 5 dot TV slash
wise and you'll be able to see that
video as well but in the unboxing videos
we don't hook them up and we don't
actually get to see how they work so
over the past couple of days I've had a
chance to hook these up and experience
you know what what they're like to
operate right and I gotta say especially
at this price point I'm really impressed
okay these are 1080p smart cameras so
smart home cameras right that are
comparable with a much higher priced
device so this is the V 2 and as we saw
in the unboxing video it's just a basic
stand
but it is a very clever design so that
you can you can articulate it in many
many different ways but what else is
very interesting about this is that it
is magnetic so anything that you have
that is metal it will stick to so we
found that you can actually stick it to
corner beading right through the drywall
or through the through the so that's a
pretty strong make yeah absolutely it's
pretty good certainly you mentioned
about a fridge and being able to so look
at how I can articulate this so I can
put it like that right cameras pointed
out and it's looking and perfect yeah so
I mean magnetically that's cool
now these guys come with a little steel
plate mm-hmm now I called it a magnetic
plate last week technically this is not
magnetic this is just a piece of metal
the the magnet is actually built into
the base of the camera itself with some
double-sided tape hmm I can now take
this and I can stick it up on my wall
and put that where I want to have
surveillance and now I can take this
camera and stick it to that magnet and
now it's got the ability to hang on the
wall right it's a really easy
installation process but because it's a
magnet I can then take it off the wall
and it's just a little circle yeah and
that's not ugly right oh it's actually
quite nice it's a brushed steel with the
Y's logo I wonder do those they do yeah
you can't order more but they come with
it as well so but if you want you want
to be able to move it around exactly
sure yeah you can you can buy extras if
you like should we actually get a look
at how these devices operate love that
me too me too
okay so again if you haven't seen the
unboxing yet we did kind of get into
what each device has as far as
peripherals and things like that you
want to get a look at that and the link
is below as well one thing Sasha that I
wasn't too sure about is each device has
interestingly so this is the this is the
PTZ model so this is the wise camp PTZ
it's a pan tilt zoom right we're gonna
look at the specimen like we're gonna
actually try this in the app in just
a moment so you're gonna get to see what
it actually does but it has a USB port
on the back right so I thought well is
that for like a USB flash drive or what
is that for but that doesn't really make
any sense because it has an SD card
reader that you would insert your SD
card into and that's what you're gonna
be storing the data on for the camera
itself so what could that be
turns out this USB port is a daisy-chain
port for power okay so each device comes
with one of these power bricks mm-hmm
but do you want to have one plugged in
at every camera especially in a case
where you've got say two or three
cameras in a pretty close proximity to
one another right so instead what I can
do is I can in the back of the camera I
can plug in the power cable for the next
camera that is the second camera so now
this camera is being powered by this
camera and this camera is being powered
by the wall wart that's perfect and
that's cool
so this camera is just booting up now
I'm gonna put this on top and I'm gonna
just kind of point it our direction and
I'm gonna bring up my smart phone here
and let's see what what we see I just
heard it click so it's just about ready
to go so I'm gonna click on wise to okay
and it's gonna connect in if it has
finished booting if it hasn't finished
booting I can go back and let's take a
look at the PTZ camera which is finished
what is really really cool about the PTZ
now I'm gonna use my finger sash okay
and I'm just going to drag with my
finger and you can see that the the
camera let me put this where you can
actually see it on on set so I'm gonna
put that right there
I know it's not perfect but this it's
gonna work away so this is the PTZ
camera okay so in the app you see the
app there on the right hand side of your
screen and you're looking at the back of
my computer screen I'm gonna just kind
of I'm just gonna drag with my finger
Sasha yeah and see what I'm doing is I'm
actually turning the camera and moving
up a little bit now Jeff was wondering
about the zoom capability right I'm
gonna pinch zoom you ready yeah
see that so I'm actually pinch zooming
just like you would on a photo within
the ridiculous so that is them yeah but
that's digital zoom so it's not actually
moving in on an optical apparatus it's
it's digital zoom on a 1080p canvas so
it but you can see that the quality
that's fantastic
right that camera is $38 and it has PTZ
and can you be at work yeah anywhere huh
let's reconnect okay there you go so so
the camera is connected to my Wi-Fi
right and I can be anywhere with the app
and I can see the camera just as you're
seeing it there on the screen I can also
see things like if there were events
that have a have happened there are
events at the bottom here and you can
see there are currently no events
because I haven't set up any triggers
for events let's look at wise to which
should be booted by now there we go so
wise to this is a stationary v2 camera
and so this one you're just going to
point it where you want it to be and
that's what it's going to look like so
that's like the wide view of your office
or something like that right it works
very very well for that purpose and you
can see there on the screen that that's
that's how it looks it again features
pinch zoom I can do that but otherwise
it's not pan tilt zoom it's just so you
can't turn it like you can with the pan
but you can you can zoom in on it and
you can set up all the other options so
these are great we had the discussion
last week about how Jeff's neighborhood
he's concerned about the fact that
people are breaking into cars right so
these little guys for 25 bucks apiece
you can plug these into something like
our USB charger for our phone right and
put this on the dash of your car even
two of them daisy chain together looking
out each window and then if someone
creeps up how's the quality on this if I
was to be looking inside your car right
okay but then you say well it's probably
gonna be dark if anyone is going to
break in right it was yeah it would be
so okay you you look into their I'm
gonna step off the set here and I can
actually see my phone right now but I'm
going to head over here and we you know
we don't have anyone else to do this but
I'm gonna I'm gonna kill the lights and
Sasha behind you there's another light
switch to kill the final light you see
you there
yes kill that for me and we're gonna see
okay so now it is pitch-black in the
studio right now other than your laptop
screen okay can you see yeah you can see
yourself on this in the room itself it's
pitch-black right Wow
if you well folks can see that folks can
see that oh yeah oh yeah no it's quite
turned out and you see how good so now
that yeah it's the night vision has
turned off so I just wanted to show you
how the night vision works yeah it turns
on as soon as the lights go out or as
soon as it's dark and then now it's not
obvious either right like this nothing
glowing right so if you could hide it in
a discreet spot especially if they're it
if they are getting car break-ins cuz
nobody's going to break you guys grasp
that for a second what sash is saying I
mean sash is trying to explain this but
the infrared of a night-vision camera is
usually pronounced right you can usually
see the red light yes with these cameras
I don't know I'm gonna point this
directly at your camera so that you can
see and we're gonna turn off the lights
again okay so that on the right hand
side you're gonna still see the the view
but ok Sasha ready go so can you guys
see the screen is so bright all right
but how crazy is that
so with that you don't you don't
actually see any light you don't see any
infrared I love that it's just so
discreet
speaking of discreet though it is a box
yes I like what they've done with this
the design of it is a little bit boxy
and it's not something that it's not a
spy camera it's a surveillance camera
exactly this is not something that's
going to be hidden somewhere so
indiscreet that you're worried about
that right it's a surveillance camera
exactly like it speaks to spike you you
notice it mm-hmm right but if but again
like for Jeff's particular situation it
wouldn't the car exactly yeah so I great
view there of the back of my laptop how
do you like that okay let's go through
the settings and take a look so on this
camera let's go through event recording
so we've got detecting of motion check
we want to record if that happens
detecting sound I don't want that
because there may be sound that is not
necessarily somebody breaking in but you
can turn that on and now it will start
recording to the cloud anytime there is
sound I'll explain that in just a couple
of moments and then you saw push
notifications as well detection settings
this is important detection zone you
need to specify the detection zone if
you want to use that the notification
service that if there is motion will
detect it and it will alert you so if
that's off it won't alert me now with it
on it will now alert me if there's any
motion within that box I can change that
box
okay so just if I there you go see that
on the right hand side of your screen
brilliant right okay so jump back and
sensitivity I can adjust that sound
sensitivity if you want it's there as
well alarm settings if the smoke alarm
or the co2 alarm goes off do you want to
be notified yes yes advanced settings
this is cool you've got night-vision
auto or on or off okay so I can actually
forcibly turn on night vision like that
so night vision mode and then I can
click on this icon up at the top right
to change that as well okay back in
advanced settings I've got local storage
so this is important understanding the
SD card functionality so I've got it set
to continuously record on a 16 gig card
it's showing us 15
and is formatted fat32 now the SD card
functionality that's where it's going to
record your video to write the cloud
functionality it's going to record
little clips when there are events to
serve like ten-second 14 second clips so
if there's movement so if I'm in my
office and somebody's moving around in
the studio it will record a 14 second
clip to alert me that there's motion and
then I can see that on my phone and I
can Oh somebody's moving around in the
studio right it's just this little clip
that's uploaded to the the cloud
absolutely free for me to be able to
view it on my phone now within the app
because I have an SD card installed I
can actually load up that camera and I
can go view playback and I can see now
right now because we just connected the
camera I can there's nothing there but I
can actually see in the timeline any
motion that's been going on okay
anything that's been happening on the
camera brilliant how hard is it to
connect a new camera super simple ok and
I wanted to actually show you how to do
this because I think this is important
yeah so what I'll do is I'm going to
daisy-chain another camera here okay
I've got another v2 which I'm going to
plug into the back of this one so now
have three cameras daisy chain together
which is the maximum on a single power
brick I should say and I'm going to plug
this camera in here okay so now it's
just powering up okay should be yep I've
got an orange light on the back there
okay okay
once it starts flashing then I know it's
finished booting and in my app on the
right-hand side here I'm going to click
on the plus button and then it asked me
what type of camera I want to add which
is the wise cam and it says okay well we
need to push the button on the bottom so
on the bottom here I'm just gonna touch
that little button okay
[Applause]
I need to hold it in maybe it's really
awkward
oh it's still booting okay
step three is press and hold the setup
button until you hear the prompt ready
to connect and it will okay
orange light is solid so I'm just
waiting okay maybe daisy-chaining is not
perfect let's see I'll try booting it
again I do find the pan takes a little
bit more power
okay so daisy-chaining probably the v2
together is a little better than a pan
into a v2 into a v2 right so I may not
have quite enough power if that's the
case then I'll just unplug the other v2
and we'll try then let's see here there
we go okay it's flashing let's try again
find the button there it is and I'm just
holding it up see ya there's none not
quite enough power there I can tell so
I'm gonna I'm gonna disconnect this one
so the daisy-chaining on the like the
provided unit so these are a thousand
milliamps or one amp right so they're
not very powerful adapters you could put
a 2 amp adapter on it you could buy a
more powerful adapter and you'll be able
to power more cameras so they do say
that it's gonna power 2 we just saw here
tonight that - that they say that it's
going to power 3 I think it's only going
to power two realistically I've got the
pan okay because I'm powering all three
cameras off of the same power brick
right now once you were to set it up you
could do the 3 no problem where is it
does it take extra power to set up no
well no but if you have a more powerful
than you do brick that would be this
one's only one amp yeah so get a 2 amp
adapter and then maybe you can add 3 or
4 cameras ok we just found that one of
these at 1 amp is not enough for 3
cameras even though they say it is
that's what we wanted to hear so now on
your screen you see I'm gonna hit next
and then it asked me for my password now
what I'm actually going to do is I'm
going to remove my phone from the screen
because I wanted to tell you this
because I've seen I've seen some people
on on YouTube that have been showing
their their color code the QR code i
reverse-engineered so i'm just holding
this QR code scan so it just scanned a
QR code from my phone and now i'm gonna
bring back up the phone and it's
connecting to now that it's scanned that
that code so i reverse engineer the QR
code and it actually contains plain text
of my networking settings
it's base64 encoded it just said setup
completed the the QR code contains
base64 encoded plaintext settings for
your Wi-Fi network so you don't want to
show that to anyone it's private
information and that's why I've masked
it here tonight so I'm gonna assign this
a device name I'm going to call this
wise one okay so I've just simply named
numbered all my cameras there we go and
finish setup so now there we've got wise
one and I'm gonna click on that and now
we've got three cameras all connected
now wise two is off because I've
disconnected the power now let's see if
it comes up oh you why here comes there
it is alright
so there you go okay so now back to
settings because we were looking at
settings what else do we have in
Advanced Settings we've got the ability
to turn on and off the camera status
light so that somebody doesn't actually
see that the camera is on you can rotate
it 180 degrees so if you hang it upside
down you can actually rotate it so that
it's upside-down basically that's gonna
fix the orientation if that's the case
you can add a timestamp watermark by
default that's on I'm gonna turn off the
why's logo do you want to record sound
yes I do and then go into local storage
and see what's happening here okay we've
got again as detecting as a 15 gig card
that's a micro SD card that I have
inserted into the base of this unit
that's just a 16 gig microSD which will
give me about a day day and a half of
continuous recording on that card okay
any questions at this point so far so
good so far so good
that's it how it's secure like nobody
could jack into your camera yeah well
this camera is now tied to my wise
account so it's connected to my app
there's no web access to that particular
camera it's all part of my app and it's
an encrypted connection all that all the
communication between my app the camera
the camera in the cloud it's all
bi-directional encrypted okay end to end
it's an encrypted connection so as it
posts videos to the cloud it's in a
private section for this camera for this
account and it's encrypted so only I can
open that if I remove that camera and
sell it to someone else they don't have
access either jumping back here let's
see if I have any events no so how do I
get events so if I open my wise-1 cam go
into settings and go into detection
settings and turn on my detection zone
now I've got a detection zone so there
will be movement detected on that camera
so now if I bring up more and then hit
motion tagging now let's see what
happens if I start moving around I'm
going to turn on motion tagging there we
are so now if I walk right it sees that
there's motion it's not putting a box
necessarily right around me but it
should should detect both of us there
you go there yeah cool right we've got
the ability to do time-lapse video which
is kind of a neat little bonus and
that's that's really it for the v2 the
v2 is more basic than the pan let's
bring back up the pan right there we are
and this one again I can move around so
I can actually move that camera so you
know see how it's physically moving
boggles my mind yeah so now I'm gonna
click on that this one has more stuff
motion tracking
check this out so now it's gonna see the
motion and it's actually gonna follow me
oh hey hi and it's gonna actually kind
of follow me I'm not moving it following
me digitally so the neat thing about
that is if you have it set up in such a
way that is pointed at a particular area
for detection and then it sees someone
walk in it will follow them right but
then if they walk off now 15 seconds
later it will revert back to the
original position so how do we change
that we go into our advanced settings on
the for the pan this is only the pan we
go into our detection settings and
change our detection zone and here we
would actually pan it to where we want
the detection zone to start see that so
let's say this is our detection zone
that's where it's going to always
default to so now even if it moves
somewhere else
it'll 15 seconds of no movement it will
come right back to this position
watching the door rightfully or whatever
else and then to take it one step
further we can set up various points
where we want to be able to move the
camera so that is part of the pan scan
feature let's see if we can get into
that is the microphone good enough to
use for a podcast no no who was saying
that it's okay for sound but it's got
bi-directional audio you see on the app
there on the right-hand side of your
screen I've got voice and sound so so I
could actually if I push the voice
button hi we're getting feedback now but
you could hear it's like it's tinny it's
like bad speakerphone quality the sound
is not is not the selling point but it's
nice to be able you know if someone
broke in you could you're saying if yeah
absolutely so that there's something
about that that is pretty cool
let's see what else we have right motor
controls we can change the speed look at
that the rotation speed of the camera
and within that is the pan scan settings
which is a little bit nested I didn't
like that it was so hidden in there but
let's so let's press the first one and
set now click on the second one and move
that to Sasha okay and set okay click on
the third one I'm just going to kind of
control it here zoom move up and set and
then the fourth one let's just say it's
gonna be looking at the roof can I do
that that's a no that's about as high as
it goes off of the desk set how about
that okay so I have three shots set up
one two three four I should say four and
let's move that back over here and set
okay so if I save that and then I go
back here and I click on more and then
pan scan it will actually move between
those shots yeah there we go
oh I have a question from the food as
well do all the cameras need to be on
the same Wi-Fi like or can one be aware
one at home and one don't matter like
can you have them set to different Wi-Fi
networks but controlled by the same app
yes yes yes you may
good because when you scan that QR code
it's scanning the network settings for
the network that you're currently on put
these in all different locations yes and
then be able to access them for many
right okay so they're like if you wanted
to have one at the studio and so and
have one at your work yes absolutely
have one just watching your favorite pen
network like it's anybody touching
so there you go the the second camera is
not connected first camera I died I feel
like maybe the daisy-chaining is not
very good right I really kind of feel
that way folks pan tilt zoom one that
looks fine yeah it maybe has a lot it
takes more power I think so from that
yeah daisy-chaining these guys here I
don't think that seems good to me
together yes but not the pan right that
one seems to be okay so the final thing
that I would want to test is how these
operate powered by just a battery right
okay so I've done that let's take two of
these okay and I connect two of these
together to my cell phone charger
because I want to know if I were to put
this in my car and leave it kind of
overnight or whenever will it will it
work okay
there you go both of them are powering
up on the battery no problem these are
both just plugged in I probably want to
buy a couple of shorter cables for it
cuz it's a little bit flimsy right there
you go so think of one point at each
direction on your dashboard of your car
and just powered by a battery pack oh
yeah there's the first one and second
one try again try again
is it powering up both of them have a
light
so I've got one absolutely which one is
that can you use the daisy chain from
the one you have probably could yeah try
power cycling it says so so that's not
perfect I mean we're experiencing a
couple of little issues here and there
but I think because we're live also that
that's a part of it mm-hmm but it
obviously works very very well and for
the price point so each of these being
twenty five dollars and I'm doing
something that you're probably not
supposed to do yeah but at twenty five
dollars apiece right I'm not afraid to
try stuff and goof around with it and
and plug it into battery packs and plug
it into and hang it off of fridges and
whatever else because I can put these
anywhere and they're just twenty-five
bucks and if for some reason the power
is not good enough then I can grab
another power brick or something like
that right like I don't know that we
have like a huge security risk where we
live it doesn't cost a lot of money and
wouldn't it be nice to just have it for
when we go away right to just I mean
we're not gonna have a problem but it
would be really nice if there were a
problem like oh but say the smoke alarm
went off I would like to know that it's
not for sure right so we'd love to hear
your feedback if you've got a wise cam
don't feel like because hey maybe you
know like I can I could mess around with
this and I could get the second one
going no problem I'm plugging it into a
power brick maybe it doesn't have enough
power I don't know right but I'm not
afraid to experiment and to try things
like that with these because of the
price point at $38 for a pan tilt zoom
in and I'm messing around with it and
fumbling with it whatever I hung it from
the roof this week just as an experiment
I've got a little quarter inch threaded
thing hanging from the roof and I hung
it from the roof and I inverted it 180
degrees and I set it to pan around the
room and and let me know if there was
movement and it worked fantastic beauty
the one thing other than you know the
couple of little blips here the one
thing that I did have trouble with was
formatting the SD cards within the
camera didn't work so on my computer i
formatted them fat32 because you want
fat32 not exFAT not NTFS take an SD card
this 32 gigs are under
and format at fat32 and these cameras
will handle it and that's what they like
they say that that that's the most
reliable file format file system for
these particular cameras and that's
gonna give you the best reliability I
mean you want to stick with what is
supported right so beyond that I really
haven't had any real issues right and I
can tell you that I'm gonna have all
these up and running and it's not going
to be a problem at all they're just but
I'm probably gonna plug them in
separately and I think yeah yeah I mean
not I like the idea of the daisy
chaining it's not perfect but I write in
a pinch it would maybe if I put on
another power adapter a better power
adapter yeah something that's 2 or 2
amps you can really do a lot better yeah
perfect
mm-hmm so 38 dollars or $25 that's all
cost you kind of got a sense from our
app what what it takes to get that up
and going and you can pick those up at
cat5 dot TV slash wise I absolutely do
think that they're great I want to get
that across
at this price I it's fantastic yes it
records to the SD card as you saw in
either continuous or on event so
continuous means it's gonna be recording
all the time and once it fills up its
going to record over previous days
recordings on event means it's going to
take up less space because it's only
going to start recording when it senses
movement or sound depending on your
settings that's kind of cool if you if
you want to get like a week's worth of
video instead of a day and a half right
so but the advantage to having
continuous recording is when the events
go off you've got that 14 second clip on
the cloud that shows you on your phone
this is the you know something's
happening now you can go to the SD card
and say okay here's the whole video of
everything that happened during that
moment exactly so you can see more than
just that 10 14 seconds which would be
the event itself perfect yeah we do have
to take a really quick break when we
come back we're gonna be looking at the
Odroid c2 it's a new well it's an SBC
from Oh droid from heart kernels stick
around we're gonna be unboxing that just
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cap five
dot TV slash shirts welcome back we're
loving single board computers here on
category 5 TV and this week we're
looking at the Odroid c2 just a quick
unboxing for you you can get these at
camp five dot TV slash Odroid for well
currently $46 u.s. they're not an
expensive board quickly in the box
that's it a little bit of instructions
there and the single board computer
itself
they require scissors so bring your
scissors with you folks and just reach
over here thankfully I have some handy
there you are the Odroid c2 is a 1.5
gigahertz 64-bit quad-core processor
single board computer so it's it's quite
powerful quite fast especially for this
price point at forty six dollars I'm
very keen to find out what the giggle
score on this is this is powerful enough
to use as a home theater system it's got
4k 6 th DMI output you could even use it
as a general-purpose computer if you
want to use it for just like web
browsing and you know generally getting
online with a single board computer this
has definitely got enough power for you
it's got 2 gigabytes of ddr3 RAM Gigabit
Ethernet it's got for you
speed 2.0 ports and I did see also we've
got USB OTG over here as well we've got
a GPIO 40 pin we've got infrared this
guy I mean this really strikes me as
something that I could use for
development if you want to just kind of
mess around with the GPIO with infrared
you've got a couple of different options
there if you want to start kind of
messing around with being a maker this
looks like a fantastic board I like that
it came with the heatsink built in this
is something that I didn't have to
purchase separately I did not have to
install it this came on the on the
single board computer which I really
really liked we've been looking at home
automation smart home this would make a
great controller for that as well we've
got a micro SD port here as well as emmc
and when I say micro sd I should say
that is uhs-1
so it's going to be faster than just a
standard like a Raspberry Pi micro SD
port and that's all there is to that I
mean it's pretty basic as far as what
you see is what you get we've seen
enough single board computers to see
what we're looking at here but what can
we actually put this in I'm really
really excited about a company called K
KS b k KS be cases we're gonna have all
of this stuff at cap v dot TV slash
Odroid but check this out k KS B has
sent us a c2 case and what they're doing
is they're doing aluminum cases for
single board computers if I can get into
this let's get a look at this
because I really want to have nice cases
for my single board computers and that
is exactly what KSP is doing there we
are so this is this is not plastic this
is aluminum I've got a couple of screws
there and the top housing as well so
presumably I'm gonna be able just to put
that right in here the c2
there we go
beautiful look at that and this now we
do have four screw holes and we would
screw those in for a permanent
installation for today I'm just kind of
showing you how this works just to line
up everything there
and there we go beautiful little case
from KSP so that is the c2 in a KK SB
case for the c2 and that is a nice solid
aluminum case now I haven't screwed down
the c2 so it's a little bit off its
access there but of course you're gonna
screw that into the case to install that
just four screws that are included with
it but that is absolutely gorgeous
they've noticed on the case as well to
leave a hole opening for the infrared
that's all in there as well
check it out cap five dot TV / Odroid
that is the c2 that is awesome isn't
that cool yeah I love the case I love a
good solid aluminum case we've been
looking at you know trying to find cases
that are kind of uniformed for all of
our single board computers but I love
this all like the good strong aluminum
instead of just plastic and that's what
K KSP is bringing us and they're
starting to bring out more cases for
lots of different single board computer
circuit we're gonna be looking at those
over the next little mile as well I like
that the heatsink is already attached to
me to I mean I just I I don't know when
I was building that other computer and I
had to actually do something with the
glue stuff was that the Raspberry Pi 3
or what were you doing I was building
Dave's computer back into it like oh
actually yeah you don't have to do
anything oh yeah he'd say oh you're fine
I just stuck it in the case and ya know
all I needed was four screws and it
would have been perfect yeah we do have
to head over to the news room if you're
all set we'll head over to you here are
the stories were covering this week in
the category 5 TV newsroom a recently
discovered ransomware group has netted
almost four million dollars since August
by adopting a big-game hunting strategy
Qualcomm's patent lawsuit against Apple
then dismissed as groundless by a court
in Mannheim Germany YouTube clips that
depict dangerous or emotionally
distressing pranks have been banned from
the platform and Nike has launched
self-lacing trainers which fit
themselves to the shape of the foot and
our controls via smartphone these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere
this is the category 5 TV newsroom
covering the week's top tech stories
will be slight Linux bias Jeff Weston
Jemma you're building a brand new
beautiful website what
are you your terrible actor what does
where acting comes into play you're
supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host I am
Sasha Rickman and here the top stories
were following this week I recently
the new found ransomware selectively
installs the malicious encryption
software on previously infected targets
with deep pockets the method differs
from the usual one of indiscriminately
infecting all possible victims to
analysis were published Thursday one by
security firm CrowdStrike and the other
by competitor fireEye
both reports say that Rio as the
ransomware is known in facts large
enterprises days weeks are as much as a
year after they were initially infected
by separate malware which in most cases
is an increasingly powerful trojan known
as chip bot similar organizations
infected by truck bought by contrast
don't suffer the follow-on attack by
ryuk CrowdStrike called the approach big
game hunting and said it allowed its
operators to generate 3.7 million
dollars worth of Bitcoin across 52
transactions since August
besides pinpointing targets which the
resources to pay hefty ransoms the
method has another key benefit the dwell
time that is the period between the
initial infection and the installation
of the ransomware it gives the attackers
time to perform valuable reconnaissance
inside the infected network the
reconnaissance lets attackers maximize
the damage it causes by unleashing the
ransomware only after it has identified
the most critical
systems of the network and obtain the
passwords necessary to infect them while
in common the reconnaissance isn't
unique to ryuk sam sam an unrelated
ransom where that's caused millions of
dollars of damage infecting networks
belonging to the city of Atlanta
Baltimore's 9-1-1 system and boeing just
to name a few follows a similar path
there's no doubt however the technique
is effective according to the federal
prosecutor Sam Sam operators recovered
more than six million dollars in ransom
payments and caused more than 30 million
dollars in damage Thursday's reports
leave little doubt that this approach is
likely to grow more common the fireEye
researchers routes throughout 2018
fireEye observed an increasing number of
cases where ransomware was deployed
after the attackers gained access to the
victim organization through other
methods allowing them to traverse the
network to identify critical systems and
inflict maximum damage Wow
I think what the news story doesn't
touch on and maybe media in general
isn't aware of this but sometimes these
types of attacks are multi-tiered
mmm-hmm so an attacker may compromised a
network and then they do the
reconnaissance right and then they sell
that network to the actual attacking
party so social engineering tactics are
used in order to gain access to a
corporate network and then that network
is assessed by that attacker mmm-hmm and
that attacker figures okay well they
have 300 computers they are probably a
government organization maybe they even
know who they are and that increases the
value for them to resell it and the
story doesn't even touch on it right but
it's quite likely that the whole
reconnaissance thing is another attacker
altogether and then the value that they
put on that network is what causes them
to be the ones who are susceptible
because you know what I'm not gonna pay
big dollars for the small networks right
so the small networks are generally safe
are they say
no they still have their Delaware target
they're not interesting to those who are
actually paying for the information to
be able to gain access to those networks
right like my work it's not gonna be
targeted probably your small business
with you don't have electronic
transactions that are yeah the thing is
would you know in the first place are
they smart enough just not to tell you
in the first place that you've been
infected
right so they infect you and then and or
an infection these days though I mean
think in terms of an infection is not
necessarily a virus or even a piece of
malware an infection or and let's use a
better term because again media is using
the terms like infection no infiltration
I would probably be a better term these
days so if you're not aware that it's
happened to begin with then the
reconnaissance can happen but if you
know like I guess there it there
probably isn't something like a shining
beacon that's like oh by the way yeah
excuse me sir but what can you do like
from this point if you have had an
infiltration do you just like throw
everything out and start new how do you
even know where to start
now because now they have their your
passwords and they have your right so is
it too late for these big game companies
in the hunting sort of scenario them
yeah mysterious be hard to recover
that's for sure yeah you can get your
data back you've got backup sure but
those private things are still unveiled
right I mean we talk we've talked about
data leaks and everything else so it's
multi-tiered it's multifaceted these
types of attacks and are those companies
I think it's naive to think that it's
just ransomware no ransomware is kind of
the endgame right no what what led up to
the ransomware reconnaissance
reconnaissance means collection of the
data right
reading through confidential data and
determining a value on that data and
then selling that to the next highest
bidder right that's why those companies
get attacked scary are there good guys
as strong as the bad guys in this
that man right there are Anti Malware
companies that are trying to thwart
these types of attacks but those
anti-malware companies know as well as I
do that it comes down to education it
comes down to customer people end users
knowing I still I mean I sell
anti-malware all the time but I still
here
I just need antivirus no I don't want
the firewall what you do you do yeah
yeah cuz these days I mean I go through
it day in day out it's not viruses
anymore when when I was growing up we
had to deal with viruses as I said it's
not infections anymore it's infiltration
and does an anti-virus protect you
against infiltration not at all does a
firewall protect you against
infiltration it is definitely a good
point of defense that's for sure and not
just the firewall that comes with
Windows but a bi-directional firewall
that will stop the spread of things like
ransomware right that's key because I
mean you need you need to know if you
say you have 300 computers your system
in your system you have 300 people let's
say or maybe even 600 if you're running
two shifts
people running those computers will say
somewhat right exactly a chain is only
as strong as its weakest link I need a
computer that's smarter than me right
that won't let me do something like I am
I have the habit of if something seems
boggy I just keep pressing okay right
here's another example along that vein
you get a firewall installed because
we're talking about a firewall I can't
protect you against these kinds of
attacks and that firewall blocks you
from being able to do something you want
to do do you turn off the firewall
that's the question and so if the users
have that capability to be allowed to
turn off their firewall they will do it
and I encounter this today last night
Windows 10 updated itself on the
Wirecast broadcast system so now my
Nagios server mine M server is going
crazy saying
but can't access that system because
when it updated it blocked ping in the
firewall so my Nagios server started
saying I can't ping that server that
servers down getting notifications and
wondering all the server's up and it's
working so why am I getting
notifications and of course that first
instinct is turn off the firewall and
see if it works
sure enough it works ok we'll turn back
on the firewall and then find out what's
going on okay well my Nagios server is
pinging and the pings are being rejected
by the firewall so I need to disable
just I need to allow pings to get
through right because that's something
that I personally want an IT
administrator has to be responsible for
that exact so the users don't turn it
off right so every company just really
needs to have a Robbie not a Robbie but
education for the staff Robbie
learn from things that you hear here I
suppose you know just there's lots of
great research online but you definitely
have to be privy to that kind of stuff
you have to be fearful because fear I
think makes you behave
you can't just be recklessly disabling
you know firewalls and making weak
passwords and doing all the weird things
that people do Sabu is in our chat room
and says updates should not be allowed
to change firewall settings and I agree
I was shocked that Windows Firewall
changed its own settings on a Windows
machine and I'm behind a NAT firewall
and I have good firewalls here at the
studio but that software suddenly took
over yeah no oh it's creepy yeah well
just gotta be you've got to be smart
about this kind of stuff in as in an IT
administrator we need to make sure that
our users don't have the capability
permissions wise to disable the very
things that are protecting our networks
right because 10% can you guys believe
this 10% of people in an office
environment will open the attachments on
phishing scam email
and that number is going to increase as
we see a rise in spear phishing attacks
right which are targeted which will say
hi Sasha I needed to open this file and
print it for me yeah oh okay
looks like it's coming from the boss if
it yeah you're fishing is very
convincing right depending on who they
looked like it came from like if it look
like it came out for me yeah that said
here's a file I need you to print for me
aye-aye you may not even think about it
I wouldn't know to be suspicious until
afterwards and then think huh how come
that encrypted all my files yeah yeah
how come I can't click anything anymore
exactly hmm Qualcomm's patent lawsuit
against Apple has been dismissed as
groundless by a court in Mannheim
Germany the chip maker had argued Intel
powered iPhones infringed a transistor
switch patent it holds but in an initial
verbal decision the court disagreed
Qualcomm has said it will it will appeal
in a statement
dawn Rosenberg Qualcomm's executive VP
and general counsel said Apple has a
history of infringing our patents only
last month the Munich Regional Court
affirmed the value of another of
Qualcomm's cutting-edge patents against
apples infringement and ordered a ban on
the import and sale of impacted iPhones
in Germany that decision followed a
court-ordered ban on patent infringing
iPhones in China as well as recognized
recognition by an ITC judge that Apple
is infringing on Qualcomm's IP the
Mannheim Court interpreted one aspect of
our patent very very narrowly saying
that because a voltage inside a part of
an iPhone wasn't constant the patent
wasn't infringed we strongly disagree
and will appeal Apple responded saying
we are happy with the decision and thank
the court for their time and diligence
we regret Qualcomm's use of the court to
divert attention from their illegal
behavior that is the subject of multiple
lawsuits and proceedings around the
world the pair have been embroiled in an
increasingly bitter in global legal
battle in recent years as Apple has
shifted away from using Qualcomm chips
in its devices this sounds just a little
bit complicated like this sounds we said
it last week we just yeah we're not
privy on patent law right so that I
think they were expecting this in in the
situation in the first place isn't that
why the German Court needs you to have
the money to back if you lose I don't
I'm not quite certain on the situation
it had it gone on further had it gone
for a month and Apple lost a lot of
sales because they were not allowed to
sell in Germany for example then the
money that Qualcomm had put up front
would have offset that right but in this
case it's like I don't even want to
touch on patent law and I don't get it
I feel like if you wrote a book that
right like the the the bat in the Hat
like this is what it seems like to me
right way infringe I do feel like
hearing statements from both companies
yes Apple is a child it really to me
yeah they just seem they're constantly
dropping
oh well Qualcomm is yeah is bad and and
I don't like any company that does that
right I know I let the law decide
don't try to sway people's opinions by
putting into your responses negative
negative connotations toward the person
who like it's just it's it's about
mindset and I just don't like that
because they're trying to sway the
populace into believing their side of
the story
which is not cool which I mean good luck
to them because people are smarter than
that Apple I'll tell ya well I think so
but there's a lot of people who buy
every Apple iPhone right but I feel like
that could be dwindling right it is like
Qualcomm's technologies that come out
are
mind-blowing and super advanced and like
the cutting edge of things right like
I'm more interested in all of the things
that Qualcomm has coming down the line
than I am in any thing that Apple main
Nvidia is mind blowing right now but
right yeah I don't know
consumers let's see if they wise up and
and stop buying Apple products we'll see
ya YouTube clips that depict dangerous
or emotionally distressing pranks have
been banned from the platform the move
comes in response to so-called
challenges that have sometimes resulted
in death or injury the Google owned
video sharing site said such material
had no place on YouTube
however the firm appears to be failing
to enforce its existing rules on harmful
content some of the videos have
attracted many millions of views YouTube
said it work to aggressively enforce our
monetization policies to eliminate the
incentive for this abuse but enforcing
its new rules on pranks may prove even
more difficult given an ambiguity over
what may or may not be considered
harmful a message added to the site's
frequently asked questions section reads
YouTube is home to many beloved viral
challenges and pranks that said we've
always had policies to make sure what's
funny doesn't cross the line into also
being harmful or dangerous our community
guidelines prohibit content that
encourages dangerous activities that are
likely to result in serious harm
and today clarifying what this means for
dangerous challenges and pranks from now
on the site said it would not allow
videos that featured pranks with a
perceived danger of serious physical
injury this includes pranks where
someone is tricked into thinking that
they're in severe danger even if no real
threat existed the new rules come in
response to several instances of pranks
and stunts that are seriously ill
advised at best and deadly at worst I
hope that they can pull it off I do too
and you know what the thing is I have so
much hope in common sense and humanity I
am a cheerleader for making the right
decisions but I will tell you that I
hear these crazy challenges
and I mean you can watch a Netflix show
a movie yeah it can't be just YouTube
it's got to be other plugins as well and
they get this idea in your head right
and then all of a sudden you've started
this cycle and there are copycats out
there and what you're do I mean let's
just say that the original person who
had the thought of let's say it's
parkour let's see it's planking or let's
say it's something right where somebody
has the physical ability to do it does
it and pulls it off and people watch
that video and then they're like I can
also climb a crane but it's always I
have to step it up one notch higher
right till finally it's deadly and
that's really concerning but the news is
just as guilty yeah like the the
mainstream news this stuff that we hear
about in our day to day and and you talk
about copycats and it's it's just the
world that we live in so it has to be
more than YouTube it is because as soon
as you two blocks down this kind of
stuff there's gonna be another platform
that rises up and that's the go-to place
for that kind of content
I just I wish that people understood the
value of their life like don't do
something so don't blindfold yourself
and drive your car don't eat at iPod
like don't do these silly challenge
things that are going to harm you or
kill you because you're an important
person in the society and I would like
you to be alive and not just famous on
YouTube for some crazy thing that got
you hurt
there's too many tragedies yeah we hear
about I don't like Nike has launched
are controlled via a smartphone it's the
latest iteration of the futuristic
Footwear first referred to back in the
film back in the future part 2 and made
reality by Nike in 2016 the latest
version called Nike adapt will cost
three hundred and fifty dollars and will
not require a physical button to
activate the laces Erik of our Nikes
creative director of innovation said we
picked basketball as the first sport for
Nike adapt intentionally because of the
demands that athletes put on their shoes
during a normal basketball game the
athlete's foot changes and the ability
to quickly change your fit by loosening
your shoes to increase blood flow and
then tightening again for performance is
a key element that we believe will
improve the athletes experience users
can customize the fit and control
through a smartphone app which will
store fit preferences they can input
different fit settings for different
moments in the game loosening it for a
timeout and tightening before they
reenter the game when they step into a
shoe a custom motor and gear will sense
the tension needed by the foot and
adjust accordingly the app will also
store the data which athletes can choose
to share with Nike the shoe goes on sale
in February
smart technology where I never expected
it right I actually like I don't play
basketball as you might not have I don't
play basketball but I can you believe
that I do run on a treadmill and my
shoelaces come on tied all of the time
the answer yeah well I'm not going to
buy basket like eventually I'm going to
buy these shoes when they come out and
different for self-lacing to be able to
right feel like I was in Back to the
Future right I mean I'm training to be a
PSW I'm sure that the elderly could very
specifically use these shoes right or
some iteration of it it doesn't
necessarily have to be this
sophisticated I don't need different
programs for my sneakers but right hey
be able to lace them up without having
to bend over that is fantastic I need to
have the independence that I no longer
need to depend on somebody else to lace
up my shoes right oh I like it really
quickly according to coin gecko here's
what the crippled market looked like as
of 1800 hours Eastern Time on Wednesday
January 16th 2019 Bitcoin dropped a
little bit lost three hundred eighty
nine dollars and 37 cents USD taking it
down to three thousand five hundred
eighty eight dollars and 87 cents our
loss over the past week
litecoin is down at 31 dollars and
fifteen cents USD per like
cerium is a 121 97 also losing down 26
97 u.s. Manero is at $45.50
and the small guys stellite is a 2.5 110
thousandths of a cent and turtle coin is
at one point three eight ten thousandths
of a cent not losing a lot
zero to ten thousandths of a cent
remember the cryptocurrency market is
always changing never ever closes so be
careful out there folks be careful
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of yours for submitting
serious-ass this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news for the slight linux'
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our web site from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Richmond and I'm Robbie Ferguson thanks
everybody for being here this week and I
hope that you enjoyed yourself and we
will just look forward to seeing you
again next week next week we've got some
more single board computers we're gonna
be looking at we've got a fair few
coming in you know as we're now in 2019
we also have an exciting interview that
we're going to be conducting next week
if you are at all interested in
artificial intelligence well we're gonna
be hearing from someone who has talked
to those who develop it and you do not
want to miss out next week alright
everybody have a fantastic week and
we'll see you then bye
