welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live and category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Ravi
Ferguson episode number 235 of
category 5 technology TV it's Tuesday
March the 20th first day of spring happy
first day spring glorious day to be
alive I must say beautiful day in
hashtag Barry it really has been just
amazing it was like summer today it's
gorgeous unbelievable anyways enough
about the weather so you I'm just
wonderful just keeping it real excellent
we've got a lot of fun stuff coming up
for you we got some viewer postcards
this week mm-hmm excellent yeah we're
gonna be talking a little bit more about
PHP lots of awesome comments and
questions have come in on the cat5 email
live at category 5 TV what else also
we've got some news so there is lots
happening in the world of news your free
mobile apps may be consuming your
battery power lubuntu base linux distro
raise some serious concern over its
claimed affiliation with the Anonymous
hacker group also apple plans to buy
back some of its shares from
shareholders and lastly the current land
speed record holder plans to achieve
1,000 miles per hour bye
stick around cuz these stories are
coming up later on in the show hmm how
interesting that could be like I've
heard of people who plot when apple
stocks were super super low right feels
pretty wild stuff I tell you more money
more money more money so yeah lots going
on this show you know join us in the
chat room its category 5 on freenode or
if you go to our website category five
dot TV and you'll see the the live chat
room is available there for you so
tonight we have we're experiencing for
the first time very new setup mm-hmm
what's going on oh I mean I don't know
if you're watching backstage pass here
but if you are you see a couple of
different things here that are that are
new and we're going to be presenting
them to you next week but just so you
know and now you excellent we've finally
introduced the lifecam studio cameras
1080p my friends pretty sweet and if
that interests you next week we're gonna
show you how you can get Wirecast up and
running with these cameras hmm that's
very cool I'm very excited but it also
means that tonight for the you know like
this essence we installed the new server
there was the those few weeks afterwards
where there's the potential that
something could go wrong now we've got
all new cameras all new capture devices
something could go wrong I'm hoping not
I'm hoping Robbie covered all the bases
that's what I'm here to do so bear with
us gift but do a private message me in
the chat room if something goes on
because this is a live show it's it'd be
awesome if you could help sale by
letting us know nice to see everybody in
the chat room by the way mm-hmm people
in the chat room representing the world
wide web from around the world so figure
and do you know what else is cool about
around the world Robbie what is it is
our map of the world and corresponding
postcards definitely that come from
various countries and locations from
around the world we got a couple this
week we do i'm pretty excited i shall go
first
look at this bad boy coming to us from
Melbourne Australia all right g'day
robbie and co here's a custom post card
that i put together good work on the
show mom keep it up and keep on with the
awesome improvements i'm sure that the
show will stay awesome and that linux
will too good to see some fresh hints as
always and I always learn something new
even if I have to put up with the
occasional mispronunciations but that's
what a worldwide community has to cope
with and it ain't the end of the world
this is from Pyro's rock we'll just
Melbourne will blame it on the on the
Canadian isms median accent a pires rock
thank you so much for sending us the
postcard that looks great welcome typed
up the message he made this we honored
all those photos and if you'd like to
see it you know on your screen then you
can actually win the new website
launches these are all being scanned and
they're being positioned so now we've
got a pin right on melbourne australia
pretty cool else we got here looks like
another custom one do you want me to
read it yeah please ok coming to us from
scott depot west virginia nice on the
front there's a lil caption here that
says the old train depot this is a
custom-made one yeah and the caption of
the back says scott depot is an
unincorporated community in Putnam
County West Virginia United States is
located along Crooked Creek and
downstream from the creeks intersection
with taya's Valley Road the zip code is
to 55 60 is the part of the
census-designated teays valley the
valley referred to by the I think I'm
saying Mary teays valley is a portion of
the remains of the pre glacial tazed
river which indeed westward into the
Mississippi River drainage basin so
that's interesting and then the message
reads to us Robbie and all dropping this
handmade card to you to tell you about
my little part of the world thanks for
all your shows they are wonderful time
vaults of information and education of
our OS of choice linux god bless Doug
who is a rev I forget his name in the
chat room it's hard to see here dr.
Kizza the the postal cloud went over
here I'm sorry Rev d oh it's Jenkins
Reverend Jenkins Oh
to you you can hey are you in the
chatroom joining I'm sorry thank you so
much for the postcard from West Virginia
very cool and I I really appreciate the
home a touch anyone could go buy one but
no and sometimes it's not possible to
find one for your hometown right so
that's that's a very creative and
awesome way to send us a little bit of
information and that one had a little
bit of a historical kind of background
of the town very very cool we would love
to receive your postcard all you have to
do is mail it to us yeah that's right
male takes a while to get here these
ones were sent to us in 1976 they just
arrived this week category five
technology TV we're at postal box 29 00
9 Barrie Ontario Canada l4n 7 w 7 hey
just a note that if you are using a
mobile device we have our mobile site
and we have a new short URL because we
listen to the people the people said as
mobile duck category five dot TV is too
long to type in with my thumbs so hmmm
cat five TV that works we really
couldn't get much shorter than that
within the ten thousand dollar budget
that we had for the domain that's the
way that you want to get there so or you
can scan that QR code that's kind of
awesome as well so get there that is the
mobile site it will work on your mobile
device give you some access to on demand
and quite potentially live as well very
cool actually making things
user-friendly Robbie well we do our best
like that speaking of user-friendly I've
been working I mean the the betta team
knows yes that I've been working very
very hard diligently on our new website
which is coming out this year have you
had a chance to see it yet it's it's
still it's not available to the public
so so much hops is accessed all yeah
we've seen a little something a little
something something all right in my
quest to spend every waking moment
working on the brand new website and you
know Emil is joining us in the chat room
who has access to that site is one of
the betta testers so it's looking great
every day it gets better and better but
one of the things that happens sometimes
if i'm not paying attention is that some
of the stuff
you do see gets forgotten or broken and
I don't know so I'm not actively working
on the current website so this week we
had our ask a question page okay kind of
broke unbeknownst to me and we didn't
realize that I didn't realize it in time
for some of your viewer questions to
come through so if you filled in that
form the ask a question format cat5 TV /
ask within about the last week or two or
if you have sent in a question by that
form and you are sitting there going why
haven't the answer my question I
profusely apologize I really felt bad
when I realize oh my goodness this isn't
sending out the mail and as a programmer
I should be on top of that kind of stuff
right but I'm working so hard on the
brand new website so i just wanted to
say that I'm sorry about that but please
resend your question we always I mean we
always try to get your question share
definitely so if for some reason your
question did not get through most likely
I'll just need you to resend it okay so
that would be great thank you so much
for understanding I tell you what I'm
gonna put a lot of focus on the ask a
question on the on the v3 website for
sure which is a good thing because we
always have lots of questions to answer
always do I have a bunch here if you're
if you're ready and willing well well it
will hit that in just a moment I got a
couple more things that we do need to
cover before one of the things that we
had talked about we did receive a viewer
testimonial we did we did and just while
we still have a few moments I'll ask you
two to read that it comes to us firmly
thank you thank you for writing to us we
love hearing from you hi category 5 team
i just stumbled across one of your
episodes while playing around with my
play on mini tues online programs i have
to say that it has been quite a while
since i enjoyed an on-screen program
that much keep up the good work best
regards from Fabian's thank you fabian
category 5 we'll be right back after
this and don't go away we're going to be
learning a lot about PHP tonight we're
going to learn how to count with PHP
which may not sound like a whole lot
because we got 10 fingers we can do that
but it's going to put you it's going to
put you in charge of PHP HP moving
forward we're going to learn a lot of
cool stuff over the
course of this series that we're doing
so stick around and your viewer
questions are coming up after this at
eco alkalines we believe you should be
able to trust your batteries not just
here but here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here Eco alkalines
of the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco outlines provide performance
the rivals leading national alkaline
battery brands at a comparable price
find out more about the Eco alkalines
difference eco alkalines calm this is
category 5 technology TV welcome back my
name is Robbie Ferguson I'm Hillary
Rumble here in the coho seat asking the
tough questions and finding to users
it's so good to be here I love being
here it's always a hoot and holler a
laugh and a half a good time had by all
I would say would you like to quote me
on that okay Hillary on the Internet I
think it'll happen possibly yeah yeah
I'm here yep and I'm ready to roll all
right oh yeah yeah that statement was in
the form of a question her question was
in a form of a statement I'll let you
use your new camera it's nice and fancy
all right got us a question here hi
Robbie what happened to the nine-hour
unboxing video for the new server I
volunteer to edit it you can upload it
to an accessible location then I will
download and sorry I will download edit
and unload back upload back for your
approval sorry my email got a little
funky basically he's volunteering to
edit the nine-hour unboxing video that's
pretty sweet if you don't like my edit
you can give me some pointers on while
wrong and then I can rectify it or at
least I'll have gotten the unboxing
video if that way he is footage of it
that's pretty funny where are more
guards 32 degrees Celsius from kevin AKA
kev-o / from the chat room yeah hey
thank you so very much for the offer
and what well basically what has
happened with that nine hour video it is
compiled it's being worked on and what's
going to be happening is it's actually
going to be released in many segments so
we're still working that out I I would I
be totally open to talking to you about
about your your offer to volunteer for
the show I guess it would just be
figuring out you know what what kind of
technology or you're using and how you
want to take that and make it a part of
the show we are of course a voluntary
organization here at category 5
everybody here is a volunteer and it
really does help a lot when people pitch
in here or there may be right off the
bat it's it's like okay well you know
how can you volunteer but there's an
opportunity for you keval maybe will you
know pop me another email let's get in
touch give us a call the phone number
here's to 545 cat5 TV if you're able to
make a phone call or of course you can
that you can pop us an email live at
category 5 TV but let's let's talk about
it but I'll fill you in keval a little
bit about what's happening with that
video is that it is being edited down
but it's a process because there are so
many other things going on here at
category five right now that's going to
be an amazing feature but it is it's
it's it's coming but we're we're pretty
booked up as far as the next couple of
months ago Plus this year is our fifth
anniversary party Oh everything's kind
of coming together for that and so not
to not to spill the beans so to speak to
early but just know that that's coming
and that things are being worked on so
and of course the features is coming as
well for the for the the video of the
server build cool alright sounds good to
me so much for contacting us any
question mm-hmm and I actually have
another question right here comes to us
from philip AKA Phil hey Phil hello
Robbie I want to say thank you for the
show category 5 you have helped me out a
lot with learning linux and ubuntu
distro and with various other workings
of the operating system i might add that
you even helped me with a problem that i
had in the beginning via way of email
that ms
swells right over the air cool I was so
very blown away at how quickly you
respond to that however the solution you
advise me of for that problem didn't
work and I did with my data but it's all
good because I was moving on to the
newer 9 version of a boon to which was
coming up we have the disclaimer on the
video at that point right that's the
disclaimer at the a show that says you
know this is this is all just
theoretical I do you know if you do it
and lose everything but what do I always
say back up back up back up cuz you
should never lose any data if you have a
good backup it's true so we're sorry for
that but yes but we're always learning
things here on the show um so what does
he say oh so he's moving on to the newer
version of ubuntu and it came out a few
days after he helps those no big deal i
watch the show every wednesday after 1pm
or later many times I haven't been in
the chat room yet as I need to come up
with a name and a password for myself
because I am a one-finger typer i wish i
could type as well as you and other
people that i know i want to ask you at
some point you would demonstrate for
those like myself who are install or
sorry how to install software that that
is in the a software be easy to type of
format I sometime soon okay okay bz2 i
sometimes find that linux software that
has been released for ubuntu but not
always in a debian tight package but its
tip as you know in windows if it is
zipped you unzip it to find the setup or
install program and it's done it seems
that in linux for many of those tar
files that you have to configure make
and install to get the program i try to
do this myself a few good times but it's
not happening for me yet so i'm asking
you for your assistance when you're able
to my intent on copying this event if
you find you can do it please let me
know if you're able to do so i'm just a
little bit more i am retired i live in
beltsville maryland oh and he thinks
he's going to make his sign name as fill
with 2 l's um and saying watch 0 40
saying watch over me I'm happen once a
very much because I'm a little
introverted if this request is a little
too much let me know what you can do but
anyways basically he's goes on later to
say that
he appreciates everything we do on
category 5 and please tell your co-host
and everyone else that I enjoy what they
bring to the show Hilary he enjoys what
you bring to the show thanks oh thanks
Phil very nice and we appreciate you
being here and and I just encourage you
you know joining the chat room even if
you you can't type very fast that's okay
it's fun to read fun to read yeah sure
to watch what's going on enjoy because
then you really get a sense for what is
happening the questions in the comments
that are being bounced around it adds a
whole new dimension to the show I think
when you're watching live yes if you're
watching this after the fact though as
you are then in that case you can
actually click on our IRC logs and and
then you can read over in in pretty much
sync because you know that five minutes
into the seven o'clock hour is actually
five minutes into the show because the
show starts at seven so it's pretty easy
to follow along and figure out where
where the chat room is taking it you
know where those comments are taking
place it's working the question about
bz2 files and and compressed archives
and installers and linux linux has
gotten really really good at and making
it easy for you to install stuff you use
windows as the example where you just
open the setup.exe file well these days
with Linux quite often you don't need to
do anything other than just bring up
synaptic package manager or as you say
you're if you're going to be part of me
running the newest version of ubuntu so
you might use a boon to software center
it's a really nice way to install
software I don't have I may have
software center installed on this i'm
using an operating system a distribution
called Zorin OS which is based on a boom
tube so i may actually have ubuntu
software center in here let's see I am
unsure however I know for a fact that i
do have synaptic package manager so I'm
going to bring that up for you just so
that you know how things work a little
bit differently in Linux because you're
downloading a beezy to file which is a
basically the equivalent of a zip file
say for example okay it's a compressed
file that you extract and then there's
going to be like you know make file and
then you have to go through the make
install and that
where that's kind of I would say the old
way of doing it in that it can be a lot
easier than that these days so in
synaptic package manager here we are I
don't know what to search for but you
know let's say my kids like tux so let's
see what comes up when i type tux and
you can see that the kids have used my
computer because most of them are
already installed here's tux puck is a
game for kids okay so it's pretty neat
and here's what i can do is having
search for that program i can just click
on that and go mark for installation
okay and then when i apply that up at
the top here it's going to automatically
download that off the web it's going to
automatically install it on my computer
compress it and build it on my computer
and make it work and add it to the menu
and sorted in the games category it's
very organized so i show you that
because whatever program it is that
you're downloading in the bz to format
I'd encourage you before you even
attempt it get into synaptic package
manager do a quick search for the file
name for the the program and see if it
exists because you can go to a website
and/or you can find an application you
can say wow that sounds really cool for
my linux computer and you'd go through
the whole process of having to compile
it manually and go through all that
decompressing the VZ to file or the
tar.gz and it can be a little bit of a
hassle sometimes it doesn't always work
or you could search in synaptic package
manager and oh look at that it's already
in synaptic it's in one of the
repositories so I can just install it
just like that so you may find stuff
online you can use this to to actually
install it one thing to mention here
Phil is to go into settings and
repositories and you'll see that I have
some turned on that that you may not
restricted multiverse universe see how
those are checked off if those are
turned off like that I'm not going to
have access to things that are in
universe or restricted so what that is
is it's a repository it's a place where
Ubuntu can get programs from to install
universe is like extra apps restricted
is like stuff that would be considered
maybe not free like codex and
ability to play mp3 files and things
like that so I'm getting used to the
cameras right there we go so I hope that
helps but again I encourage you to use
synaptic do a search for the software
that you're trying to install by an exec
archive mm-hmm okay and see if it's in
there and if not throw me an email and
attached maybe the the BZ to file that
is in question or send me a link to it
and we'll take a look directly at that
one specific program cool sweet good
luck let me know sounds good to me
thanks Phil appreciate all the comments
as well mm-hmm it's nice to hear from
people actually in the chat room
sometimes people post questions as we're
we're chatting along discussing things
and I have a question here from gadget
wisdom guru may I just because it's just
because it's in in line with what phil
was saying akimoto was just saying that
I'll sad that but fortunately make
usually works for them hmm and I'll just
say that that that that is usually the
case for users that are you know at this
level but when you're a fairly novice
user I think synaptic is a great way to
learn to install programs because it's
so easy for the novice user I think it's
a good way to get into linux and to not
be afraid of installing applications
something good point very cool that's
why we love the chat room everyone who's
got such interesting tidbits or feedback
we try to keep up you see how it happens
like you're looking at one I know I'm
like there's like lots of sites like go
go go go go um sorry ok so gadget wisdom
yeah gwg yes another question comes to
see you by the way saying gwg hasn't
been able to annas you been mister where
you been hiding great to see ya um dear
robbie i have a small um sorry a torn
system Adam system I can't read bottom
system that I formerly used for audio
production I'm looking for new ideas for
projects to do with this system do you
have any ideas do ya it's an old audio
at like is it a tablet or is it a small
Adams there's a netbook or what is it be
interested to know so bizarre if your
are you what else you got to say where
are you come on speak speak Wow
atom-based htpc when HTC see so that's
like a set-top box or something that you
could use to create a nice multi media
server and gwg takes a bow hello um I
don't know what to suggest if it's a
set-top kind of device than sure maybe
maybe turn it into a multimedia Center
that that would allow you to stream
video from your server or your your main
computer get a pogoplug on that and
install the pogoplug software so you can
feed your your files directly than that
really depends on what you want to do
right mini desktop size system something
that you can stick on a bookshelf he
says something you can put above the TV
is when I'm thinking hmm in our case in
my home we just have a CRT TV I don't
have an HDTV so in my case I've taken
the D Sub output the VGA output the
9-pin and converted that over to s-video
and composite and that just goes into
the the surround sound kind of display
system and we're able to watch whatever
shows or whatever online through mural
internet TV they just download them
whenever there are new episodes and all
of a sudden you know we sit down we can
use a wireless keyboard to control that
particular computer that comes up on our
TV so that's a cool way to use it I
think yeah and it gives you on demand
shows like category 5 if you subscribe
to shows like hello it's perfect those
nights you can't make it for the times
you just miss us so that's pretty good
all right I like that I like it a lot um
okay so I have another little songs out
in here and coming at me from cyber
summer um oh I saw one of Eric's tweets
and I wanted to see him perform when he
was playing a joke Malone's and that's
place in Barry unfortunately I was
unable to drive that last four thousand
four hundred fifty nine kilometers in
time for the show I'm sure Eric's
performance was great nonetheless so I
was wondering if there is somewhere on
the web where cat5 fans can enjoy Eric's
music that's kind of cool that's a good
question sure Eric appreciated you
wanting to come that far to see him and
this is something that I've been saying
Derek for some time is that you really
need to get something up there i'm
looking here because actually went to
one of his gigs fairly recently and had
my ipod touch with me and so I broadcast
it on on ustream line how interesting
welcome to ustream where videos oh nice
like what's going on there's a zoo I
brought up ustream suddenly began that's
really funny no uh let's try at kid Eric
it doesn't I I don't know of a place
unfortunately I wish that there was so
what I would do is I would suggest that
we petition Eric yet onto twitter at kid
Eric and say look man we want to have
videos of you Robbie's got all the
cameras he's got a good go in there and
and we'll get him to play us on maybe we
should just have him in one night Eric
are you watching just come on in dragon
even filming in the last time to the
show with some Irish music well there's
at one time he picked up the guitar
randomly it was just like I don't even
know I forget what the song was about
but if sitting in the corniest pick
Saddam beezus did some sort of jazz
blues riff he's pretty awesome it was
amazing really awesome so uh ok let's go
on let's get on there and keep bugging
the guy so perhaps just maybe he will
hound him yes all right well that sounds
good to me really good I'd say and we
have another question oh it's a two-part
question
oh I don't know if we should save it
okay you want to save it till after the
net after the news I'm talking about the
news and then we'll come back with our
feature we talking about PHP and then if
there's time we will take the extra
questions that that are coming to us get
your questions in pardon me by email
live at category five dot TV we would
love to receive those also you can join
us in the live chat room we'd love to
have you there its category 5 on
freenode or just visit our website its
category five dot TV and from there
you'll see the links on the interact
menu in order to get there in our chat
room so all right well he'll take it
away here are the top news stories from
the category 5 TV news free applications
typically have dealt an advertisement so
developers to make money without having
to charge for the initial out
and a new study has found that these
free mobile apps do the advertising they
display from third party advertisers
consume considerably more battery life
than ad free apps researchers used a
special tool to monitor energy use by
several apps on Android and Windows
Phone hands heads handsets do tourister
churchmans built in Apple's mobile
operating system the team was unable to
run tests on the iphone finding
suggested that one case 75% of an app's
energy consumption was spent simply
powering the advertisements no way lot
is wild the research produced by a team
at Purdue University in Indiana in the
States looked at popular apps such as
angry birds and Facebook in the case of
Angry Birds research suggested that
twenty percent of the total energy
consumption was used to actually play
the game itself of the rest forty-five
percent as used finding your location
with which it can serve targeted
advertising that's crazy mm-hmm pretty
mental moving along more than 26,000
people have downloaded an operating
system which members of the Anonymous
hacker group claimed to have created the
software is based on a version of Linux
and comes outfitted with lots of
websites sniffing and security tools the
official Anonymous group has distanced
itself from the software the 1.5 you buy
download is based on ubuntu one of the
most popular versions of the linux
operating system the software's creators
say that they put it together for the
education purposes to checking the
security of webpages it is asked that
people not oh it asks people thought to
use it to destroy webpages after much
discussion and upon deciding that the
distro is indeed a security threat
sourceforge removed it from their site
saying we have decided to take this
download offline and spend this project
until we have more information that
might lead us to think differently after
which statement the project's main
website was updated to say anonymous OS
is not available anymore and the author
reiterates that the distro did not
contain any trojan or malware as
used apple has said that it will use its
cash to start paying a dividend to
shareholders and to buy back some of its
shares the technology giant said that it
would pay a quarterly dividend of two
dollars and sixty five cents per share
from July it will buy back up to 10
billion of its own share starting with
the company's next financial year which
begins on September 30th 2012 at the end
of the last year Apple revealed it had
ninety seven point six billion dollars
in cash my goodness it expects to use 45
billion over the next three years this
is the first time Apple has declared a
dividend since 1995 and lastly a British
team featuring the current land speed
record holder when commander Andy green
is developing a car that will be capable
of reaching 1,000 miles per hour which
is roughly 1610 km/h the bloodhound
supersonic car will be powered by a
rocket bolted to a Eurofighter Typhoon
jet engine and is expected to brutalize
the current land speed record as 760 3.0
35 miles per hour which Wing Commander
green achieved in 1997 Green says they
are going for a cockpit centered car
which means that almost everything can
be controlled by him as the driver he
says I'm not plenty of control
everything I've already got plenty to do
when a ten-mile run lasting a hundred
seconds putting this bat speed in
perspective traveling at 1000 miles per
hour you could travel from Sacramento
California to Washington DC and just
more than two and a half hours a trip
that would typically take a car a two
days to do pretty wild you can get all
of these stories online at category 5 TV
/ newsroom the category 5 TV news room
is researched by roy w nash with
contributions from our wonderful
community of yours if you have a new
store you think's worthy of honor
mention send us an email at newsroom at
category 5 TV from the category 5 TV
news room I'm Hillary rumble Greg in
Texas is impressed because his car can
do 75 miles in hue
wonderful pretty wild is legal in Texas
fantastic that's all right Hillary no
problem tonight's show is brought to you
in part by quarter e electric the
official Electric Company of category
five technology TV you'll find them
online at quarter eee electric com also
garden gate farms com for certified
organic broccoli sprout and wheatgrass
juice visit garden gate farms com this
is category five technology TV so nice
to have you here nice to see so many
familiar and friendly faces in the chat
room mm-hm and as always this nice to
have Hillary Rumble thank you lovely to
be here Hillary we started a series last
week on PHP development we're going to
be working our way through basically you
know the basics to intermediate steps to
being able to code your own software
using PHP which is a web-based kind of
tool so you can build a server-side
program is what it's called and it
allows you to create websites that
generate on-the-fly data and can cause
you know you can create some really
really cool stuff so tonight we're going
to be kind of backing up a little bit
because last week we got started in a
raise but then I got quite a few
questions people saying well okay well I
understand you got started in a raise
and this and that but what is dollar
sign v and why is dollar signs e
incrementing and and how does how did
the mathematics of this work so what
we're going to do as ever when we're
working on web stuff we're going to go
to demo cat five dot TV which is already
up to eleven so we're going to create 0
12 as the folder so I'm just going to
connect in here when I'm in there I
create a folder called 0 12 so if you
follow along with me on the site it's
demo cap five dot TV / and now there is
0 12 I see it yeah there it is okay so
what I'm going to do here tonight is
we're going to start by just kind of
taking it back a little bit and we're
going to learn some of the mathematics
behind PHP so I'm going to create a file
which i'm going to call index PHP which
is basically the
it's the file that the Europe a chi
server your web server is going to serve
up at the directory level so if i create
that file i'm going to drag it into
there so now when you go to 0 12 the
directory listing is gone it'll just be
a blank page because we haven't actually
coded anything into that page just yet
so what i'm going to do i'm using
FileZilla which I love the client I'm
going to right-click on and go edit view
or edit in Linux it's it's great okay so
we're going to start by opening our PHP
tags just like before and we always
close our tags any time I create a tag
an opening tag I always close it if I'm
in HTML and I do a div I always start by
closing my div that way when i get
another div in here and I I don't end up
forgetting okay well which closing div
is this and which is this and you notice
my indentation as well it's important
that you can follow your own code so
when I open a PHP command I'm going to
close it as well now we're going to
create our first thing am f first thing
is going to be dollar sign V equals 0
and dollar sign V is just a string that
holds the number that can be dollar sign
D that can be dollar sign number thing
and just for the sake of the
demonstration let's let's call it
something silly like that let's will
call it Hillary number yay hey just to
give you some some props thank you I I'm
honored oh you're too kind you have your
own strength named a friend that's the
nicest thing anyone's said to me today
oh that's sad okay moving on okay you
know what I'm not gonna do that just
because it's so long Hillary Oh fine
okay we're just use the R so we all know
that it's Hillary number until dollar
sign r equals zero so that's just now
it's assigned to 0 you've got to assign
something to it so now what happens if
we go dollar sign r equals three and
we're going to echo dollar sign r which
is basically saying okay print that to
the screen i want to see what r is equal
to so now if i upload that refresh
you'll see
the output of dollar sign are is three
well what happened to one what happened
is this command here dollar sign r
equals 3 has undone dollar sign or
equals zero this one cannot exist
because r is now equal to 3 we've
specified it statically what if we
instead say r equals r dollar sign r
plus 1 you can imagine just from simple
mathematic algebraic expressions that's
like saying if a is 1 and a equals a
plus 1 right it's the same sort of thing
so now we've got our equals 0 r equals r
plus 1 2 commands in a row and then an
echo of that output so we'll save that
you can imagine what that's going to
equal simple mass of mathematics as far
as that goes but the program says okay
well R is now equal to 1 we know that
because our was originally 0 and then R
which is zero equals R which is 0 plus 1
is 1 so the total is now 1 so if we went
five then the value is going to be 5 but
then if we again when r equals r plus 5
now r is 10 make sense yes algebra takes
me back to high school math it's that's
really kind of this kind of entry level
so I hope that that makes sense and feel
free to message Hilary on the chat room
she is watching the chat window there so
what we're going to do is we're going to
go while that is a PHP command for you
our first first one while dollar sign r
is less than 10 and then open with a
brace and close with a brace notice I
always close ok echo well first let's do
this watch this
dollar sign r equals dollar sign r plus
1 so it's always going to increment by 1
so it starts out as zero because of this
command and then this is saying
basically keep looping until dollar sign
r is 10 or over because we've said on
while it's less than 10 and the first
thing that it does is add 1 so within
this if I go echo dollar sign r dot and
then BR this is basic PHP output the dot
means okay I'm echoing this first and
then I'm appending this which is HTML
for a line break it's exactly the same
as me saying that but it saves some
space in your code okay those spaces are
not necessary I like them for form you
always have to end your line in PHP with
semicolon if it's the end of the
statement notice here there's no
semicolon because it's not the end of
the statement this is the end of this
statement this is the end of this
statement and the only place that it
would be different is this closing brace
here is in fact the end of the while
statement but it's a closing brace so it
does not require a semicolon okay so
let's save that I'm going to get rid of
this last echo are because we're echoing
it basically 10 times nine times I
suppose and you'll see ten times so we
started as zero but the firt why did
zero not end up going out okay i'm going
to show you why but first of all look at
that we go one two three four all the
way up to 10 but we never said anything
other than loop through that until it's
10 so you can see how that's working
there small little bit of code and we're
able to put all that and it is going to
be valuable information to you so if you
think well I never need to help out put
a list that goes 1 to 10 there's there's
reasoning behind this now watch this our
dollar sign r plus plus is exactly the
same as saying dollar sign r equals
dollar sign r plus 1 so once again we're
our code a little bit there we go okay
so all I've changed is that once that's
finished uploading i'm going to refresh
and you'll see that the output is
identical there's no change so the
reason that we're not getting the zero
even though guess what our was zero why
are we not getting our output is 1 or a
0 we're it's starting at one and that's
because during the while loop here the
first thing that happens is an increment
if we were to reverse this order watch
the difference here okay now we're out
putting it before the increment takes
place and so it starts at zero and ends
at nine because our initial value is
zero and doesn't increment until it's
already gone through the loop once okay
so where this can be valuable is of
course counting through your arrays if
you're using while loops if you want to
be able to to output a certain amount of
information from an array we're going to
all we're going to bring that all
together in two weeks time now we're
going to be talking about how we can
bring these two kinds of processes
together last week we looked at for each
which loops through an array this the
while statement allows us to just simply
count in any direction or it can do so
much more than that but we're gonna use
this simple example to help you get
started any questions so far in the
chatroom just well I had a question I
was wondering why my name changed in the
chat room but I got filled in on that
okay but I'm nothing pertaining to EGP
at this current okay point I'm okay i
welcome your questions in the chat room
okay so what we're gonna do is we're
gonna take what we did last week and
we're gonna say let's let's use what we
learned in an inner race so we're gonna
call this my array and we'll just make
the first key 0 and we'll call this
title
title won okay now remember this was
learned last week so you can always
watch last week's episode if you want to
learn what it is that I'm doing here
myarray one title notice that I've
incremented the number manually their
title too okay so that I'm just using
title one title to as an example that
array could be any amount of data so now
while let's say R is less than two this
is gonna well let's keep it real simple
i'm going to say while r is less than 1
no 2 is right okay because we're going
to count up from 0 remember our is 0 so
it's going to go one two alright so our
plus plus first thing we want to do is
we want to go echo dollar sign my array
dollar sign our see how I'm assigning
now to this value the value of dollar
sign r which is going to be counting up
because we've got this hour plus plus
okay title it's getting a little bit
more sophisticated we're going to add a
carriage return there okay so now just
to demonstrate on a simple two key array
with that little bit of code okay that's
going to output that array let's see
there you go so we've got title one
title too well that's not amazing to you
because well here's the thing is it's
it's all fine and good I mean it's just
that amount of code right but what
happens when let's just let's change
this to here we go I'm going to change
this to
a counter well let's just do this here
we go I'm gonna make it a little bit
bigger okay and I'm gonna just count up
here I'm doing these counts manually
just for the sake of keeping it real
easy to follow as far as seeing it on
the screen okay so you see that so this
is a bigger array and yet my output has
never changed in its size so that part
has never changed my database er my data
info has gotten bigger but the output
itself is still this little tiny thing
and I'm gonna relate that to you in just
a moment so that you see how this can be
beneficial in design here we go hey miss
90 people are saying yeah you missed you
wait a second oh yeah I did but it's 10
there we go 9 simply did that there we
go one two three four five six seven
eight nine ten okay on this week's
episode 30 ago counting 10 just kidding
ok so now because zero was my first one
here we go that actually needs to be 10
because I'm outputting 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
9 is 10 there we are ok so here's where
it counts here's where it matters is
when it comes to formatting watch what
we can do here imagine if you had
created a beautified output for this
information in which case we wanted to
take that let's say this was a massive
page of data or content and we wanted to
make this look pretty but we don't want
to have to go through all this content
because if we had put this in statically
it would be a lot of work to do that
because it's in this way all I have to
do is format this little tiny bit here
let's say we want to make it all bold
so now as simple as that with eight
little nine little key strokes
everything is output it as bold we can
we can change that as far as you know
what you want to do there but you can do
all your formatting within this simple
echo statement because basically during
the loop everything is going to be
output using this statement here that's
very basic counting in PHP I hope that
that that kind of helps you to to learn
and end that you can relate that back to
last week's episode where we were
counting through the dollar sign V
strength here we're using dollar sign
are just so that I can show you that it
really doesn't matter what you call it
as long as the name that you use is not
already a PHP function or object because
you don't want to overwrite it so create
something like my string or my counter
you couldn't say count because count as
a function so you would say dollar sign
counter for example how would you make
the word title bold and not the numbers
bold the word title okay well in this
case because that's getting into some
different PHP but in this case because
we know its title one title to title etc
we would go dollar sign temps ATM p
equals explode bracket space because we
know it's always a space that's after
the word title or we could use title
even let's say title comma no dollar
sign my my array dollar sign our
okay so what I'm telling it is well
let's make a real simple i'm going to
make that a space just that it makes the
most sense to you and that what's going
to happen is temp is going to become an
array where space is the divider so 0 is
going to be title the one is going to be
the number so if i take that now and i
go dollar sign tamp and notice i've made
a mistake here because i forgot to put
title so temp 0 is going to be title the
word title space because i remove the
space in the process of exploding a
dollar sign temp 1 okay now just after
this want to go unset dollar sign temp
because I'm done with it that removes
its value from memory and it also
prevents you from accidentally reusing
the value in a future run so if I'm
right here TMP becomes an explosion of
myarray dollar sign our title at the
space character
there you are ah cool okay hey Jameson
was asking that in the chat room so glad
we cleared that up yeah and of course
explode look it up on PHP net great
place to learn about functions with
regards to PHP and explode is the
command to break something at a
particular point can be very very handy
and maybe we'll get into that later on
in the series sounds good to me thanks
everybody Thank You Robbie this is
category 5 technology TV and our website
is triple w category 5 TV make sure you
follow us on Twitter as well we'd love
to have you follow us category 5 TV for
for the show at Robbie Ferguson mad
Hilary Rumble ya gotta tweet that Oh
tweet him send us your tweets your
thoughts your hellos all that jazz yeah
your questions and we got questions oh
boy oh boy there was a question there
with regards to last week's and it was
in I think it came by email I don't know
if you can see it there with regards to
last week's feature as we're kind of
talking about PHP right now is that the
last this one I have is about virtual
Bob can you scroll down on the top call
him there I Junction 102 so uh oh I
didn't realize my bad new hardware I
know sorry guys just getting used to the
new and if we're unable to get you get
to your questions and I have as Hillary
will tell you I mean she's scrolling
down through this list massive amount of
questions and and we appreciate your
question so much we can do our best to
to feel all of the questions if we can
sometimes it's not always possible but
do know that we've we've hopefully
received your question if for some
reason you haven't heard from us within
about two or three weeks then maybe we
haven't got your email but definitely
you know we do our best to dry I think
this is it I'm looking possibly bash and
perl programming is that it okay yes
that's not the the dollar images yes
Gary posted this is a comment on episode
number 234 last week yes okay what he
goes on to say is I've little experience
with fashion perl programming and linux
and vb programming and wind
so I'm familiar with the concept of
arrays I can't quite wrap my head around
the syntax you're using above though and
what he puts here is dollar sign images
square bracket dollar sign v square
bracket file um okay so images 3.jpg
right I'd be more used to seeing
something like this dollar sign images
square bracket dollar sign V equals
images.jpg I'll help translate that sure
what is missing he says what does that
the square brackets with the word file
portion of the syntax what does that
refer to that's the particular question
so maybe once you can see visually what
he is saying that would okay make more
sense Erica can you give me just any
object that I could make into like a
spreadsheet or something like anything
at all like i would say apple an apple
okay Erica says apple an apple so I'm
going to use that Thank You Erica I'm
going to use that to to create an
analogy for you here okay okay so what
what he's saying here is that okay we've
gone and used dollar sign images dollar
sign V and then file yes equals whatever
jpg okay well he's saying well why are
you not just going dollar sign images
dollar sign V equals whatever jpg okay
why are we using this what is this is
what the question is so using the
example that erica has provided us so
kindly I'll say okay let's say we're
going to use apple so we're going to say
okay food okay so let's start with that
food and we're going to go let's use
bullet points we're going to say
vegetable and I'm gonna indent that and
I'm gonna say give me some vegetables
let's use root vegetables to start
potato carrot Beant eats yes one more
vegetable in the chat room huh
vegetables that grow in the ground onion
onion wonderful okay so that's vegetable
let's go up one level and we're gonna
say okay fruit and here we go with our
bullet points we're gonna say banana
apple there's our magical apple yeah and
one more fruit cherries cherry sound
good okay so there is our list of food
okay so what I'm going to show you here
is dollar sign food vegetable okay
equals potato right no see here in this
case what's going to happen is if I we
learned this tonight with our
mathematics then create vegetable is
carrot I've now overwritten potato and
we've lost that in our in our array so
in this case little backwards from
images because in images we've gone this
route and set dollar sign V which is
zero or one or two or three so in this
case because we're counting up the way
that I've structured this I'm going to
put that counter right here and say
dollar sign be but it has the same
effect dollar sign V equals 0 okay boss
I'm B plus plus we're counting up we
learn to count today so now here we're
gonna go
dollar sign view again carrot loss on v
plus plus and we keep going through our
list like that so that now when this is
output food vegetable dollar sign V
which is like this 0 1 2 3 okay so now
if I want a potato I can go echo dollar
sign food vegetable and potato is going
to be 0 and that from my array will
output potato okay so what I'll do I'll
actually include this little they'll
diagram the diagram as I guess an OD f
file for you on the show notes of
episode number 235 to type unreal very
cool thanks so much for the question
thank you everybody for your questions
tonight and for joining us still want to
receive your postcards love receiving
them thank you to everybody who sent
them in yes that would be fabulous see
at your postcards get your tweets get
your viewer testimonials get your
question please turn around we love
hearing from you hell are you next week
I'm very excited for we're gonna be
taking viewers for a tour of the studio
here category eyes I know so if you ever
want to see if you've ever wanted to see
how things work here at category 5
technology TV behind the scenes beyond
just backstage pass i mean you who are
watching backstage pass hello kitty
knowing you but i'm just saying the
local them the thing is is that you've
only seen this kind of area we're going
to take you through the whole studio on
the way that it works we're going to
show you Wirecast we're going to show
you how to use wire cast with three HD
video cameras how to get 720 p recording
with a twat 1080p source and be able to
zoom in digitally without any loss of
data quality sounds good to me yep so
make sure you join us next week and
there is a kicker
what's that I got a free copy of wire
cast for you unbelievable can I win it
you can't win it why no it's in the
rules and regulations sorry well but you
you can potentially win it jot I mean
chat room anyone could anyone could so
don't miss next week episode number 236
hard to believe we're just creeping up
towards our fifth anniversary Hilary
great to see you Kiev I also should
mention that Erica who is here with us
tonight hi hi Erica maybe you could wave
to the people on backstage passes stand
over there camera they can see you from
yeah so yeah just wave yeah erica is
going to be joining us for the first
time next week she's an intern who is
joining us tonight and gonna be working
with us over the next little while so
it's nice to have you here and will
certainly enjoy having her on the air
next week for that special feature as we
take you for a tour through the studio
so Hillary thank you so much q thank you
have a great week talk to you next
Tuesday night same time
Oh
