here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
Microsoft is acquiring github the FBI is
advising users of consumer grade router
routers and network attached storage
devices to reboot them as soon as
possible to counter Russian engineered
malware that has infected hundreds of
thousands of Services devices how's the
contacts tonight's ash just asking I
just want to know can we increase the
font size Apple okay previewed a variety
of security and privacy features it
plans to add to make 200s and iOS
operating systems including encrypted
FaceTime group calls password management
tools and camera and microphone
protections asus has staged its annual
Computex keynotes and shown off a laptop
with dual screens but it's not at all
what you're imagining these stories are
coming right up don't go anywhere
Jeff Westen Jemma
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website what
aren't you you're a terrible actor
what does where acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay I'm building
a really cool website are you building a
really cool website just because Jeff is
confused doesn't mean you have to be
visit cap five dot TV slash dream host
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
dream host this is the category five dot
TV newsroom covering the week's top tech
stories with Linux - I'm sad your Ekman
in here the top stories were following
this week Microsoft is acquiring github
after reports emerged that the software
giant was in talks to acquire github
Microsoft is making an official on
Monday github was last valued at two
billion dollars back in 2015 and
Microsoft is paying 7.5 billion in stock
for the company in a deal that should
close later this year github is a large
code repository that has become very
popular with the developers and
companies hosting entire projects
documentation and code Apple Amazon
Google and many other big tech companies
use github there are 85 million
repositories hosted on github and 28
million developers contribute to them
github will now be led by CEO and nod
Freedman who will report to Microsoft
cloud and all and chief Scott Guthrie
github CEO and co-founder Chris Warren
Warren therethe will now become a
technical fellow at Microsoft also
reporting to Guthrie it's easy to
imagine why Microsoft would want to
acquire github Microsoft killed its own
github competitor codeplex
in December and is now the top
contributor to github Microsoft now has
more than 1,000 employees actively
pushing code to github repositories
Microsoft has struggled with the develop
love four years and it's a big part of
the reasons when those failed and its
universe windows phone failed and it's
Universal windows apps platform hasn't
taken off the question around this
acquisition will be what Windows does
with github github in the future
Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella says we are
committed to being stewards of the
github community which will retain its
developer first esos operate
independently and remain an open
platform we will always listen to
developer feedback and invest in both
fundamentals and new capabilities this
was an interesting story did not see
that coming no no I mean when when it
was first announced I was like really of
all the people to buy it
Microsoft because Microsoft I mean
granted I'm not a huge Microsoft fan but
they're known for taking things and
absorbing them and killing the life out
of it and do you have an example just
everything no but I mean anytime
Microsoft has acquired stuff I feel like
there's always been a community support
around whatever it might have been I'm
blanking on things right now but then
Microsoft takes over and you get that
major corporate feel but have they taken
a more open source approach as of late
like the past say three years that have
we kind of got that impression that I
don't think so no no I mean when I
switched over to Windows 10 on my home
PC I don't feel no well not with their
not with their software but with their
approach to the developer channels and
things like that I guess a little bit
but I mean this is completely open so I
mean that's a great thing about github
is is it's totally open source right and
so the IEEPA contribute their own code
it seems so positive Microsoft's gonna
ruin it I really oh hey how can you how
can you ruin something that's so big
though to see your job he says but as
long as they don't change it then the
fundamental underlying and they say that
they're keeping that open
athos of
it works how it operates and the the
underlying mindset of of github because
if if you create a piece of software and
publish it to github now I can say oh I
really wish that software would do this
this and this so I can sit in my
computer and I can make it do this this
and this and then I submit it what's
called a pull request to your code right
so now you can absorb that change into
your own software and that's what makes
it great it's a it's a community it's a
cloud platform that allows developers to
help each other better open source right
I guess yeah so are they trying to shift
then well I don't know we don't know yet
what are they trying to do obviously now
they own like the place leanness
Torvalds from Linux the developer who
created the Linux kernel develops it and
publishes via github so you know should
we watch his chair watch his page and
see if he changes his mind maybe he
would say you know because I imagine
he's watching this very closely and he's
gonna say okay well that's let's see
let's back out he's now putting his
entire system in Microsoft hands
essentially yeah but with that comes
their capability of aggregating all the
code of the universe that is on github
okay that was gonna be my next point is
you are now handing over and the fact
that he's reporting to the cloud I mean
it's not like it's just a server
somewhere I mean Microsoft is gonna
access this from all over just like sure
can we get up but there are they going
to somewhere in their user agreement
have some sort of weirdly worded legal
thing that basically says you're giving
this to us to host for you therefore we
own it right it's licensed under GPL
under various open-source licenses okay
that may be the case but if you have
some amazing block of code within your
program yeah who's to say that Microsoft
with their new AI that they're working
on isn't gonna go oh that's great code
we're gonna take that component put it
into our Microsoft software and you
don't get a penny but don't they have
the right to do that anyways I guess but
I mean it but if they now own the
platform
does that not add some more but them
owning the platform does not mean that
they own the code they can't make it
their own and say it's ours now no
because if it's licensed under GPL now
the product that they've absorbed it
into has to in turn be licensed under
GPL that's the agreement behind that
license
I still wonder if there's gonna be some
legal loophole because you're hosting it
on their server I don't know time will
tell Jeff time will tell and they're
skeptical but you mention AI and I think
about the aggregation of the code and we
think about the fact that the CEO of
their AI division is now becoming the
head of this so hey maybe there's
something in that that's true mm-hmm the
FBI is invite is advising users of
consumer grade routers and network
attached storage devices to reboot them
as soon as possible to counter Russian
engineered malware that has infected
hundreds and thousands of thousands of
devices researchers from Cisco's talo
security team first disclosed the
existence of the malware last month the
detailed report said that the malware
infected more than 500,000 devices made
by Linksys mikrotik night Netgear QNAP
and tp-link known as VPN filter filter
the malware allowed attackers malware
allowed tackers to collect
communications launched launch attacks
on others and permanently destroy the
devices with a single command the report
said that the malware was developed by
trackers working for an advanced nation
possibly Russia and advised users of
affected router models to perform a
factory reset or at minimum to reboot
the US Department of Homeland Security
has also issued a statement advising
that also home outter owners power cycle
or reboot their devices to temporarily
disrupt the malware as noted in the
statements rebooting serves the
objective of first temporarily
preventing of infected devices from
running the stages that
collect data and other advanced attacks
and secondly helping FBI officials to
track who was infected the statement
said that the FBI is working with the
nonprofit shadow foundation to
disseminate the IP addresses of the
infected devices to ISPs and foreign
authorizations to notify end-users
authorities and researchers still don't
know for certain how compromised devices
are initially infected they suspect that
the attackers exploited known
vulnerabilities and default passwords
that users had yet to patch or change
the advice to reboot update change
default passwords and disable remote
administration is sound and in most
cases requires no more than 15 minutes
of course a more effective measure is to
follow the advice cisco gave user gave
to users of effective effective devices
and perform a full factory reset which
will permanently remove all of the
malware including the first stage of the
malware thanks i feel like this story
happens often this is a particularly
large one in that a lot of manufacturers
devices are affected right I mean it
don't know a whole lot about the the
cause like what's the root underlying
cause here and so they can say passwords
and remote administration built into the
devices so is it that somebody's written
a really good bot may be using machine
learning for example and attacking many
different routers and detecting oh this
one's a Netgear that I'm attacking right
now so let's iterate through all the
default passwords for Netgear devices oh
look they've got remote administration
turned on on the router boom I'm in boom
I'm Vince I've installed my malware
right and we don't know yet who who
started this and what they're accusing
Russia they are but I hate to think that
they would ever do something like that
without knowing that there's some tie to
Russia or any other culture
so there must be some kind of evidence
geolocation or something there must be
not one frame but yeah I I wonder okay
so if you reboot your router that's
great or you just our cycling whacked
out last week we're internet comes down
restart the router exactly but in this
particular case without this news story
coming out I wouldn't know that my
router would need to be rebooted or
anything should I just be on a schedule
of doing that or what yeah just factory
reset every once in a while what can I
do like I feel like how would you know
your router had malware yeah I think
that's a weird one because and I think
sometimes it comes down to to not
necessarily just using the devices that
are provided by your ISP because they're
usually the most susceptible they're
getting the bottom dollar on the most
amount of devices that they can buy for
cheap so that they can install them on
and all their sites and they're not
always the most secure devices and
they're not always patched and
up-to-date and everything else and they
have default passwords and by default we
don't tend to hey ISP came in set up our
Wi-Fi and we use the password they gave
us well I mean how many people when they
get it from their ISP there's a sticker
on the back yeah sure that says this is
your password and then the technician
writes it on there you change you can
change it yeah yeah but I think it
predominantly has to do with not
necessarily the Wi-Fi passwords so much
as because then someone's got to be
sitting in the car within two kilometers
of your house in order to do it which is
still a problem access its remote access
through the internet because remember
this device is connected to the WAM the
internet yeah and if it has a default
login password that you would use you
ask the question can you change your
Wi-Fi password yes you can by logging
into your router going to the wireless
setup and changing your password and
what if you didn't change the password
to log into your router that's the
problem
a lot of times it's like admin password
so if that's what it is
and somebody somebody's bought has found
my router and can get into my router
with admin password then they have
access to my network so I said you know
maybe don't just trust and I said just
like don't just fall back on this device
that the ISP gives you maybe we need to
supplement with an internal firewall
that's between my network and the
Internet that's in addition to what the
ISP is giving me right and that would
help protect because here's the fierce
Asha as soon as someone can get into
that router a lot of them are powered by
Linux for example yes they may be able
to open up SSH connections so that they
can now connect into it and access any
of the computers on my network if it's
not Linux based if it's not SSH
compatible or have that capability they
can easily get in and open ports in my
network port forwarding and they can set
up for example they can see every
computer's IP address on my network
because it those IP addresses are being
dished out by the router right if I had
a supplemental device that was dishing
out those IP addresses the router would
never know what they are that's correct
that's where it would help so if they
can see all the IP addresses on my
network so they see your desktop
computer your laptop your phone they're
gonna look at that desktop computer and
figure hey most likely that's Windows so
let's open port 3389
just to test let's see if Samba is open
and turned on like file sharing if
networks file sharing is connected and
turned on so that you can access your
files on your desktop from your laptop
well they can now open that up to their
own computer they can access your hard
drive and guess what your C Drive has
shared under a hidden share and they've
got full access to your computer so
there's a lot of fear there with what
they can be capable of by compromising
that one device so we can reset it to
knock them off of it if they're on we
can factory reset it to remove what
they've done but then we've got to reset
up everything if you do that please
don't reuse the same passwords yeah we
can wipe it all and do all that and then
supplement with a good firewall and
maybe that's the best way to do it
thank you it's still scary nonetheless
it can be if you have questions if
you're not sure anything that I just
said please send them and go to our
website category 5 TV make sure when you
go to contact us that you select that
you were sending in a question for the
show otherwise it may go to the wrong
inbox and never get answered so make
sure you're selecting but it's to go to
the show Apple on Monday previewed a
variety of security and privacy features
it plans to add to Mac OS and iOS
protections apple also released a beta
version of the upcoming iOS 12 that
apparently kills off two iphone
unlocking tools used by law enforcement
around the world to access phones
without knowing the unlock code the
feature known as USB restricted mode
requires that users unlock their iPhone
with a password when connecting to it to
a USB device it requires a password each
time a phone that hasn't been unlocked
in the past hour tries to connect to a
device using a lightning connection the
password requirement tart largely
neutralizes iphone unlocking tools
provided by companies called cellebrite
and grey shift which use USB
connectivity to bypass iOS restrictions
on the number of incorrect pin guesses
that can be entered into an iPhone with
those limitations removed police can
make an unlimited number of pin guesses
when attempting to unlock a confiscated
iPhone often aided by robotic
unlocking system previously iOS betas
had USB restrictions that required the
entering of a password when it hadn't
been unlocked for seven days those us be
restricted modes were later removed
before Apple issued final versions of
the iOS the restrictions this time
around are much more stringent because
police would have no more than 60
minutes between the time that they
obtain an iPhone and connect it to an
unlocking tool we should remember that
though though at
Apple has previously removed USB
restricted mode before releasing final
versions and may do so again with iOS 12
the new beta also features end-to-end
encryption built-in password management
and several privacy enhancements so
sounds great let's switch to Apple well
how do I get that but without having to
get Apple like how can I get that
without an iPhone good question
chatroom this is one for you folks if
you can I well I've never heard of that
USB locking mechanism in an Android
phone okay heard of that that doesn't
mean it doesn't exist
I want a pretty phone like I'm not a
phone guy I want my private room yeah I
think that's a great idea because this
is one of the things is that there
unlock they're making it so that the
because you know you guess the password
ten times and all of a sudden of locks
you really kind of think but if they're
using a tool over USB it makes sense
that hey if we disable the USB
connection until you enter the password
now they can't do that I like and I like
that feature a lot I want it I just
don't want an iPhone I know no there's
like a software that's been developed
that you can download through you know
in an Android store or something well
you know what I I don't know that it
would be supplemental it's gonna be a
core OS feature right but I could
imagine that if it doesn't exist in
Android it wasn't you know yeah the the
the idea behind it is is non-proprietary
I mean you can't
how can you patent something like that
right so yeah that's sure I'm sure that
someone will make something similar on
Android part of the Android OS but will
it be you know what if your phone can't
be updated to version 9 of Android right
exam out well I mean and that will be
part of it is that it won't be entirely
backwards compatible but like I haven't
I have a samsung phone mm-hmm and there
is the Samsung App Store device that
comes with my phone so I can see Samsung
themselves
developing an app that becomes part of
the okay turtle that goes hey do you
want this you can download it and then
that's part of the core of your phone
why are you no different than if you had
you know like an algae or something that
they can maybe develop their own version
of it that you could download from okay
you know I could see something like that
happening the foo has a phone that uses
NFC and a Yubikey in order to to enforce
two-factor authentication okay and I
just wonder the foo if if that would
prevent the capability of plugging in a
USB cable and adding these backdoor
patches that remove those restrictions
like could it could I don't know what
the government has as far as
capabilities know and so factor
authentication is a good idea I think
also that simply you know for myself
like I don't keep anything private on my
phone no I would just have to change my
google it just account i password and
things you just feel like you want your
stuff to stay private though like the
things you've chosen to be private she
want them to stay private
you know so if I'm giving my phone over
say at the border say they'd do a thing
where they just want to check your phone
at the order I I don't want them to
you're a person now a national security
threat I here Canada yep really yep yeah
two weeks ago really a much better story
just for the record we are benign we're
so please forgive us for anything we
have done because that's the Canadian
way we're so sorry sorry a CSIS staged
its annual Computex keynote and shown
off laptops with dual screens but it's
not at all what you're imagining the
Zenbook pro 15 is a 15 inch notebook
packin up to a hex core core I 9 with 16
gigs of RAM GTX 1050 TI graphics and a
one terabyte solid-state drive
I know it has a main 15.6 inch screen
capable of 4k Ultra HD and it has a
second screen which is different from
anything we've ever seen it's a full HD
multi-touch screen in place of the
laptops usual touchpad Asus has called
this the screen pad and has design apps
including a calculator and custom
controls for Microsoft Office and
YouTube to run in it
the laptop goes on sale next month for
$2,300 us oh I love the idea aha I
really like it I love where this world
is going when I get one think of this
earth come on manufacturers this should
have been around forever this is smart
it's it's a beautiful idea but however
this is Jeff but no but how many times
do people go by drop live up top like so
you get it no no but now an otterbox
doesn't get for a laptop really maybe
okay like if I was to drop this stone
it's mine I know but if I was to drop it
chances are I'm not gonna be damaging
the keyboard but now if you've got a
screen and you have a glass plane that
is your keyboard you drop that sucker
you've doubled the chances I feel like
for the accident-prone not a smart
purchase okay raining on this parade for
the record mr. butterfingers over here
PSA don't drop your laptop especially if
it's $2,300 I really want to just get my
hands on it and like I want to see what
it feels like I feel like I'll feel like
I'm in like Minority Report or something
I don't know I think to me it reminds me
of what I thought the switch should have
been like with the touchscreen and
everything interacting with the TA and
maybe it is for some games but but I
like that idea that it's got hot keys my
Wacom tablet for for drawing which I'm
not an artist but my daughter is has a
lot of hot keys and stuff around that
you touch
with the pen and it does certain actions
and things and I love the fact that this
touchpad now becomes an action center
that can be you know maybe app
developers can create apps that will
supplement your application now as
somebody who codes all the time mmm how
would that change in physical dexterity
impact the way that you type because I
mean I'm sure you could be looking at
your screen and just plunk it away back
up say it
what if you have your hand scanned on it
and then it automatically mised
you guys know nothing about this no it
has a real physical keyboard just like
your normal laptop but your touch pad
the touch pad that you use your mouse
has been replaced with a touchscreen
okay then I misunderstood the news story
I thought I was talking about I thought
it's a whole keyboard no we're talking
the touch pad is a multi-touch
touchscreen I know is hard to understand
she has bad vision don't make fun of her
it's cuz the letters were white and
shredding them green now does it make
sense it does it's not as I thought it
was I'm picturing like two blames of
glass big touchscreen cuz it's gonna
have a calculator from here it's gonna
now do we get the news now do we
understand what's cool I think it's even
better than what you were thinking is
what you were thinking thinking was
nonsense no it made no sense
who would ever make that Jeff I just
thought it was neat I'm like that's cool
when sasha said it is not like anything
you've you're thinking she didn't mean
it that way like that the presenter
would completely not understand what it
is that it is that they're making
thanks to marsh man Roy W Nash and our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
by subscribing in here for all your tech
news with a slight linux for more from
the category 5 dot TV newsroom visit our
website category 5 dot TV thank you for
watching I'm Robbie Ferguson
I'm Sasha Richmond and I'm Jeff luster
[Music]
[Applause]
