hi and welcome back to new every day my
name is Jen oh I'm sorry I'm driving hi
and welcome to new every day my name is
Jen and I'm Jane and on today's show
we're in part three of sign so stay
tuned we will be right back this is new
every day with Jen wagger
and Gary Webb
[Music]
hi and welcome back to new every day we
are so glad that you have tuned in if
you are brand new to watching us this is
your first time watching our show we are
so glad that you tuned in today we are
on the road and Midwest America Jane as
its joined me as special guest on for
the past two shows she's joined me in
touring the Midwest Kerry has made at
home doing some studying and she will be
on one of our future shows as we turned
home and get back into the everyday
things of life but the good thing about
vacation is it gets you out and gets you
experiencing new things and often we
take you along with us and I believe you
have been to California and you have
been to Ghana Ghana yeah actually you
have been to Ghana and you have been
with us we went to Tennessee in Kentucky
and we just love taking you along with
us because so often is the experiences
of life that speak to our heart that
teaches about who Jesus is and so on
today's show we're in part three of
signs two weeks ago we talked about the
fact that God actually does want to
speak to you and he often does that's
your the Word of God through script
britches scripture through prayer
through conversations with people
through circumstances through dreams and
visions and then last week we talked
about how important discernment was and
who do you go to in order to help you
discern those signs because sometimes
people can look like believers and say
they're believers but the depth of their
walk doesn't won't actually prove to be
helpful for discerning what it is that
God is calling you to do and so on
today's show we want to
we talked about talked about how
sometimes we can receive a sign receive
a different sign and yet a different
sign and we just will say oh no I don't
like this one no I don't like this one
and we will wait until we get one that
we actually like before we then say
that's the one that God has for me and
I'm thinking specifically how sometimes
when we're seeking discernment we will
go to people and we will keep asking the
same question until we get someone who
agrees with what it is that we want and
then say that's the believer I'm going
to choose to listen to
yes that's not necessarily a good thing
very often when God gives us a sign it
can be uncomfortable like the example
that I gave last week about buying an
outfit and then you know what needing to
take it back and and the thing is it's a
great outfit and it looks good I could
wear it but I just I knew in my spirit
it is uncomfortable you know to go to
someone and say I think this is what the
Lord is saying and then to actually walk
it out and we just oh I'll do it I'll do
it next time because it feels
uncomfortable or I could have been
hoping that Jane would have said oh no
like you're hearing wrong and you know
you have the money go ahead do it and
it's like no like she actually confirmed
what the Spirit was saying and even
though it wasn't an easy thing to do or
that I would want to do it's like no
this is what the Spirit is saying so I
need to do it and and the reason why
that's so important is because the Bible
or Jesus Jesus talks about the New
Testament that those who have been
tested and proven right with a little
will actually been given much more and
we don't obey God to receive that's not
it but we obey God because we love Him
and and and sometimes he tests us not to
see what is in our heart because he
already knows what's in our heart and he
tests us so we can see what is in our
own heart and so you know if God has
spoken us to through his word or through
another believer speaking into our life
we can't just brush it off because we
don't like it
we need to just go okay or
how do I response to this and then would
you give me the courage right to respond
which means that in order for that to
happen we have to be in relationship
with other believers and so you know
I've heard many say oh I don't need to
go to church I can listen to any number
of podcasts or you know televangelists
on on Netflix or whatever but I don't
actually need to be part of a church
body and most of the time that's because
we will not allow ourselves to be
vulnerable and have other believers
speak truth to us so we you know in
order for us to be discerning and to and
to be able to receive those signs from
God we need to be in relationship with
other believers and we need to be
willing to be vulnerable with those
other believers and give them permission
to speak truth to us and yeah I've heard
things like this and maybe you thought
things like this that's just between me
and God
right right right yes I believe there
was a country song written that says me
and Jesus we have our own thing going
you know it don't matter to anyone else
right it's me and Jesus and it's not
biblical no and while we do have every
person needs to confess Christ but that
is the one-on-one relationship with him
and yes it is the Holy Spirit who speaks
to us but he does that in community and
right there's so many one anothers in
the inn throughout scripture that's and
one another's means do this to one
another do this to one another do this
like love one another care for one
another show hospitality it's Milic one
another build one another up pray for
each other yes there's so many of those
throw scriptures so and that's really
hard to do by yourself and when we talk
about signs it's really hard to discern
signs and what God is speaking to us if
you aren't in a fellowship right and so
we actually talked about that this week
in the context of the four Gospels that
each one on its own told a piece of the
story but you needed you need all four
Gospels God God put all four Gospels in
the New Testament so that we could get
the perspective from each one of them
because each one on their own remember
different pieces of what had happened
and and and Jen and I talked about that
this week in the context of you know
memories and how you know if you grew up
in a family with multiple siblings when
you talk about past events you will all
remember it with a different spin or a
different part of it or sometimes one or
more have a memory of it and others
don't even remember that particular
event and that's again why you know one
meaning of itself doesn't have the whole
story and and we know this to be true
when we think in the context of
spiritual gifts
yes thus you know the spiritual gifts
are given for the benefit of the whole
body and each one receives a different
piece of it so that the whole body can
be built up yes and in that way there's
accountability in that so instead of
just someone oh well I think this is
what God is saying and then it's go off
well accountability means I'm gonna talk
to Jane this is what I feel the Lord is
saying to me and she speaks into me and
I get her perspective and and then you
know I go to someone else I I feel this
is what the Lord saves me and and I get
their perspective and you know I go to
carry and get her some perspective and
then I go to the Lord and say well this
this is what these people are saying how
how do they measure up to what you're
calling me to or they are they you know
sort of I want to say sanding it right
so that I'm sanding it in a sense of
sanding off the rough edges so I'm
hearing clearly and being able to go in
the right way and not that God gives us
a rough message but sometimes he gives
us the message and then as we talk to
other people they bring more clarity to
it oh oh and it starts to I want to say
resound and your spirit like and it
might not even be its most times it's
not easy actually it's actually quite
difficult right knowing that other
people who love Jesus have spoken into
your life now and it's confirming that
then it's like okay that wasn't it's not
going to be easy but I do believe this
what God is
- so we're gonna pause now I want you to
think about that for a minute like who
how are you doing with networking with
other leaders and we will be back right
after this
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching hi and
welcome back to new every day we're so
glad that you're tuning in for the rest
of the series on science if you're new
to new every day we ask that you go to
our our website called new everyday dot
TV check us out we have partners there
that help us make new every day happen
every week and so if you would like to
help make it new every day happen then
you know go to the website click the
partners page and see how you can either
sponsor us weekly through patreon or go
to one of the businesses and maybe you
have something that you need to buy so
we encourage you to see if there's
something there that you can do to help
us make the every day happen so we are
in I want to say the closing stretch of
our series on signs and and just it has
been so interesting for the last week
basically I want to say reading the
signs whether it is through
conversations with people or literally
reading the signs or are listening to
our GPS speak to us and trying to
discern ok this isn't the map of saying
but this is what she's saying and
actually a couple times she has led us
down the wrong way yes and twice to be
exact we were looking for a Starbucks
and we got to this place and Jane said
I think one of these houses is Starbucks
and I and we're both laughing cuz it's
like we both know that's not true but
the GP has obviously thought that one of
the his houses with Starbucks and then
we tried to go to this place called
Pillsbury Crossing you tried twice and
both times like the first time she did
not lead is to fill the Pillsbury
crossing it was really cool a cool place
to be one for a cool walk but that was
not where we were supposed to be so that
goes along with like sometimes you think
you're going in the right direction and
and she was a trusted person like we
were trusting her that she would know
what it is that we should be doing but
she didn't but she thought she didn't
right but here's the thing
cuz here's the interesting thing is that
we made this observation about her her
sorry you need to know her name is Sarah
we've just dumped her Sarah because you
know you you've got to give your GPS a
name
Sarah has not been updated so Sarah's
satellite information is more than a
year old
yeah eenz that sarah doesn't have the
most current information no she does not
really you know when when we think about
our life as a Jesus follower the only
way for us to have the most current
information is to be regularly in God's
Word
yes and so that's really you know where
we wanted to land with you was just you
cannot speak the word if you don't know
the word yeah and we heard that this
morning in church and we heard it at
Jeremy camp spoke that as well just the
importance
of being regularly in God's words so
that we will be able to use that as a
sort to to sustain us to keep the enemy
at bay but we can only do that if we're
current and if we don't know it and if
we aren't reading God's Word then we
will be of little use when it comes to
hardship because that is the number one
place that God chooses to speak to us is
through his word or else we're gonna end
up at these dead ends order perceived
dead things in our life based on why I
read through the Bible once okay but the
Word of God says it's living and active
it's sharper than any double-edged sword
so it's not just about reading it once
and thinking you you know it all it is
about keeping contact keeping in contact
with it and and the pastor that spoke
this morning he's like well you might
not be pulling out your sword but are
you pulling out your phone with the app
like are you actually touching the app
itself and reading it taking it in and
he said you know what we give the first
10% of our money to the Lord we give the
first day of our week to the Lord we
give the first day for firstfruits
firstfruits
to the Lord Lord the first of our year
to the Lord in fasting and so he's like
we need to give the first of our day to
do the Lord so that we can actually you
know receive from the Lord what he has
for us and so then we can then walk
forward in what we've read because that
is the first and strongest place that he
is going to speak to us and you can say
but Jen you mentioned all those other
things and I said I did he does speak to
us through dreams and through prayer but
the main spot he speaks to us is through
is word and it says that Jesus is the
word right the word became flesh and
lived among us and the where we learn
about Jesus is in the Word of God so
that's why it's so important that you
get in your word every day and the thing
is and we learned about this to the
enemy we believe that we are in a
spiritual battle and that Satan does not
want us reading the Word of God because
if we get to know God if we get to know
Jesus if we get to know the plans and
purposes that he has for our life which
is where we originally started off then
we're gonna walk in freedom we're gonna
walk in abundance we're gonna walk in
grace we're gonna walk in like we're
gonna be mighty people of God and he
doesn't want that
so he's gonna try to discourage you he's
gonna try to you know have you up late
at night so you're tired in the morning
so you're like I'll read it when I come
home well then he's gonna have you
volunteered at something important and
oh you're gonna come home really late or
too tired read I'll do it tomorrow
morning but you wake up tomorrow and the
cycle just begins or you know all of a
sudden you're here somebody calls and
needs to have that conversation with you
and it's all of a sudden you can go a
week and you haven't actually read the
Word of God and and it's not because you
haven't been doing good things
but because you've allowed good things
to actually creep in so you're not
attending to some of the better things
which is spending time with God so we
want to encourage you to spend time with
the Lord in his word every day and not
just reading it but hiding it hiding it
in your heart and that was one of the
things that the pastor said this morning
was you need to hide God's Word in your
heart it's not just about reading God's
Word you need to hide it so that when
something comes up what comes out of you
is the Word of God because that's what
Jesus did when he had been tested in the
wilderness and Satan came after him then
with everything that Satan attacked him
with he came with the Word of God like
it is written it is written it is
written it is written and so it's so
important that when you're struggling
with something you can say no it is
written greater is He that is in me than
he that incident in the world no I can
do all things through Christ who
strengthens me because it is written no
because it is written I don't have to be
anxious about anything but can you know
and it just goes on it is written
because as soon as you claim the Word of
God then you're walking you're walking
in the things God has for you and you're
going to be able to discern what the
signs are and what God is saying to you
so many people are like well what does
God want me to do it's in the word so
unless you read the Word of God you're
not going to know half of what God wants
you to do or even how to do it so we
encourage you get your Bible out if you
don't have a Bible go - Gideon's dossier
they will send you a Bible go to Bible
hub like the Bible's there go to Bible
gateway the Bible's there if you want to
read it online get the you owe you
version Bible tons of resources and the
YouVersion Bible you get a verse sent to
you on a daily basis you can sign up for
that that's a great place to start they
have all kinds of different devotional
plans they have ones
you know to get you started you can do a
7-day one a three-day one a 31-day
devotional just to get you started so
that it can become a habit like we are
so fortunate in our culture to have so
many different resources at our
fingertips which we take for granted I
take for granted just how easy and how
accessible it is but I don't ever want
to take for granted the weight of the
Word of God and how it is that it can
change my life and continue to change my
life and knit me closer to my Jesus that
died for me so we're ending off the
series on signs the major sign is God
has plans and purposes for you and to
find out what they are it's in the Word
of God we encourage you to pick it up
and read it to know what God is saying
to you don't miss out on the signs that
God has so with that in mind we bless
you in the name of Jesus who is the word
of God who teaches us everything we need
although God learn about him this week
open up a Bible we'll see you back here
next week have a great time bye
catch a new episode of new every day
every Friday morning at new every day
dot TV
we're also on Kody Roku Plex YouTube and
Facebook or if you're in Southern
California tune in every Sunday morning
at 6:30 Pacific on channel 33 television
for the high desert
