got a beautiful assortment of cameras
here on my desk all of them are
available at cat five dot TV / action
cam I'm going to tell you really briefly
what each one is we're not going to get
too heavy on specifications at this
moment because we're going to be
covering them over the next couple of
weeks okay first of all you already met
the DJI Osmo on episode number 480 of
category phatak technology TV have you
seen it yeah oh this is a sweet little
number for run-and-gun so cool it's got
the built-in 3-axis gimbal so you don't
have to worry about your footsteps and
stuff like that or holding your hand
straight it automatically adjusts itself
it's fantastic it's use great 4k video i
should say all of the cameras that we're
looking at tonight our 4k cameras we're
not going to bother with the 1080p come
on now come on now so last year that's
so 1997 I'm like okay next up we've got
the SJ cam SJ 5000 x I have the 4000 at
home oh yeah so you have the 1080p model
yes I do this is the 4k version alright
now we're going to get into it a little
bit tonight it's not true 4k but I
wanted to show you because I know that
you're shopping online and you're saying
well what's the difference between the
key mission 170 and the SJ cam other
than the significant difference in price
or maybe you're looking at at the Garmin
VirB ultra 30 right they're very similar
as far as their design and what they can
do as far as the specifications go but
we want to compare tonight so that you
can see the actual difference we're
going to do that in live mode so that's
the SJ cam for 5000 x then as I said the
Garmin VirB ultra 30 this is a cool
little action cam again for k then we
have the tough TG tracker this is from
Olympus it's a stylus camera that's that
that's your very favorite I want to take
that one to Jamaica I love the form
factor of this one I love that it is
very much like a like the old style
handycam that's so tiny it's got a
really super wide angle lens it has
it's it's got a lot of great features
one of the things i do like about this
you talk about bringing it to Jamaica
it's waterproof without a case so just
like this you can you can take it no it
is scuba diver bowl you can take this
down way down and go swimming with it
without a case it also has a built-in
light so that if you're underwater you
don't have to worry about supplementing
it with light it's got some really
really great features to it that I'm
excited to unveil over the next couple
of weeks and it's also shatter resistant
it is crush proof you can drop it from
seven feet and it won't break so this is
a really neat tough rugged camera then
we've got the Sony FDR x 3000 this one
is a little bit different as far as the
styling goes you can see you know the
traditional kind of go pro style action
cam versus this is Sony's approach with
no screen which is kind of an
interesting notion at all well it has a
little LED screen or LCD screen which
you know it's like oh yeah that doesn't
show you what you know you don't see
what you're filming it has wife all of
the cameras are going to have Wi-Fi
these days and Bluetooth and that kind
of stuff so or at least all of them are
going to have Wi-Fi something we're
going to have bluetooth and other
technologies for wireless communication
they have apps and you can so you can
stream this to your phone and you can
see the live view that way but as far as
built into the camera it's not like the
tough TG tracker where you've got a
built-in screen that pops out like that
which is pretty decent and then these
guys have a screen built into the back
where the garmin ultra verb 30 the
garmin virb ultra 30 if i can get it ray
is touchscreen okay and it's touchscreen
I was surprised to find that it's touch
screen through the waterproof case oh so
that's an interesting little tidbit for
you then we've got the Nikon approach to
action cams this is the key mission 170
so this is the I guess is it 170 degrees
is that what the 170 refers to so this
is not their 360 model they've also
brought out the key mission 360 which is
a full 360 view but this we're just
looking at
standard view cameras and during this
feature so this is therefore K approach
to an action cam feels really sturdy a
like feel the weight of that Oh pretty
significant when you compare that to say
the SJ cam or rye even the SONA the sony
camera is quite lightweight as well
absolutely the Nikon key mission 170 is
pretty heavy this feels its feel most
like it's uh there's more metal to it
than there is plastic you know why yeah
it might be I it certainly is it feels
really rugged it's also waterproof
without a case which is nice these guys
like these guys you're gonna have to put
a case on them right if you want to put
them under the water same with this this
one all of them come with a waterproof
case so that's a bonus and of course do
not submerge all right never ever ever
what I feel like that should be
self-explanatory just looking at is
self-explanatory so tonight what we're
gonna do is a little bit interesting so
we're just going to jump right into it
because in the video i explain what what
is going on but we're going to check out
how each of these cameras perform and
not all of them do but we're going to
see how each camera performs in a live
broadcast scenario so can it be used in
your home studio or in a studio like
studio d here at category 5 technology
TV let's find out we're going to check
it out with our live mode viability test
as we compare these six cameras all 4k
right here on category 5 technology TV
it's time for the live mode viability
test of these cameras and what we're
going to do is set aside any of the in
app features it's cool to be able to
stream to things like youtube and
Ustream live from the app but that
requires connecting wirelessly to the
camera then streaming through your LTE
or Wi-Fi network from your phone or your
tablet or whatever there's a time and
place for that I could see if you're
downhill skiing for example and you want
to live stream it to mom and dad so that
they can go watch out for the tree then
you know that's cool that's really
really cool but not what we're doing
here today what we're doing is a little
more fandangled we are going live output
from the HDMI port of these cameras into
a mage well 4k
capture card through HDMI so that card
from age well can capture up to 4k
resolution so we can get the full 4k off
the camera through hdmi and then it goes
into software the software that we using
is called Telestream Wirecast and what
that allows us to do is live stream to
any platform I mean if it's YouTube
Ustream your own personal rtmp server
whatever it will take it and then it
also allows you to record to disk you
can record at full 4k if you want but
what I'm interested in is recording it's
a 1080p or 720p and broadcasting at that
resolution because what we can then do
with a nice quality 4k camera we can
zoom in on that 4k canvas to 1080p or
720p and then move around within the
campus creating virtual camera shots so
we can actually make it look like we
have multiple cameras or similarly a
camera person operating a stationary
camera but we can make it look like it's
moving back and forth and pointing at
the right people in the right areas of
the screen because we've got 4k to work
with we can zoom in on that that's
something that I'm very interested in
and so we're going to actually zoom in
on these cameras and see how the quality
degrades when we get up to higher
virtual zoom levels so our criteria
today of course is can we get live clean
HDMI off of these cameras so what clean
HDMI is is that means there are no icons
surrounding it there's no little record
blinker there's no numbers at the bottom
with the date and all that it is just a
clean video source that's important to
us because we're going to be doing
broadcasting say okay so then from there
what's the quality of that hdmi output
like what does it look like when we zoom
in on it does it still look okay is it
still usable then we're going to know
along the same vein you know what kind
of fish eye effect are we getting
because action cams are notorious for
that those things are all important to
us as well when we're live-streaming
because we're not going to be post
producing fisheye out of the video and
then finally our final criteria on this
particular test is can it be powered
from an external power source when we're
live-streaming we don't want the battery
to die and have our camera automatically
turn off
no sir we want to be able to power it
from an external USB or whatever it may
be so those are our three criteria let's
get right into it i'm just going to show
you the cameras i'm just going to show
you how they look and how they operate
in live mode and then it's up to you to
make the decision if live streaming over
HDMI is something you're entirely
uninterested in well you may think that
the live mode viability test is
something you should skip over but i
want to bring two points to your
attention first of all we're going to be
looking at whether or not this can be
powered by an external power source and
that applies to you if you're going to
ever put your camera on a tripod say
push record and walk away you don't want
it to turn off halfway through so stick
around we're going to be showing you
that also we're going to be zooming in
on the 4k canvas so that you can see the
actual quality when we get into two
hundred four hundred percent and that's
important if you ever think you're going
to be editing your video in such a way
that you want to crop in and get a
tighter shot after you've already shot
the video so you want to see the quality
and in the end result so you do want to
stick around we're going to start things
off with the SJ cam SJ 5000 x and the
reason that we wanted to include this
particular action cam isn't so much to
show it off as you can see the video
quality is rather poor but rather it
answers the question why is this one at
such a lower price point and is it worth
spending the extra money to go with
something a little more expensive the SJ
5000 x comes with the GoPro compatible
waterproof housing which of course when
it's on you're going to be able to mount
that to a tripod but then you're not
going to have the ability to plug in
hdmi and USB that said one of the
bonuses here is that the SJ cam SJ 5000
x as well as the 4000 do include a handy
little thing here that allows you to put
it on a tripod in two different
directions so this just simply clips on
and there you have it so now you've got
an SJ cam that is ready to be mounted
with a quarter-inch threading on a
tripod so that's a bit of a bonus as far
as live hdmi output goes as you can see
I've got a little icon up here and I've
got a couple of icons
over here I don't know how to point to
them on the screen but you can see them
there on the left-hand side and those
icons are showing even though I have
selected to turn off the on-screen
display as you can see those are still
there there's a little bit of a ghosting
effect going on if I move really really
quickly and we're going to see that as
we get in on higher zoom levels first of
all even though it's advertised as a 4k
action cam the SJ cam SJ 5000 x is in
fact a 2k action cam the sensor can only
pick up 2k and that then is it allows
for K output 4k file recording using
what's called interpolation so
essentially it blows up the image and
tries to fill in the gaps and we've just
lost the input signal it looks like it
goes to sleep as well so I've fired it
back up but as you can see that's not
going to work very well for us in a live
mode environment let's get a look at it
really quickly before it shuts off on us
again first of all check out this box
see if you can read let's see some
information over here on the side here's
some text for you let's get in there at
a hundred and fifty percent zoom level
and you can really see even at that
level that there's some pixilation in
the video watch what happens when I move
the box it almost looks like it's
interlaced do you see that it's like a
striping on the box let's get into two
hundred percent and the video quality as
you can see is practically unusable two
hundred fifty percent there we are at
250 you can really start to see that
kind of effect that we're seeing there
and check out the text check out my face
when I move so you can see that the SJ
SJ 5000 x while at a lower price point
is definitely I think we're going to
find tonight is of a much significantly
lower quality than some of the
higher-end cameras you can see that this
text is almost unreadable you can make
it out but it is blurry as anything at
four hundred percent four hundred fifty
percent we're really seeing some
shimmering who look at what my hands
look like that's interesting and finally
at five hundred percent which we would
expect to be unusable we really can see
that effect so that's the SJ cam SJ 5000
x I was hoping that it would do better
in a live mode viability test but
unfortunately doesn't perform very well
and I've lost signal again let's move
along now you see me on the Garmin VirB
ultra 30 action cam a couple of notable
features when it comes to live streaming
first of all the Apple version of their
app will allow you to stream live to
YouTube from the camera over Wi-Fi we're
not focusing on that what we are focused
on is hdmi 4k output so this camera is
also capable as you see a full 4k output
over HDMI so we have an hdmi cable going
from the Garmin VirB ultra 30 into a
mage well 4k capture card and into
Telestream Wirecast it's got great
looking clean HDMI a couple other
notable features here in this particular
environment is that we have power coming
in over USB micro so we're not having to
utilize the internal battery or worried
about the battery dying during a live
shoot also the internal screen on the
Garmin VirB ultra 30 is still
operational even with hdmi output
enabled so if there's an operator on the
camera they are able to actually see the
little mini screen built into the Garmin
VirB ultra 30 as well now the one caveat
with that is that it does tend to turn
off i'm not sure what the timer is but
it seems every every 60 seconds or so
the screen will simply go black you can
touch the screen you can push one of the
buttons and it will come back to life
but my fear with that is that as a
camera operator is touching the camera
it's going to jostle it a little bit
speaking of jostling it there is no
stable way to mount the Garmin VirB
ultra 30 on a tripod at least out of the
box anyways and I don't know of any
accessory but I'll tell you what i have
found the garmin virb ultra 30 comes
with a waterproof case this is GoPro
mountable and you know the accessories
are GoPro compatible and you can buy a
quarter inch threaded accessory for this
and it'd be cheaper to be a couple bucks
no problem there so you'd be able to
mount this particular case on a tripod
that said as soon as you do that you
lose the capability to plug in HDMI
output and USB power
because we've got a solid shell so I
think you would have to dremel this and
basically modify the case in order to
create a tripod mounting accessory for
the Garmin VirB ultra 30 the camera
itself does not have a threading for a
tripod mount and nothing was included in
the box to allow me to mount it to
anything other than GoPro accessories so
as you can see my camera angle is a
little bit tilted here that's because
I've only got it balanced very carefully
on my tripod because there's no way to
screw it in so considering the fact that
they have a focus on live streaming with
their YouTube enabled apple app and also
obviously they have put some great work
into the HDMI output and the ability to
power the the device over USB I mean the
camera looks fantastic i have to say i
mean i know that's a pin my own opinion
but what do you think and so i'm a
little disappointed the garmin didn't
put a little attention to detail into
the fact that hey we've got these great
features for for live streaming or hdmi
use so why are we not including some way
to mount this camera out of the box on a
tripod that's my one disappointment
let's take a look at the camera quality
one hundred and fifty percent zoom there
we are this is digital zoom so you can
see that that is just kind of zoomed in
on the canvas and it looks great moving
in a little bit closer two hundred
percent there we are please pay
attention to the text on the side of my
CX 33 box here as that's a little bit of
a comparison for you between the
different cameras let's get in there to
two hundred and fifty percent and as you
can see i'm still looking pretty clean
there's a little bit of a fuzziness to
the picture but otherwise still pretty
good considering the level of zoom that
we have here keep in mind the actual
frame is way back here and i also notice
that there's not a lot of fish I going
on you can see a little bit over here
you can see the the roof here and the
and the drop ceiling you can see a
little bit of a curvature there but it's
not terrible let's get in there to three
hundred percent and then into 350 there
we're really starting to see some
fuzziness it's not like a pixilation
it's a little bit of a fuzz to it so
that's
it's pretty clear for how close we are
three hundred fifty percent zoom and
look at this text okay let's get into
four hundred percent and we're still
still looking fairly useful unreal okay
four hundred fifty percent we're really
starting to get away from quality video
here and five hundred percent is
ridiculous look at the camera here my
microphone pardon me you'll see that
there is a little bit of an odd anomaly
there and it's very very subtle so I
think all in all the my impression with
the Garmin VirB ultra 30 is that the the
the video coming off of the camera over
HDMI is really nice quality and you can
do a lot with that so that's pretty
superb we just have to look at how can
we possibly mount this to a tripod and
maybe modding our case is the answer
let's move along we're going to take a
look at the the sony FDR x 3000 next
this action cam has clean hdmi output as
you can see as well as that I am
powering it over USB micro so we're not
draining the battery while we shoot
stationary video another thing that's
important to me is being able to mount
it on a tripod well how many hoops do we
have to go through with the FDR x 3000
absolutely zero here's the waterproof
case the waterproof case in fact has a
quarter-inch tripod threading on the
base of the case so no matter what in
the case you can screw that on to a
tripod and use it whatever you want to
use but that said outside of the case
you'll notice cases here cameras there
the camera itself has a quarter inch
tripod mounting threading on the base of
the camera so you don't need a case you
don't need any kind of adapters or
anything it mounts directly onto a
tripod that's fantastic okay looking at
the video quality we do have a little
bit of a curvature not too bad you can
see this monitor which has a straight
edge it has a little bit of a break in
it it's not quite a perfect curve like a
fisheye effect it has a bit of a kind of
uh uh huh it's almost triangular a
little bit there looking at through the
ceiling tiles you can see that curvature
it's not too pronounced and the image is
not horribly
stored it the one thing that i do see
here that these lights are doing to my
bald forehead is that i'm seeing a lot
of glare i don't know if i can blame
that on the camera so much as what i got
up here or don't have up here so there
you know that's something to observe
anyways zooming in one hundred and fifty
percent camera looks good we can read
the text here on the side of the box
that is digital zoom at one hundred
fifty percent let's get in there to two
hundred percent we've got a little bit
more graininess than the than the garmin
camera let's get in there to two hundred
and fifty percent definitely we can see
that three hundred percent there we are
three hundred and fifty percent now
we're getting into ridiculous but I can
already see my microphone is kind of got
a little bit of a strange strange
anomaly to it let's get in there to four
hundred percent see that it's almost
it's not interlaced but it's almost
blocky like there are little pixels that
we're seeing there definitely see them
there at four hundred fifty percent and
at five hundred there you go I feel like
the back wall has a clearer focus than I
do do you see that so the brick almost
seems to have a slightly clearer focus
I'm not sure if that's because of my
position maybe I'm but I'm about six
feet from the camera so it's not like
I'm right up close to it or anything
like that you can see that i do have
quite a bit of distance but that's the
impression that i get anyways when i'm
right in there the back wall looks a lot
more clear than i do let's get a look at
this box maybe that will give us a
better impression text looks pretty good
remember i'm looking at this at five
hundred percent okay so that's digital
zoom not to show you that I can
digitally zoom in on the 4k canvas but
to show you a kind of a close-up of you
know what does the picture actually look
like if you get really really tight into
it and you it really starts to expose
some of the the differences in lenses
and and
and the actual camera itself but there
you go there it is at three hundred
fifty percent what do you think we can
compare that to the other cameras as
well and see I do love the form factor
of this camera I love the way that it
operates I love that it has true 4k
output on on the camera just like that
over hdmi and it does have a fairly good
picture especially when we're zoomed out
like this when I get into one hundred
fifty percent still looks pretty good I
there it is your impression that's up to
you let's see what you think okay let's
look at some of the cameras that fail
our live mode viability test this is all
the output that we can get from the
Nikon key mission 170 unfortunately it
does not have clean hdmi output
similarly I'm a little disappointed to
find that the olympus stylus tough TG
tracker also does not feature live clean
hdmi output and looks like this and
finally it's the DJI Osmo 4k while this
is a great little camera we noticed that
well the key reason that it fails the
live mode viability test is we have no
hdmi output we've got a USB port in the
back of the camera itself but no video
out so we did find that we've got a
tripod threading here that we can mount
it on a tripod however because we have
no live mode out output over HDMI it
fails that particular test while
excelling at pretty much everything else
it's a great little running gun camera
but it is meant to be used to record to
the microSD card that you place in it so
unfortunately the DJI Osmo while a cool
camera is going to fail our live mode
viability test alright let's recap
here's the SJ cam SJ 5000 x at one
hundred percent zoomed right out to the
full frame and it isn't looking too too
great let's get in there to three
hundred percent this really shows the
lower quality of this camera the SJ 5000
x from SJ cam now let's look at the
Garmin VirB ultra 30 and this is it at
its full frame one hundred percent and
let's get into three hundred percent so
that we can really see the quality of
this camera and compare
and now let's move on to the sony FDR x
3000 this is what it looks like a
hundred percent and now let's zoom in to
three hundred percent and finally here's
the side by side shot none of these are
scaled these are just cropped so this is
exactly how it looked during the feature
and as you can see the SJ msj 5000 x is
quite a bit tighter than the other two
cameras that means that the lens is not
nearly as wide and looking at the other
two cameras you can see that glare is a
lot more pronounced on the sony FDR x
3000 and if i had to vote myself i would
say the garmin virb ultra 30 has the
best picture coming off of our live mode
viability test ok so that raised a few
points that we wanted to bring up during
the live broadcast here and if you have
any questions in the chat room let us
know Sasha you had a question for me
first and foremost ok so my question is
why would you need a tripod stand in an
underwater case ok like why would you
sure sure yeah what what's the purpose
in having the ability to put a tripod on
it yeah yeah right a thousand feet below
we've got a tripod and it's floating on
its side there's a couple points there
first of all the waterproof case is also
a way of making the camera more rugged
so it's going to be able to handle the
elements a lot better so if you want to
mount it on your helmet for example and
your motor cycling or going down a hill
on skis you probably want to have that
waterproof case on it one because snow
will damage it if it gets wet but also
because it's going to be a lot more
rugged if you fall which you're going to
fall because you're not paying attention
because you're too busy pushing buttons
on your camera come on people but if you
are under water what's that look we're
motorbiking in the snow well button I'm
just assuming that we're really
action-packed here because we've got our
our new Sony action cam that's the one
we're referring to the other reason as
we're going to be underwater is this
little guy selfie stick if you're scuba
diving how cool is it that you can set
that thing way out there alright
and film yourself in the coral reef
right or whatever it is that you're
doing or just get closer to the things
that you don't want to actually here
comes the shark around there goes your
camera it's not that rugged yeah
absolute size I just if you're swimming
through a coral reef would you not be
focused on the coral reef and the beauty
of that rather than what your self
centric you will know absolutely you
will but you want to shoot that three
minutes of video and then enjoy it for
30 minutes like go go's it turn it off
and go do your thing but just to capture
those moments it's like when when we do
things with the kids i'll bring out the
camera I'll take some short video and
then I go back to interacting and you
know put away the fry folks put it away
so yeah you'll you'll spend more time
that's the theory anyway that are my
theory I that's how I would shoot see we
have mentioned earlier we have the S
Jacob 4000 we ok we took that with 1080p
model this is the 4k yeah we took that
with us when we went on our family
vacation in April and I did the news
from the Caribbean yes um you've never
done that with Tasha just say she's
going to Jamaica ah but I we took hours
underwater we just had the little yellow
floating things that if you ever lose it
yeah floats up to the top that's an but
you know you do get some really good
video when you're going under the water
and so I as much as I make fun of the
idea of a selfie stick one year and
under the water I could see the value to
it because I mean I think of it there
was a few times where I was underwater
with my kids like a guys so I sure could
totally see it yeah we're also I mean it
gets you closer to things that you
couldn't get close to otherwise like I
sure I saw I wouldn't say it was an
octopus well it could have been an
octopus it was like ass big squid maybe
I'd roaches bigger it was anyway it was
there it was in the water I couldn't get
anywhere near it because it was probably
like seven feet below me and I can't
I can't dive underwater very well at all
but if I had that selfie stick I could
get like a real zoomed in look see I
choose not for sure yeah but luckily the
Barracuda did not chase after it did not
turn up no good good good to hear I've
got this selfie stick and the reason
that i had this handy as a matter of
fact is because i was looking for ways
how can we get this Garmin VirB ultra 32
mount on a tripod because it would be
you know it shot some really nice live
mode video it's surprising that they
didn't do something like the other
cameras which have a quarter-inch
threading on the bottom like the sony or
here's the olympus right the as you saw
and even the nikon has a threading and
as we saw there's a special adapter for
the SJ cam that comes with it that
allows you to do that and so this is the
only one that failed that particular
aspect of the test and so I brought out
a selfie stick thinking I wonder if a
selfie stick cell phone adapter would
help right because this is made right
cell phone and it's it's not going to
fit this way but it is actually possible
to put the Garmin VirB ultra in let's
see here if I'm just careful with it I
can get it in kind of like that okay so
its upright and the hdmi and USB are
still exposed okay so then it can go on
a tripod and you'll need a tripod head
that can turn 90 degrees so that may be
that may be a solution to that problem
that is available at the dollar store
right so no it's not too bad you saw it
first here now you know how to make it
happen do we have any questions before
we wrap up the feature tonight and of
course next week we are going to be
placing all of these cameras on mounting
unit that that I built and it allows us
to film from all six cameras
simultaneously the same thing so that we
can do a direct comparison not live mode
actually recorded to the microSD so
that's where we're going to get to see
some of these cameras that did not
support live mode over hdmi and then you
can compare so if live mode doesn't
matter to you make sure you tune in next
week we're going to be looking
at the actual recordings on disk will be
talking about retail prices at all we
will not be covering retail prices
because they change especially at this
time of year but head on over to cap 5
TV / action cam and you can click on the
links do comparison shopping I encourage
you to do that please do support us by
purchasing it through those links in
particular take a look at the B&amp;H links
so when you're looking at these action
cams they provided these for us tonight
so I would encourage you to support them
in turn and the portion of those those
sales also comes to support category 5
technology TV now with the live video
did you end up testing the microphone no
not not no I would never do live video
with a camera's built-in mic okay and so
that is completely irrelevant because I
would never ever do that must live mode
scenario fair enough alright good fair
yep and that's why in all that video I
have the headset on right and I and I
know for the studio purposes we we sure
have that bitch but when you're you're
going to hear it when you're out and
about experiencing life that's when you
really and that's something we're going
to hear next week on the show we're
gonna put that all together for you so
you gonna be able to hear the
microphones we're gonna hear the wind
noise outdoors and things like that and
see how each each camera as well as each
microphone works
[Music]
