all right we've got our Nintendo Gameboy
and which is really just here just to
say the the form factor is cool we all
remember this it's retro in its styling
let alone it's videogames but what if we
could actually take our passion for
retro gaming and our passion for single
board computers and DIY and build
something like a Nintendo Gameboy that
would be awesome wouldn't that be
awesome it would be spectacular Odroid
celebrated their 10 year anniversary by
creating such a gizmo and they're
available now you can go to cap 5 dot TV
slash Odroid go and we're gonna hop over
there and bill and I or well a bill is
gonna get his hands into the box and do
an unboxing do you want to head on over
there oh yeah Lego version we've got an
actual retro game boy sow thing this is
the Odroid go folks and Bill's gonna get
into the box for you so here we have the
Odroid go that's a neat little bubble
wrap and instructions who needs
instructed that trade on it yeah your
power cable
bored various parts pieces your
lithium-ion battery so the Odroid go
because it arrives like this it's kind
of a fun project we can I mean this is
gonna be right for kids
DIY folks like ourselves that are just
really into you like hey let's get our
hands dirty and get in there and do it
how are do you think this is going to be
to assemble well do you think that it's
possible that we could actually make
this happen
17 parts I looked I checked you counted
it's significantly smaller than a Game
Boy and I thought it looked a lot like
one in its styling but let's pull an old
retro Game Boy here from the early 80s
and just compare size-wise there you go
so there's the Odroid go case which
we're going to assemble and an actual
Game Boy well this is cool because these
instructions
okay it's not at that stage yet no okay
I think you have to go online to the
wiki all right so we're gonna pretend
that we went to the wiki because hey
we're live bill and what guys we're guys
I don't know what that means to be
honest with you I think Eric it doesn't
mean I'm American did you look at the
instructions I did no no we're gonna
this is gonna go terrible okay so first
thing that we need to do bill okay this
is the screen protector that's going to
go on here so you can feel that there's
a bit of a bezel here so this is going
to go on there first thing I want to do
is just make sure that I've got a little
bit of a grip on this so that I can
remove it a little easier once it's
assembled and pull the inside of this
out
there we go and see if I can get that
off of the screen so you cheated you
actually read the instructions I didn't
read the instructions yes sir
there we go
okay so I've got the inside-out pull
this off here now we want to be careful
that you know this is tempered glass or
whatever and just be careful with how
you handle that we don't want to get any
fingerprints on it that's probably the
key thing here so you're gonna have a
lot of trouble getting them off if you
do once it's assembled so we just kind
of push that in there make sure it's in
nice and snug so that is actually a
piece of protective plastic or whatever
it is for our screen so that's the next
step here bill
when I pass me the box cutters ah ah
okay bill likes that because he always
makes fun of me for my scissors okay so
again I want to be very very mindful to
handle this on the outside so that I'm
not getting fingerprints on the screen
itself so this is gonna go this way I
see the smudges are gonna come off as
soon as I remove that that's good
and we'll put that in here so just gonna
pop that in here see the little clips
there and then carefully snap that in
because I don't want to crack that
screen absolutely not
so there we go we're getting there okay
buttons gonna help with these guys I can
do that all right
so you you work at that Bill's gonna
work at that I'm gonna fix the audio
there cuz you guys have got an echo
which shot was that Sasha the white shot
when you switch over to - bill and I yes
the product Kent that's the one I was
telling you that right
thanks everybody chatroom
there we are that should fix it for you
and the chat on the screen needs to be
restarted thank you
we're fraught with peril tonight also
yeah a good thing about the a and the B
buttons there they're keyed so you can't
put them in the wrong spot that's nice
oh yeah that's good so this is it's a
very very simple project I mean I was I
really wanted to be able to put this
together on the show so you see you have
the a and the B buttons yep but through
these plastic tabs here okay these are
closer together on because a smart
cannot put him in the very start that's
good okay so we're gonna get these guys
here the rubberized backings those
switches are just gonna go in there as
well
what do you have there oh that's the
side power switch that's it's gonna
their summer depending on those guys the
board goes there's another one there
it takes two folks I'm actually just
there you go
where do these hops upside down another
way turn it around the other way
yeah and that's that's also keyed look
at that so this is something that I
think I could do with my young boys
which would be absolutely a lot of fun
for them my daughter is she's not as
keen on the electronics and stuff
I'd love to include her in it as well
but she'll play the games for sure
okay that we don't need yet okay so next
up we've got the circuit board which
we're gonna carefully place on top here
like that that's just gonna line up with
the screw holes do you put the switch in
attenti
I think we'll screw it in will it stay
in or right away oh yeah I guess so
I think the switch needs to capture the
the slide needs to capture the switch
yeah okay cool
all right I got some screwdrivers here
for us we're well prepared tonight this
is where it gets fun with my band-aids
on my fingers and bleeding like crazy oh
yeah my cuticles the spy Canadian Air
it's cold line up there we go this is
magnetic
of course not of course not bill do you
want me to get them started for you hey
I don't know if you guys can see us or
not yeah I'll tell you what you start
with that one okay all right here we go
you're so tiny yeah
all right screw holes are labeled bill
you've got a better screwdriver right I
can hear you messing around in there
what do you got yeah my own screwdriver
oh man with a oh you've put a magnet on
the side of it yeah
so I he makes it I can't hold these who
what what what grown man can hold those
screws right there I just I got it
started for you uh-huh it's special
see that's a smart idea when you get up
here I got this one if I didn't shake so
much I'd be alright
what I mean want to make sure because
that one that you just put in is going
to actually be a chassis screw so watch
that I think there's labels on there I
saw that show which ones are the
internal screws versus the chassis
screws okay so yeah that'll be that one
you guys see what I'm talking about I'll
show you
really yeah so we don't want any of
these screws along the outer edge to go
on - right
three should be one over here four and
five the first one
never Hey all right so it's starting to
feel like a gameboy that looks isn't
that sweet okay this one does the
speaker need to go in before the circuit
board is screwed down not before the
circuit board is screwed down but before
we cut put the backing on it definitely
so we can do that looks like that's the
next thing I'm surprised that this is as
quick and easy as it is like we're doing
this live on the air and it's nice and
simple
are you are you opping over there sash
sir I am I can switch to the faces oh I
just did all right so this is the
speaker there we go goes into the jack
Martin's seat here yeah it actually says
speaker folks you know you saw that
right yeah I don't know if they do what
what kind of retro gaming era would you
call your own bill said like the NES sir
2600 yeah Terry yes I owned a 2600 this
this actually will emulate the Atari
2600 7800 so it's not just a gameboy so
when I say gameboy I mean it really has
that form factor but it's not just
Gameboy emulation it also has gameboy
color
it's got Game Gear can I be so
can I actually plug in the power right
now and trust that we've got everything
correct so the only thing I guess is the
screen we just got a plug in that screen
all right so right in there I also had
pong pong the original how was that
played like on there was a colecovision
no it was a line down the middle of your
screen there were two Oh rectangles on
each side and a dot and went back and
forth did yours have entire you do you
have to stick something to the TV no I
even had that where you had to stick a
suction cup to the side of the TV and it
would flash to communicate with it using
some kind of lighting so it would you're
younger than I am how did you manage I
had it's what I had all right I think
that's it
should we power it up before ever well
this these pins here allow us to do like
GPIO programming and things like that so
we don't need those in there for
day-to-day usage it looks good there we
go
I've put the battery so that I don't see
the sticker from the front I think it
looks better that way it's cleaner
yeah all right should we do the case
make sure the battery cable is not
blocking the screw port which I've done
I'm not screen let's go I do some here
too yeah let's do this make it happen
it's night out let's do the coroner's
bill and then we can fire it up and see
if it works so this is the SD card slot
here
I wasn't sure when I looked at the
pictures whether I was gonna be able
acts actually access the SD card slot
while it was together I wasn't sure if
it was like covered by the plastic I had
to install the SD card but it does look
like it's something that you can both
enjoy does a good job of doing that yeah
it's a nice-looking nice-looking system
I think that's enough to get it rock
that's it folks so in that amount of
time we've put this together as the
Odroid go from cat 5 TV slash Odroid go
and are we ready to fire it up never
done this so we have ignition just like
that ok so you said 2600 got Sega Master
System Game Gear ColecoVision I don't
seem to have 2600 on here Bell welcome
evident an NES as well okay so let's try
NES and so you can you can add firmwares
and everything now on this SD card I've
simply imported a couple of roms so what
any particular game Bubble Bobble dr.
Mario that dr. Mario oh my goodness my
sister played dr. Arianna start Rio it
puts on the screen what these buttons do
tell ya Oldroyd does a good job and then
roms a nice okay
no way same music you guys see this oh
my god you're checking out on the screen
where are it that is too cool
oh there we go now I got it bill unreal
try this all right wait a minute oh dear
come on lose the plays just like it I
just like it
that is fantastic folks check out cat5
dot TV slash Odroid go wow yeah I'm
gonna I'm uh awesome amazing so of
course it's an emulator of these retro
kind of classics that are handheld so
but NES as well and I did see it Harry
2600 game gear all those kind of game
gear like that's awesome so check it out
cat 5 TV / Odroid go
[Music]
[Applause]
you
