Adam see he was viewing last week's
episode actually Emma's Linux yes okay
so Adam see says yeah on the episode
Beca it's just a little bit of a recap
because not everybody had a chance to
watch episode number five five five 60
68 568 I've lost all track just a few of
them
not everybody has had a chance to watch
episode 5 68 just yet so just recapping
a little bit Beck and I got talking
about compatibility between Linux
alternative software and Microsoft
Windows particularly Libre Office as a
Microsoft Word and Excel replacement for
Word and Excel and compatibility between
offices where you've got to send it to
somebody who is limited to Windows right
and this is interesting because this is
a question that's been just like burning
inside of me that I've been really
wanting to ask so I'm happy that you
covered it I haven't watched it yet okay
what I need to do because I'm hoping
that it only it only happened a week ago
I'm just I I really have this issue day
to day because some of our office mmm
that's the other thing I think in terms
of Linux vs. Windows right right that's
the term I think of right beca's on
Linux computers that at the school or on
Windows so she's taking college right
she's got to send files in Windows docx
format so those are the terms I think of
there are mixed environments where you
have all windows there but half of the
computers are using LibreOffice because
Microsoft Office costs a couple who easy
it's a couple hundred dollars per
computer there's only one computer in my
whole office that can print the handouts
I need and it's not my computer right
and it's running office and your
LibreOffice car because of this exact
issue that I'm sure you guys were
talking about reading the comments from
yak I haven't watched the show but
alright so what does he talk about I
found at Lieber an OpenOffice to be more
compatible with Microsoft Office than
the iWork suite from Apple I only
encountered a few issues with Word and
Excel when the document contained heavy
formatting or calculations and macros
that are heavily used and easily read by
the Microsoft
software as mentioned in the video I did
encounter an issue with fonts and the
size of slides when converting and
saving something into powerpoints
looking forward to a follow-up very cool
now Becca actually had that issue
because one of her school presentations
was a PowerPoint presentation she says
to me can I do this mm-hmm because she
uses LibreOffice and so I imported it
and sure enough we had that issue fonts
because I didn't have Times New Roman on
my Linux machine and the slides were a
little bit jumbled some of the text was
overlapping and some of the pictures
were in the wrong spot so a couple of
things that we noticed one thing is that
her computer is for over three it's a
laptop that's for over three dimensions
okay the display here is night is 1920
by 1080 so 16 over 9 mm widescreen okay
so the slides are getting either
stretched or having black bars on the
side so we had to convert it to sixteen
over nine very easy to do and we had to
get the font that was required in order
to get it to work and we're gonna talk
about that because I know a lot of folks
have mentioned the font is an issue and
I need to know the answer to this so
this is exciting well in this you know
particularly a lot of these folks are
talking from a Linux standpoint again
they're looking at it from my
perspective of I'm using Linux they're
using Windows I need to be able to use
files back and forth right so not
necessarily applicable to the
environment where you've got all Windows
computers and just Libre Office on a
couple of them right so moving on to
Blake H X's comments because Adam C just
know that Blake's
and David's comments kind of flow into
yours as well so this kind of all goes
together right so Blake HX says I've
only had minor issues with Lieber in
OpenOffice versus Microsoft Office some
troubles with fonts in general layout
like you mentioned the most trouble has
been on the Microsoft side a couple
times I've had to completely remove all
formatting from texts because lines or
pictures kept overlapping and running
into margins etc I've also also a few
problems with custom colors and tables
in Microsoft Word thankfully the
problems I've encountered haven't been
too difficult to fix excellent point and
that hey it's not that hard
correct these little anomalies yeah
where it can become a problem is if
you've got somebody who's really
impatient and just wants to you know to
be able to open it and doesn't want to
mess around
yeah it doesn't know right they are
doesn't understand understand it when I
open something and the boxes that are
usually boxes now have an X in them I
wonder might to myself like that seems
simple should I need to know how to
properly without you ruining the doct
and that's likely a missing font so so
if I if if I'm that person who is
impatient and I and I have trouble and I
send a file to Jeff and it's all garbled
on his system which is not garbled but
you know the next overlapping text fonts
not working and everything like that
David Gregory says why not export to a
PDF file mm-hmm because a PDF file no
matter what if I send it to you if it's
a tagged PDF that will display correctly
right and when I say tagged PDF when
you're in libreoffice and you go file
save as and you select the file format
as PDF one of the options is tagged PDF
any guesses what that means
no no guesses okay you don't have so you
on the receiving end don't have the
fonts that I used on your computer okay
right maybe you don't have the images on
your computer so if it was a word doc
it's gonna have problems displaying
these things right so if you tagged the
PDF file it will embed the fonts and it
will mos smart that the the layout and
the images in the file hmm so when you
send that file now they don't need those
fonts installed right so that's a good
solution if it's just a print right but
if they need to be able to edit it then
it's not a solution at all because PDF
is typically in a typical scenario
unless you've purchased Acrobat X I or
something like that for several hundred
dollars again which then why are using
LibreOffice because you obviously have
disposable income it's not a solution
for you so Greg David Gregory goes on to
say what about installing ms font
enabler and copy the fonts from Windows
10 and install it into the fonts
directory on your Linux machine or Mac
/ user / share / fonts now that is an
old-school way to do it and it will work
it would work yeah would it be
complicated for me it's a little
complicated and it's a little illegal oh
not like illegal you're taking Microsoft
fonts from Windows 10 these are
proprietary font files that you have to
be licensed to have them
I think find them all over the Internet
are files so when you install Linux
because Linux is a free operating system
and they are all about hey if you
install Linux you're not breaching any
copyrights everything is free it's all
open source right but by the way if you
know how to do it you can install some
of those non free things like mp3
playback like VLC being able to play
proprietary formats or like Microsoft
core TTFN fonts because Microsoft did in
fact release web fonts to support like
Arial and Times New Roman and Comic Sans
amass because we all need that right but
on your Linux machine it's important for
you to be able to have those windows
fonts so that when someone when Jeff
sends me a Windows create a docx file
and has used Windows fonts because maybe
you use verdana on your Windows machine
and so it looks good on your Windows
machine but then when you open it on
linux on libreoffice you say oh the font
has reverted to some default right and
so you blame libreoffice and say it's
not displaying correctly well truth be
told it's that your system doesn't have
a font installed that matches verdana
mhm
so LibreOffice says let's try to find
something that's similar based on the
type of font be it a sans serif or
something like that but it's really just
gonna default to whatever you have
installed correct so I'm going to simply
bring up putty because I want to show
you how easy it is on a Linux machine to
install these Microsoft fonts which this
way is it's a non free fonts file and
when on linux it's such a funny thing
right because I have to say non free and
I have to do air quotes for those of you
who are listening
Podcast air quotes non-free means it's
not open source it's not it's not free
as in you're free to do everything with
it and distribute it and sell it right
Linux is free in all essences with
Microsoft stuff it's free as and you can
have it it's yours you can use it yeah
but it's not free as in freedom but you
can you can install it and you can use
it for free without having to pay cash
so different the English language maybe
needs a new word for Libre you know
let's let's use that okay right for free
there needs to be two words for free I'm
gonna jump onto my server here hi
chatroom nice to see I'm gonna just jump
over to my computer here and hop on to
my server which i think is do let's try
five wouldn't it help if I knew the IP
address of my server let's ping it I've
named my server you ready for this Wharf
that's awesome lieutenant worf is 10.00
10 there we go
okay putty 10.0.0.0 Mon all right
okay I'm on Worf I need to become super
user on Debian it's su on Linux it's
gonna on Linux on boo-boom - it's gonna
be sudo su su okay so I'm gonna go su on
Debian which is what I'm on enter my
root password
okay now apt update this is gonna
download all of the current packages
from the repositories of Debian ok same
commands on Ubuntu a little different if
you're on like open SUSE or Red Hat or
sent OS or whatever but if you're on a
Debian derivative this is how you do it
so now I'm gonna go apt install now I
say this is how you do it on Debian you
can use any package manager so it
doesn't matter if you're using yah more
synaptic or whatever you're using what
is key is knowing the package name and
that package name is pretty easy to
remember
it's simply TTFN - MS for Microsoft core
fonts
- installer and when I hit enter on that
it's gonna say hey this is going to
install this on your computer is gonna
use a Meg say yes let's see what happens
so this package TTFN - MS core fonts
- installer is giving me actually let's
see my list in del mono Arial comic sans
ms courier new georgia impact times new
roman' true trebuchet have you said
rubbish a rep you say and what's the
last one there's two or Danna and
webdings webdings yeah that's alright
whoever uses webdings sasha does that's
what those little boxes are the width
that I use webdings
there you go yeah so you need it but it
comes in this package so it's actually
installing all of those fonts that I
just mentioned on my Linux machine see
it's doing Times New Roman it downloaded
an exe file that's crazy talk but that's
on Debian so that's what I'm using now
I'm doing it in a term and all you can
do this on a GUI system in a
course those fonts don't affect my
terminal they affect my GUI right can
you do this for me at work you don't
have Linux at work so what do I have at
work but you could get fine so we'll
just have to find a different way that
work oh no I got these fonts I know I
don't I I don't have I have like well
done I don't have Microsoft Office
yeah but the focus Libra yes those fonts
are still within Windows so you check in
your control panel go to fonts uh-huh
and check for webdings and things like
that and I'll if you don't have it then
you can install it we can talk about
that on Windows it's a little bit
different it's different okay but youyou
could as Jeff had mentioned you can
readily get these off of the internet
double click on it and click install and
it will install it for you but there's
probably an alternative as well like if
there's a box that has a question mark
through it you can highlight it find out
what font it was and google for an
alternative okay I always went to when I
used to do a lot of graphics work I
would grab a lot of my fonts from what
was it at the time ten thousand fonts
calm or something oh yes the website
yeah because people would upload their
own versions of fonts you get the
coolest stuff out there it was great it
really counts to it remember if you if
you do that you take that approach you
find a really cool font you install it
on your computer you use it in your
document then you send that document to
someone else they don't have that bond
so today so you're back to the problem
right but that said you can print out
some pretty stuff yeah I love Google web
fonts I use it for websites but you'll
notice that if you find a font you like
there's also a download link that allows
you to download the TTFN yes that's
right yes so that's another way to get
free fonts mm-hmm
[Music]
[Applause]
