hi and welcome to new everyday this is
Jen and this is Carey and on today's
show we are in part four of shattering
loneliness so stay tuned we'll be right
back this is new every day with Jen
wagger and Carrie Webb
[Music]
everyone thanks for tuning back into new
every day
we're in part four of shattering
loneliness and last week we looked at
how God is all presents first time for
the show previous to that we looked at
how God is all-knowing all-knowing
missions omniscient omnipresent yeah and
we had a look at darkness and how
because God is light it says in Psalm
139 verse 11 to 12 it says I could ask
the darkness to hide me and the light
around me to become night but even in
darkness I cannot hide from you to you
the night shines as bright as the day
darkness and light are the same to you
and Jen you kind of alluded to how
alluded to the fact how sometimes
there's dark times in our light yes that
can be very isolating and alone and I
thought about that in the nature of
darkness and help when you turn out the
lights or you're by yourself in the dark
you can't perceive what's around you you
can't see who's with you yes and it
brings fear but when the light turns on
when the light of life comes into your
life he opens your eyes and you're able
to see that the Lord is with you yes and
he affirms it through sometimes other
people in your life yes and you realize
that I'm not alone yeah some Psalm what
our Psalm 23 is often interpreted King
James I believe says yea though I walk
through the valley of the shadow of
death some interpretations are and even
though I walk through a dark valley
hmm you are with me and so that idea of
even when you go through these dark
times the Lord is with you because it's
not dark to him and it's interesting I I
enjoy I can I enjoy walking around in
the dark because I've just figured out
where things are so it's interesting cuz
I'm not afraid to be in the dark when
I'm in a familiar place because I know
where things are and it's interesting
because sometimes in your life things
can feel dark but because it it feels
familiar it
doesn't feel bad because you just know
that God's there I find when we go into
a new situation that feels dark that's
when the fear can come and because it's
new to us but God says you he's hemmed
us in behind it before he goes before us
so that every situation can be familiar
because yes we're familiar with walking
with Him yes so it doesn't matter what
kind of darkness you might have found
yourself in like he is there and not
only is he there in the midst of our
darkness so he's also there at the very
beginning of when we were created and
that's what we're sort of getting into
in this next part I love how David has
has put this Psalm together because he
talks about how much God knows us and
then he talks about how much God is with
us
but then he talks about the all mighty
power of God and how great and awesome
God great and awesome God can actually
come down into we've little us yeah and
be so involved in us which talks about
his all-powerful nature like he is not
restricted in any ways so do you want to
read that passage for a start at verse
13 some 139 verse 13 you made all the
delicate inner parts of my body and knit
me together in my mother's will thank
you for making me so wonderfully complex
your workmanship is marvelous how well I
know it you watched me as I was being
formed in utter seclusion as I was woven
together in the dark of the womb you saw
me before I was born every day of my
life was recorded in your book every
moment was laid out for a single day had
passed there so like I guess the like I
said the image that keeps coming to mind
is great and powerful and awesome God
who leads at the starry hosts which is
what we said in Isaiah then has sat down
I can imagine because I sit down when I
create things I I crochet yeah and so I
disco Shea things but I don't
my needles crochets with one needle
knitting's with two just in case you
don't know but the thought that goes
into every stitch
the wrapping the yarn around the putting
the click-click-click of the needles
together making something and how it's
not just poof and it's there it's
planned it's planned because if you look
at the intricacy of how the body
actually works and each piece of DNA
provides the information for something
else which that structure in the body is
going to influence this structure and
this cell and this metabolic process and
this blah blah blah blah everything is
connected and so wonderfully complex and
yet so unique that each person is so
unique our DNA is our own information
yes and yet there's common processes and
within each one of us and God knows that
yes and you know when we talked about in
Episode one not episode 1 but 1 of the
series shattering loneliness how we
desire to be known and this is saying
that God recognizes and established your
uniqueness yes and took the time to make
you unique yes like there was a nun
assembly line
no like here come the waggers here come
the webs yeah like it's it's no like he
knit us together their mother's own like
he he knit us and if you're a craftsman
you know that when you make something
there's a plan but when it's complete
you sort of just sit back and go wow
this is good this is good and there's a
pride like a good pride that comes and
you're just like wow like that's that's
good and you're pleased with it and I
say I think about this passage from a
crafting point of view a craftsmanship
point of view I'm just like wow God like
do you do that with me like have you did
you finish creating me and step back and
go wow like that's good work like it's
so powerful and we're
where my version says I praise you
because I'm fearfully and wonderfully
made the fear of the Lord
that's fearfully it's not like whoo I'm
afraid but it's fear in the sense of awe
and intimacy okay so what are you so
whatever it is that I praise you because
I'm fearfully and wonderfully made like
when you talk about the DNA you just go
WOW like isn't that wonderful
but fearfully means that I've been been
created with awe and intimacy like it
goes back to the knowing before a word
is on my tongue before a thought comes
into mind like before my my things are
all connected inside of me yeah like you
were there you're intimately aware of
how my DNA is flipping on you are
eminently aware of how my connective
tissues are coming together you are
intimately aware of how my brain cells
and my neurons are functioning like you
are intimately aware of all these so we
can step back and say that we are
fearfully and wonderfully made because
God is aware of every process and I give
thanks that I'm healthy and so I can
take great joy in this passage because
I'm physically help me and I praise God
that I am healthy and yet what about
people who are not perceived as healthy
yes or born with a birth defect or what
we would perceive as a birth defect or
be like developmentally delayed or
handicapped in some way and we can say
well would God still sit back and say
well done I think that's a point that
many people have pondered so take a
minute to think about this while we take
a quick break
yeah right back whether you shop on
think geek gearbest B&amp;H photo video eBay
or Amazon
or even if you want a free trial up
audible you'll find the best deals and
support the shows we produce by simply
visiting the shopping sites you already
frequent by using the links on our
website visit category 5 TV slash
partners for the full and ever-growing
list and help us create more free
content like this show thank you for
shopping with our partners and thank you
for watching
hey everyone welcome back to new every
day thanks to all the people who make
this show possible to our partners go to
our website and every day das TV check
out our partners page there and and Jen
you left us with a very important point
to ponder that some people it would seem
that maybe God dropped a stitch when he
was leading them together yeah and when
we look at them they're not like normal
right and I think everyone can stop and
think of someone in their life sometimes
it's a good memory
like this amazing boy I grew up with who
had a cognitive impairment it was
developmentally delayed and yet brought
so much joy to the classroom and like
time at recess that I spent with him and
I learned from him about being loving
and content and yet for a lot of people
thinking about how people are sometimes
seemingly born with some kind of defect
it brings a lot of heartache yes because
they're seen as different it seems like
we have created the ultimate human right
and Kari and I we're just having this
discussion about weight this morning and
extra pounds and just the frustration
that comes because our physical selves
don't measure up to what we think to
what do you think is the ideal yeah and
I have to the blessing of working with a
young man in the summertime and who was
born with his hand is malformed like he
doesn't have five fingers like this but
just sort of
very short digits and it's different
than mine and one of the kids at camp
said to him why is your hand like that
and I loved his response he's like God
made me this way
and I'm okay with that yeah like and I'm
sure he's you know I've never really had
a conversation with him but as I've
watched him he is never allowed what my
perception of an impairment he's never
allowed that to hinder what God is
calling him to yeah so good and it's
interesting because I think the verse
that dropped into my mind was by this
all men will know that you are my
disciples if you love one another like
our call isn't to go Oh hmm that's too
bad that God made you that way yeah
that's too bad that God let that happen
maybe God dropped a stitch like our call
is actually to see what God is doing in
their life and to help bring that forth
just like their responsibility to me is
to see what God is doing in my life and
bring that forth like we are called to
love one another and we don't know why
God does what he does but part of what I
think our problem is and I'm gonna say
it's our problem my problem is we have
created what we think is the norm in
this world like everybody should have
ten digits on their hands and their feet
and everybody should have a perfectly
formed face like how many people would
say who struggle with acne well why did
God make me this way
right because there's idea that as much
as we want to be known as individuals we
want to fit in with everybody else and
so I think part of our becoming part of
us truly experiencing all of who God is
and this concept of shattering
loneliness is we have to come I want to
say we have to be at peace with God yeah
so in those areas where it seems dark or
that we're struggling are we willing to
surrender surrender them to God like God
I don't know why you made me this way
well cuz that can be very isolating yes
but if you're looking at your physical
self and saying well God made me
together he's made me complex but it's
not the right complexity that I was
hoping for or thought other
well other people will find acceptable
yeah
like yes and yet okay if you think about
if we're supposed to be showing that
kind of love towards one another even by
not only accepting them but I think in
acknowledging that they're still made in
the image of God yes they are and yet we
live in an imperfect world because of
sin yes and things happen because this
is not the perfect world that God
created but sin has Marden yes yet
though the outward man is being wasted
away the inward man can be renewed day
by day and people are still made in the
image of God and don't have any change
in their value and I think it is
shocking and counterintuitive when the
person who knows and loves God can say
no that person there they still have
just as much value as everyone else
because God has made them mm-hmm mm-hmm
and I remember having a conversation
regarding my sister who was hit by card
and had a brain injury and someone had
said to me well when you get to heaven
like she won't have that and I'm not
really sure how to respond to that
because part of what transpired in that
accident made her who she is and I like
just brought out her loving-kindness and
her her joy at being with people and her
laughter so I think I think sometimes we
think when I get to heaven everything
will be perfect
but we don't understand what the perfect
is yeah right and we think in our heads
we have this idea of why I won't have
this and I won't have this and because
we see them as false but I have an idea
that when we get our new body our
glorified body I don't know what's gonna
look like I think will be nicely shocked
nicely shyly shocked when we just go
I never knew that part I never knew that
whatever was actually part of being made
in your image hmm
because I think our view of beauty is
also skewed yes yes or people want to
say well because there's sin because you
know your mother drank while she or she
took drugs while yeah being formed that
all this and that might actually be true
but that person is still made in the
image of God still knit together my
mother in the mother's womb and isn't it
interesting that you know the qualities
that you just talked about your sister
having were accentuated even though
there was some marring yes and it was
the unseen qualities so it's like what
is seen is temporary but what is unseen
is eternal yes and like those loving
qualities are what makes her more like
Christ no way yes and so when we talk
about when I was woven together in the
depths of the earth your eyes saw my
unformed body all the days are dead for
me were written in your book before one
of them came to be it goes back to the
plan my God has a plan and purpose for
all of us in Psalm 40 it says how
wonderful o Lord my God are the wonders
you have done how many are the wonders
you have done no one and it says the
things you have planned for us
no one can recount to you like because
we don't know because we don't know but
isn't that wonderful the things you have
planned for us are too many for us too
so you have plans for us no matter how
we perceive one another God knows us
he's with us all the time no matter what
state we find ourselves in he has things
planned for us and so often we go to the
Jeremiah 29:11 like I know the plans I
have for you says the Lord plans to
prosper you but there it is in Psalms
again written by a totally you know
different generation who says many Oh
Lord my God are the wonders you have
made ya made I want to encourage us
today as we close off
to surrender what we would perceive are
the marred areas of our life
the isolating areas the isolating areas
and we could even you might have even
said well because I'm like this nobody
wants to be around me or because I'm
like this nobody it's awkward to talk
about people I encourage you to
surrender that to God today and to say
Lord you didn't me together in my
mother's womb I am fearfully and
wonderfully made would you teach me
about me today would you reveal to me
what you see in me and would you help me
to walk in confidence encouraged because
you have made me yes because when I had
this picture I was younger uh that said
God don't make no junk if he doesn't he
doesn't and sin wants to come in and put
that covering over eyes to say you are
worthless
God made a mistake when he made you
and that's alive from the pit of hell so
your homework this week should you
choose to do it is to sit before the
Lord and to ask him this these questions
or to pray this first and say Lord make
these verses come alive in me help me to
believe that I am fearfully and
wonderfully made that you saw my
unformed body that you were there that
you have plans for me that verse from
Psalm 40 is some 40 where it says Psalm
45 many Oh Lord my god are the wonders
you have done the things you plan for us
no one can recount you if I were to
speak and tell them they would be too
many to declare and even the middle of
Psalm 139 verse 17 says how precious are
your thoughts about me O God they cannot
be numbered I can't even count them they
outnumber the grains of sand and when I
wake up you're still with me amen
so let's pray dear Jesus thank you that
you have created us and you know us and
Lord you care about us you are
all-powerful and you work all things
together and you desire for us to know
you and so Lord as we
today about shattering loneliness and
that your all-powerful hand knit us
together for some of us we are
struggling with that why did you put me
together like this or I ask that you
would meet with our viewers who are
experiencing that right now that your
peace and your comfort would wrap around
them and they would allow you to speak
to them step lord help them to seek you
out draw them to yourself speak your
peace into their heart we pray this in
your name amen amen
thank you so much for tuning in and
Jenna I have really appreciated this
talking about loneliness that I think is
so relevant today and we just encourage
you to go through Psalm 139 read it for
yourself
own it speak it pray it believe it and
we're gonna see you back here next week
thank so anything please same time thank
you very much have a great week catch a
new episode of new every day
every Friday morning at new every day TV
we're also on Kody Roku Plex YouTube and
Facebook or if you're in Southern
California tune in every Sunday morning
at 6:30 Pacific on channel 33 television
for the high desert
