hi and welcome to new every day my name
is jen and my name is Carrie and on
today's show we are looking at part two
of our adventure in the ark encounter in
Kentucky United States the station
[Music]
Oh
hello and welcome back we are so glad
that you tuned into new every day thank
you so much for our faithful viewers
from around the world it's always
amazing to me Jenn when I hear about
people who are tuning in from all sorts
of different countries across the globe
yes really amazing so thank you if you
would like to go to our website new
everyday TV you can check out all sorts
of information past episodes go to our
partners page and check out the our
supporters if you want to buy something
on amazon do it the favor and just go to
our parts page and click on it through
there and then we get a fortune of that
to help support the show so thank you so
much so jumping back in Gen yes because
last week we ended off with the story
coming to a point where the earth had
become the people of the earth have
become so wicked that it said and it
greedy God that he had even made people
which is just like her and yet Noah
what's found see and so God and this is
what I love about the heart god Carrie
is that because God loves us at his
creation he will always make way for us
he will always make away from in a
physical
Noah was found right and so as a way of
state because he had a covenant with
creation as well right from the very
beginning he made a covenant with
creation and so by providing an
opportunity with Noah was a dozen of the
ark it was God being faithful to his
covenant with gracious an open
relationship with no one and so and we
got talking about this work of that cup
a picture of his huge door because what
I love about the store is it says and
God brought the animals to the ark they
would have come in that door I love the
fact that if it's God brought the
animals to the arc they hard to round
them all up really it would because they
would have had to go all over the world
but then offend God close the door don't
work for like okay I can always just
read it okay yeah good part of the story
God didn't we brought on the closed door
but what's really cool if you have to
think about what is that
Noah being righteous was provided a
place of safety
from the judgement of mankind in the US
and then when the time was right the
tool was opening and no allowed to have
new life they were an ass now I'm
allowed to have denied like that just
blows me away and the fact is that is an
image of what Christ did fraud and we
talked a little bit about what that was
and the fact that come in the book of
John Jesus says what do you have value
yeah it's in John chapter 10 and Jesus
says
most assuredly I say to you he does not
enter the sheepfold by the door but
climbs up some other way the same
indices in a robber but he who entered
by the door is the Shepherd of the Sheep
to him the doorkeeper opens and the
sheep hear his voice and he calls his
own sheep by name and leads them out and
when he brings out his own sheep he goes
before them and the Sheep follow him for
they know his voice and then it could
skip down in G 2 verse 7 Jesus says most
assuredly I think you I am the door of
the Sheep all deliver keen for me are
thieves and robbers because she did not
hear them I am the door if anyone enters
by me he will be saved and go in and out
and find pasture so it's interesting
about that is that the sheet pan would
be around structure with an opening and
the shepherd would lie in the opening
and so when it says it literally says I
asked the door I didn't know that yes so
they can only get out of kingdom by the
way yeah or if he put them in yes like
he is literally the door work and that's
why says you can only enter by me isn't
that amazing I can no one yeah without a
mess in the deployer you can know that
did your thunder I
circles Patrick oh okay that is a really
amazing and so how they set up this
description of the door in the Ark
Encounter was at first they had it an
animatronic model of one of the Sun why
yep and she's sweeping the floor and it
talks about pondering the tough
questions like why did God just the
earth why was there a flood why did all
people have to die what do all of these
things mean yes and then you see her
pondering and sleeping and the display
encourages you to think about these
things and then it shares the story of
how all have sinned and fallen short of
the glory of God and therefore we
actually deserved odd jobs judgment on
our spin against him and leading up to
that it showed what one sin caused
everyone to do and how people became so
wicked the gaudiya to cleanse the world
with his judgment and wash away the
payment sent to me and so right beside
this display is this massive massive
door okay so big and Jesus says that I
am the door and he also says I stand at
the door and not and we choose to open
that door and walk through it we have
the free will to do it and that separate
open again when the handle was there
it's like if you saw that I am choosing
whether I'm going to get in the ark and
be saved from the form I mean you can
draw so many parallels that railing not
only salvation from sin but also like in
storms a life am I going to choose to
open that door am I going to say to
Jesus I believe that you are able to be
more than an opportunity
to be like peace that passes
understanding during the forms of life
but I also believe that when all is said
and done when the world has been
stripped away when my life is finished
that the only reason that I am going to
make it to be with God in heaven is
because Jesus was that door that he laid
he laid down he laid down to that whole
life so as we go to commercial break
what I want you to think about is have I
opens door to Christ in my life have I
surrendered my life to Christ we back in
Jeff Weston Yemen you're building a
brand new beautiful website what are you
all right you're terrible actor what
this we're acting comes into play oh I
don't know what our Arctic you're
supposed to act okay I'm building a
really cool website are you building a
really cool website you need hosting one
of the things about a hosting account is
you don't want to have limitations put
on your website it's sure how much hard
drive space you have how many email
accounts how many domains can point to
it well we've got an amazing deal for
you for a very limited time cat five dot
TV / dreamhost for just five dollars and
a bit of change per month you are going
to get unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the roof of your own
comm site to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat five gb flash
dream home don't put a little paper
sorry just don't do it but hey it's a
great deal folk festival you're going to
find five dollars and change per month
go to cap five dot TV / dreamhost
welcome back to new every day we're in
mid discussion about how
is the door to salvation and forgiveness
of sins and how in the ark there was one
door that the animals and the people
could go into in God closed door and
then when the ark landed he opened the
door and they could go out and start a
new life and so Jen we were just trying
some other parallels do that because
we've talked a few times about the fact
that Abraham was the only righteous man
and gob squad at the ark Noah Noah Noah
was usually behave and was there justice
and and God provide the art to save him
when we choose and that was the question
I left to it before he went to break is
you know where he at Jesus having chosen
to open the door to him and that's one
of the things I love about that passage
in revelation behold I stand at the door
and knock anyone who opens the door I
will come in and he and I and my father
will eat with him and he with odds like
I love it that the idea of relationship
and so weird the question is you know
where where he at Matt and have you
decided and just be quite honest this is
dear Jesus I don't know everything about
you but I do know what I need in my life
I don't totally understand what's
women's I know I'm separated for me
because of what it is in my life and the
water would be healthy losses
because I want you to know that it's not
about having it all together I still
care for the understanding like totally
what spin is in my separation from God I
know I and so we really encourage you
I want to thank don't overthink it and
yeah it's going to be the biggest
decision you've ever made in your entire
life fingers you might even want to
thank my goodness what have I got myself
into the time and just like he was
faithful to know I he stapled up and as
I was saying there pondering it because
Carrie and I took him some snacks to be
with us along the way and I said Carrie
just like God provided the arm for Noah
jesus is our arms in this world when we
choose to ask Jesus to come into our
part that the life-giving portion of our
life where you know that our inner man
our inner person then basically we
choose to come under his covering and we
applied there we live there we do life
with him until we are taken to heaven
and new earth which is so cool so I'm
sitting there going down jesus is our
art because it said if you abide in me
right you abide in me and so it's like
and so cool and it's a white jesus is
our art in this world for those of us
who have chosen to come in ray come in
the door yeah and then I love about that
is God closes a door he keeps em stand
with him
so you know that was just one of those
like really cheap like wow wow moment
yeah yeah like just so very cool
yeah so many things to think about
and when we talked about how
it's kind of like the exhibit within the
art and it gave more reason for why this
happened why it was plausible okay okay
but if I was an outsider I was walking
through this as someone who was not a
Christian well what I think and at one
point I kind of look it came to like
believable it's almost like unbelievable
and how to think that that happened it
could happen today and the logistics of
it God really fluffy furs and there is
all this evidence
but the most one of the most salient
points for me was this exhibit of the
woman pondering the tough questions the
wives of life and seeing the door there
and at the end of the day the question
is what are you going to do is right
here is God making away for you and
what's going to be your response some
things are true whether we believe them
or not that is so true if it's raining
is raining if it's flooded it's flooded
if I'd spend at students yeah and I look
in my own heart and I know what to be
queuing I look around at the wickedness
of the world and I know it to be true
and so
you know when when the Bible says
there's no other other name under heaven
given unto men by which he can be seen
there is no other way so whether you're
looking at it as a Christian or or
someone who's never heard of right the
question that you're left with at the
end is still the same what are you going
to do is write and
you know as the image of that woman that
she's just sleeping and thinking and
itself is God John in doing this we know
it
the answers yes yep it's just because
his heart is that we would be a
relationship with him ultimately yeah
and so for those people they had
opportunity to have relationship with
God when they chose not to because the
Bible continues to be clear that was
like you want all people to be saved
and and the fact that he provided a way
out because at any point in time any one
of them could have come to Noah and send
know what are you doing I'm building an
ark for God because of the wickedness of
this world and everyone will be
any one of them could have said I
believe you I mean I'm a min but nobody
did because no one was righteous except
for Noah and they had 100 years what the
way the fact that it took so long it's
like an extension of God's great ruling
this is the prophets in the Old
Testament were told to actually
physically do things as a representing
God's coming judgment you know like
Ezekiel or Jeremiah they were giving up
these calls verbally but they were also
doing things like kind of acting things
out so it was like Noah's they could see
this big monument this big Park and for
a hundred years it was being built and
I'm sure over the 100 years those
families of the people in that area
would have had children and the kids
have been like was back yeah oh that's
Noah oh that's that crazy guy out you
know yeah but he so did it yes
and
you're right it was a hundred years
there for people to make a choice and we
had the communion at church he weeks ago
and said to my people I said you don't
Jesus gave his life for us
if you have not made a choice to serve
him today today is the day like don't
print off but don't think you have a
hundred years like Noah or don't think
well it won't rain that's how I again
right it has never raised before so they
just made the assumption well no that's
not gonna happen not going to happen but
just like Kari spec just because you
don't believe something is true does not
mean it's not sure thing and so
you know I've been sitting here today
after he wagging become our shoulders a
lot about my insurance machines as well
the answer is gifted
instead so scary and I have both made a
position to follow Christ certain with
our lives is that he committed to
telling other people about how amazing
and awesome sighs because he loves you
because he is cooked and intelligence
surrender your life to Christ you will
never believe of experience love and
acceptance and purpose and applauding
so you have to show my seem like a
little bit heavier today unlike okay
where are you at with Jesus is the story
so a really really got me thinking about
those idea like God extends his grace to
us we have got to pick it up even yeah
so leaning on that note we're just going
to pray with you and we'll have a lot
more to talk about as we have different
adventures on our trip so why don't we
pray father
just want to thank you that you are both
just and good yes and kind
and that you didn't just send someone to
be the sacrifice you yourself Jane
and the person of Jesus Christ to be
that door and I thank you that we offer
that to us
at the end of the day
you are the way and I pray for all the
people watching or listening
you would pull them to yourself god
is it going to a storm in their life
right now helping before on to you the
year the anchor for our school and so
much more and we pray this in the name
thank you so much for tuning in I'm
really enjoyed the time to stop and
think just like that that model of
something
while she was sleeping and whatever ever
your at you need some time stopping me
yes where am I asked though have an
amazing week and we will see you next
week for more adventures in the United
States oh really
you
