here are the stories we're covering this
week in a category 5 TV newsroom a major
blow in the site for privacy the US
Senate plans to allow ifvs to sell your
browser history to advertisers thirty
percent of jobs in the UK are at risk of
robot takeover Microsoft appears to be
purposefully crippling one drives
performance on non-windows systems such
as Linux FedEx is offering customers
five dollars us to enable adobe flash in
their browsers and an autonomous uber
car crash in Arizona has led the company
to pull autonomous vehicles from the
road these stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere now here's another
great way you can support the shows you
love from the category 5 TV network by
shopping gear best that's the right Jeff
cap five dot TV / gear best it's an
online store for the geek streak in you
or the loved ones of course I mean
especially your loved ones right because
cat5 TV / gearbest quite frankly has all
of the greatest tech gifts that you
could ever hope for at rock bottom
prices to that cell phones you bet you
cap five TV / gearbest has a wide
assortment of unlocked android cell
phones and tablets global compute
consumer electronics those like a great
gift absolutely from high-tech watches
to action cameras headphones even
virtual reality headsets cat five dot TV
/ gearbest have you covered they
literally have it all Jeff literally
really it's like a superstore right from
the comfort of your own chair at your
computer through the interweb
yeah I there's no way they have it all
through it's just a bunch of random
electronic test me what about clothes
yep both men and women fashionable
apparel at rock bottom SuperDuper prices
kind of like this well look at this coat
what do you think it's a slimming mock
leather jacket I love it it's available
for less than thirty dollars plus free
shipping at camp five TV / gear best
yeah all right you kinda got me there
Wow any other questions for me Jeff now
that winter is past flying seasons do
they have any good deals and say to
encompass oh my goodness well check this
out dude they have everything check out
over 500 various drones and not only
that they're available marked down by
about thirty two up to sixty three
percent off the regular price love it
what's website again while you're going
to find gearbest on our partners pages
for any of your favorite category five
TV shows like new every day category
five technology TV the pixel shadow but
of course if you want to shop absolutely
right now and you want to go straight to
the site all you have to do is visit
cat5 TV / gearbest that's easy tech 5 TV
/ gearbest that's right happy shopping
I'm Sasha for Madison here are the top
stories for the week of March 29th 2017
the US Senate has voted to kill privacy
rules that would have prevented ISPs
from selling your browser history under
the fantastic logic that mobile
operators aren't under the same
restriction the vote on Thursday broke
along party lines of course and a
decision that to invoke the obscure
Congressional review Act of 1996 in
agreeing to a congressional disapproval
of the rules was passed 50 votes to 48
the rules had previously been approved
by us broadband watchdog the FCC and
were due to take effect at the start of
March but new sec chair Ajit Pai
originally voted against them killed
them off with a two-to-one vote just
days before the arguments for doing so
have been mind-boggling the senator who
introduced the resolution jeff flake of
arizona argued that his proposal would
protect consumers from over reaching
internet regulation but objectively the
rules were specifically designed to
protect consumers by giving them the
ability to decide how their how their
private data including what websites
they visit and when can be used flake
argued that the rules were preventing
consumers from receiving innovative and
cost-saving product offerings in other
words add some companies that have paid
your ISP for your personal information
with isp is now given carte blush to use
their customers data pretty much however
they want the electronic frontier
foundation or EFS put together some
highly likely and deeply worrying uses
that will now be made of your data which
is selling your location personal
information to marketers hijacking
searches inserting ads installing apps
on your phone that track you and utilize
undetectable tracking codes to sad day a
recent study has revealed that robotics
and artificial intelligence could affect
almost a third of UK jobs by the 2030s
however the report from accountancy firm
PwC also predicted that the nature of
some some occupations would change
rather than disappear it added that
automation could create more wealth and
additional jobs elsewhere in the economy
jobs in manufacturing and retail were
among the most at risk from the new
technologies the report said the study
estimated that thirty percent of
existing jobs in the UK were potentially
at a high risk of automation compared
with thirty-eight percent in the u.s.
thirty-five percent in Germany and
twenty one percent in Japan john john
hawksworth chief economist at TWC told
the BBC that more manual routine jobs
which can effectively be programmed were
at the most risk he said jobs where
you've got more of a human touch to like
health and I
education would be safer I'm safe plenty
of Linux users are up in arms about the
performance of the onedrive web app they
say that when accessing Microsoft's
cloud storage system in a browser on
non-windows systems such as Linux or
Chrome OS the service grinds to a barely
usable crawl but when they use a Windows
machine on the same internet connection
speedy access resumes okay fair enough
there must be something proprietary in
Windows that makes it faster right wrong
when the same users change their
browsers user agent string which is a
snippet of the text a snippet of text
the browser sends to the website
describing itself to the Internet
Explorer or to Internet Explorer or edge
magically their onedrive access speeds
up to normal even though they're on an
on Windows PC in other words Microsoft
onedrive web app appears to slow down
deliberately when it appears you're
using Linux or some other windows rival
this has been going on for months and
complaints flared up again this week
after medicines decided enough is enough
when gripes about the suspicious
slowdown have cropped up previously
microsoft has coldly reminded people
that one drives onedrive for business is
not supported on Linux thus the poor
performance is to be expected but
remember when you change the user agent
string of your browser on Linux to match
IE or edge suddenly one drives web code
runs fine Wow yeah FedEx is offering
customers five dollars us to enable
adobe flash in their browsers the offers
being made to users of fedex office
print the custom printing tentacle of
the transport company fedex office print
lets customers design posters signs
manuals banners and even promotional
magnets but the web interface interface
that that lets you order custom prints
requires adobe flash the enemy of anyone
interested in security and browser
stability and by anyone we mean google
which with chrome 56 will only
load flash if users say they want to use
it and Microsoft which will stop
supporting flash in its edge browser
when the windows 10 creator update the
abuse Mozilla's Firefox will still run
but not for long the impact of all that
flash hate is clearly that people are
showing up at fedex office print without
the plug-in required to use it but
seeing as they can't use the service
without it fedex has to make the offer
to give each customer five dollars off
their order if they install flash it's a
good idea or a bad idea uber had pulled
its self-driving cars from the roads
after an accident which left one of the
vehicles on its side pictures posted
online showed the car on its right side
on an arizona street next to another
badly damaged vehicle the car volvo SUV
was in self driving mode at the time of
the crash on friday goober said
thankfully no one was hurt a spokeswoman
for the local police said the accident
occurred when another vehicle failed to
yield to the uber car at a left turn
uber self-driving cars always have a
human in the driving seat who can take
over the controls the company pulled its
self-driving vehicles off the road in
Arizona at first followed by test sites
in Pennsylvania and California all three
states where it operated vehicles uber
is having a tough go as of late admits
reports of poor treatment of employees a
number of executives have quit including
the president Jeff Jones thanks for
watching the category 5 TV news room
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category 5 TV news room I'm Sasha
dramatis
[Music]
[Applause]
