welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Rob a
Ferguson welcome to episode number 237
of category 5 technology TV for Tuesday
April the third 2012 237 and I mr.
Lawson yes four hey folks how are ya
Eric Kidd ladies and gentlemen care for
my shirt just in case he's even got the
shirt to prove it Oh in case just you
know Garrett kid Eric it well it was a
band that I had my favorite musicians
their kid and and these guys there you
go there here we go I don't ever want to
see that again a real bunya so the
footer is kind of redundant tonight it's
Erica dare kid it is kind of you know
plenty yeah just kind of like do
something like that I mean I've got the
power here hey my eyes are up here oh
sorry oh you sir hey are indeed nuts
Chris okay what are you saying is I look
like five tons and or ten pounds of crap
in a five-pound bag i think is what
Chris was saying okay this shirt was
what 20 pounds ago okay be nice
I'll let you tell us what's coming up in
the news we've got so much stuff coming
up tonight I can't wait to tell you well
here I'll tell you right now and here's
what's coming up in the newsroom here it
is folks if you ready for our research
in motion knows it has to refocus its
business quickly and is hoping its
corporate customers will save blackberry
German scientists are developing a GPS
like system for galactic space craft
using mol SARS as their guide and paste
bin plans to hire staff to tackle
hackers sensitive posts Manchester Royal
Infirmary surgeons are using 3d for
keyhole surgery so you really ought to
stick around these stories and others
are coming up later in the show that's
really cool one thing that I notice with
you that's that's funny I mean here's an
observation I always have to have an
observation of Eric off the top as a
camera on this side of the monitor and a
camera on this side of the monitor and
he's looking dead Pam straight into the
monitor so no matter what camera I give
you a buddy I got to make eye contact
folks are expecting it I contact I'm
excited to hear about intergalactic
travel is it possible I guess navigation
would be kind of step 1 and every lot
about that what are your reference
points with the GPS we're going to have
to find out we're gonna find it but I
want I mean we'll talk about it if it's
if the time comes but I wondered I've
never thought about that I always
thought about proposed here here for
repulsion repulsion being the main thing
but then I'm like yeah you get out so
far and then you'd be utterly lost
because the earth would be just a speck
if you didn't have some form of
navigation system right so yeah all
right folks we got an exceptional show
for you tonight we got oh that is
fantastic grammar just for you I was
gonna say we have or we yes we have we
have we got there you got we got some
kind of crazy awesome show for you for
us for use for guys or if you're down in
the south all y'all all y'all yeah okay
I thought that was real okay it is for
real y'all is just one person plural is
all y'all last week I took you on a tour
of the studio here at category 5 really
a lot of fun if you missed it make sure
you check out episode number 236 of
category 5 TV but tonight for those of
you who are watching either on demand
through the week or if you were watching
live last week we took a lot of
qualifiers to win a free copy of
Telestream Wirecast that's the software
that we use to do our camera switching
so that when eric is looking at the
wrong camera I can switch it around all
right very nice we're gonna be given
nailed well we're gonna give you a free
copy of that software to help you with
your broadcasting all right stick around
that's happening tonight also birthday's
coming up sooner than later it's like
Earth or was that was earth hour that
was like a berry thing that was very
noble confuse hours all over the world
well it well it was kind of like a more
localized kind of new fandangled kind of
you knows all over the world oh but
regarded verse a Lea Earth Day the Earth
Day I mean earth hour what's that we
have a whole day folks coming up 24
hours of the stuff as opposed to
intercalate was traveler tower was all
over the world yes as the bulges hang
like it traveled in but I'm just saying
there is a difference between Earth Hour
and earth day it's 23 hours worth but
it's coming up and you know what gosh
could you imagine the category 5 day no
I can't no I can't no be very tiring you
know if you live on this planet really
really really I think you know maybe
every day should be earth day that's
what that's exactly my point that's my
point so of course I've been wrong
before and you with Earth Day coming I'd
be correct we want to help you to treat
every day like it's earth day to be
friendlier to the environment so we have
a partnership with eco alkalines
batteries we're going to be talking to
you in just a few minutes
that I'll stick around another giveaway
perhaps we're going to help you pretend
like it's Earth Day taking good care of
our mother earth every day for the year
maybe I'll start earth year just having
organic wines and organic other
beverages well we already do that okay
try to stay on track here tonight as a
viewer question extravaganza to we got
lots we have lots and lots of your
questions that have come in and big I
guess kind of an exciting thing for for
all of us here cyber Smurf has been
asking about you slaver Smurf it's cyber
Smurfs and a couple of other viewers
have said how can we get a hold of eric
kids music so tonight you can't for the
first time ever Eric kid is going to
perform live on our stage in a studio be
so stick around that's all coming up
tonight Wow tons come out how you been I
have been alright yeah I'm sad tonight
yeah they call you mellow yellow it's
kind of orange kind of orange I started
out with yellow but I figured it'd make
fun of me you know so this is brandon
viewership here is hard to get you know
it's a tough crowd they are tough to
bang crowd yeah so yeah I'm sad it's my
last Tuesday night hockey for the summit
tonight yeah well there that'll be a
party and a half there certainly will be
after playing on a win-win I got to
touch the puck last week I think gonna
cool yeah we actually put it in the net
a couple of weeks ago yeah okay you're
not actually supposed to touch the puck
well I think that's like soccer it's
kind of against the rules you know back
when I used to wear a black shirt John
remember ok I do I just can't win you
just can't win around here who's we're
in blood you give me a lens into the
background blends into the background
cameras crab is the white balance is all
off I mean you learned all about this
last week right so we try to I
I'm on setting you learn a thing I'm
offsetting you with my shirt tonight you
know little darker so so you're asking
the geometry question rather than find a
medical question find X here it is
clearly yeah it's pretty easy to find I
found it okay presentations and black
t-shirts are a stereotype where I live
as Chris right well actually hi are we
talking I'm gonna wear plaid shirt and
saying cool ooh that's a stereotype yeah
i was thinking sprocket poser all right
Dave all right like tea coffee that's so
us that is so us you leaked memo yeah
yeah stop with a no that's Bob and Doug
maxvill not bugging Bob yeah you got it
backwards okay well we've got a ton of
viewer questions we're gonna jump into
first of all last week while erica was
here we've got Eric call me that I know
sorry how can i how can I possibly use
your nickname anymore when we actually
have an erica sorry hmm while she was
here we got an amazing postcard you
never saw this my friend and every post
card is amazing folks but we got a
postcard from Afghanistan which was
really cool from some soldiers that are
out there some specialists that are in
Afghanistan right now and actually
received a email following last week's
episode because Erica and I had said hey
would it be cool if we could actually
get a picture of you guys watching
category 5 TV and they were good enough
to in fact send us a photo this week so
on our left there is specialist greggio
or Griego forgive me sir I would guess
that it's greagle and we've also got
specialist Lennox and specialist Ervin
who are in fact watching category 5 TV
right there in Afghanistan thank you so
much for sending in that photo very cool
stuff we love to receive your photos we
love to see to see you viewing the show
like it's so part of the post-merger
isn't that awesome evidence indicates
postage has being paid well good work
guys she's going guys didn't try to slip
one through yes
looked kind of fishy to me like like
especially sergeant Irvin there looks
like he's trying to get around the mail
system yeah I just got ya I got my ways
I got mess with you pretty cool but this
this has been paid okay thanks for the
video total and one of these days I'm
gonna get your rate at your name right
right off the bat I promise no he isn't
no he isn't he still doesn't get my
numerator yeah Erica all right well
we've got your viewer questions it is a
viewer question extravaganza we know you
love it and we have got a ton of
questions to answer so we are going to
come right back after this and don't go
anywhere don't forget we've got lots of
stuff to give away tonight including
that copy of wire cast so we will be
right back at eco alkalines we believe
you should be able to trust your
batteries not just here but here here
and here but with one exception you
should also be able to trust your
batteries here eco alkalines of the
world's first and only certified carbon
neutral battery manufactured to the
highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco outlines provide performance
the rivals leading national alkaline
battery brands at a comparable price
find out more about the Eco alkalines
difference eco alkalines calm this is
category 5 technology TV and our website
is triple w category five dot TV
triple-double you did I say that yeah
you did I usually say that you'll
actually get on to our website faster if
you include the www oh well then I have
trouble sang ww yes I so I say triple w
I get that word up w is about as good as
I can do triple dub all right should we
jump into some question we shall and you
sir are on that camera hi kids how's it
going alright well we have one here from
I believe it's from Dan hello Cathy five
peeps if I have a hosting plan not a VPS
on the interwebs how do i configure
filezilla to access the server which
also has see
panel do I need to include DNS infos
during the setup how do i set up
filezilla to use SFTP back I can't even
say that SFTP instead of ftp how do you
set up and use SSH I have been away from
cat5 for a while but I haven't forgotten
the great work you guys do thank you for
all of the great episodes you produce
they have been informative and helpful
cheers dan all right well then we're
gonna have that over to Robbie here Ravi
thank you thank you so very much dan
what we're going to do is bring up
filezilla client that's a free client
that's available for your computer it's
fantastic it's what I actually tend to
use just because it's so good and on
filezilla once you've created a new site
by clicking on new site name it you can
call it whatever you like Dan's website
alright so your host will have provided
or can provide you with FTP or SFTP as
you're asking information how you want
to connect so you you must have a
dot-com or something like that hosted on
the server otherwise how are people
going to get to your website anyway
they're not going to do it through an IP
address they're going to go through dns
resolution so whatever your dot com is
with your host that's the first step
your host can probably help you set that
up it's a little different with each we
use dreamhost its cap five dot TV /
dreamhost if you want to check them out
and threw them I just basically register
a web site and it's automatically set up
to point to the dreamhost server and
then I can connect to category 5 TV for
example so then when I want to ftp it
would be ftp to that address and that
takes me directly to the server so in
your case it might be ftp dan let's make
up something obscure just because dan
calm probably exists Dan's website 102
calm so it let's say that's your comm
right dance website 102 calm and
sometimes the server will require that
you have an ftp dot before that for
example you can leave the port empty in
filezilla because it's going to use the
default port for ftp which is 21
but if you leave that empty it's going
to auto select so now set this to normal
this is your login type and enter your
login and password so this might be Dan
and your password and then you can hit
connect and it's going to connect in now
you asked about SFTP so I must assume
that you know enough about ftp and file
a file transfers over internet that you
know that it's not safe to use ftp so
ftp is is an unencrypted protocol and it
allows people to intercept malicious
people it allows malicious users to
intercept the data transmission so while
I might be uploading a couple of HTML
files in an XML file no big deal a
couple of JPEGs and things like that
that's not a big deal where it becomes a
big deal where it becomes a big deal is
when that user in fact obtains your
username and password so now what is
commonly happening these days is that
once that is once that information has
been intercepted the malicious user or a
script that is acting on behalf of that
malicious user will log on to your ftp
site put on a script like in PHP or java
script or something like that to replace
your website and it's like an online
version of a virus and it infects your
website viewers their users so you want
to make sure that you use something like
SFTP because it's secure the S stands
for secure SFTP is the next step up so
you've got ftp if your host provides it
you can use SFTP which basically tunnels
the FTP connection through ssh which as
we know is a secure way to connect him
to your server so with SFTP now we've
got a connection that is allowing us to
transfer files back and forth over ssh
in a familiar way like drag and drop and
mirroring your your local files to your
remote files but it's secure and that's
the way that we want to do it so if
you're unable to connect straight like
just with those particular settings just
by simply I mean if your FTP if you know
your FTP server settings try just
switching it to SF d
as long as port is empty up here because
then it's going to use the default SFTP
port and if you have trouble connecting
at that point contact your isp find out
what port you're supposed to use what
connection you're supposed to use for
SFTP and that'll be the way to go dan
had also asked about connecting through
ssh itself so not SFTP is Dan on linux
debian i guess Sarah let's go back here
I don't know okay didn't tell us what
cloud form okay well because we don't
know Dan I'll just say if you're on
Windows you may use a program called
putty putty is OD it's a terminal
emulator yeah so it's a free download
and you can get it for your computer on
Windows and then you can use ssh to
connect in and it's basically like a
linux terminal for your computer in
linux i can go accessories terminal and
i can just go SSH and then Dan's website
102 calm and i hit enter and it's going
to try to connect to that site right
it'll ask you for your password but
what's going to happen if you do it that
way is it's going to use you're
currently logged in user so i'm going to
be trying to connect as demo so here's
what you want to do dan is just before
that it's going to look like an email
address your username as we remember was
dan at dan's website 102 calm so now
when i try to connect to that it's
actually going to try to authenticate as
dan on that website some hopes won't
provide that service because it requires
that that user have its own linux user
that's a good security practice for each
website and each service to have its own
linux user so you'll need to consult
your you know if you don't get a
straight connection you'll need to
consult your ISP find out if they do
provide that service and sometimes
they'll use an alternate port in which
case you may need to specify that and
that's sometimes done for security as
well so if you're not getting a
connection and your ISP says or your web
host I should say says that they do
provide it but they don't use the
default port then you may need to go
dash p space and then whatever port that
they tell you so you know if it's a
thousand and that's how you do it and it
will try to connect using that port ok
good luck Dan let us know how it goes
hope to hear from you and
that would be fantastic all right oh we
have another question all right and this
one is from sovereign entity but that's
mr. or mrs. MV to you hello mr. mrs.
entity a little trouble with my mic here
anyway um system is a debian and debian
squeeze actually so the question after a
fresh install always one thing i install
my apps what is the best way to backup
my system in case of disaster oh I'm not
very good at command line and Debian
seems to require more knowledge of CLI
than my former favorite super OS so I
want to get my system back up in minutes
not days Yeah right some of you already
know what I'm going to say the trick to
creating the the type of backup that
you're looking for which is called like
a restoration backup anyone new in
measures and image is what is kind of
the technical term when you think about
image though you think about a picture
so think about taking a picture of your
computer in its current state and saving
it somewhere else so what you want to do
is you want to create that image we're
going to use a tool called clonezilla
because it's available for us for free
clonezilla dot org you can download it
straight from there and best thing
probably for you to do is to get the
alternative stable release in iso format
okay the reason i say get the
alternative version is that we're not
the difference between the stable
version and the alternative stable
version is the stable version has no
proprietary stuff in it the alternative
stable version has proprietary stuff in
it so that means chances are better that
it's going to support all your hardware
the stable version without being
alternative version is stripped down to
only open source stuff personally I'm a
huge open source advocate but when it
comes to doing something like this I
want to make sure that my hardware works
and I don't really it doesn't matter to
me
or yeah and I think technically there
are probably some legalities in certain
countries where you're not permitted to
use certain codecs and file extensions
and modules and kernel modules and
things so so there is probably that you
can read about it on their website but I
would go with the alternative stable
release ISO format which allows you to
burn that now to a CD and then boot from
that CD walk through the prompts it's
going to give you an option to copy from
your internal hard drive to any other
destination and it's going to do what's
called a sector-by-sector image so set
up your computer exactly the way that
you want it to be use clonezilla to
create that image so now you've got a
backup that is an exact duplicate of
your hard drive in that step up to some
cloud destination it is absolutely US
beer if you've got nora if you've got
for example a ethernet cable plugged in
i'd probably stick with ethernet two
reasons one as you know wireless from a
boot CD can be finicky but scratching
that wireless is very very slow okay
we're talking about a backup of your
whole heart if your system's down you
probably don't have wireless if we
went up but here's the thing is a get an
ethernet connection in there you've got
as much as a gigabit of data transfer to
your server or another computer or
network or something like that and you
can actually specify to save it to a
network source or network destination so
it takes that sector by sector image of
your harddrive and here's what happens
for you is that if you have a
catastrophic failure your hard drive
crashes and you don't want to have to
reinstall everything now understanding
that your image is a snapshot of what
your computer looks like right now it's
not a backup okay it's a restore point
be backing up your files incrementally
so that every time you take pictures and
import them to your computer they should
be being backed up somewhere else they
should be off-site or somewhere else
okay so understanding what this is that
I'm suggesting it's a way to restore
your computer back to that particular
point from the moment at a time yeah
exactly you did this on april third and
that's what my computer look like setup
but if i did it today to give your time
so it's got all your drivers installed
it's got your office we'd set up the way
you like it it's got your desktop
wallpaper it's it's the way that you
want it to look so if your hard drive
crashes you pop a new hard drive in
there you restore from that clonezilla
image and now you've got an up and
running computer exactly as it was on
april third 2012 and then you just copy
your files back from your backup and
everything is set up and ready to go
very very slow life is good yeah there
you go clonezilla org it's the place to
go to get that okay we have another
question this one's from shawl hi Robbie
aunty friends in episode 236 someone
asked about archive of old shows yes
another source other than what you
showed is archive.org wayback machine it
has an archive of the old site complete
with RSS feeds and video files hey
lovely oh and hoping for many many more
seasons a shawl from Israel Raptor 222
in the chat awesome hey Chelle good tip
wayback machine at archive.org is
fantastic I didn't know that they had in
fact archive the entire site that's
pretty awesome so based on that I can go
back as far as 2008 in the Wayback
Machine nice so it's not a complete
snapshot as you can see but it may as
you say may give you access to some of
that old stuff hokey doodle a problem
like that some of the links because some
of the links may not work does that
serve herself yeah it's a it's basically
a textual snapshot but if they're
archiving the RSS feeds then guess what
I never deleted the files off of the
servers that they were on so the RSS
file may be archived maybe or maybe not
archive.org has archived the files
themselves well but the fact is is that
for the sake of longevity of the show I
had left all the files where they were
so they should be on some servers
they've known for posterity saving them
so if you've got old links like from the
Wayback Machine they should still work
brilliant it thank you so much we're
going to have to jump into the news but
we're going to come right back to viewer
questions because of course this is a
viewer question extravaganza don't
forget tonight Eric kid is going to be
performing live right here on our stage
he's got this shirt to prove that he is
and be I said yet don't move the band
here with me I have the band I'll beat
box for you would that work um excuse me
I think I hear my mommy calling oh my
goodness hey here is this top skirt to
the category here is done no here are
gee whiz hey kids we got stories
here at the top category 5 TV news room
blackberry maker research in motion or
rim has said it plans to refocus his
business back onto corporate customers
the announcement came as rim reported a
quarterly loss as revenues fell due to
sharply lower smartphone sales the
Canadian company made net loss for the
three months leading up to March third
of 125 million compared with a profit of
934 million a year earlier it has lost
ground as its traditional business
clients have switched staff to iPhones
and Android smartphones rim also
announced the resignation of former co
chief executive Jim Balsillie chief
technology officer David yacht will also
be standing down can I ask Eric what's
that that you have there this is my new
BlackBerry act a new black of the
blackberry bold i had the torch which I
loved it's big screen but it was quirky
and I think they may have had some
issues with the operating system on that
gotcha I'm back that's off the record
we're talking to anybody from there but
so what keeps you going back to black
bear you say this is your new one I've
I've had a blackberry since it was a
little rectangular box that only did the
monochrome screen with text on it and
they've always been pretty robust pretty
dependable like the time that you
dropped it in the water and kept going
it kept going yeah hey I did not drop
mine in the toilet that was somebody
else no actually the the this new little
bold is really lickety-split and it's
got a couple other little features that
are kind of neat like it when i'm making
phone calls it actually connects with my
Wi-Fi as well as the regular for phone
call yeah yeah cool it's very cool
anyway I know lots of folks have gone to
some of those other products yeah I know
the BlackBerry users can be fairly loyal
to that good yes and and eric is proof
of that what it's interesting
okay well the owner of pastebin.com says
he plans to hire more staff to help
control sensitive information posted to
the site the website is frequently used
by anonymous and other hackers to reveal
data taken from their targets in the
past this has included home addresses
email passwords and bank account details
paceman currently relies on an abuse
report system to alert it to material
that might need to be removed alright
German scientists are developing a
technique that allows for very precise
positioning anywhere in space by picking
up x-ray signals from pulsars these
dense burnt-out stars rotate rapidly
sweeping their mission across the cosmos
at rates that are so stable they rival
atomic clock performance wow that is
something this timing property is
perfect for interstellar navigation says
the team if a spacecraft carried the
means to detect the pulses it could
compare their arrival times with those
predicted at or reference location this
would enable the craft to determine its
position to an actress of just five
kilometers anywhere in the galaxy what
that is baddies and saying that is
pretty soon five kilometers in space
terms is like is nothing yeah it's like
food that's your the specter of like I
mean the enterprise is longer than five
kilometers I'm sure surgeons at
Manchester Royal Infirmary claimed to be
the first in the UK to use full 3d
projection during an operation to use
the technology to remove a patient's
prostate they used technology to remove
the patient's prostate doctor said the
combination of robotic and 3d
technologies allows for greater surgical
mobility with keyhole techniques during
the operation a high-definition screen
carried a 3d image of a handheld robotic
arm developed to carry out intricate
surgical techniques the team were 3d
glasses in order to view the procedure
in 3d a spokeswoman for the hospital
said 3d projection allowed the surgeon
to have greater accuracy therefore
reducing the
of muscle and nerve damage she added it
would help produce surgeon fatigue
meaning they would be able to carry out
more operations with even better
outcomes no word of private 3d viewing
zuv Despicable Me between surgeries
would be part of the fatigue protection
process but we are guessing not the
technology is to be used on a small
number of patients before being offered
more wildly widely Wow actually but I do
think the idea of those 3d glasses in
the india are that does seem a little
while yeah i guess that's if the screen
was big enough to me so yes you
despicable yeah everybody's despicable
you you can get the full story as a
category 5 TV news room the category 5
TV news room is researched by roy w nash
with contributions from our community of
viewers if you have a news story you
think is worthy of on-air mention email
newsroom at category 5 TV for the
category 5 TV news room I'm Eric Kidd
thanks Eric hey you are one the news
tonight is brought to you in part by
quarter e electric the official Electric
Company of category 5 TV catch them
online at quarter eee electric com also
garden gave farms com for certified
organic broccoli sprout and wheatgrass
juice visit garden gate farms com lots
going on tonight I promise you at the
beginning of the show we'd be talking to
you about our upcoming Earth Day
Giveaway very excited once again to be
partnered with eco alkalines and find
out more about them pardon me you can
find out more about them at cat five TV
/ eco go check them out today I'm still
not convinced really never day last week
oh oh my goodness so here's the thing we
here at category 5 we want to do our
part as best as we can for the
environment and just being and thinking
about a sustainable future and part of
that is to be wise about our purchasing
decisions and be buying things that are
environmentally friendly environmentally
sound and carbon neutral eco alkalines
are the first and only alkaline battery
that are certified carbon neutral and we
have a full year supply of eco alkalines
batteries that were giving away for
50 so all you have to do is get on to to
their website cap five dot TV / eco is
how you get there okay just a little hot
link that's going to get you over there
when you're there check out the
information there you'll see their
Facebook and their Twitter feeds you
need to like them on Facebook and
retweet them on on Twitter as well and
we're going to be extending the contest
over the next couple of weeks just to
give you opportunities to retweet them
to to follow them on Twitter make sure
you follow them on Twitter make sure you
like them on Facebook you're going to
increase your chances of winning if
you've already done that from the last
contest rest assured that you are
already eligible so if you've already
liked them on Facebook and you're still
sitting in that status you're already in
the draw so what you want to do is you
want to increase your chances by liking
some of the posts that they may I like
them in my preamp for my guitar tree huh
absolutely xai elected them in lega
front door on I never met one of those
little combo front door they're great
they're great batteries as you can see
if you go to their website there are
some third-party died I guess tests that
were performed against me leading
national brands and you can see the the
quality of these batteries is
exceptional like I say their carbon
neutral certified which means that they
offset their carbon footprint so for for
what is generated as far as carbon
emissions go those are off that but they
also try very hard to use recycled
material for the product and things like
that you have nico alkaline in your coup
stick electric guitar I sure didn't
replace the battery harness yes and I
put one of those Nick do you have an
eyeball battery Robbie I surely do this
indeed I surely do so so check them out
it's cap five TV / eco that's just kind
of the preliminary just kind of let you
know what's coming up but it's a full
year supply words we're talking about a
pack of batteries every single week for
an entire year do they do aftermarket
stuff like make batteries that would fit
in cell phones another i think so i
think it's all generally consumer
consumer batteries like what i have here
today is double is be a triple a's
double a's nine bolt of course great for
the fire lines these yep
season DS yeah it's so standard consumer
batteries needs to have a little blaster
who know to set a little one a little
one that DS we minded hate d cells move
all the way to Kentucky and back with
that thing in a cat tesco and Ashley
power a festival in Kentucky antike
ville Kentucky it was great it was great
so don't forget the basic skinny of the
contest is make sure you follow them on
on Twitter retweet them and get involved
in their social media aspect and that is
a very effective way for you to get
notice and then it's going to bump up
your chances of winning you're going to
get a basically casting a ballot for
every every time that you participate in
their social media so so make it so good
luck everybody a full year supply it's
fantastic like them on Facebook in how
do I stop getting friends horoscopes on
facebook I just want that I just under
day care I'm terrible i just unfriend a
lot of stuff you said something i don't
like and unfair no you can block it if
you log on to the website itself but the
problem these days like that might be a
show some night work well facebook i
mean you're using your blackberry i'm
using my ipod touch and to do at
different and it off it does not the app
does not have those features so you have
to log in i think it was a week ago that
somebody apparently compromised my my
timeline and posted something i didn't
get to see it but my wife saw it
brilliant well and so i had to log in
via the website to try to figure out
what was going on and so just simply
changed my password and and clean things
up but some types i've had friends who
have had other friends post
inappropriate things on their walls and
yeah and how you need to tighten that up
a little bit yeah so but yeah you can
you can highlight each user and tell
what what stuff you want to see i have
turned off farmville i have turned off
all of those kind of i don't want to
know why i get some level of mafia your
ass own Sony's oh yeah pig done oh no
that was John
I thought we established how to
pronounce his name a while back speaking
of John I am looking in the chat room I
don't see him John what are you doing
but I do see a ton of great people nice
to see you of course Garvey is there Rev
a DJ I Rev d genk Reverend the Jenkins I
always I think I've got it now sir yeah
invincible mutant hey Michael iowa golf
g 00 another yellow miles from TJ
another one yeah sit well with tweet
wearing yellow excellent canary it's not
canary hey like foot had a song called
my canary yellow canoe and we digress oh
yes or yours do we have any more
questions I'd love to we've got to have
lots of questions here's a few more
minutes like right here I want to give
Eric some time to sing some songs I may
not do that now that said ah ok here is
one from the the lone star state state
this is from John John crisp who's
running win7 64bit yeah hi Robbie and
crew I guess I'm crew hi just upgraded
my virtual box to current now I can't
get mint 11 to full screen my ubuntu
11.10 works just fine guest additions
are installed and verified mint says so
wonder did I get the infection on that
mean it said so it's installed and
better what's the problem VV has all
components working why doesn't it work
in all district is meant different
course means different mint works ok
just I have a small square of it in the
middle of the screen thank for all you
do for us John in Dallas ok John first
things first garbe set it in the chat
room just try updating your guest
additions just in case because as you
update VirtualBox you get new versions
of the drivers but here's what I think
hotkey post key and g is the auto
stretch ok so if everything is indeed
set up correctly and you
got you've gone into full screen and
it's not stretching you need to turn on
auto stretch which is host G and then
hit host f4 full screen and then hit
host F again to go back into full screen
and should stretch out host host is your
right ctrl key by default oh well there
you go yeah John knew that because it's
how he got into full screen sorry John
they have lone star beer donor random
but that I I hope that that works for
you um I'm thinking here as we're trying
to get through as many questions as
possible i'm looking at eric's screen
and i know that we have a ton of viewer
questions to go through and
unfortunately there's just not enough
time in one hour to to be able to
address everyone's question so i want
you to know that if you did send pardon
me if you did send in a question and
we've been unable to attend to it
tonight just know that that we do our
best here and and that we will in the
you know will cue your question and we
will attend to it as soon as possible on
a future show so i apologize if we were
unable to get to your question tonight
keep the questions coming in you can
email us live at category five dot TV
that's live at category five dot TV for
those who couldn't hear over Eric
clearing his throat that live or live I
had a friend who her favorite album was
Tom Jones live why is he why are there
so many people screaming do you was full
yeah I'll say Cyrus rock is saying you
know what we'll just have to do a second
maybe a third viewer question
extravaganza and with the honestly with
the amount of questions that come in in
a week we do you know we try to keep up
and we try to give you as much time as
we can and we try to see you through and
I hope that we're able to help you and
you know that's really the goal with the
show and the viewer question
extravaganza is a good way for us to be
able to get through some of those
questions but unfortunately it's still
just an hour show so we may do that
pires rock will we'll talk
about it over the next couple of weeks
and see how many questions we can get
through all right all right I I know
there a question sitting there and I
know that there are promises made that I
had hoped to get two questions I'm gonna
blame it on Eric cuz he's the one
reading the questions I'm a bad man and
I'm wearing an orange shirt he didn't
get through them all folks it's all his
fault should we do more are we gonna get
to do more we don't get to do any more
questions no it's a it's time to give
away a little bit of wire cast action
while eric gets set up for his his own
spin on paid trip for two days on Terry
with Robbie ferguson hit the know what's
have enough giving away that no okay
fine wirecast Telestream Wirecast what
are you on about folks Eric's can get
set up stick around because that we are
going to have the privilege of hearing
from Eric Kidd tonight he's going to be
actually playing a live set for us here
at category 5 for the first time we have
live music here just for although all of
those of you who have wanted to hear
Erik plight in the meantime we have some
wire cast to give away as Eric moves
over there I'll remind him that his
microphone is indeed on so I should just
keep quiet right I'll try not to zero
all right ladies and gentlemen it is
time to find out who is our winner
tonight
good luck everybody
fighting stuff thank you so much for
sending in your your ballots
getting close
I
and the winner of tostring Wirecast
Jen's jarque congratulations Jen's we
will actually be sending that to you by
email congratulations once again thank
you to everyone who sent in your ballots
this week do check out if you haven't
already done so episode number 236 of
category 5 TV where we were introducing
you to tell the stream Wirecast and what
that's all about and how we use that to
create the show here at category 5
technology TV thank you so much for your
participation tonight and Jen's again we
will be sending that to you by email we
are privileged tonight to have Eric Kidd
joining us live in studio not just as a
co-host but as a musician as a
professional musician who comes to us
from Barrie Ontario and I'm gonna hand
the floor over to him Eric it's nice to
have you here thanks for joining us for
the music set tonight hey it's great to
be here so yeah I'm just gonna give you
a couple tunes i wrote a while back and
so they're so saturday
will be the got the boot smooth in love
man went straight baby got the food
small way I bitch here they're blue zone
well loving man and his loving hands and
rub him the wrong girl all that loving
man noble of a man she got one day maybe
they got away from you use yeah mama and
the oh well but be the come home
it's a little too soon and there's when
his plans with you hey but I'm hey where
the woman in a job those are rolling
around on the ground laughing in the
teasing all getting the squeezin and
doing it right out loud
well baby is it I can explain listen I
love you
but you just run out of town this time
say some prayers in secret admirer but
she filled him in on the facts of life
and just got all that means they loved
it man hate good loving man when it's
cotton someone else's jeans they're big
guys small yellow man went astray baby
got the fuses morning I bet that blue
don't never go away with a loving man
and his loving handler just bolted
across his breath that lovin man look
full of man he being laid to rest
hmmm
you
alright and that's what happens when you
don't ya we'll leave that alone okay
well there is that little bluesy tune I
was I was doing a gig with my band the
hot nuts said you know we need we need a
blues tune so I I went home when I wrote
that so that's how that happened I'd
like to know away indeed how the band
name you want to know how the band name
damn it it's not what you're thinking we
were playing in a club up in Orillia and
they had a machine there and it had
heated cashews and hot beer nuts and the
sign said hot nuts and cliff the bass
player and Bruce the drummer were
leaning on either side of it and
somebody took a pitch in I thought what
a great name for a band so I gently
jokingly went back on stage and said hey
we're kid in the hot nuts well the next
night we showed up in the TJ and no no
what this teachers came later actually I
saw one anyway it was on the sign in
front of the is that the last colony I
think a bunch of years ago and it was on
the science at Eric kid in the hot nut
so we we went with it hey we sold a
bunch of these t-shirts anyway so I want
to book five years ago and they do
parently bought it at the goodwill
wonderful anyway so so yeah anyway
here's it here's another tune this one's
a little more country I'd been at a
bluegrass festival and they've been
jamming with a bunch of great players
and just came up with this tune so here
we go
it's been a long long day now i'm
singing your song gonna ride a little
story all about how you done the wrong
it'll be the sands tale for you ever did
here cuz i know
My dear I've got a boo
morning is true
Lance I ever got from you may twist it
on the peeling came out wrong
in my song
it was a starry starry night Julie I got
a call but they said this all you
slipping wrath of the waterfall and he
held Elena's also path
it was quite clear you were off when he
look while I stay here I've got a crew
harden it's true
I've gone routine Hornets all i ever got
from you
you twisted on the ceiling came out
wrong
Lynn her song
and
it wasn't just one night fling my god it
would be it was premeditating like you
gonna be no no I'm till death us do part
but I loved it along with my heart I'm
gonna
morning is true I've gone
or mental
got you
no dilly female wrong
in her zone
hurry shop
there you go there that was awesome man
thank you and the crowd goes wild do
they are there they're loving it in the
chat room lots of people making great
comments and Captain Eric okay I'm gonna
wander back over behind the desk I guess
yeah thanks man you can show your
appreciation for Eric tonight go to cat
five dot TV / Eric new people to
download those tracks in full quality as
well so excellent now you were mentioned
that you are off to hockey tonight for
your lie i am so you can't stick around
and cite some questions and see i'm
working on them well thanks man that was
amazing Oh garbey garb you'll answer
that off here see how why does your
repertoire as far as music goes and I
would say well you can check out the
fingernails I play classical guitar yeah
I play some country i play my fate bunch
of different instruments but this I
don't know my repertoire seems almost
everything I do sounds a little bit
country but I play lots of stuff hmm if
somebody was asking in the chatroom why
I'm not singing along with harmonies or
something that was I was about to say
it's country I don't know it Robbie is
like you know the the you know the Linux
knob of the music world to you know like
if its concept how goes down you know
like it's like you know meet me using
that other operating system you know the
sort of look sounds nose at me is that
what I do when you say that you play
country made exactly did I do that did I
go home country yeah that triangle make
noise actually I used to play trombone
somebody asked me where this was sick
laying he used to play trombone in high
school awesome not better not do my
trombone impression on the on the mic
here Dennis Kelly says Robbie doesn't do
country but I have to admit that
as I as I get a little bit older there's
a newfound respect and I think Blake
Shelton has a lot to do with that just
because he's so down to earth on the
voice and so I think he's kind of
leaning me toward well maybe I don't
hate it anymore oh and it's certainly
when you play I love it like we've gone
to a couple of your gigs and it's a lot
of fun yeah actually you subjected
yourself to a like a whole night of the
yeah yeah thrash it away on the guitar
and singing that was a great night too
it's also available we were we sent that
last week also you know the video no I
didn't see that he didn't see that I did
I did not authorize that I did you'll be
hearing from my people it was
unofficially recorded that wasn't an
official broadcast allegedly originals
tonight these are songs that eric has
written himself so do visit cat5 TV /
Eric er I see there you go I'm not going
to go and visit right now is Greece what
is this what is this I put your head on
a bunch of different bodies there I'll
be read a little theme song for the show
that'd be great yeah I like that get my
tack on sure that him trying to be a hip
hop hip to the hop did the hippity hop
hip hop hippity hop thanks everybody
that was a fun night well yeah we
learned a lot we got through a couple of
contests and and lots of exciting stuff
coming up we've got just an exciting
second quarter for 2012 and this is our
first show for the second quarter oh my
gosh we turn to the second yeah we're so
really really excited about some of the
features that were going to be doing
we've got a lot of awesome product
reviews we're going to be getting into a
feature next month on saving money using
technology that's going to be starting
with Hillary on the show and very very
excited about that will be given you a
practical ways to change your way of
using technology in order to save
yourself a lot of dough so cool stuff I
don't have a lot of dough to save well
hey what if I tell how they gonna talk
to you about the pay on this show it's
pretty miserable I had to buy my own
shirt I mean we don't have to have her
name you don't even have a wardrobe
department here had to make his own
shirt let alone buying you just can't
pick that up at Goodwill folks yes they
can wait a minute yes but the sad thing
is it was only members of the band who
had one but so you know that it was no
no no we sold isn't some of the finer
establish yes yeah around this country
yes Oh going oh fantastic we having fun
yet everybody don't forget to like and
tweet and everything to do with cat five
TV / eco a year supply of their eco
alkalines batteries is coming your way
if you win great seeing you thanks again
for doing you know is this age is great
to be seen yeah like that's Keith
Richards line for ya it's an Eric Kidd
line now
have a great week everybody nice at me
here don't forget to get your questions
in as well we love to receive them it's
a live at category five dot TV last game
of the year is tonight what are you up
to the rest of the time how many often
how often do you play well this change
your week is frying go away every Sunday
and I play every Tuesday and it's all
screeched to a darn halt and I'm not
actually playing the or ball hockey or
anything this summer I don't think the
phone is going to be ringing off the
hook now for gigs so that hit I don't
really it yes yeah we'll be down in
Dalit no I my machine gigs in Dallas so
you own an establishment dinner around
the berry area uh-huh let's talk what's
hot Eric Eric does gigs who's that
shorty fat guy with the guitar sorry
crafty Genk thanks Nashville's is
actually on the phone right now trying
to get through that's the longer we
better get off the air because they're
trying to get ahold yeah well we have
that 2545 cat5 know yeah that's right to
545 cat5 TV yeah rings here at the
studio it's a texas number if you live
in Texas it's a local call it's a long
distance for me to call it from here to
get my long distance for me to call it
from here just when I tried to call it
earlier today oh yea though I use your
video to the phone downstairs it'll be
great yeah the one that I muted because
we're about to go on the air I got ya
well yeah turned off the ringer folks
sorry I've got voicemail I didn't leave
you a message alright alright good to
see ya great to see you get your
questions in send us your postcard we
love to receive them category five
technology TV is at postal box 29 00 9
very Ontario Canada l4n 7w 7 we would
love to get those this week you have a
fantastic week and we'll talk to you
next to those cards and letters coming
in
come on
