hello and welcome back to new everyday
for a special episode my name is Carrie
and my name is Janet and on today's show
we're on a car trip and what you say to
people when you're in a car for one two
three seven hours
this is the story of Operation Christmas
Child some it may just be a shoebox but
to millions is the start of the greatest
journey traveling the world
senton prior to box gets fill the hearts
of children from over 100 different
countries with hope faith and love
welcome back to a miniseries car
conversations so we're inviting you
along with us for a short drive where
we'll talk about lots of different
things hey Jen yes and first off we want
to talk about is have you ever gone an
alarm car ride with someone carry well
yes I have been on many most of them
with you probably the longest car ride
I've been on plenty to me was to British
Columbia so we live in ontario and we
went to British Columbia with my family
and drove we took our time so we drove
probably for like seven or ten days and
believe it or not I never fought with my
brother growing up really fought well I
bothered him but he never bugged me okay
um until we were in the car together and
just that close proximity brought out
the worst in US and we just picked at
each other I was upset when he was
breathing chewing gum listening to music
it would lie on a good scene so yeah
that's one of my most memorable car
trips one of my best road trips was
actually with my mom after I graduated
University we just took a trip we went
to Halifax went around Nova Scotia cape
breton island it was amazed
great time together and one of the
reasons car trips can be a great time
together is because you get to connect I
agree every year my parents would go on
vacation and it was always a car trip my
dad was not into flying and so we always
went somewhere together in the car and
me being the youngest I was always in
the middle there's my sister and myself
and my grandmother who would always
usually come with us when I was younger
in a car in a car and so in I would be
in the middle and I would that was back
in the day of where you could go there
was a bench seat here oh yeah so I would
go over the top and back and forth while
the car was moving oh yeah oh yes I
remember not being buckled and the cool
thing about car trips for us was that my
dad my dad actually did play music they
listen to all sorts of kinds of music so
I grew up listening to big band music to
muted music of the 30s to country to
like
easy-listening tunes and I remember it
always there was this one tape and I
always loved listening to a tape a tape
I know you're like that is that and I
was like southern gospel favorites or
country gospel favorites like bluegrass
well no this was like straight-up
country there was other bluegrass that I
listen to you growing up with my dad the
Lewis family was something that I grew
up on that was a bluegrass family I'm
not even sure if they're still around
but I grew up listening to this music
and this is what gave me my love for
music actually car rides with my family
listening to a variety of different
music and my dad wasn't one for
listening to something over and over and
over and over oh really he might listen
to it once or twice and you'd be like
okay what's the next one we put it in
and so I grew up listening to songs like
all fly away and right will there be any
stars in my crown and all these
wonderful old homes will the circle be
unbroken by and by learn oh it's just
like Oh wonderful wonderful songs that I
grew up which helped feed into
I guess who I became yeah musically but
also spiritually speaking want to go
that way I do and so sometimes dad would
let me listen to Raggedy Ann and Andy
that I had on tape and that was always
very special and so but i found that car
rides was a time to be together as
family and really get to know each other
yeah and you know we're coming up to the
Christmas season when a lot of you may
have the chance to be in the car with
your family for a long time going to
visit relatives or friends over the
Christmas season so I think of the verse
make the most of every opportunity
and I think that applies not only like
in sharing the gospel with people you
know I when you're with someone who
doesn't know Jesus ok make the most of
this opportunity to talk to them and
show them the love of Christ but I think
with our family to making the most of
this chance that you have together to
learn to love each other better well
that's just it we can it can be so easy
to love other people but when it comes
to your family you sort of bring down
all your guards right yeah and and you
sometimes don't talk when you don't feel
like talking and that's okay yeah but I
would I went on a car trip two and a
half hours with a friend and they didn't
say anything oh boy and I didn't know
them all that well so it was painful
painful painful people so it's kind of
nice when someone's going to
yes we usually don't have a problem
talking to each other I think when we're
not talking to each other sometimes
you're like is something wrong you know
what I've also appreciate it time in the
car is driving back and forth to work i
have a 45-minute commute to work and to
put on sometimes the audio bible or to
take that time to actually pray because
really you can't do much else right
so it's a really good opportunity to do
just that
there have been times where I've
traveled back and forth to Kingston are
ya Kingston or Toronto where I'm in the
car for a long time and it's like what
do I want to listen to what do I want to
like do I want to listen to music to
sort of fill up my spirits or do I want
just quiet time with the Lord like how
do you redeem the time in the car a
friend of mine who commuted to work
every day told me that he figured out
that he had missed out on a year of his
children's lives lives because of being
in the car cuz of being in the car
driving back and forth yep so think of
what you can do at that time yeah tan
and that's just that what are you doing
with that time like are you are you
using it too so I I had one friend say
that he used it to decompress from or
where he just has a high impact job and
so that time on the way home enables him
just to like so that when he comes home
he can give his family the very very
best yeah rather than like be all
crotchety about what happened at work
yeah he's not taking it home with him
was the ad in the car he's leaving it in
the car I hope you know where we are Jen
because I don't
I know where we are no worries I've been
this way before because sometimes i also
like this to get in the car and drive
and I don't do it very often because I'm
sometimes just to achieve about gas
we're actually on our way to Wasaga
Beach we're going to like it which is
actually I was on my bucket list and
friends of mine are like what are you
talking with saga beach is on your
bucket list I'm like it has the longest
natural earth no fresh water beach in
the world and I'm 14 what is the longest
what is the highest which is what is the
most chilly that dream I like extremes
and so when I want to just
collect myself i think is a good way of
saying it when I want to collect myself
I go in the car I just go for a drive
and I usually find myself at wasaga
beach because I just find great piece on
the drive over there's I tried to avoid
buildings and houses and cities and
towns when i drive but i need to go
collect myself I need to be out in the
trees and maybe you can see some that as
we're driving by you can sort of over
there there's some trees and we're
pretty much in the middle of the country
and I just I find my spirit gets renewed
and i think is why i like car trips so
much is that you just get in the car and
you drive and it's like like you said I
hope you know where we're going cuz i
dunno we were in ireland and our gps
broke and so we had to use a map and
just the kindness of other people and it
was great that's true he had no idea
where we were going but it worked out we
made it back to Canada yes it was good
but it was interesting the number of
people that we met when we were in
Ireland and actually that's how we had
most of our fun if random
we would meet random people and because
Carrie is very good at this and we would
say where's the boat when we were in
kilkenny kilkenny and I think we asked
you know what do we need to go see we
stopped in at the store and a little in
a storekeeper said to us oh you need to
go to the castle castle rock castle rock
whoever like in the middle of nowhere it
was this amazing old castle from the
1200 s yeah yeah it was incredible and
we climbed all over and that was really
cool then we got back to her car fences
ha that's true so awesome she we have
sought more ruins yeah it's great we get
back to the car and we said to this
random person oh no he yelled out to us
and he's like hey put your murine
because this is a really narrow road oh
yeah you don't want to lose you mean you
don't want to lose your mirror and so
actually we couldn't figure out how to
do that so we asked them to but that
take we're like can you come over and
help us do this and I saw you push it in
and he said so um where do we eat
where's a good place to eat and he's
like oh you just want to go up and
there's a pub and we ended up going and
had a great meal yeah it's good and he
ended up being the owner like dude is
the owner but then but then he's like
because we asked him you know where
should we go next yeah and he's like oh
you need to go down to this little port
town I can't remember the name of it was
yeah yeah yeah and it was amazing
because there was some really cool
ruins that we climbed around our fort of
some kind yes and then we went for a
walk or Charles Fort Charles where we
kind to God weren't lost there was this
a really really long hike okay so then
we're walking through this really cool
trail down the road and we meet come up
on this guy walking his dog yeah I
forget his name and so go ahead Carrie
tell everybody who haven't you remember
the conversation and then she whipped
out of her pocket remember this yeah
yeah so we awaited like talking about
the gospel like just having to walk with
him and meet a super nice guy and had a
nice long talk and
it was awesome and we have pictures
taken with him and I'm right here I
remember thinking decatur saying to
myself I'm on vacation I why am I
talking to people about Jesus when I'm
on vacation because I did this for
Channel this is my job it's our job
collectively but it's Jens job all the
time yes so but you know what it just
kind of highlights we need to make the
most of every opportunity and right and
that's just it right we have to make the
most of every opportunity and and I'm
sitting there going
she brought tracks with her on vacation
and because in my mind I'm on vacation
and yet we're doing this we're having
this talk with this person and literally
the conversation turned around in the
things of the Lord yeah and so why why
wouldn't you share about the Lord with
him and that's what makes me think Jen
lake sometimes I didn't have the
tendency to like compartmentalize my
life right like I've got my like my
church life my work life my studies
might whatever and yes I God lives in me
he he is my life but is he really all of
your life right like just the Holy
Spirit am i turning left well if you go
that way you go into Angus and if you go
that way you go to alliston so let's go
dallas i'm sure i've been going to
alliston going to Houston does the Holy
Spirit have such free reign of your life
too
tell you what whatever God wants you to
do write in whatever sphere that you're
in right whether you're at home with
your family whether you're at school at
work whatever to make the most of those
opportunities because God is our life he
made us he he has created as for himself
one of my favorite verses jen is in
Ephesians where it says them for we are
God's workmanship created in Christ
Jesus for good works which God prepared
in advance that we might walk in them
and I just I love that so he's prepared
good works for you to do in advance in
all spheres of your life that you might
make the most of the opportunity when
you're in that position so you can walk
in them and glorify god there's a hot
day I'm you see it I see the hawk cool
well and what do you look at it so I can
watch the road is it cool I was really
cool as a hawk and so what I learned
about that like I loved our road trips
with my family and my parents did teach
me a lot about you know who God is and
what it meant to serve Him but this I
like I literally when you talk about
carpet carpet carpet meant
compartmentalizing thank you bored
target secured I keep it Justin they
knew first we're getting the gist of
this um but that's what we would do when
we were on vacation like we didn't stop
being believers but we didn't
necessarily
talk about Jesus no and so when I
started going on vacations with Carrie
and I realized I'm like Jesus goes with
us on vacation too and sometimes we get
fresher opportunities like the number of
pressure opportunities that sounds weird
different opportunities I guess is a way
of saying it or work our minds are in a
different place so we've actually slowed
down long enough to look for
opportunities to share the gospel
because we're in Australia and Jen are
being at McDonald's
oh yeah like all the time because the
only place we could get Wi-Fi that's
true free Wi-Fi at mcdonalds just cool
so we're at mcdonalds and i said to
carry this couple over here or this oh
yeah i feel like i should go talk to
them they had a really bad experience
with a Christian and like were
but like having basically saying they
didn't believe God because of whatever
was going on the world yeah cetera et
cetera so Jen went to the bathroom and
when she came back she was just like I
just want to tell you like I'm a pastor
and this God is amazing and he loves you
and yeah it was awesome and it was and
it was like okay and then I'm with other
friends in Phoenix Arizona and we're at
mcdonalds again I'm listening to this
other conversation because when you're
on vacation you don't have other things
to do really except for listening at
extra he's strong and she's really
struggling and I could tell that I'm in
her sister she knew something about
Jesus and I just went over to her and I
said you know I've been listening to
your conversation and I'm a pastor and I
can't remotely what I said but in the
end I'm like what would it be okay if I
prayed for you and she said sure and she
gave me her email address and i think i
emailed her some information but it was
very interesting how actually now that I
think about getting away from the normal
things of life actually opens you up to
seeing
potentially more opportunities for you
to actually share the values of who
Jesus is but maybe we need to pray for
that in our everyday life right yes you
will just pray now Jen for our viewers
and and for us that we might make the
most of these opportunities yes so we're
actually going to pull over and pray
because you might appreciate it if we we
don't have to close your eyes you don't
have to but we will ready ready father
thank you so much even for this car ride
and how talking about you can just
totally change our mindset I thank you
so much thank you for Jen and her
friendship thank you Lord for our
viewers lord thank you that you came you
died you live inside of us yes help us
make the most of every opportunity that
you said before us knowing that you've
prepared good works for us to do in that
circumstance no matter what it is even
if it's a hard circumstance there are
good things for us to be doing and we
have good news to share with people yes
so would you bless our viewers help us
to be cognizant of you holy spirit
moving in our lives you are the way the
truth and the life Jesus when we submit
ourselves to you in jesus name amen amen
well as I was thinking
you know sometimes you need to get
things for car trips and you can support
us while you are looking for things for
your car trip so go to our partner
section on our website new everyday TV
and check out all of our partners
literature there's somebody there that
you can click on and they can have all
your needs that you need for your car
trip there you go there you go have an
amazing day and thank you for tuning
into new every day we hope to see you
next week and tune in to our next car
conversation see you later bye
you
