welcome to category five technology TV
it's episode number 600 and this week
we're gonna be looking at a brand new
device not even yet on the market that's
brand-new from Odroid it is at least 10
times more powerful than a Raspberry Pi
3 we're gonna be unboxing it tonight
stick around our live recordings are
trusted only to solid-state drives by
Kingston technology revive your computer
with improved performance and
reliability over traditional hard drives
with Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams
live with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 TV slash TPN and the International
Association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash ia IV I wanted to give it a
beep cause you're like the International
Association just felt right hey welcome
to the show it's episode six zero zero
600 weeks of this crazy stuff folks yeah
oh you've been putting up with me for
that long
600 I think you I think I have been here
for like 500 episodes at least 557 maybe
600 600 episodes of this stuff real
quick check in this week on our ad
blocking DNS server from episode number
599 it looks like we have nearly 2
million websites on our block list it's
astonishing that forty point seven
percent of our Internet traffic is
blocked
whether it be advertisements or tracking
websites or porn right it's all blocked
but forty point seven percent of our
Internet traffic has actually been
blocked by this new system
that is that is mind blowing I am
shocked in fact what we're seeing is
that for every three requests think
about this for a second so looking at
the logs every three requests one goes
out to Microsoft oh I'm sorry what now I
mean I've got Linux on most of our
computers at home but the I guess the
these the TV system has Windows my
laptop has Windows 10 one quarter of
every request that has gone out over our
network through our new device that we
created on episode number five ninety
nine is being blocked because it is an
ad tracking system from Microsoft that
is crazy forty point seven percent of
our traffic is being blocked our
internet is like super fast all of a
sudden it's unbelievable there's also a
bunch of Facebook ads and in fact with
one single hit to Facebook 19 domains
are blocked nineteen one hit to Facebook
and I'm looking at the logs and 19 I sat
there and I counted twice just to be
sure
nineteen domains are being blocked with
that one query we're seeing blocks from
things like device metrics on Amazon so
I'm shopping on Amazon why do they need
to know about what device I'm using oh
and the metrics thereof so we're talking
like a super spy stuff that's being
blocked by this new device that we
created using an au droid xu4 of course
this device can be created on any single
board computer including a Raspberry Pi
anything from Pine 64 and a soos tinker
board any single board computer that you
can think of you can install the
software that we showed you on episode
number 599 and you two can block all of
these unwanted pieces of content from
showing up on your network that was a
great episode Robbie thank you for doing
it yeah
and and I'm just shocked at some of the
results
an unexpected adverse effect Sasha is
that some web designers as conniving as
this seems and I will never do this so
don't worry hey I I said right right off
the bat on episode 599 it's a bit of a
double-edged sword I'm teaching you how
to block ads and yet I don't charge you
for category 5 technology TV we are
supported by the ads so if you block the
ads you're basically cutting out that's
the revenue that we're gonna be creating
from you watching the show mm-hmm
double-edged sword I'll never do this
but some folks are doing this you're
seeing that now that I've deployed this
device on my home network yeah we are
seeing that some web developers are
actually detecting so they're actually
checking if the advertisements that they
have served up are being displayed on
your computer or not and if they're not
it shows a notification to you which is
almost as bad as the advertisement
itself now I'll say hey if you block the
ads on my website if you block the ads
on my YouTube channel
I can't monetize that we do this we I
mentioned this is episode 600 we've been
doing this for 600 weeks sash has been
here faithfully I've been here
faithfully Jeff is here once every six
months so often have whenever he feels
like it
you know he's emojis on it and schedule
yeah it depends if he's you know working
or just wants to go for a walk whatever
I don't know what you guys say I don't
know yeah haircut day is always a big
one but the truth is is I'll I'll never
show that right I'll never say hey you
have to enable ads in order to access my
website right so you could if you block
ads you could lose out from some web
developer some web developers are
conniving I call that a little bit it's
a little bit on the side of
I know what they're going through I know
they hey if you block ads I lose revenue
mm-hmm
but I don't penalize you for that right
come on I'm a content creator I
understand where this is coming from but
I don't I don't cut you off from my
content because you're blocking the ads
on my website I'll trust that maybe
you'll become a patron or maybe you'll
throw something in the tip jar every now
and then or maybe you'll even do some
shopping through our Amazon links on our
website exactly that helps too so there
are all kinds of revenue streams that I
can tap into and so hopefully hopefully
each viewer will become a part of one of
those mm-hmm but if you want to block
ads I'm not gonna penalize you no that's
your choice yeah and so that's an
interesting adverse effect that I didn't
expect but that we're seeing and I'm
getting a lot of messages from my wife
who's at home while I'm at work during
the day and she's like you'll never
believe I was on that such-and-such a
website and it blocked my access and
said you have an ad blocker you need to
turn it off excuse me next website
that's my response to that yeah that's
that's dirty so whether you have an ad
blocker or not category 5 is a free
service we are 600 weeks in that means
that for 600 weeks we've been here we've
been doing this free show we pride
ourselves on being family-friendly and
that means that you can sit down with
your kids and there's nothing on the
show and we really hope that there's
nothing on the show that would be
anything that as a parent you would feel
that your kids can't watch it that's
important to us and the show is
available to you for free by all kinds
of mediums whether you're watching on
YouTube whether you're watching on our
website Roku Cody Plex we're all over
the place
exactly we're on Facebook Facebook as
well we're actually broadcasting live
through Facebook India so it costs us
money and by us I mean like the
organization of category-five TV right
but of course we're all volunteers and
we do it for free so where does that
where does that funding come from and it
is ad revenue and it's also
contributions
yeah so can I can I put forth a
challenge tonight yes
okay I have been here for 600 weeks yes
I love it you love it I love it
you love it you're in I'm in I'm in I'm
in for another 600 weeks I'm in for at
least another 600 weeks I I - as long as
this whole heart is still a beatin I
will be here my friends so for 600 weeks
I've been here could you say every
single episode of category five that
I've done is worth one penny yes one
penny that's it one cent I don't even
have pennies here in Canada in Canada
right I was gonna call it category five
I'm so all about the category five maybe
in the country of category five in the
country of category five there have been
six hundred episodes if if you could
think that each episode is worth one
penny that is six dollars in total for
all twelve seasons of category five
technology TV and if every single person
watching this right now could just say
yeah I you know I love these guys I I
love what they're doing I love the
family-friendly nature of this I love
that I can tune in every single week
absolutely free and I would give one
penny per episode one penny well copper
coin right then just please head on over
to donate category five TV if that's you
just throw $6 in the tip jar and that's
a way to say you know what that because
that that's really a that's not a lot to
ask right look a penny
I'm just saying and you might say well
penny that's stupid well no it says that
you are supporting what we're doing and
and you'll throw a penny in the tip jar
for every episode that we've done which
is 600 episodes which is going to cost
you $6 today and that's it I don't know
ever to donate category 5 TV to make
that happen
thank you also to everyone who is
supporting category 5 technology TV
through all the different ways that you
can do that Before we jump into the show
this week for episode number 600 I want
to remind you please subscribe to our
YouTube channel you can also click on
that bell that will make sure that you
get the notifications every
we upload a new episode yes every time
we're live you're gonna get that little
ding that little email that little
notification the push notification from
the YouTube app there's just gonna let
you know the category 5 is raring to go
and we have another great free episode
just for you so make sure you you follow
through with that as well alright let's
jump into a quick look back 600 weeks
six hundred episodes of category 5
technology TV a lot has happened Sasha
during that time so you think about the
fact that category 5 was founded in
September 2007 yes what could possibly
have happened what since 2007 and we
have been here ladies and gentlemen
every single week since that day since
the day that I sat down and said okay
we're gonna do a live show we've been
here every single week not not in this
studio this is studio D right so studio
ABCD we're in our fourth studio there
the year that we started category five
technology TV well it was just me in the
first year and Apple CEO of the time
Steve Jobs had just announced the brand
new revolutionary what iPhone the iPhone
iPhone the iPhone was brand new never
been heard of before and about to change
our world we've never had smartphones
before right and then all of a sudden
all of a sudden the same year that
category 5 launched was Steve Jobs
announcement that the iPhone was now a
thing the brand new iPhone of course the
the iPod Touch evolved as well they
introduced Wi-Fi connectivity to the
iPhone the iPod Touch and so that
brought the whole new era to the iPod
line up right because the iPhone was
doing so well so iPod Touch now was a
device that was very similar to the
iPhone in that you had a touchscreen
Internet connected mp3 player in in
essence music player because he had to
have iTunes and
so on episode number one if you had if
you had said I imagined yeah what what
could happen in the next 12 years
exactly you would never imagine that we
went from like a land of no cell phones
to like well we had cell phones a little
different than what we were to sleep and
so folks are saying well what about
Android well Android was launched the
following year well it was announced the
following year we had Google we had
t-mobile we had other companies that had
come together to announce Motorola was
another one to announce this brand-new
open-source alternative to the iPhone
this open-source operating system called
Android but we still wouldn't see that
for another year two years after the
iPhone came out now we all have what do
you yeah you have it here yeah that's
here you carry it with you everywhere
it's revolutionized our connectivity our
communication our internet surfing our
shopping our camera it's we've got a
camera that fits in our pocket this is
new since category-five started this
never was a thing and now everybody has
one everybody very cool text messaging
another way our communication was
revolutionized since category-five
started right so if I was part of
episode one I may have received a phone
call or an email on a landline online
messaging kind of like took off exactly
it's since tapered off yes but it became
it actually in 2007 at the end of 2007
early 2008 became more commonly used
than a phone call right so now it's kind
of dwindled yeah well but now we've got
so much connectivity except social media
everything else speaking of social media
I think of Facebook right
we saw Facebook's meteoric rise and
slight tapering over the past couple of
years but we saw social media take off
it was never a thing before category 5
not the category 5 had anything to do
with this no it was one point six two
billion viewers now not a thing when we
started almost two billion views yeah
there's like just but in our first year
they they were considered huge with
twenty million users right now one point
how many billion one point six two and
they were higher than that about two
years ago about one point seven four now
it's kind of tapering off Garbi saying
the myspace is no more well myspace the
very year that we started category five
TV Tom left the company and it was worth
millions of dollars possibly billions at
that time MySpace now here we are in
2019 it's being a sad thing of the past
exact Netflix launch flags in the time
that we've been on the air we've seen
the way that people watch television
movies the way that we absorb content
has completely been revolutionized by
things like Netflix Amazon Prime video
and all the other services that have
risen and fallen but Netflix is still
like number one
so like episode number one if you wanted
to watch a movie would you go rent it
you'd have to yeah leave and go
somewhere you would bring you would take
with you you would take a taxi a taxi
not an uber because they don't exist yet
yeah you take a taxi to the local
blockbuster which did exist and whole
rent a VHS half half the date night is
like let's go and let's read the jackets
yeah who's a movie and bring it home now
you sit down on your couch with Netflix
on and the agony is in so many choices
you don't know what to do yeah
you spent as much time looking at the
jackets who lose another one in America
it's not as big here in Canada sling as
well which kind of was like a rise and
fall but didn't really I don't know if
it's even still a thing but it's allowed
us to cut the cord yes a lot of us have
and there are still some people who are
subscribed to the big cable companies
but there are those of us who just that
what's I say I had somebody come into
the office who uses the the current
version of cable TV which is a wireless
device that uses IPTV okay and I said
how many commercials do you have to sit
through he's like well it's normal you
know it's a 30 minutes of show for an
hour of sitting time 22 million I know
yeah saying because I said I haven't
seen a commercial in 10 years right
that's just the way things have evolved
it's the way of it social media has
evolved as well I mentioned Facebook
Twitter - Twitter exist Twitter was just
at the DPD baby and in fact the year
after category 5 started they showed up
at South by Southwest and that was the
year so the year after we started was
the year that Twitter really took off
because they had like 60,000 tweets a
day but they didn't even call them
tweets they just called the messages
because they hadn't figured out their
branding yet so we were pre Twitter we
were pre YouTube I remember when gwg
himself was saying you guys need to
upgrade to 16 over nine because we were
pre widescreen right category 5 was 4
over 3 when we started this thing there
was no such thing as HD video that
didn't exist yet it didn't exist now we
have 4k and 8k and virtual reality and
augmented reality right all these things
didn't exist you know what we have now a
giggle score you know didn't have then
what single board computers we didn't
even have single board computers can you
imagine
the computer that I had as a kid was
less powerful than this thing the
computer that I learned everything that
I know on the computer that I learned to
program on was less powerful than this
it took up my bedroom yeah it's it was
probably everything Raspberry Pi came
out in 2012 yeah trying to believe it
was that recently but 2012 and they and
competitors if you will or uprising
other single board manufacturers single
board computer manufacturers have risen
up
Pyne 64 a sous is kind of trying to get
in there as well
we've got we've got Odroid from hard
kernel we've got a lot of great
manufacturers banana pie and orange pie
and all these other manufacturers coming
out and these things are incredibly yeah
a complete server yeah
with gigabytes gigabytes of storage in
my palm in my hand
right that is mind-bending to you this
might be just normal this is what this
is what maybe you or your kids have
grown up with anyways mm-hmm let me
remind you that the computer that I had
was an XT when I was a kid I started on
a vic-20 the XT was about this big in
this big and it had a big CRT screen
massive this has built-in HDMI mini
which outputs HD video from something
that fits in the palm of my hand and I
mentioned CRT monitors from computers
these are the big remember the deep yeah
big cube like things yes those were a
thing even until category 5 did you have
one at the beginning we had a 32 inch
CRT TV that's what that's what I had at
home a 32 inch massive CRT TV so it was
deep it was big
but a couple of years after category
five no I guess probably the Year
category five launch was the year that
the LCD TV took over the CRT as far as
number of sales so that was the year
that everything started transitioning
from those big clunky boxes to flat
screens but remember when I was a kid
flat screens were a thing of science
fiction right like Star Trek had flat
screens on their desks those didn't
exist that wasn't a real thing now we
look back and you just see it and you
think oh that's a weird look of the
future but to us that was what we had
that was a huge CRT TV rear projection
image onto a glass surface those that's
how we watched our TV and so the flat
screen was a like something from sci-fi
now gave like flat and curved like wide
encourage teeth they have roll up and
fold up yeah it's that's bananas
this is all new speaking of sci-fi
mm-hmm and sci-fi ideas becoming a
reality you can attest to this when I
was a kid I just want to slow down a
little bit when I was a kid we had
Virtual Boy oh yes
Virtual Boy was red and black not even
black and white literally red lines on a
black surface that you would wear on
your face because we didn't have virtual
reality but we had a dream we had a
dream and when category-five technology
TV started up 600 episodes ago there was
no such thing as the virtual reality
that we can immerse ourselves in these
days right you've experienced it's tell
us a little bit about how virtual
reality has changed things over the past
five years virtual reality I mean I I
got the vibe what two years ago maybe
maybe a year or two it has changed
everything about entertainment Dave and
I we were on vacation last week in DC we
were walking through Stanley Park
mark Stanley Park and I turned to David
knows I cannot I bet that this is on
Google Maps
oh sure that I can re live this memory
like this isn't just I'm thinking back
on it I'll be able to walk through
Stanley Park in virtual reality it just
it's it's just a dream you can go home
and if you've had a bad day put your
headset on you just I'm just skipping
over here because I wanted to grab this
this is a 360-degree virtual reality 4k
video camera right so you could take
this to Stanley Park with you and take a
picture or a video in virtual reality
360 view and then import it to your
computer put it on the vibe and look
around
ya and see what's going on it's like
that's how like okay video HD video I
said HD video didn't exist now virtual
reality video and you say Google Maps
yes in VR in VR you can actually go to
places in the world you can teleport if
you will and walk around I I have done
it I I went to Mexico one Sunday when my
mom was on the vibe on the vibe
unbelievable I know she wanted to take
me back to where she went on vacation
Wow they see this is technology that did
not exist it was something out of
fantasy out of sci-fi but now is a real
thing the cloud is another one we take
for granted that hey our off-site
backups right in the cloud the fact that
that computer that now sits in my pocket
that is way more powerful than the
computer that I had when category five
TV started mm-hmm that this is more
powerful that this has artificial
intelligence built into it think about
that for a second another thing from
sci-fi my friends that this has the
cloud it has yeah its back stop it every
time I take a picture Shh
it it's here it's there it's everywhere
it's on discord it's wherever I want to
put it instantly that wasn't a thing the
cloud blows my mind actually the cloud
is something that single small
businesses especially businesses are
really starting to tap into these days I
mentioned the off-site backup that's a
really simplistic idea but think about
collaboration we've talked about the
online office suites and how the cloud
is really revolutionising that the
online we used to need an exchange
server no we don't not anymore
we've got online collaboration we've got
online calendaring and sharing and
everything else it's all part of the
cloud that's a technology that Believe
It or Not has only been here for like
five years I mean that rudimentary
introductory you know people were
working on things but the actual hate
that cloud is now a thing this whole
interconnected world that we have so now
okay so we're at episode 600 now yeah
what is episode 1200 going to bed oh my
gosh I'm not even gonna be here it's
just gonna be my counterpart
it's my AI counterpart it's gonna be
mental it's amazing well we will we have
well we have real money even like
cryptocurrency that's another new thing
the new thing that didn't exist it's a
big it's a big idea and it's a big deal
right and now so now in six hundred more
episode yeah but imagine 2009 is when
Bitcoin was unveiled right so
cryptocurrency this whole idea behind it
right 2009 now we've been doing category
five technology TV since two years
before that um and finally one final
thing if I may okay that has changed
completely since category five
technology TV has started I have to say
storage my computer storage is all solid
state hard drives right I say
solid-state hard drives I know that's an
ironic term solid-state drives SSDs not
hard drives so the old drives used to
have this spinning platter so they still
exist yeah
and they have much higher capacity than
solid state though solid state is
starting to work its way up but I
understand that hey those spinning
devices they have a lot more storage but
they're a little old-school in their
tech rights so the the spinning platter
has a needle or a head that hovers above
the platter and reads and writes the
data so if it's running I know this if
you're running and you jostle it you can
just
there goes your failed harddrive yeah
but that thing is moving across the the
platter of the harddrive
mm-hmm at very fast speeds and it's
spinning at 7200 rpm right okay so
that's an average hard drive like a
standard desktop hard drive but it's
quite slow because it's a mechanism it's
a mechanical device that's moving back
and forth over this thing it's prone to
failure it's prone to disaster and the
bigger they get the more platters they
have the more heads they have the more
expensive data recovery becomes right
the smaller they are the less work it is
for a data recovery lab to recover data
off of them so the bigger they get the
more difficult they are to recover the
last sacha proof there so now
solid-state drives are the thing and
it's a microchip and that is reading and
writing all your data that's where your
data is stored and then to take it one
step further is the flash drive which we
didn't have we did in that I had it like
a eight gig drive right now just think
about this as one final thought here we
are in 2019 and even a couple years back
Kingston brought out the two terabyte
data traveler think about that two
terabytes of data in your pocket right
in a device that fits in your pocket two
terabytes of data I went in I went and
did a thing I think at the mall we went
to the mall you talk to people people
were like oh yeah maybe a gigabyte would
be a big drive now two terabytes two
terabytes yeah two thousand gigabytes
I can't believe that come on take a look
at it it doesn't look a whole lot
different from your average USB Drive I
guess think about how storage has just
been just blown up over the past couple
of years and certainly since category 5
technologies TB had started 600 weeks
six hundred episodes of technology TV
every single week we are here we're
doing what we do we love to show you
Tech we love to show you the things that
we're learning and we love to learn
along with you with our family-friendly
show and we appreciate you coming along
with us it's been a fun ride the past
600 the next 600 are going to be even
better because hey technology is never
gonna stop and it's always gonna give us
something to talk about that's true
we've got to take a really quick break
and when we come back we're gonna be
looking at some new tech from heart
colonel
stick around
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cap five
dot TV slash shirts all right welcome
back we're gonna get straight into it
we've got a brand new Odroid single
board computer we were chatting during
the break there and you might see some
things flying by what is that picture
that is something of Robbie from 2007
episode hasn't changed much yeah maybe
put on a couple of pounds and the
glasses yeah your glasses are gone so
are you wearing contacts no I'm not I'm
just blind as a bat that's that's I do
the news it's all coming together why
I'm even here I'm gonna jump over to our
single board computer unboxing zone here
and here is a box that says Hodor and so
some of you know kind of by looking on
the Odroid forums what is about to occur
this ladies and gentlemen is a box
containing a no droid n to the brand-new
board from heart Colonel the Odroid n2
is a new generation single board
computer that's more powerful more
stable more faster more faster faster er
somebody correct me more work it's more
faster than the n1 it's more faster than
anything that I think Oh droid has
brought out just
okay so this board has the ARM Cortex a
73 CPU cluster it also has a dual-core
cortex a53 cluster with a new generation
Mally g52 GPU so it's super powerful 6
cores what have I got in the box I'm
getting right in here I really want to
just dive right in
I've got a USB Wi-Fi dongle I've got a
16 gigabyte emmc storage card and I'm
gonna just kind of set that aside is
that cruel of me is that cruel oh I
can't wait to get into this it's got 1.8
gigahertz without thermal throttling
think about that for a second on a
single board computer Oh what is this ah
we've got the us adapter they were kind
enough to think of the fact that I am
here in Canada because I'll get y'all
bet yeah yeah the power adapter here is
gonna need that guy let's see here so
what do we have as far as power goes
let's put that all right
come on get on there somehow some way
ladies and gentlemen this bad boy is
gonna clip on here and give me power I
guarantee you that is the case but it
makes a really bad TV to actually
demonstrate it for the first time so to
do that that's gonna plug into this it's
gonna allow me to plug that into my wall
this is a 12-volt 2000 and milli ampere
2000 amp yeah right to amp there we go
this is the chassis we've seen something
similar to this on the Odroid hc1 wait a
minute
this looks really tiny for an end to
I've seen the pictures on their website
and it looks huge can it really be that
small this is rhetorical it's just tea
because I'm excited
this is a lot smaller than I was
expecting
oh look at that there you have it ladies
and gentlemen I'm just gonna bring that
up to the camera just so you can get a
quick little glimpse at the Odroid n -
what do we notice first of all these are
blue four USB 3.0 full-sized ports that
is perfect
we've got HDMI 4k 60 out we've got
gigabit ethernet we've got the barrel
adapter input are you ready for this
this is kind of exciting for those of us
who have a lot of bricks laying around
this will take seven point five volt
this will take I think it's like up to
20 volts this will take a like a wide
range of adapters 12 volt 2 amp is the
recommended voltage and amperage but
whatever you plug into this is probably
gonna power it as long as it's 7.5 volts
plus but if you plug in a 9 volt adapter
if you plug in a 15 volt adapter it's
going to power this board and it's safe
to do so it will automatically down or
up step as needed we've got 40 pin GPIO
for the purists and the developers we
have GPIO here we've got I see infrared
so if we want to use this as a infrared
receiver for say a set-top box or
something like that
we've got emmc so this is where our emmc
storage is going to plug in we've got a
flip switch for our SD card verses emmc
booting we've got a TG input if we want
to plug in an OTG cable that's USB -
we've got stereo audio that's an output
and of course we've also got audio on
the HDMI digital out one of the things
that you notice with this as per the HC
1 HC 2 is that there is no SOC there is
no CPU there is no central processing
unit shown
on the board and that is because on the
flip side which you cannot see all right
the SOC is on the bottom of this board
and what that allows Hart Colonel to do
is they've created this massive heatsink
this huge aluminum heatsink which feels
very cold to the touch is in contact
with not only the the SOC so the
processor itself but also the the RAM
modules which has four gigabytes of ddr3
or is it didi let me think here for a
second it's in contact with those
modules anyways it's gonna keep it
really really cool I I'm I stand
corrected this is ddr4 Ram see I'm even
astonishing myself here folks
it has four gigabytes of ddr4 Ram it's
35 percent faster Ram than the N one way
way faster than the then say the
Raspberry Pi 3 now the metrics that are
provided by heart colonel are based on
the Raspberry Pi 3 model B but it's
still fair as a comparison and we can
say that the CPU the performance is 20%
faster than the previous generation of
this and the the heat dissipation is
obviously gonna prevent throttling as
well that's one of the key
characteristics here if we compare this
to the Raspberry Pi the benchmarks of
the N to it absolutely blast past the
Raspberry Pi 3 the dark blue that you
see there that represents the PI 3 the
orange on the right
that's the end - for those who are
curious the Xu 4 is the purple bar and
the light blue bar is the n1 GPU
performance is 10% faster than the m1 so
it performs very very well ram
performance is easily easily 10 times
faster than the Raspberry Pi 3 it's also
available in a 2 gigabyte model so if
you want less RAM save a little bit of
money you can just go with 2 gigs
depending on your use case and and there
you have it folks
wonderful now I believe there is
composite video out of the audio jack as
well that's something I'm being told
there you go
questions comments let us know let's
look at this case here I'm quite curious
about how this kind of all comes
together so this kind of these typically
snap together it came pre snapped I'm
afraid to break it there we go okay
so when this is assembled if this is
like the the home cloud one then it
slides yeah exactly and this it does
indeed it has a little more of a
pronounced track than the home cloud one
so it's easier to line that up not that
the home cloud one was difficult by any
stretch as I mentioned though this is a
lot smaller than I was expecting the
pictures really give it that depiction
that it's quite large and I think
because we're so used to the Raspberry
Pi form factor that when we see all of
the stuff that's included on this we
think of this like a micro ATX well it's
not ladies and gentlemen let me grab a
Raspberry Pi 3 okay in its case I don't
have one out of its case right now but
I'm just I just stepped off the camera
here just to show you so form factor
wise here's a Raspberry Pi 3 it's not
much bigger actually it's not a whole
lot different now it's a bit wider
mm-hmm Raspberry Pi 3 USB 2 but 10 over
100 yeah Oh Droid and 2 for USB 3
gigabit just saying 4k 60p not 4k 60p
there it is beaut unboxings make me
really want to buy I can jump right back
over to the set folks look at that that
is awesome not yet available to the
public however I do have an advanced
development board because of MEMS Linux
if you aren't familiar with it yet head
on over to NEMS Linux comm and it's
going to be ported to that board I'm
really excited about this board though
it is currently supported by Ubuntu
eighteen point o4 as well as Android not
too sure on the version on that one you
can check their forms also maverick has
released preliminary version of Debian
stretch for the n2 so the software
support is coming very very quickly and
I think they've really nailed this one
because they are provisioning
development units to the development
community before they release it to the
public which is a very wise idea because
what what tends to happen and this is
what has happened we've seen this with
some other s PC manufacturers where the
boards come out and there isn't yet any
software for it
right so everybody goes and buys one and
then the developers have trouble buying
one and so now the developers the very
people who are going to be releasing
software for it are having trouble
getting ahold of the hardware to be able
to release the software and the people
who bought it in the first run are
saying get it working yeah malee doesn't
work yeah the thing so Odroid has really
hit it with the end - it's a beautiful
looking board very well manufactured as
you know with the Oldroyd systems the
benchmarks are in and the benchmarks
look spectacular so I'm very excited
about that
alright that'll be available April 2019
is that make sense
it's coming soon yeah that's my what my
birthday oh my goodness Dave add this to
her last night it has 4k video output it
would make a great set-top box it's got
infrared so you can use a remote control
to control it let's do see it's perfect
it's absolutely perfect
we said that the community's gonna send
you like four of them what do you do
with all these all of a sudden you're in
developer check out the Odroid m2 along
with their other products in the line
cap five dot TV slash Odroid are you
ready to head on over to the newsroom
certainly a.m.
here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
myspace one of the first online social
networks has apologized after a server
migration caused a huge loss of data
there's a critical vulnerability in a
model of Fujitsu wireless keyboards that
makes it easy for hackers to take full
control of connected computers ai is
going to be a huge for artists and the
latest demonstration comes from Nvidia
which has built a prototype software
that turns doodles into realistic
landscapes in one of the world's biggest
producers of aluminum has been hit by a
serious ransomware attack that has shut
down its worldwide network stopped or
disrupted plants and sent IT workers
scrambling to return operations to
normal these stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere this is the category 5
TV newsroom covering the week's top tech
stories
[Music]
Linux bias Jeff Westen Jemma you're
building a brand-new beautiful website
what
are you alright you're terrible actor
what this we're acting comes into play I
don't know you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash DreamHost
I am satiric min and here the top
stories for following this week myspace
one of the first online social networks
has apologized after a server migration
caused a huge loss of data a message on
its website says that any photos videos
and audio files updated more than three
years ago may no longer be available
there had been complaints going back
several months that links to music were
no longer working the platform has waned
in popularity since it was founded in
2003 but in its prime it attracted
millions of users in 2006 it was the
most visited site in the US beating
Google it was popular popular platform
for sharing new music and has been
credited with helping to launch the
careers of artists including the Arctic
Monkeys and Kate Nash quote as a result
of a server migration project any photos
of videos and audio files you updated
more than three years ago may no longer
be available on or from MySpace
end quote said the firm in a statement
we apologize for the inconvenience
Andy Baio who helped build the
Kickstarter crowdfunding site tweeted
that the loss could amount to some 50
million tracks by 14 million artists
over that period he also questioned
whether the loss was accidental saying
in a tweet flagrant incompetence may be
bad PR but it still sounds better than
we can't be bothered with the effort and
cost of migrating and hosting 50 million
old mp3s my myspace was brought bought
by News Corp in 2005 for 580 million
dollars it was sold in 2011 for 35
million dollars to ad targeting
firm-specific
media while it is no longer a major
player in the social media field some
people who use it still in its prime
still use it now as an archive yes ouch
do you imagine the loss in like Ivan you
I bought it for this much and I'm
selling it to you for thise much that's
like everyone who bought a whole bunch
of Bitcoin when it was worth $30,000
exactly and then all of a sudden it's
$1,000 who bought myspace in 2005 I
guess it was really huge but really
Facebook before Twitter
exactly yeah I had a myspace account
because soul cleansed right so calm the
band yeah we we distributed our music on
MySpace but I imagined it's gone now
well I believe it would be I mean if you
were using it as an archive I'm sorry
because I just archive I think anyone
who is using myspace as an archive
needed to move on anyways right like
maybe it's just there's a bit of
nostalgia so it's a bit of it ah that's
that's a part of my life from many many
years ago so what do people use now
instead of MySpace
anything everything anything yeah so
yeah that's why that is why we no longer
to answer the question bluntly YouTube
yeah really yeah I mean who where is
VEVO YouTube that's it's all yeah it's
been pretty much always you too yeah
yeah I mean my my Smart TV has its own
YouTube already built in I can walk to
it that's where artists get famous
that's where her people make it feel
like that's where Justin Bieber got
famous I feel like that could be wrong
but hey let's make a little way through
yeah the rise and fall of Justin Bieber
this week on YouTube don't know how we
got into Justin Bieber yeah Canadian
he's Canadian that was our kin con
little nod now we can be on CBC sorry
about that folks didn't mean to make you
think about Justin Bieber there's a
critical vulnerability and a model of
Fujitsu wireless keyboards that makes it
easy for hackers to take full control of
connected computers the Fujitsu Wireless
Keyboard set L acts 901 uses a
proprietary 2.4 gigahertz radio
communication protocol called Wireless
USB LP from Cypress Semiconductor while
the keyboard and mouse and input that's
protected with the time-tested advanced
encryption standard the USB dongle that
accepts the input accepts unencrypted
packets as well as long as they're in
the proper format researchers with the
germany-based penetration testing firms
sy SS developed a proof-of-concept
attack that exploits the insecure design
using a small hardware device they were
able to send commands to the vulnerable
Fujitsu keyboard receiver dongles that
are within range the researchers were
able to send input of their choice
that's automatically funneled to the
connected computer in an advisory
published Friday the researchers warned
that they can combine this injection
exploit with a replay attack this allows
attackers to record encrypted keystrokes
the wireless keyboard sends the USB
dongle receiver then the hackers can
send the recorded data to the receiver
in the event the hackers record the
keystrokes the rightful computer owner
uses to unlock the machine
the attackers can later use them to gain
access when the computer is locked and
unattended the attacks can be carried
out by anyone who is within range of an
affected keyboard set and takes the time
to build the hardware that exploits the
replay and injection flaws normally that
distance is about 30 feet but the use of
special antennas could extend that range
that leaves the possibility of attacks
from hackers in nearby offices or homes
even though the researchers reported
their exploit to Fujitsu back in October
there is currently no known fix for the
vulnerabilities anyone using the
keyboard model should strongly consider
replacing it immediately yeah I'll say
so you can be like next door you can be
walking on the street in front of a
store top yeah how many of us don't use
wireless right right it's funny I read
these news stories on my lunch break and
I have the oh you're looking at the
model of your keyboard I have the only
wired keyboard I think I think I looked
over at the girl who works beside me
hers is Wireless oh we looked into the
other office hers are oh isn't it
convenient yeah a wireless are all
convenient mine is plugged in so if I
had a Fujitsu just there's no going back
like you have to replace it is that yeah
that's kind of how it's looking if it's
taken them this long and there's still
not a patch there's not a software thing
it's not something that can be updated
so I need to move on my concern so we
think about the distance of so a
wireless keyboard I mean this has to be
within range of the device in order to
communicate with it right similarly this
Fujitsu keyboard has to be within range
of the receiver the USB receiver right
and so does the exploiting hardware so
whether it's a Raspberry Pi based device
like some kind of device that is built
to be able to intercept and inject right
keyboard commands it has to be within
the range of the receiver as well so in
the news story they take the approach
the the original writer took the
approach of saying well they could use
antennas to be further away but hold on
wait a second just hold up these days
we've got SSH we've got BNC we've got
all kinds of other technologies and if
you
familiar with those let me explain so my
exploiting device mm-hmm this is a
hypothetical so I've got an exploit a
device that I've created based on a
Raspberry Pi say so this is a little
single board computer so I can put that
in your office within 30 feet of your
computer and it can read and write to
your keyboard okay I can be in Iqaluit I
can be way down there in Florida sitting
on a beach somewhere drinking a mojito
right that's what I would be doing and I
could be on my laptop computer or my
tablet and as long as I've got internet
I can connect into that Raspberry Pi and
I can control your computer hmm
wirelessly through an exploit from a
device that I've hidden in the drop
ceiling right or even just like in the
neighboring office like in the
neighboring friends you're so small now
absolutely right you can just have a
space that night like next door yeah in
a Plaza right right side by side but you
think it's like on the underside of like
the mailbox or something where you
wouldn't even think yeah so think about
a legal office or a government office
where you know something like this could
be easily dropped I mean a Raspberry Pi
zero power that from a battery now this
story's about Fujitsu is the keyboard
manufacturer that is easily exploited so
if you know that the keyboard is a is an
affected device so the fear isn't all
wireless keyboards not necessarily have
the others been shown exploits yeah well
it is this particular receipt yeah so
there there's a possibility that other
devices use the same similar
semiconductor technology in order to
receive is there I mean this might be a
question that I it's just a hypothetical
but like I have a Fujitsu keyboard let's
say and I'm throwing it out and I want
to order a new keyboard okay I'm
recycling it sure how do I know that the
one I order is okay if I've just been
like my my confidence has been
compromised on the wireless technology
yes so how do I know that's the
inevitable quest
that's the rhetorical question these
days how do I know that when I sign up
for such-and-such online service that my
data is not going to be compromised how
do I know that the keyboard I buy is not
going to be compromised yeah how do you
know
so by wired I don't sometimes you can't
write like so maybe just is there an
answer to that it is rhetorical in many
ways but in this particular case it's
just really recognizing the potential
for that exploit and realizing that hey
this could be a bigger thing then you
might let on you might think hey well
I'm in the middle of nowhere or my
office is well away from every other
office I could have used this in public
school put one of those little devices
atop the counseling office and modified
my report card if you remove the dongle
when you're not using the table I wonder
what we really physically remove the
receiver from your computer every time
you are not using your keyboard like
okay I want to type put the dongle and
does it neat and then just then type
take it out again bingo bango like baby
I mean I'm not saying if you have a
Fujitsu just like buy a new keyboard
perhaps if you're just in love with the
idea of a wireless keyboard think about
the things that can be exploited in your
keyboard and that happens to be that
little dumb yeah yep yep that's my fix
that's your fix
yeah but they can still monitor your
keystrokes so they can still catch your
credit card information they can still
catch your passwords oh right if they're
within the range if they have one of
those exporting devices within a range
it's a tough thing Sasha tricky this
technology it's it I love it and then I
don't as much
ai is going to be huge for artists and
the latest demonstration comes from
Nvidia which has built prototype
software that turns doodles into
realistic landscapes using a type of AI
model known as generative advertorial
network or Gann the software gives users
what Nvidia is calling a smart
paintbrush this means someone can make a
very basic outline of a scene drawing
say a tree on a hill before filling
their rough sketch with natural textures
like grass clouds forests or rocks the
results are not quite photorealistic but
they are impressive all the same this
software isn't groundbreaking exactly
researchers have shown off similar tools
in the past including one from Google
that turns doodles into clipart but it
is the most polished demonstration of
this concept we've seen to date the
software generates AI landscapes
instantly and it's surprisingly
intuitive for example when a user draws
a tree and then a pool of water
underneath it the model adds the trees
reflection to the pool Wow I know
generating fake grass and water is
relatively easy for Ganz because the
visual patterns involved are
unconstructed generating pictures of
buildings and furniture by comparison is
much trickier and the results are much
less realistic and that's because these
objects have a logic and structure to
them that humans are sensitive to ganz
can overcome this sort of challenge as
we've seen with AI generated faces but
it does take a lot of extra effort
NVIDIA didn't say if it has any plans to
turn the software into an actual product
but it suggests that tools like this
could help everyone from architects to
urban planners to landscape designers
and game developers in the future in
videos Bryan at Cannes anno said it's
much easier to brainstorm designs with
simple sketches and this technology is
able to convert sketches into highly
realistic images unreal we've heard
about them doing the faces right with AI
with Gann but
how they have landscapes to that is
great they take these two things and
migrate them into a video game I talked
about when we talked about the Gann
phases I talked about how that could be
something for videogames imagine now the
landscape is gaen based the people are
Gann based right like I'll never be Bob
Ross I can never paint a really nice Oh
landscape the sketches you saw those are
me yeah grass green paint just like add
textures and bingo bango you've got
mm-hmm beauty what could this lead to I
mean they're obviously experimenting
with artificial intelligence machine
learning and and I dare say machine
comprehension right so if I draw a
circle that is in the color of Iraq that
the Gann would then say that's a rock
and create a rock based on that that's
astonishing yeah and even if it's not
perfect and maybe it messes up here and
there and you know the ears are
off-kilter or sometimes in the facial
generation but it's amazing the
technology is astonishing and these are
really like the baby moments of this
technology like that and it's going to
just I don't I can't even comprehend how
great it's going to be because I'm so
just jazzed up about the beginning like
yeah you can create faces and textures
and landscapes and I mean you could put
on a VR headset and be you know in
worlds then again based world with
people walking around with lopsided ears
but it's okay as you've done good in
your agency again you've done real good
generator of adversarial networking here
so games is one thing yes now I think
therapies they're like different
therapies or you always put the medical
like the kind of like I feel like
because been on that's yeah that's the
most helpful way I think
these technologies start with video
games the ska-tastics video games then
it goes into things but artwork is
another one yeah really
think about how it could be used to
allow people to express themselves
through artwork I'm not an artist I can
sketch or whatever but that's it you are
an artist so maybe it's just that you
don't have the ability to totally put
your vision there but they'll help you
with that so the keyboard the Casio
keyboard from the 1980s where I can push
one key and a whole chord would play
right is that the equivalent of being
able to draw a line and having a whole
tree appear is that like is this the
tool that's going to allow non musicians
to become musicians and non artists to
become artists is this the next
evolution in its very infancy stage of
that artistry right can you picture just
for this moment like in you go into your
say living room and there's this big
screen it's not and it it looks like a
picture frame and every day the artwork
changes to something that you've drawn
oh well that would be just a bunch of
stick figures again right so you're
having a dinner party and you want to
create a certain vibe for that and you
paint you know I say a winter landscape
because you're serving you know roasted
turkey could it get to the point where
the gann this being the the machine
learning system could actually generate
so think about remember how we have
these picture frames that are actually a
computer screen right and they can
generate image slideshows yes
what if the gann could create a picture
and it's always changing and it's always
evolving and it's always different based
on various right various feedback so
whether it's your mood or the music
facial recognition says Robbie's really
had a hard day today you know I can tell
that on his face facial recognition can
do this with machine learning right
that's where we're at so could it now
give me a scene that is like a that is
soothing to me how incredibly
manipulative with that be you come in
sour face
maybe thrown has now dropped off a
coffee to you on your way in because
that happened perfect you come in and
your face has been recognized as being
slightly you know anxious yes a or angry
so your display changes in your artwork
and the music comes on to relax you like
this is a hole there you go yeah it just
well the whole thing is interconnected
and intertwined yeah that's where we're
headed oh that is great it that this is
possible yeah we were talking because
this being our six hundredth episode of
tech TV right and the newsroom to talk
about how technology has evolved and
none of this was anything but science
fiction when we started category five
technology TV 600 weeks ago in 600 weeks
from now we'll be talking about how man
we had that idea we should probably
should have patented that exact idea
even better 600 weeks from now they will
be saying remember when this idea was
first mentioned on category five
technology TV perfect perfect
one of the world's biggest producers of
aluminum has been hit by a serious
ransomware attack that shut down its
worldwide network stopped or disrupted
plants and sent IT workers scrambling to
return operations to normal nor sick
Hydro of Norway said the malware first
hit computers in the United States on
Monday night by Tuesday morning that
infection had spread to other parts of
the company which operates in 40
countries come company officials
responded by isolating plants to prevent
further spreading some plants were
temporarily stopped while others which
had to be kept running continuously were
switched to manual mode when possible
the company's 35,000 employees were
instructed to keep computers turned off
but were allowed to use phones and
tablets to check email chief financial
officer
and kelvis said during a press
conference Tuesday let me be clear the
situation for norsk hydro through this
is quite severe the entire world war
wide network is down affecting our
production as well as our office
operations unquote the ransomware that
infected norsk hydro is known as locker
Goga which doesn't rely on the use of
network traffic or domain name system or
command and control servers traits that
allow the ransomware to bypass many
network defenses a sample of the malware
was uploaded to virus total from Norway
on Tuesday morning and at the time the
malware was first scanned it was
detected by only 17 of 67 biggest AV
Purdue products although this quickly
increased once awareness of the norsu
Hydra infection grew an official with
the Norwegian national security
authority stopped short of confirming
nor sick Hydra was infected by locker
Goga saying only that it was a one of
the theories the majority of the
company's plants continue operating
normally but the network shutdown
prevents plants from receiving future
orders from customers while the losses
at the moment seem minimal they'll grow
over time if automated systems aren't
restored company IT teams are working to
remove the ransomware from infected
systems once that's done the team plans
to restore lost data using company
backups and do not plan to pay the
ransom norsk hydro state shares traded
down about 0.7% following the report of
the infection aluminum futures on the
london metal exchange rose in line with
other metals mm-hmm so that could have a
huge ripple effect because now this is
an infection that wasn't found I guess
it by most antivirus right yeah 17 of 30
where I come from how does it spread
without Network
King I'm really curious about the
underlying technology of this I'd love
to know more and maybe if we're
fortunate maybe we'll have some light on
that I want to say oh well you should
have had this in place or you should
have put I don't know yeah obviously
they have good backups so good job guys
well done
that's key when it comes to recovering
from a ransomware attack having current
off-site disconnected untouchable
backups that cannot be encrypted by the
very ransomware that's infiltrating your
network those backups are key yes and
having redundancy on those backups so
multiple backup sets so that hey if one
is affected or otherwise compromised the
next one is viable so there they're good
on that yes so that's why they're firm
on they're not they're not paying the
ransom because they know they have a
backup they've got their backups and
they're good yeah CEO said that's good
backups are good just but it takes time
so we got to think of that as business
owners as people in IT as those who
represent companies we have to think
about what is the recovery time from an
attack like this and I've had it come up
in discussions with customers who have
said oh yeah we've got backups and I say
ok you've got a backup when was the last
time you checked on the state of your
backup and they say well I don't know
our IT guy set that up two years ago
right and I don't think we've really
looked into it since then and and here's
my advice to them and I'll share this
with you because if you work in IT or if
you represent any amount of IT within a
company this is important information
what I share with them at that point is
here's what I want you to do I want you
to pretend that all the files on your
network are gone I want you to turn off
your server I want you to take what what
you normally access in a day so your
network shares everything on your
computer I
want you to shut it down do this on a
weekend but I want you to do this this
is key do this every year okay and
recover from that I want you to then
take your backups so if you've been
taking that backup drive home with you I
want you to bring it back to the office
and I want you to time yourself what is
it gonna take to recover from that right
catastrophic destruction of all data it
could be a fire it could be it could be
an explosion it could be a ransomware
attack which is really on par with both
of those things right how long is it
going to take you to recover because a
lot of small businesses and here's my
point a lot of small businesses in the
recovery time from a ransomware attack
so even if I have good backups the time
that it takes for me to recover with
those backups from a ransomware attack
can put me out of business right hydro
is a big company they'll recover they
have backups they have a team that will
get them back up and running fairly
quickly mm-hmm but they're gonna lose a
lot of money the cost of aluminum is
going to go up mm-hmm that's gonna line
some pockets but it's also gonna cost
others the company themselves they'll be
okay they'll recover but they're huge
remember that wait 40 countries right
right so they can do this they can they
can recover from this because they've
got the capital they've got the they've
got the ability to recover from such a
thing a small company say a hundred
computers less mm-hm
now try to recover from that type of
disaster and if you are if you're gonna
find that your backups are gonna keep
you in to recover from backup is gonna
take you a week how will your company
fare looking looking at your current
contracts how are you going to be a week
from now if you have to reset so you
have to lose that entire week for not
just you but your entire staff for your
entire organization and every
thing that has happened up to that point
how would you fare right
what if it's three weeks yeah okay and
so that's why when when I asked hey
what's your recovery process yet
disaster recovery is very important it's
like when we're kids what do we do we
had a fire exactly yeah exactly it's
kind of the tech equivalent to having
like a fire drill yeah the fire drill
there's a purpose behind that it's so
that we're ready so that if a fire
really happens these little kids know
how to get out of the building right and
it becomes practiced so if you're doing
a practice backup then when the time
comes you aren't in this state of
anxiety and the first hurdle you
encounter you're like I'll just pay the
ransom right you're okay you're calm you
know what's gonna what it's gonna take
you know you're the ransom will put you
out of business yeah but you hit the
nail on the head is it it's practice
mm-hmm what happens when you practice
practice makes progress perfect practice
makes perfect so you will be able to
recover and you might even bring down
the timeline so the first couple of
times you do it it takes you a while and
then eventually you could bring it down
it'll still be a chunk of time but now
you know how to recover with your back
can I take it one step further yes
practicing a fire drill yes you know if
you're if you've ever been a teacher in
kindergarten you know the practices only
get better because you realize which
which students are the ones that you
need to carry yeah that's the kid that
is going to drag his heels and Men and
sit down in the corner of the room right
right you you learn that okay there's a
problem here we need to address that if
they're with your backups with your
restoration process you're gonna learn
oh my our accounting software is not
part of the backup our PST files on all
of our computers that carry all of our
contacts all of our all of our calendars
all of our emails for the last six
months are not part of our backup what
ok we need to fix that so now our
practice process
becomes disaster prevention so it takes
it to a whole new level in that whole
process now is going to protect us so
that if it ever does happen we can say
with confidence when I say how are your
backups
what's your restoration process you can
say well yeah we went through the the
process every six months we do this
we've got this we emulate a disaster
recovery situation and we're good
we've got good backups we have multi
redundant off-site backups mm-hmm we're
good to go so schedule that in your
calendar right now get that in your
calendar absolutely all right let's jump
right into the crypto currency market
for this week as of March 20th 2019 this
is what things look like on coin gecko
Bitcoin basically everything is on its
way up like we're seeing a real growth
curve on crypto currency Bitcoin is up
155 dollars a US in 28 cents so it's
sitting at 4,000 $22.67 finally breaking
the four thousand dollar mark it hasn't
in a while litecoin is up at $59.95 if
theoria ms at 130 808 climbing six
dollars and 42 cents US per coin it's a
smaller coin so that's acceptable Manero
another smaller coin gained a whopping
four dollars and 64 cents now I say a
whopping its value is fifty four dollars
and 25 cents so that's a really good
game that's a good percentage mm-hmm
stellite one of the smaller guys has
gained 0.06 ten thousandth of a cent now
keep in mind these are really really
small coins that are really really easy
to mine and they are sitting at one
point six ten thousandth of a cent
turtle coin is the only one that has
lost a little bit
losing 0.08 ten thousandth of a cent per
coin and is currently sitting at zero
point seven ten thousandth of a cent
remember the cryptocurrency market never
closes and is always volatile big thanks
to Roy W Nash in our community of
viewers for submitting stories to us
this week thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias
for more free content be sure to check
out our website from the category-five
TV newsroom I'm Sasha Rickman and I'm
Robbie Ferguson we've got to take a
really quick break when we come back we
are going to be presenting a new feature
our Award for the the first ever maker
of the month yes
stick around whether you shop on
ThinkGeek gearbest B&amp;H photo video eBay
or Amazon or even if you want a free
trial of audible you'll find the best
deals and support the shows we produce
by simply visiting the shopping sites
you already frequents by using the links
on our website visit category-five TV
slash partners for the full and
ever-growing list and help us create
more free content like this show thank
you for shopping with our partners and
thank you for watching welcome back and
prepare yourself for our brand new
feature Vicker yes
maker of the month is our opportunity to
give shout out and recognition to people
who are making some really cool things
DIY style whether it be Arduino or
Raspberry Pi or Odroid or pine 64 or
soos tinker boards whatever they're
doing it's probably gonna involve a GPIO
or some kind of resistor of some sort
mm-hmm but this week we are going to be
celebrating
so the first ever maker of the month
award goes to
Alex bate who created a Raspberry Pi
powered picture frame oh yeah can I
bring this up yes a Raspberry Pi powered
picture frame okay enough said we've
already has we've already seen those
done it's a Raspberry Pi picture frame
we've seen those what's unique about
this Sasha
taps into IBM Watson's facial
recognition and only displays pictures
of her niece and nephew okay are you
folks are you kidding me alex has
created a photo frame using a Raspberry
Pi that taps into AI facial recognition
goes onto instagram finds pictures of
her niece and nephew and only displays
them in the picture frame that is genius
brilliant Alex you rock
Alex way to go you are our first-ever
maker of the month
y'all can read about Alex's project
learn how she did it at cap five dot TV
slash maker zero zero one that is great
maker first maker that is brilliant I
love that project thank you to those who
have pitched in and supported category 5
technology TV this week we greatly
appreciate it we do need to replace our
server and we we really at this point
covet your your contributions and we
appreciate it so very much we've got a
dying broadcast server and it is on its
way out we've got to raise a lot of
money over the next two months and and
you've heard me say it I just want to
express it again without getting into
too many details but we appreciate those
of you who have pitched in our patrons
thank you so much
you can find out more at patreon.com
slash category-five it's a great way to
support us because you just throw a
little something whatever you want it
can be a dollar a month it can be $20 a
month whatever you're comfortable with
it's a way to contribute a category-5 on
an ongoing basis and you get some perks
along with that I love patreon for that
it's not a perfect platform but it gives
us a way to be able to provide content
that you are getting exclusively as a
supporter of category 5 TV and we really
do appreciate what they do there at
patreon you have a data traveler mm I do
I do too
yeah I've been finding that I'm using
this more and more yeah and I love the
fact that it's encrypted so I feel
really confident when I'm using it this
is keeping my
Datta my customer data safe right and
only I can view it I love that I've got
one of these to give away make sure you
can get your ballot in qualify for this
you want to tell them how to do it do I
do you know how okay so you go to
contest at category five even sent an
email rights can't go there it's not a
place that's right sorry
contest at category five TV so the
subject line has to be Kingston giveaway
and yeah that's it that's it let us let
us know your name and where you're from
and and we'll cast your ballot we do
have a couple more of these to give away
there 64 gigs their data traveler to
thousands find out more at cat5 dot TV
/dt two thousand and I'd encourage you
to check out that that link because
you're gonna learn about a really really
cool device we're on Twitter at category
five TV I'm personally on Twitter at
Robby Ferguson please follow me and I
will follow you back we're on YouTube a
category five TV or if you prefer to
watch edited down versions of category
five you can check out our other channel
our daughter Channel if you will it's
called Linux tech show and I've got a
nice little easy way to get there by
just simply going to linux tech show.com
and that will reroute you to our YouTube
channel where we've edited down all the
features from category 5 into nice
little edible snippets makes it a lot
easier to consume you can also visit us
on Plex or Kodi you can get those
channels if you want to add those to
your device's get them on our github at
github.com slash cat 5 TV and of course
our main website brings everything
together in one happy little place you
can visit us at category 5 dot TV don't
forget to Like subscribe and click that
bell on YouTube and we will see you
again next week take care everybody
[Applause]
