all right it's tuesday March 31st 2015
and here are the stories were covering
this week confidential information about
31 of the world leaders were
accidentally emailed to the asian cup
organizers in australia ATR the big
brother of isps future shop closed all
its canadian stores on sunday to the
surprise of even their staff a brand new
high-end modular gaming mouse is
available for pre-order through
crowdfunding and its unique design will
put it on any serious gamers shopping
list and legacy Roku devices are about
to be deprecated and it may be time to
upgrade these stories are coming right
up don't go anywhere thanks Sasha and
tonight we're talking a lot about
backups and one of the things that
dreamhost provides for you is a 50 gig
backup storage space on their servers
for only seventy dollars a year you're
going to get carbon neutral lamp hosting
on Linux of course you're going to get a
free domain name registration unlimited
storage space for your website as well
as be able to host an unlimited number
of of websites and email accounts plus
they throw in that 50 gigs of personal
backup storage space go to cat five dot
TV / dreamhost and use the coupon code
cat five TV to sign up today back to the
newsroom here Sasha I'm Sasha drew
Madison here the top stories from the
category 5 TV news room
the passport numbers and visa details of
31 world leaders were accidentally
emailed to the organizers of the asian
cup in australia before the g20 summit
in Brisbane in November those affected
included US President Barack Obama and
German Chancellor Angela Merkel Angela
Merkel sir a worker at the Australian
Department of Immigration sent the list
by mistake the best by mistake the
message included the 31 world leaders
dates of birth but not the personal
addresses and other contact details just
visa and passport information the bridge
was said to be the result of human error
with the sender forgetting to check the
autofill functions in Microsoft Outlook
email service before hitting send
according to the officer both the sender
of the email and the recipient had
deleted it within 10 minutes of it being
sent and the asian cup football
tournament organizers said they did not
believe the email was accessible or
stored on their servers my god the
department decided there was no need to
alert the g20 attendees clearly
indicating that they don't understand
how email works Wow Robbie so will you
explain how email works yeah sure I'd be
happy to okay for all of you who are
dealing with government personal
information secret here's my secret my
pens died doesn't happy there you go so
my secret it says sec or sacker but sec
there you go i can pass this to you
right there's an email it's it's
perfectly visible to anyone who is
looking for that email as it goes
through the servers it gets to you and
you might shred it or rip it up or burn
it or whatever but while it's in transit
it's plain text do you know how the
internet works like it's the World Wide
Web you've got a whole bunch of little
nodes and they're all connected together
and when I sent an email to you Sasha it
doesn't go to you it goes to my isp
might be looking well first it goes
through the hotel where I'm connected to
the Wi-Fi then it goes to the ISP then
it goes to every little computer along
the way and through all these computers
to get to the recipient mm-hmm and who's
to say one of those computers isn't
effective infected with a botnet or an
email sniffer or maybe there is actually
a malicious person on the other end
watching email as it passes through and
watching for confidential records wasn't
it you Robbie that said that sending an
email is the same as sending a postcard
was it I feel like that's something you
would say it sounds like a really great
quote so i will accept that as my own
yes I think that that's really really
true i mean that that may have been
somebody in the chat room I don't know
if I've ever spoken those words but
that's that's a great example postcard
how do you know that it got to my postal
box without someone else reading it I
guarantee you probably a lot of people
read it if it looked interesting on the
on the cover all right absolutely that's
email email is plain text and I think
and you can read about it in my blog
bald nerd com actually posted a recent
article about the fact that we get
deceived thinking that email is secure
because we've got secure authentication
to connect to our server or because when
we bring up Gmail it's a secure website
and so we think oh this is secure oh
nice gmail is secure well the instant i
press send it leaves Gmail which is a
secure connection so my connection to
gmail is secure during that transaction
but as soon as i hit send it goes out in
plain text anywhere in the world you
don't know nobody knows it just tunnels
its way finally finding itself at the
recipient and it is not a transaction
where it absolutely guaranteed Lee gets
deleted from every server it goes
through so what they're saying is
because they didn't back it up they just
assume it's gone forever so what
happened they deleted it within 10
minutes gone forever it doesn't work
that way folks oh my goodness Wow all
right if you have AT&amp;T s gigabit
internet service and wonder why it seems
so affordable here
the reason AT&amp;T is boosting profits by
rerouting all your web browsing to an
in-house traffic scanning platform
analyzing your internet habits then
using the results to deliver
personalized ads to the websites you
visit email to your inbox and junk mail
to your front door wait Sasha yes not to
revert back to a previous story but does
that mean that they could also be
watching email ah hypothetical exactly
if let's say the organizers of this
summit had logged on to AT&amp;T and then
sent the email right then they would
have been 80 would have President
Obama's password or passport sorry
passport number and you know visa for
any possibility yeah it's crazy all
right in a few select areas including
Austin Texas and Kansas City Missouri
places where AT&amp;T competes against the
seventy dollar per month Google Fiber
mahvel offers its own seventy dollar per
month gigapower fiber to the home
internet access but signing up for the
deal also ops customers into a tease
internet preferences program which gives
the company permission to examine each
customer's web traffic in exchange for a
price that matches Google's AT&amp;T says
internet preferences tracked the web
pages you visit the time you spend on
each the links are ads you see and
follow and the search terms you enter
this helps AT&amp;T serve ads targeted to
each user based on that person's
interests and advertisers are willing to
pay more when they know their ads will
be shown to the people most likely to be
interested in their products that scares
me it's just like the time you spend on
each webpage so they can tell if you you
know just accidentally click that page
and then decide oh that's not where I
want it to be sure yeah and then we even
use analytics data to know okay if you
click on to our website we know if you
watched 15 minutes of the show vs. 45
minutes of the show and that makes this
thing okay well then the first 15
minutes of the show is
valuable for advertisers for example and
so but we do it in a non-intrusive
non-identifiable way like that it almost
seems you're doing something and not to
point at 80 specifically but they're the
ones in the news right now but it's
really coming down to are you only using
that data for advertising and really
what does it come down to as far as the
information that you're collecting right
oh it's just scary to think that
somebody else is watching like everybody
wants to have maintain privacy you're
giving it up because it seems too good
to be true cost wise it likely is once
again it goes back to is your internet
connection really your internet
connection who is watching who's
intercepting the data who's getting
access to that ain't 18t they are
because AT&amp;T you can see almost
everything you do online no matter what
websites you visit the company may be an
even better position to serve targeted
ads than Facebook or Google while Google
apparently doesn't impose anything
similar to internet preferences on its
fiber internet the company's cable
service is delivering targeted TV ads
based on its customers viewing history
so Google uses it in some ways as well
sure they do yeah wow I just give me the
heebie-jeebies I don't pick it I think
with just because you bring up Google
Google is a search engine so I'm going
to their site and I'm using their
service and there's possibility that
they're you know they're connected to
other sites as well of course but when
you're going through your internet
service provider they see everything not
just what I search for or what website
i'm on they see everything right well
here's a thing I mean it just drives me
bananas I know everybody is watching not
everybody but I know that I don't look
everybody my ego is huge everybody
everything I do but recently I bought my
sister a throw cushion or throw pillow
for her bridal shower ok so I searched a
whole bunch on Amazon picked one I used
the affiliate links thing wasn't a great
five no problem
but then later on I was google searching
something and it was an ad with that
cushion right haha but here's the thing
I mean I know you're watching me but
don't be so obvious about it it makes
sense though I'm from an advertising
perspective because if I look at
something it reminds me it's almost I
it's almost become a handy thing to know
that when I'm on any website amazon will
show me the stuff that I want but I
already bought it that's it y yeah i
know that leasing nathan noted already
made the purchase wait hounding me i
don't want another pillow fix i do want
another pillow actually they don't get
one okay us consumer electronics chain
best buy has announced that it is
closing its canadian subsidiary future
shop and converting 65 of its 131 stores
into bestbuy outlets as a result of the
move 500 full-time jobs in 1000
part-time jobs will go the retailer said
future shop canada's biggest electronics
brand has been owned by bestbuy since
2001 after the changeover is completed
best buy will have 192 Canadian stores
analysts say the move will rationalize
best buys offer in Canada and get rid of
duplication best buy in future shop
outlets are often found in close
proximity they say I oh but this is just
heartbreaking for me because I have a
future shop I feel brand loyal to future
shop even though they're owned by best
buy I don't feel like royal to bestbuy
future shop is first and I remember
growing up with it and and the the news
tells us that they announced that
they're shutting down they didn't really
do it that way did they know I mean for
me to show up at work and be told sorry
no work today we're closed it's really
how it went down I certainly hope that
all the future shop employees are
offered positions in the new best buy
stores but not all of them will be
converting over I guess you don't be
completely closed true enough i mean the
doors are closed and really there are a
lot of future shops right next to best
buy's right and i think that i thought
about it at the time and I thought okay
at least unlike target these people are
going to get a severance I
hope because they're not milking out the
time you know like it was I showed up to
work that day and I'm laid off so I've
got a little bit of money at least
coming my way for the next few weeks I
hope that's how it went down but you
don't really know you think I mean here
I don't know what it's like anywhere
else but here they have like one Tim
Hortons across the street from another
two important yes and they have
starbucks across the street from there
like they have a like tons of which is
really just a very expensive Tim Hortons
right so if you have a future shop and a
best buy in the same block and the
parent company is best buy they're still
making the money off of both of those
even though people have that's the
society that we are in I don't want to
have to go across the street they're
profiting off their own competition of
the fruit that's what they I'm thinking
like if I don't want to shop at best buy
i'm gonna go to future shop yeah but
yeah like that's why for the win on that
now it's just gonna be best buy
everywhere I'm gonna feel like I have no
choice and then I'll shop on amazon
using our affiliate links exact I see
where this is going life is could be a
very good Wow a new style of high-end
gaming mouse is about to take the world
by storm it's called the James donkey
double-oh-seven mouse and it's made to
be very customizable with magnetic parts
that snap on and off so gamers can build
an ergonomic mouse that suits the way
they play with an Ave go a 9800 chip
8400 DPI sensor and imran switch is
tested to 20 million clicks the double
07 is in a league with the best gaming
mice out there with the new James donkey
double-oh-seven you can easily remove
and replace magnetic components such as
what Robbie Oh put me on the spot yeah
well you think this is a neat idea a so
that you know are you don't need a
screwdriver to take the pieces off you
don't need to unclip things it's just
it's super powers bag that's right that
pull it in so you think if you're
playing a flight simulator or something
would it be cool to have
like that hook feature on your on your
pinky right so that as you are you know
working it has more of a flight
simulator feel or take that off and put
on another component or actually adapt
it to like how many variations can you
make this mouse all the components come
apart and you replace them with other
pieces do you have to buy all these
extra pieces I did think I can see i
hope i don't know i would hope they
would come with the most but I feel like
they wouldn't I feel like sasha has more
information for us you can't possibly a
website link why it maybe we can find
out more information i want to know i
will say i love the name with the new
Jimmy's don't attorney yeah taxi with
the new James donkey double-oh-seven oh
wait I already said that sorry um where
was I oh I'm all along telling me
rewound its goodness gracious it changes
the outward appearance of the mouse but
also the electronic functionality of the
switch this unique design makes up to 54
configurations possible the day for 50
40 configurations the James donkey team
are making the molds now and are well on
their way to raising the funds for the
first production run for a limited time
you can order the double oh seven for
just 41 dollars and both workers are
also available that's an incredible deal
so if you get all of the pieces for $41
wowzers visit our short link at cat5 TV
/ double-oh-seven to support the
campaign and get your hands on this
innovative high-end gaming mouse that's
good now I guess my only concern would
be the high-powered magnets they
wouldn't disturber I feel like straw
your yeah this you don't want your tie
powered magnets too close to your you
compare I when I didn't set it on your
hard drive thanks I it's yeah I mean
these days things are not as
magnetically sensitive as they used to
be oh that's good yeah yeah it's it's
crazy and awesome and I want one I like
it yes
for some time now older Roku streaming
players those made before may 2011 have
not been able to benefit from the many
improvements that have been made to the
Roku OS this means customers with legacy
devices are not able to experience
important new features that deliver the
great streaming experience Roku wants
for its customers and soon they will be
cutting off development for those
devices entirely while consumers with
legacy devices will continue to have
access to channels that have already
launched on those devices going forward
Roku will no longer launch any new
channels update existing channels issue
firmware updates or provide developer
support for channels that run on these
older devices since this is the case
legacy Roku devices will soon be
crippled since channel developers and
content providers will have no way to
make updates to their channel software
that said due to the nature of Roku's
platform new content from channels still
operating on legacy hardware will
continue to be updated such as new
episodes of category 5 TV however as
services evolve and grow channels may
break and no longer function current
generation Roku players and Roku TV
models are not affected if you're using
a Roku manufactured before may 2011 you
can visit cat5 TV / Roku to purchase a
current generation system and continue
to receive the best experience possible
from your Roku device the change will
take effect on May thirtieth Robbie I
just have to say that this upsets me why
it says to me because i own a purse from
10 years ago like I don't hurt it's an i
dumb purse right like so I don't want to
buy I'm going to buy myself a rope I'm
excited about it it's my birthday next
month I'm buying myself a Roku it's 2015
well I have to buy myself a new one in
2018 sighs I don't want that I can't
take you seriously you just compared to
Roku to a purse but what I'm saying is
that me and my consumer habits
I want things that i buy that I spend a
lot of money on to lie
