so you have anything for me today I do I
have a question from mickey hey mickey
mickey asks I have an old IBM r32 laptop
2 gigahertz 32-bit processor with a 100
bite of RAM if I put Debian 9 stretch on
it will I be able to watch Netflix or
Hulu on it I really miss sitting on my
patio having a cigar and watching
programs online I'll say sounds nice
well then yeah Debian 9 okay we talked
about it when on episode 510 when we
talked about Debian was it 510 I can't
recall the number forget the numbers
just look for Debian on their website
when we introduced Debian stretch it is
in it's at its essence a distro that
uses free open-source firmwares drivers
out of the box we can enable the ability
to do other word otherwise as we
discussed on that show but we didn't
touch on this so I appreciate the
question
I've got Debian 9 from that you know
from that show and it's pretty vanilla I
haven't really done anything with it so
we're just going to bring up Firefox and
I'm going to give it a go for you so I'm
going to head over to Netflix Oh Netflix
Oh Netflix I love Netflix I didn't tell
you but I was watching black mirror
again Oh glad we're not binge Watchers
like we don't do that although we found
even the closest thing we've ever done
to binging we found oh come on
it's on the tip of my tongue Legion I'd
never seen a superhero show that we
actually like like we wanted to like in
flash Matt wanted to but it was just so
I just won't go there I will tell you we
binge watched Bates Motel
yeah and then we bought all of the old
psycho movies because it's based on
right oh you bought we bought Netflix we
watch the Bates hotel right
then we bought the cycle movies because
I had never seen them because y'all know
I'm kind of uncultured and things like
that right um have you seen those movies
never even heard Oh psycho psycho we're
not into the horror John yeah well never
happened I'm not either returned Joe but
I'm gonna watch now I'm gonna muscle
through it okay all right that um yeah
okay go ahead well I mentioned that we
watched Dark Mirror the other night and
we're not binge Watchers
but Legion was good yeah Legion was very
very good for that kind of superhero
movie show but that's beside the point
on dark matter no black mare Black
Mirror I get those two confused the last
black near the episode was reminded me
exactly of your news story from like two
years ago I don't know if you remember
this but they used artificial
intelligence to bring back the dead yes
I know what you're talking about I know
the new story writer that story yeah
because I think I like getting there it
was like this is real this as Sasha
talked about this yes and they made a
show about it so they took the idea the
concept of this artificial intelligence
that takes all your social media
Facebook Twitter everything compiled it
all into an AI and then turns it into a
chatbot episode it was a very good
effort you scream ah c'mere people yes
Hartford it's hard for me to recommend
black mirror because there are some it's
not there are some where I fit there are
none there are you not well know it
they're all start with a very thinking
one it was a good thing that we started
accidentally the first episode of season
three because I think if we had seen you
wouldn't know pilot I think we would
have just turned it off right right
exactly but it always makes you think
that's what it's supposed to do it's
supposed to make you think about the
what if it delves into the darker side
of the human behavior and here is
something really cool about technology
here's what could happen with it if it
was abused or so I'm having a
conversation with Jeff
okay technology Netflix I've got it up
here so I'm here so I'm logged in as
myself we're mom and dad and there it is
a black mirror you can see continue
watching okay so if I push play on
something and we're going to hope that
we don't get copyright infringement
notices here I don't have audio on so I
push play and it tells me what something
went wrong I guess it doesn't work right
actually let's take all of about 10
seconds and we're going to jump oh this
holy cow could it be that easy there's a
button that says enable DRM in the top
right I'm going to push it and see what
happens
no way that was pretty easy that was
Timothy Wow Mickey I could do that how
was that ha ha out of the box
it did not work with a single mouse
click I was about to show you how to go
into preferences on DRM if you don't see
that alert because maybe not everybody's
going to have that I've never seen that
before this is probably new in this
version of Firefox if you go into
preferences and let's see I'm going to
try to remember where you find this
supposed to be good to know this stuff
content content there it is played there
it is
played erm content so that's the check
box if you don't see it under content in
preferences ah and it work just like
that or we spike w9 stretch they just
give you the button yeah there's the
button well it's a feature of fire fire
that would be B it's just the default
browser that was installed Firefox es
are so simple down and done with hot
[Music]
[Applause]
