here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
myspace one of the first online social
networks has apologized after a server
migration caused a huge loss of data
there's a critical vulnerability in a
model of Fujitsu wireless keyboards that
makes it easy for hackers to take full
control of connected computers ai is
going to be a huge for artists and the
latest demonstration comes from Nvidia
which has built a prototype software
that turns doodles into realistic
landscapes in one of the world's biggest
producers of aluminum has been hit by a
serious ransomware attack that has shut
down its worldwide network stopped or
disrupted plants and sent IT workers
scrambling to return operations to
normal these stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere this is the category 5
TV newsroom covering the week's top tech
stories
Linux bias Jeff Weston Yemen you're
building a brand-new beautiful website
what are you you're terrible actor what
does where acting comes into play you're
supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash DreamHost I'm
satiric min and here the top stories for
following this week myspace one of the
first online social networks has
apologized after a server migration
caused a huge loss of data a message on
its website says that any photos videos
and audio files updated more than three
years ago may no longer be available
there had been complaints going back
several months that links to music were
no longer working the platform has waned
in popularity since it was founded in
2003 but in its prime it attracted
millions of users in 2006 it was the
most visited site in the US beating
Google it was popular popular platform
for sharing new music and has been
credited with helping to launch the
careers of artists including the Arctic
Monkeys and Kate Nash quote as a result
of a server migration project any photos
of videos and audio files you updated
more than three years ago may no longer
be available on or from MySpace end
quote said the firm in a statement we
apologize for the inconvenience
Andy Baio who helped build the
Kickstarter crowdfunding site tweeted
that the loss could amount to some 50
million tracks by 14 million artists
over that period he also questioned
whether the loss was accidental saying
in a tweet flagrant incompetence may be
bad PR but it still sounds better than
we can't be bothered with the effort and
cost of migrating and hosting 50 million
mp3s my myspace was brought bought by
News Corp in 2005 for 580 million
dollars it was sold in 2011 for 35
million dollars to ad targeting firms
specific media while it is no longer a
major player in the social media field
some people who use it still in its
prime still use it now as an archive yes
ouch do you imagine the loss in like
Ivan you I bought it for this much and
I'm selling it to you for thise much
that's like everyone who bought a whole
bunch of Bitcoin when it was worth
$30,000 exactly and then all of a sudden
it's $1,000 who bought myspace in 2005 I
guess it was really huge but really
Facebook before Twitter exactly yeah I
had a myspace account because soul
cleansed right so calm the band yeah we
we distributed our music on MySpace but
I imagined it's gone now well I believe
it would be I mean if you were using it
as an archive I'm sorry cuz I just
archive I think anyone who is using
myspace as an archive needed to move on
anyways right like maybe it's just
there's a bit of nostalgia so it's a bit
of it ah that's that's a part of my life
from many many years ago so what do
people use now instead of MySpace
anything everything anything yeah so
yeah that's why that is why we no longer
to answer the question bluntly YouTube
yeah really yeah I mean who where is
VEVO YouTube yeah that's it's all yeah
it's been pretty much always you too
yeah yeah I mean my my Smart TV has its
own YouTube already built in I can walk
- sure that's where artists get famous
that's where her people make it feel
like that's where Justin Bieber got
famous I feel like that could be wrong
but hey let's make a little way true
yeah the rise and fall of Justin Bieber
this week on YouTube don't know how we
got into Justin Bieber yeah Canadian
he's Canadian that was our kin con
that's very little nod yeah we can be on
CBC sorry about that folks didn't mean
to make you think about Justin Bieber
there's a critical vulnerability and a
control of connected computers the
Fujitsu Wireless Keyboard set L acts 901
uses a proprietary 2.4 gigahertz radio
communication protocol called Wireless
USB LP from Cypress Semiconductor while
the keyboard and mouse and input that's
protected with the time-tested advanced
encryption standard the USB dongle that
accepts the input accepts unencrypted
packets as well as long as they're in
the proper format researchers with the
germany-based
penetration testing firms sy SS
developed a proof-of-concept attack that
exploits the insecure design using a
small hardware device they were able to
send commands to the vulnerable Fujitsu
keyboard receiver dongles that are
within range the researchers were able
to send input of their choice that's
automatically funneled to the connected
computer in an advisory published Friday
the researchers warned that they can
combine this injection exploit with a
replay attack this allows attackers to
record encrypted keystrokes the wireless
keyboard sends the USB dongle receiver
then the hackers can send the recorded
data to the receiver in the event the
hackers record the keystrokes the
rightful computer owner uses to unlock
the machine
the attackers can later use them to gain
access when the computer is locked and
unattended the attacks can be carried
out by anyone who is within range of an
affected keyboard set and takes the time
to build the hardware that exploits the
replay and injection flaws normally that
distance is about 30 feet but the use of
special antennas could extend that range
that leaves the possibility of attacks
from hackers in nearby offices or homes
even though the researchers reported
their exploit to Fujitsu back in October
there is currently no known fix for the
vulnerabilities anyone using the
keyboard model should strongly consider
replacing it immediately yeah I'll say
so you can be like next door you can be
walking on the street in front of a
store top yeah how many of us don't use
wireless right right it's funny I read
these news stories on my lunch break and
I have the oh you're looking at the
model of your keyboard I have the only
wired keyboard I think I think I looked
over at the girl who works beside me
hers is Wireless I looked into the other
office hers are always not convenient
yeah a wireless are all convenient mine
is plugged in so if I had a Fujitsu just
there's no going back like you have to
replace it is that yeah that's kind of
how it's looking if it's taken them this
long and there's still not a patch it's
not a software thing it's not something
that can be updated so I need to move on
my concern so we think about the
distance of so a wireless keyboard I
mean this has to be within range of the
device in order to communicate with it
right
similarly this Fujitsu keyboard has to
be within range of the receiver the USB
receiver right and so does the
exploiting hardware so whether it's a
Raspberry Pi based device like some kind
of device that is built to be able to
intercept and inject right keyboard
commands it has to be within the range
of the receiver as well so in the news
story they take the approach the the
original writer took the approach of
saying well they could use antennas to
be further away but hold on wait a
second just hold up these days
we've got SSH we've got BNC we've got
all kinds of other technologies and if
you
familiar with those let me explain so my
exploiting device mm-hmm this is a
hypothetical so I've got an exploit a
device that I've created based on a
Raspberry Pi say so this is a little
single board computer so I can put that
in your office within 30 feet of your
computer and it can read and write to
your keyboard okay I can be in Iqaluit I
can be way down there in Florida sitting
on a beach somewhere drinking a mojito
right that's what I would be doing and I
could be on my laptop computer or my
tablet and as long as I've got internet
I can connect into that Raspberry Pi and
I can control your computer hmm
wirelessly through an exploit from a
device that I've hidden in the drop
ceiling right or even just like in the
neighboring office like in the
neighboring country French you're so
small now absolutely right you can just
have a spacesuit night like next door
yeah in a plaza right right side by side
but you think it's like on the underside
of like the mailbox or something where
you wouldn't even think yeah so think
about a legal office or a government
office where you know something like
this could be easily dropped I mean a
Raspberry Pi zero power that from a
battery now this story's about stick it
anywhere Fujitsu is the keyboard
manufacturer that is easily exploited so
if you know that the keyboard is a is an
affected device so the fear isn't all
wireless keyboards not necessarily the
others been shown exploits yeah well it
is this particular receipt yeah so there
there's a possibility that other devices
use the same similar semiconductor
technology in order to receive is there
I mean this might be a question that I
it's just a hypothetical but like I have
a Fujitsu keyboard let's say and I'm
throwing it out and I want to order a
new keyboard okay I'm recycling it sure
how do I know that the one I order is
okay if I've just been like my my
confidence has been compromised on the
wireless technology yes so how do I know
that
the inevitable question that's the
rhetorical question these days how do I
know that when I sign up for
such-and-such online service that my
data is not going to be compromised how
do I know that the keyboard I buy is not
going to be compromised how do ya how do
you know
so by wired I don't sometimes you can't
write like so maybe just is there an
answer to that it is rhetorical in any
of any ways but in this particular case
it's just really recognizing the
potential for that exploit and realizing
that hey this could be a bigger thing
then you might let on you might think
hey well I'm in the middle of nowhere or
my office is well away from every other
office I could have used this in public
school put one of those little devices
atop the counseling office and modified
my report card if you remove the dongle
when you're not using the keyboard I
wonder what we really physically remove
the receiver from your computer every
time you are not using your keyboard
like okay I want to type put the dongle
and does it neat and then just then type
take it out again bingo bango like baby
I mean I'm not saying if you have a
Fujitsu just like to buy a new keyboard
perhaps if you're just in love with the
idea of a wireless keyboard think about
the things that can be exploited in your
keyboard and that happens to be that
little dumb yeah yep yep that's my fix
that's your fixed yeah but they can
still monitor your keystrokes so they
can still catch your credit card
information they can still catch your
passwords oh right if they're within the
range if they have one of those
exporting devices within a range it's a
tough thing Sasha tricky this technology
it's it I love it and then I don't as
much
ai is going to be huge for artists and
the latest demonstration comes from
Nvidia which has built prototype
software that turns doodles into
realistic landscapes using a type of AI
model known as generative adversarial
network or Gann the software gives users
what Nvidia is calling a smart
paintbrush this means someone can make a
very basic outline of a scene drawing
say a tree on a hill before filling
their rough sketch with natural textures
like grass clouds forests or rocks the
results are not quite photorealistic but
they are impressive all the same this
software isn't groundbreaking exactly
researchers have shown off similar tools
in the past including one from Google
that turns doodles into clipart but it
is the most polished demonstration of
this concept we've seen to date the
software generates AI landscapes
instantly and it's surprisingly
intuitive for example when a user draws
a tree and then a pool of water
underneath it the model adds the trees
reflection to the pool Wow
I know generating fake grass and water
is relatively easy for Ganz because the
visual patterns involved are
unconstructed generating pictures of
buildings and furniture by comparison is
much trickier and the results are much
less realistic and that's because these
objects have a logic and structure to
them that humans are sensitive to ganz
can overcome this sort of challenge as
we've seen with AI generated faces but
it does take a lot of extra effort
Nvidia didn't say if it has any plans to
turn the software into an actual product
but it suggests that tools like this
could help everyone from architects to
urban planners to landscape designers
and game developers in the future in
videos Brian at Cannes anno said it's
much easier to brainstorm designs with
simple sketches and this technology is
able to convert sketches into highly
realistic images unreal we've heard
about them doing the faces right with AI
with Gann but now they
landscapes - that is great they take
these two things and migrate them into a
video game I talked about when we talked
about the Gann phases I talked about how
that could be something for video games
imagine now the landscape is Gann based
the people are Gann based right like
I'll never be Bob Ross I can never paint
a really nice Oh landscape the sketches
you saw those are me yeah grass green
paint just like add textures and bingo
bango you've got mm-hmm beauty what
could this lead to I mean they're
obviously experimenting with artificial
intelligence machine learning and and I
dare say machine comprehension right so
if I draw a circle that is in the color
of Iraq that the Gann would then say
that's a rock and create a rock based on
that ah that's astonishing yeah and even
if it's not perfect and maybe it messes
up here and there and you know the ears
are off-kilter or sometimes in the
facial generation but it's amazing the
technology is astonishing and these are
really like the baby moments of this
technology like this like that and it's
going to just I don't I can't even
comprehend how great it's going to be
because I'm so just jazzed up about the
beginning like yeah you can create faces
and textures and landscapes and I mean
you could put on a VR headset and be you
know in worlds then again based world
with people walking around with lopsided
ears but it's okay because you've done
good in your infancy again you've done
real good generator of adversarial
networking earth so games is one thing
yes now I think therapies they're like
different therapies or you always put
the medical like the kind of like I feel
like because been on that's yeah that's
the most helpful way I think these tech
let's gotta start with video games it's
gotta start with video games then it
goes into things but artwork is another
one yeah
really um think about how it could be
used to allow people to express
themselves through artwork I'm not an
artist I can sketch or whatever but
that's a B you are an artist so maybe
it's just that you don't have the
ability to totally put your vision there
but they'll help you with that so the
king board the Casio keyboard from the
1980s where I can push one key and a
whole chord would play right is that the
equivalent of being able to draw a line
and having a whole tree appear is that
like is this the tool that's going to
allow non musicians to become musicians
and non artists to become artists is
this the next evolution in its very
infancy stage of that artistry right can
you picture just for this moment like in
you go into your say living room and
there's this big screen it's not and it
it looks like a picture frame and every
day the artwork changes to something
that you've drawn well well that would
be just a bunch of stick figures
it wouldn't be examples again right so
you're having a dinner party and you
want to create a certain vibe for that
and you paint you know I say a winter
landscape because you're serving you
know roasted turkey could it get to the
point where the gann this being the the
machine learning system could actually
generate so think about remember how we
have these picture frames that are
actually a computer screen right and
they can generate image slideshows yes
what if the gann could create a picture
mm-hmm and it's always changing and it's
always evolving and it's always
different based on various right various
feedback so whether it's your mood or
the music facial recognition says
Robbie's really had a hard day today I
can tell that on his face facial
recognition can do this with machine
learning right
that's where we're at so could it now
give me a scene that is like a that is
soothing to me how incredibly
manipulative with that be you come in
sour face maybe thrown has now dropped
off a coffee to you on your way in
because that happened perfect
you come in and your face has been
recognized as being slightly you know
anxious yes a or angry so your display
changes in your artwork and the music
comes on to relax you like this is a
hole there you go yeah it just well the
whole thing is interconnected and
intertwined yeah that's where we're
headed oh that is great it that this is
possible yeah we were talking because
this being our six hundredth episode of
tech TV right and the newsroom to talk
about how technology has evolved and
none of this was anything but science
fiction when we started category five
technology TV 600 weeks ago in 600 weeks
from now we'll be talking about how man
we had that idea we should probably
should have patented that exact idea
even better 600 weeks from now they will
be saying remember when this idea was
first mentioned on category five
technology TV perfect perfect
one of the world's biggest producers of
aluminum has been hit by a serious
ransomware attack that shut down its
worldwide network stopped or disrupted
plants and sent IT workers scrambling to
return operations to normal nor sick
Hydro of Norway said the malware first
hit computers in the United States on
Monday night by Tuesday morning that
infection had spread to other parts of
the company which operates in 40
countries come company officials
responded by isolating plants to prevent
further spreading some plants were
temporarily stopped while others which
had to be kept running continuously were
switched to manual mode when possible
the company's 35,000 employees were
instructed to keep computers turned off
but were allowed to use phones and
tablets to check email chief financial
officer
even's Kelvin said during a press
conference Tuesday let me be clear the
situation for norsk hydro through this
is quite severe the entire world war
wide network is down affecting our
production as well as our office
operations unquote the ransomware that
infected norsk hydro is known as locker
Goga which doesn't rely on the use of
network traffic or domain name system or
command and control servers traits that
allow the ransomware to bypass many
network defenses a sample of the malware
was uploaded to virus total from Norway
on Tuesday morning and at the time the
malware was first scanned it was
detected by only 17 of 67 biggest AV
perdu products although this quickly
increased once awareness of the norsu
Hydra infection grew an official with
the Norwegian National Security
Authority stopped short of confirming
nor sick Hydra was infected by locker
Goga saying only that it was a one of
the theories the majority of the
company's plants continue operating
normally but the network shutdown
prevents plants from receiving future
orders from customers while the losses
at the moment seem minimal they'll grow
over time if automated systems aren't
restored company IT teams are working to
remove the ransomware from infected
systems once that's done the team plans
to restore lost data using company
backups and do not plan to pay the
ransom norsk hydro shape shares traded
down about 0.7 percent following the
report of the infection aluminum futures
on the london metal exchange rose in
line with other metals mm-hmm
so that could have a huge ripple effect
because now this is an infection that
wasn't found I guess it by most
antivirus right yeah 17 of 30 where I
come from how does it spread without
Network
King I'm really curious about the
underlying technology of this I'd love
to know more and maybe if we're
fortunate maybe we'll have some light on
that I want to say oh well you should
have had this in place or you should
have put I don't know yeah obviously
they have good backups so good job guys
well done that's key when it comes to
recovering from a ransomware attack
having current off-site disconnected
untouchable backups that cannot be
encrypted by the very ransomware that's
infiltrating your network those backups
are key yes and having redundancy on
those backups so multiple backup sets so
that hey if one is affected or otherwise
compromised the next one is viable so
there they're good on that yes that's
why they're firm one they're not they're
not paying the ransom because they know
they have a backup they've got their
backups and they're good yeah CEO said
that's good backups are good just but it
takes time so we got to think of that as
business owners as people in IT as those
who represent companies we have to think
about what is the recovery time from an
attack like this and I've had it come up
in discussions with customers who have
said oh yeah we've got backups and I say
ok you've got a backup when was the last
time you checked on the state of your
backup and they say well I don't know
our IT guy set that up two years ago
right and I don't think we've really
looked into it since then and and here's
my advice to them and I'll share this
with you because if you work in IT or if
you represent any amount of IT within a
company this is important information
what I share with them at that point is
here's what I want you to do I want you
to pretend that all the files on your
network are gone I want you to turn off
your server I want you to take what what
you normally access in a day so your
network shares everything on your
computer I
you just shut it down do this on a
weekend but I want you to do this this
is key do this every year okay and
recover from that I want you to then
take your backups so if you've been
taking that backup drive home with you I
want you to bring it back to the office
and I want you to time yourself what is
it gonna take to recover from that right
catastrophic destruction of all data it
could be a fire it could be it could be
an explosion it could be a ransomware
attack which is really on par with both
of those things right how long is it
going to take you to recover because a
lot of small businesses and here's my
point a lot of small businesses in the
recovery time from a ransomware attack
so even if I have good backups the time
that it takes for me to recover with
those backups from a ransomware attack
can put me out of business right hydro
is a big company they'll recover they
have backups they have a team that will
get them back up and running fairly
quickly mm-hmm but they're gonna lose a
lot of money the cost of aluminum is
going to go up mm-hmm that's gonna line
some pockets but it's also gonna cost
others the company themselves they'll be
okay they'll recover but they're huge
remember that wait 40 countries right
right so they can do this they can they
can recover from this because they've
got the capital they've got the they've
got the ability to recover from such a
thing a small company say a hundred
computers less mm-hm
now try to recover from that type of
disaster and if you are if you're gonna
find that your backups are gonna keep
you in to recover from backup is gonna
take you a week how will your company
fare looking looking at your current
contracts how are you gonna be a week
from now if you have to reset so you
have to lose that entire week for not
just you but your entire staff for your
entire organization and everything that
has happened up
that point how would you fare right what
if it's three weeks yeah okay and so
that's why when when I asked hey well
what's your recovery process yet
disaster recovery is very important it's
like when we're kids what do we do we
had a fire exactly yeah exactly it's
kind of the tech equivalent to having
like a fire drill yeah the fire drill
there's a purpose behind that it's so
that we're ready so that if a fire
really happens these little kids know
how to get out of the building right and
it becomes practiced so if you're doing
a practice backup then when the time
comes you aren't in this state of
anxiety and the first hurdle you
encounter you're like I'll just pay the
ransom right you're okay you're calm you
know what's gonna what it's gonna take
you know you're the ransom will put you
out of business yeah well you hit the
nail on the head is it it's practice
mm-hmm what happens when you practice
practice makes progress perfect practice
makes perfect so you will be able to
recover and you might even bring down
the timeline so the first couple of
times you do it it takes you a while
that's still and then eventually you
could bring it down it'll still be a
chunk of time but now you know how to
recover with your back can I take it one
step further yes practicing a fire drill
yes you know if you're if you've ever
been a teacher in kindergarten even
though the practices only get better
because you realize which which students
are the ones that you need to carry yes
that's the kid that is going to drag his
heels and and sit down in the corner of
the room right right you you learn that
okay there's a problem here we need to
address that if they're with your
backups with your restoration process
you're gonna learn oh my our accounting
software is not part of the backup our
PST files on all of our computers that
carry all of our contacts all of our all
of our calendars all of our emails for
the last six months are not part of our
backup what okay we need to fix that so
now our practice process
comes disaster prevention so it takes it
to a whole new level and that whole
process now is going to protect us so
that if it ever does happen we can say
with confidence when I say how are your
backups
what's your restoration process we say
well yeah we went through the the
process every six months we do this yeah
we've got this we emulate a disaster
recovery situation and work it we've got
good backups we have multi redundant
off-site backups mm-hmm we're good to go
so schedule that in your calendar right
now get that in your calendar absolutely
all right let's jump right into the
cryptocurrency market for this week as
of March 20th 2019 this is what things
look like on coin gecko Bitcoin
basically everything is on its way up
like we're seeing a real growth curve on
cryptocurrency Bitcoin is up 155 dollars
a US in 28 cents so it's sitting at
4,000 $22.67 finally breaking the four
thousand dollar mark it hasn't in a
while
litecoin is up at $59.95 a theorem is at
1:30 808 climbing six dollars and 42
cents US per coin it's a smaller coin so
that's acceptable Manero another smaller
coin gained a whopping four dollars and
64 cents now I say a whopping its value
is fifty four dollars and 25 cents so
that's a really good gain that's a good
percentage mm-hmm
stellite one of the smaller guys has
gained 0.06 ten thousandth of a sentinel
in mind these are really really small
coins that are really really easy to
mine and they are sitting at one point
six ten thousandth of a cent turtle coin
is the only one that has lost a little
bit
losing 0.08 ten thousandth of a cent per
coin and is currently sitting at zero
point seven ten thousandth of a cent
remember the cryptocurrency market never
closes and is always volatile big thanks
to Roy W Nash in our community of yours
for submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight linux
and for more free content be sure to
check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom and Sasha
Rickman turn on Robbie Ferguson
[Music]
[Applause]
