[Music]
all right welcome back so we have
covered setting up the minor yes and now
we're gonna talk about setting up your
wallet we've shown that you can actually
do it on just general hardware - yes
60-plus hashes per second on an old
laptop in a virtual machine which is
awesome that's not a Jeanette on your
actual computer I'm really excited about
this portion because I have struggled
this week with setting up a wallet okay
and making it work properly because
there was a lot of back-end stuff that I
didn't realize it was a simple whoa I've
got a wallet but the right or to it now
there's a there's a caveat here now I'm
going to be right straight up with you
please do the temptation is to find the
easiest solution to setting up your
wallet yes I fell into this temptation I
made this mistake and the easiest way is
to find an online service that you can
just go to their website and generate a
wall and you're done
oh that makes sense right and you can
still access it and everything but
remember until you have mind to the
threshold it doesn't expel to your
wallet right so if I create a wallet
online that is not in my control but is
in the control of an online provider
then I have to mine until the threshold
if I want to ever get cash out mm-hmm if
I don't so if I mine for two weeks and I
only get halfway to the threshold then
basically I've wasted two weeks worth of
mining power because it will never find
its way to my wallet right okay
so instead I'm gonna recommend that you
create your own wallet locally something
that you control that you are not
society you're not leaning on any online
service in order to provide the wallet
service the wallet feature okay now what
it comes to wallets yes just want to
take like 30 seconds for this you can
like Robbie's mentioned you can get an
online service to provide a wallet you
can do your wallet on your hard drive
like remotely
you'll also fall it is in the blockchain
yes
the information itself is in the
blockchain right you will also hear
about paper wallets that is where you're
literally recording your information on
a piece of paper
and so depending on the research you're
doing you're gonna hear about what just
safer which is better in a nutshell what
people are saying from my research and
soon correct me if I'm wrong on this is
that with online services you have the
greater risk of your information being
stolen because of potential attacks if
it's on your hard drive and you haven't
done locally it's a little bit more safe
provided your computer itself is safe
and if provided your wife doesn't throw
out your hard drive well that you know
but obviously the most secure is paper
but that is the most cumbersome so you
know what papers a great backup so when
you create your wallet on your computer
which is really just to generate a
wallet private keys and all that kind of
stuff so these keys are required in
order to transact so anyone can send me
currency if they have my wallet address
right but they can't open that wallet
they can't remove money from that wallet
unless they have the private keys so
that's where printing that information
putting in a file folder lock and key is
a great way to have a backup so that if
somebody throws out your hard drive that
contains those private keys you still
have one that you can sit there and
tediously type in yes okay so that's a
bit of a failsafe but realistically as
long as you've got a good backup and
nobody else has access to those keys
then you're you're good as long as
you've got a copy of it cuz it doesn't
matter my my hard drive could crash it
doesn't matter as long as I've got those
keys right whether they're on a paper
copy or a digital copy I just don't want
anyone else to have access to them
unless I die yeah you don't want because
if I died and my wife didn't have my
keys to open my cryptocurrency portfolio
that money is gone forever
nobody will have access to that ever yep
okay so keep that in the back your mind
okay so we're gonna learn about turtle
coin turtle coin is a lot of fun and
that's why I wanted to focus on it
tonight turtle coin is a new coin that's
worth one Satoshi right now it's
fluctuated up to three Satoshi over the
past couple of weeks and it's brand new
like it came out in December and really
started to make to get noticed
within the past month or so it's been on
a couple of podcasts and and we've been
hearing about it Kevin Rose had it on
his new cryptocurrency podcast and the
what really strike
Kevin and what really strikes me is that
the community surrounding turtle coin is
awesome yeah like when you go into their
discord which was a chat you get to know
people and you ask your questions and
they're very helpful yes they're instant
yeah you never get the impression there
that people are like oh I'm so sick of
hearing this stupid question no they're
like oh let me help you oh here's a link
to the documentation to show you here's
the download and and there's a lot of
community kind of helping each other to
gain the capability of doing turtle coin
yes so turtle coin right now worth
nothing essentially but it's worth
something I mean I've been mining it for
two weeks and I've got like fourteen
dollars in US Dollars currency so I mean
it's something and if that ever took off
then you know they say it'll go to the
moon who knows but again not financial
advice because we're not investing
anything we're not spending any money
we're just mining stuff so we're gonna
get a turtle wallet tonight so we're
gonna go to turtle coin dot lol a meme
coin and you know you can learn a little
bit about the creator's and and how you
know fun love and they are just by
looking at their website it's a chicky
site it really is cheeky so go to
download and you can choose Apple
Windows or Linux we're gonna go Linux
and you've got the CLI download so this
is kind of the precompiled stuff and
you've got source code and everything
else I wanted to show you that but we're
not going to use it instead what we're
gonna do is we're gonna compile it from
source tonight because we want to have
the latest and greatest version we want
to have all the latest features and we
want it to be compiled for our computer
so this is not mining software this is
specifically to create our capability of
having a wallet locally and to create
our own wallet offline so I'm just gonna
click on turtle coins so we're at github
comm slash turtle coin slash turtle coin
and here are the instructions in order
to compile it yourself so first thing we
need to do is grab this first line to
download oh well if you're on sorry that
is for Mac OS or ubuntu 16.04 you can
just do it with one fell swoop
easy peasy copy that line you're done
I'm not on Ubuntu I am on line' spire so
instead I'm going to scroll down to my
prerequisites here we're gonna build it
ourselves and copy the first line which
is to install the dependencies so we
jump into our terminal and paste that
line and that's just gonna go on to now
I have already done an apt update make
sure you do that first sudo apt update
and it tells me that everything is
already installed and ready to go so
that's good that means that I didn't
need any of this like build essentials
Python and that kind of stuff is already
installed on my computer great you may
not have that so that's a very important
line to paste now I'm going to paste
this line which is over these three
lines which is adding a repository to
the PPA and then it's updating apt and
then it is installing rocks DB here it
goes that one's not going to take long
don't worry about if not found and stuff
that's just my package manager all right
and there we go oh and it's already the
latest version on here as well so you
may not see that so it's still important
to paste this even though in my case it
was all good now I'm gonna grab this I'm
gonna jump into my CD / TMP and I'm
gonna run these commands and this
particular process now the initial like
cloning the github repository making the
directory C making and everything
doesn't take very long but the final
line that make line takes about 35
minutes to build the the software Wow
so because of that I wanted to make I
wanted to pre do it and I've accelerated
things for you so we've pasted that into
my terminal and now it is running
through super super fast because I've
accelerated this from 35 minutes to only
48 seconds so that's the magic of
television folks we learn from our
mistakes when we try to install things
live on the air isn't that right guys no
I've never tried to install something on
air before that takes three hours new
while we're live ok so there you go
looks like we're just about done yeah
it's done once it's finished you'll know
and everything compiles just fine so now
I'm back on my live system we're no
longer on pre record and you can see
that what it's done is its created a
folder turtle coin zero point and
remember I went into temp first so in
turtle coin 0 3.2 here's all the files
now there's a folder that was created
called turtle coin and in there is where
everything was built so I want to
actually I don't want that in temp
because if I reboot my computer having
created my wallet I'm gonna lose my
wallet file right right
because temp gets cleared out so I'm
gonna move that to my home folder so
move which is MB and Linux turtle coin
to tilde slash and now if I go into till
the slash which is my home folder
slash home slash Robbie it's the same
you'll see a folder called turtle coin
and if I go in there it's what I had in
temp previously so now if I reboot its
persistent now if I go into the source
folder
I should see something called simple
wallet there it is but let's see I want
to go into build instead and then in
build are you following me here oh yeah
are you following me here camera guy I'm
just selling snake oil so I'm in tilde
slash which is my home folder turtle
coin slash build slash SRC
that's where the built version is and I
can run now simple wallet now when I run
that Jeff the first thing it does is it
asked me you know what do you want to do
you've never run this before I want to
generate a new wallet address
press G and hit enter what do you want
to call your new wallet I'm going to
call this Robby wallet enter give your
new wallet a password this should be
super strong
remember anyone who has this password
and this file can get your private keys
yes so I'm going to use test one two
three very having said that okay so now
I have created a wallet it says that it
cannot connect to the blockchain because
we have not synchronized the blockchain
but we're gonna talk about that in a
moment but it is created on my local
filesystem so now I've got my spend key
my view key meinem on Exede which is
words that I can use to recover my
wallet if I ever lose my keys and I've
got my actual turtle coin wallet address
so this is where people send me coin and
that's where I mind to that's where I
sent my pool the point that's the
address itself for public consumption
that's where I accept payments and
donations right now if I do balance 0
dot 0 dot 0 of course and I'm gonna type
exit so you'll see another file here
called turtle coin D if I run that
what's gonna happen is it's going to
download the entire blockchain to my
computer that's gonna take a couple
hours at least and once it's there I
have to have turtle coin D running all
the time if I want to open my wallet
because it needs to be able to
synchronize to the blockchain all making
sense yes the blockchain is thousands
and thousands of computers all
communicating the wallet information and
currency transfers and everything and
the blocks themselves all to one another
so now rather than doing that today it's
a good idea to do that from a network
standpoint because then you are building
the network by adding one more daemon to
the network and here's another copy of
the blockchain
it adds redundancy and it adds you know
it's it's better for privacy and things
like that to have it running but in our
case because of the sake of the TV show
we don't want to download something
that's going to take two and a half
hours and it's
we use the public blockchain so I'm
gonna type dot slash simple wallet and
please note here on Linux I type dot
slash simple wallet on Windows just type
simple wallet on Mac it's gonna be dot
slash simple wallet as well so the
commands are the same regardless of
whether you're on Windows or Mac just
that the installation process will be a
little bit different so in order to use
the public wallet what I'm gonna do is
I'm gonna go first of all I'm going to
assign my wallet file which I called
well if I could type Robby wallet okay
file equals Robby wallet and or no I
don't need an equals I just need a space
don't I Jeff sorry there we go
you ready for this because this is
something that you were looking for yes
here's the key thing daemon - - Damon -
host and we're gonna go daemon dot
turtle dot link and then - - Damon -
port this is the port for the daemon one
one eight nine eight hit enter enter the
password for my wallet
test one two three and now it's opened
my wallet and it is syncing the
blockchain with my wallet and it's
communicating with that blockchain
that's publicly hosted and then it's
going to share that block information
with everyone else so now I can start
accepting currency on my wallet right so
my wallet is synced to the blockchain
okay yes so confusing and yet so easy
once we get our head around it so the
steps are if you want a mine you need a
miner but you need to have a wallet if
you want to mine to yourself and if
you're using a pool you need to know
that the threshold is when it will flush
that money that you've mined in to your
crypto currency wallet so if you're not
seeing something coming into your wallet
right away check that threshold maybe
you haven't met it yet yeah that's all
it's finished it's loaded up there you
go it's also done and done I didn't have
to sync the blockchain that's just a
quick way around it anyway right so find
out more go to cap five dot TV slash
miners to grab the category 5 TV miners
which is going to help support the shows
that you love here but it's also going
to get you started with a prebuilt ready
to go version of the mining software
that you need
to mine cryptocurrency mm-hmm now while
you are doing your review there of how
to install it we had a question in the
chat room a few months ago you did a
tester and electricity yes
has anybody tried running that no to see
how what the I haven't yet but even
though there is that I mean people can
can say well mining uses electricity
that's true your computer has to be on
24/7 now when I'm sitting at my computer
anyways I'm working away it's it's hard
I mean I'm using it but you can do that
you know test the electricity if you
there's so many different perspectives
to it again this is not financial advice
so but know that yeah it's gonna cost
money to mine in that you're using
electricity when your computers are
mining but the idea is the hope is that
that turtle that I'm mining today if I
can get 10,000 of those and then all of
a sudden they become worth $1 each Oh
free electricity not that it's gonna
happen nothing I'm promising anything
but if it did and if not it's a cheap
form of entertainment exactly and I mean
for myself the idea of starting with
something as easy to use as turtle coin
it's helping me wrap my head around this
and work through the bugs within my
thinking of how this works and so I've
enjoyed it
turtle coin dot lol and part of it Jeff
as we get into crypto mining is that
community yes so knowing that if I am
stuck if I need help I can get into
discord and you can find that on their
website as well and it's easy to get
help and people are willing to help yeah
and it's cool I've been to a lot of fun
it's a lot of fun yeah
[Applause]
