hi and welcome to new every day my name
is Jen and I'm Jane hi and welcome to
new every day my name is Jen and I'm
Jane and today we're into part two of
our series on signs so stay tuned we
will be right back this is new every day
with Jenna Wagner and Gary Webb
[Music]
hi and welcome back to the new everyday
we're so glad that you've tuned in and
joined us here on our road trip through
Midwest America we are currently on
route our highway 44 somewhere between
Tulsa Oklahoma and Springfield Missouri
and we are talking about signs and so
last week we talked about the fact that
God loves us has plans and purposes for
us and speaks to us through signs but we
need to be aware of how he speaks to us
and as we talked about the Word of God
we talked about prayer we talked about
people we talked about circumstances we
talked about dreams while on today's
show we actually want to talk about
signs again and sometimes we can think a
sign is leading in the right direction
but when we get there that's not where
we expect it to be and so to be mindful
of well how do we actually discern that
the sign is correct
so because the reason we bring this up
is so often we to be like what God spoke
to me in the sign that God spoke to me
in this side and even Gideon right we're
not called the judge Gideon to lead his
nation of Israel to stand up against the
Midianites
he was like well prove it to me if you
know if the lamb's wool is dry but
everything around it is wet I'll know
it's you and it happened and he's like
that's good god but can you do it again
while they flip it this time so
everywhere else around the lamb's wool
is going to be wet but the lamb's wool
itself will be dry and then God did it
as a sign from the Lord that he saw
confirmation on I want to be really sure
that this is what you want me to do
sometimes though people will think that
they have had a word from the Lord and
they go ahead and they walk in it but it
hasn't necessarily been confirmed and
that's where we ended off the last show
was on the importance of confirmation
that then parts of having two or three
witnesses which is so important but what
happens like so how do you discern and
you discern if that's really God
speaking to you so that's where we want
to pick this up because we want you to
follow the signs that God has for you
but not every sign is a sign from the
Lord right so
and and not every sign should be taken
at face value because not all signs are
what they seem
yes and so and a an example of that was
for us this week very clearly was an
individual at the hockey game that we
went to we went to Minnesota wild
against Vancouver Canucks and so in
Minnesota there were so many people
wearing the jerseys and wearing you know
the colors and all of that and so here
we are probably the only two maybe there
were two others you know actually
rooting for the Canucks but that was
fine but we made this assumption that
all these people who were there wearing
the colors the jerseys the scarves the
tooks you know were diehard fans that a
knew the game and knew the players and
knew what was happening and so a very
specific example of that was their
goalie and when their their goalie was
first announced it sounded like everyone
was booing him it sounded like a boo and
and then every time he made a play it
sounded again like they were booing him
was boo boo that's what it sounded like
and I finally turned it to this person
next to me who was wearing a Jersey and
I said why do they keep booing but
goalie yeah why aren't they building him
up and encouraging him and she said oh
they're having a really hard time with
their goalkeeping and so they're just
being hard on him and I'm like wow this
is a tough crowd and like because every
time you touch the pocket right like and
chain is getting intense she's like what
is wrong with these people they should
be encouraging her and I'm sitting
I agree like it was very disheartening
and we're like on the vancouver canucks
side thinking wow this is so
disheartening for this goaltender and so
i'm we're having this conversation back
and forth about well this really isn't
about affirming and how can they build
up his confidence and and i overhear two
girls sitting beside me on the other
side saying well his last name and i
can't even remember the whole thing but
this last name is starts me like do be
they surely let you do but you did
something group and so they called him
so whenever he touched the player
actually made a good play right they
would be like dude which sounds like boo
only it's do and all of a sudden I'm
like check the roster yep check the
roster there was his name well that
Robbie put up his real name there at the
bottom of the screen Thank You Robbie
but literally so they just took his
that's just the first three letters of
his name and actually called it out as
an encouragement right and we're sitting
there going this makes so much sense
but we sat there going this woman had
the garb like that he had on the Jersey
it sounded like what she was saying was
you know sounded right and yet it didn't
sit right in our spirit it sounded like
really and so that thing in our spirit
we want to say is something that the
Lord puts there to bring discernment to
things and just because one person can
say well this is what it is does not and
even though they're wearing the full
gear that's not true in our spirit we're
like
that's that's not very kind or
encouraging and as soon as you know I
hear these other two girls talking about
it and we check it out and it was like
the confirmation right confirmation
confirmation or like okay then that
that's the troops then and so we're
sitting here going wow
we were totally taken off-guard by what
we perceived as someone who would know
what the right thing to do was or what
the right answer was but it wasn't right
and so as we take this commercial break
we want you to think about when was a
time that you listened to someone or
believed someone because you thought
they had the right information but it
turned out they really did it and so
we'll be back right after these messages
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching hi we're so
glad that you have tuned in and you're
sharing this time with us if you're
interested in helping to support us do
the show every week we encourage you to
go to our website new every day TV check
out our partners page and get involved
there's a weekly sponsorship that you
can get involved with every called
patreon so every time we do a show you
can put some money towards that that
will be taken off your credit card or
there's a variety of businesses that if
you have to make a purchase then you can
go to any of those businesses and the
money that you spend there we will get a
portion of that to help make this show
happen so and also pray for us pray for
Kerry and myself and our special guests
as well as Robby and the team at
category 5 praying that God would
continue to open up doors for us to
teach people and to speak about how much
God loves them in its plans and purposes
for their life so here we are talking
about signs concerning signs and how how
do we know that it you know it's really
God's voice or how to be careful not to
make assumptions that's really what God
is saying
and another as we shared before we went
to a break about the hockey game and
needing to know some information and we
thought we were going to the right
person to get the information but we
warranted and has that ever happened to
you where you feel that he went to the
right person but it turns out that it
was not very good information to begin
with and sometimes that can be even like
going I remember going to a guidance
leader or having a guidance either
speaks to me when I was in school and
they said Oh Jen like you need to become
a doctor and because you know you have
good grades and I think you do a really
good job at this and I'm thinking doctor
and yet they were a guidance counselor
so you would think they would you know
have an idea of what I should be doing
and at that point I'm just like I don't
think that's when I'm called to and
obviously I'm now a pastor I teach
people about Jesus and how much he loves
them and has plans and purposes for
their life but that's an example in my
life where I could have listened to that
guidance counselor and have become a
doctor but I would not have been
fulfilling the purpose that I know God
has for me and so what's interesting
about this whole idea of I want to say
how do we want to say it where the lady
was wearing the the jersey we have that
just sometimes signs are what you
perceive as a sign is just not what you
see at face value is not really
indicative of what's going on beneath
the surface and so we were talking about
that first in in Samuel no yes Samuel
where yes Samuel is told by God to go
and anoint the next king because God has
rejected Saul and so he's told to go to
Jesse and is going through you know all
and in his mind he's saying oh look at
this one and you know he's he's tall and
he's handsome and he's broad children
and and God and each time God says no no
no yes and Samuel is like well what's
going on and God says well man looks at
the outside but God sees the heart and
so we thought about that you know with
this person at the hockey game right was
what we saw what we saw with our earthly
eyes was the jersey but what was really
going on inside was someone was just
wearing the jersey but didn't know a
thing about the team and so we thought
about you know how as Christians we can
say we are a Christian we can go to
church we can so we have the right words
that we speak but that doesn't
necessarily mean we are a Jesus follower
and we've had conversations with people
where yep we go to church we sing we
sing songs about Jesus
and we serve and then we're like oh
great there Jesus flower right and then
you start having theological
conversations about sexuality or worship
or Bible reading and all of these things
and and responses that you think should
come from them as far as being a Jesus
follower are more like oh oh really
that's what that means are oh really
that that's what that means and and and
when you say well the Word of God says
well tell me what the Word of God says
and all of a sudden you sort of step
back and you realize you aren't
necessarily dealing with a mature
believer of Christ you're dealing with
someone who could very well be a very
immature Christian so they know Jesus
they've tasted the goodness of God but
they actually have a dove in deep and
allowed everything allowed the Word of
God and prayer and fellowship to
actually change who they are - right - I
want to say reorder the priorities of
their life and it's always like because
sometimes you just want to jump into
those conversations with people and you
go oh like they're in a totally
different place than I am and that's not
a bad place but almost sudden we can't
make assumptions that just because
people say they're a Christian that they
are being trained up in the ways of the
Lord and brings me to a story about King
Rhea bomb who was the son of King
Solomon and when King Solomon died King
REO boom was greeted by the leaders of
the people who said would you please
basically take it easy on us we have
worked really hard for your dad and if
you take it easier on us we'll work
really hard for you as well and so King
REO boom went to the elders and said
what should I do about this and they
said take it easy on take it easy on
them and they will serve you with all of
their heart and he actually didn't like
that response and he went to his peers
and said this is what the people are
saying what do you say in there oh no
like you need to stand up and say this
is who I am and you know my little
fingers bigger than my dad's like saying
I'm much more of a man than my dad was
and so he actually took the advice of
his peers rather than taking the rights
of the elders who had life experience
and as a result the kingdom was torn
away from him and so when we talked
about signs and listening to the Lord
it's really important who you listen to
like in the case of the moon with the
jersey she had wrong information and in
case in the case of conversations with
people who are new believers they don't
have the depth of experience to say well
this is how God actually works or when
you when you read this well then you
need to actually see well what does what
does the whole story of the Bible say or
in my experience I have seen this happen
but you that only comes with experience
with God and experience with God isn't
necessarily an age thing experience with
God is a relationship thing like you can
have a person who has known Jesus for
like 2 or 3 years but has such a depth
of experience with him because they've
fully committed fully surrendered versus
someone who has just gone to church all
their life doesn't have the experience
with God and so we want you to think
about who is it that you're listening to
when you're you're seeking out the
things of the Lord like we said because
maybe you're reading something and
you're wondering is this what God is
saying to me well then who do you go to
like it's yes you can talk to your peers
but are they actively reading the Word
of God because if they aren't actively
reading the Word of God either then what
are they speaking like where's their
wisdom coming from or if you've had a
dream or when you're wanting some help
and interpreting wondering you know is
this is this from the work is this God
saying to me well then you need to go to
someone who actually believes that God
speaks through dreams because some
people would just say well God never
speaks through dreams and so part of you
know discipleship and grooming in Christ
is actually pulling people into your
life being aware of people that you can
go to for conversation about the things
of God and what God is calling you to
and said but as we are not designed to
rely totally on ourselves for that
information like even even this morning
you know I had a conversation with Jane
we had gone shopping yesterday and I had
bought an outfit and but it wouldn't
look like I just had this sort of
squeezing in my spirit like like I
needed to take it back like it and the
Lord didn't give me a reason or say he
just I feel like they need to take it
back and because I'm a I know that Jane
listens to the spirit - she's actively
reading the Word of God be she's a good
friend and wants what's best for me and
is in his actively seeking the Lord when
I said this to her there was not a or a
thing of judgment it was just like yeah
that's what you need to do like it was
very much like okay like it was a
confirmation of what the Spirit was
saying to me
versus going to someone who who isn't in
the word or isn't seeking the Lord and
so that's why it's so important to have
people in your life that can help you
sort of wrestle out these things that we
feel that the gut the Lord is saying to
us so I'm not no we need to fix our our
camera a little bit so we're gonna pray
with you and then we're gonna sign off
for the speech so dear Lord Jesus thank
you so much that you are the God who
speaks and you put people in our lives
to help us discern what you were saying
and so father we ask that you would help
us turn to the right people so we hear
your voice clearly and know what he
would have us to do so father help us to
listen to all the students the people
you put in our life to speak their true
and lord help us
your name so thank you so much for
joining us today
go on back next week we're gonna finish
up our three sides so until that kind of
ranking provide
you
