welcome to category five technology TV
episode 514 for Wednesday July 26 2017
I'm Jeff Weston I'm taking over the
hosting duties tonight Robbie's not here
and with me is Sasha Sasha what is
coming up in the newsroom here's what's
coming up in the category five TV
newsroom the world's first autonomous
transport ship plans to set on suede
onyx wages next year
a Swedish rail firm has approved
training m'q train phase as the name of
their train follows an online poll
Google is unleashing 20 million
lab-created
sterile male mosquitoes on a city and
says it's a good thing and will help
control the mosquito population
according to the Federation against
copyright theft British magazine Cody is
directing readers to copyright
infringing software and updated your own
regulations in Canada make it legal to
fly again stick around the full details
are coming up later in the show
this is category five technology TV wild
live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
Technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in live every week on roku
cody and other HLS video players for
local show times category 5 TV category
5 TV is a member of the tech podcast
network if it's tech it's here cat 5 TV
slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash ia IB
I'm your host Jeff lesson and in the co
seat tonight
taxidermy de though you're probably
wondering where's rowdy he's actually
taken the night off this is the first
time Robby's had a night off in the show
since its creation true there was the
one time he like tried to let go of the
reins and he sat in the audience and
actually a lot higher so much yeah
hopefully we don't burn the place down
we'll see how it goes but he did give
some really good instructions and when
in doubt he is available if something
goes wrong so if I randomly just pick up
my cell phone I'm like you know that
I've screwed up I truly do want to prove
that we like don't need him we need him
but like today we won't need him so that
means that I'll be really counting in
the chat remember things go awry to hell
me and so one of the things with Robbie
not being here is I realized that I am
way more dependent on his tech knowledge
that I realized I never had any doubt
how dependent on his technology
yeah well I'm spending there he's like
also what are you going to cover for the
show I'm like what do I know for tech do
I know what my idea was what my small
idea was like maybe I could bring in my
switch because I just like it got in
rollers oh sure yeah I know what you
spend in everything I am okay with an
hour of playing video games that would
be fun uh-huh well next time next time
Robbie has a day off I do have an idea
for the future and I think we've talked
about it on a previous episode but I
want to build a full-blown arcade system
with a Raspberry Pi right so that will
be coming sometime in the future before
I die I hope but that's going to be one
of those shows where it takes a lot of
prep work because I'm going to have to
actually build the frame and all that
kind of stuff and you know so it'll be a
lot of woodworking not so techie but
it'll still be fun it'll be amazing
mm-hmm but for tonight's show we're not
really showing you tech we're going to
tell you about tech that's right
tons of news about tech yes now not tech
but related to physics and engineering
and repairs and stuff how was your bike
ride home last week oh okay so last week
I told you about how I got stuck in the
worst storm ever two weeks ago yes so I
was all eager because the four
Cass was blissfully amazing last week so
I was like I'll just ride home joyously
not that I had any other option at all
because I don't have a car so I served
biking along happy as can be going well
and then my chain broke not only my cane
my derailleur snapped in half I didn't
even know that could happen I am really
it's the thing that moves your chain
from like also whatever the guy really
cares it's a ring that moves the gears
to the different spots so you were stuck
in one gear then no my chain also broke
in half well yeah so both went so the
derailleur snapped it broke my chain
okay so I was in the middle of not
everybody hears from Barry or familiar
but I was in Wellington and Bayfield up
right in the middle of the intersection
so I'm picking up parts of my bike in
the middle and yeah it was awesome Pete
while people were just that people are
good people are good there's good people
okay so on Wednesday evenings in Barry
they have I guess they call it I don't
know what it's called even but they have
movies in the park of Annette's point
which is like they for me her favorite
thing
Hirano reason tonight is the life of
pets anyway oh right it's Wednesday
night okay so I'll be fine I was really
lucky this really sweet guy and I really
I should have told him where I was
coming from so that he could watch the
show this really sweet guy named Peter
his name was Peter I think it was like
this is not a great place to be stuck
wait with you and you get picked up my
other friend Mel came and picked me up
but it was it was an ordeal and Dave the
next day when I would be fixed my bike
because exactly how smart I am with tech
with Robbie is how smart I am with bikes
with Dave so he fixed my bike completely
okay so today it's going to be the
perfect ride home good times
well seeing is this is all about you
right about now what's going on in the
news room let me check here are the
stories were covering this week in the
category 5 TV newsroom
the world's first autonomous transport
ship plans to set out on its voyages
next year
training m'q train pace as the name of
their train following an online poll
lab-created seral male mosquitoes on a
city and says this is a good thing and
will help control the mosquito
population according to the Federation
against copyright tasks British magazine
Cody is directing readers to cop to
copyright infringing software and
updated drone regulations in Canada make
it legal to fly again these stories are
coming right up don't go anywhere
Jeff Westen Gemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what are you
alright you're terrible actor
what does where acting comes into play
oh I don't know what are thing you're
supposed to act ok fair enough
underling a really cool website are you
building a really cool website you need
hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
it's sure how much hard drive space you
have how many email account how many
domains can point to it well we've got
an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap 5 dot TV slash dream
host for just $5 and a bit of change per
month you are going to get unlimited web
site hosting unlimited email accounts on
that hosting service you are also going
to receive a free domain name the roots
are your own com dice to put that
amazing website that you've been working
on on there if you run if you want to
build a wordpress site fine
sign up cat5 dot TV slash DreamHost
still fulfill of a paper something just
don't do it but hey it's a great deal
folks best deal you're going to find
five dollars and change per month put a
cap five dot TV slash dream host
I'm Sasha tomatoes in here the top
stories for the week of July 26 2017 a
foolish ship to be christened the Yarra
berkland is expected to start sailing in
2018
initially delivering fertilizer along 30
a 37 mile route in southern Norway the
electric powered ship will be miniscule
by modern standards with the capacity
for 100 to 150 containers but its
arrival could be a huge turning point
for the global shipping industry the
ship according to The Wall Street
Journal will cost twenty five million
dollars about three times as much as a
conventional ship of similar size but
will save up to 90% in annual operating
costs by eliminating both fuel and crew
though it's project is it though it is
projected to launch next year it will
transition to fully autonomous
operations only in stages it will first
be operated by an onboard crew then
remotely before becoming fully self
guided by 2020 that is around the time
rules governing autonomous ships are
expected to be in place okay so Jeff how
you feel about that aye I think it's a
very cool idea what to see is not a
place to be playing around with a fully
automated boat I mean like is it going
to be able to adapt to things like hey a
hurricane just showed up in the middle
of the ocean okay so here's the thing I
feel like it because it's safer for
people to not be on the ship in the
hurricane I'm ok with the ship
perhaps.perhaps full of fertilizer going
down but I feel like it's better for the
people to not be on board if there's
going to be a catastrophic failure of
some sort not that I think that the
ocean needs 150 containers full of
fertilizer well that's just a crisis I'm
sure that's a bad yeah I'm ever waiting
to use it no I think it's very cool
though but I just I can't
wonder like is the a I can be ready for
the elements I mean we've got autonomous
cars that can't pick up or certain
autonomous cars but self-driving cars
that can't pick up jumping kangaroos in
Australia but now I'm going to send a
ship out into the water like is it going
to be programmed for icebergs is it
gonna be programmed for other we're all
really good with the icebergs Jeff well
there was one vote that struggled with
the iceberg or a iceberg what yeah oh I
like they're doing in stages right so
it's kind of like the the new story that
we had last week
with the race cars where there was a
human in the car that would guide right
yes so it's similar to that in that
people will be in the boat and train the
boat probably the route and it likely
won't deviate from that right so now the
thing the thing is I mean if I were to
take kind of a nother side of it yeah
now people are out of jobs right there's
I would making that argument for a year
I know some your writing on this one but
people are perhaps now available to get
safer on shore jobs than on the sea
that's true that is true
those disappointed when Britain rejected
the name bode mcboatface for a polar
research ship should find joy in the
name of a new train in Sweden after a
public vote a Swedish rail operator has
vowed to name one of its trains train
emic train face The Guardian reports a
training act train face 149 percent of
the votes in the name and competition
conducted by online train operator MTR
Express in Swedish newspaper Metro
beating choices such as McCann Miriam
and Poseidon the train will run between
the Swedish capital Stockholm and
Gothenburg the country's second biggest
city and here said another train had
been voted had been voted to be named
Glenn an apparent tribute to an IFK
Gothenburg soccer team of the 1980s that
featured four players
of that name uncommon in Sweden
including Glenn - who later captained
Liverpool okay so first thing I thought
is Glenn was a probably a nod to walking
dead and I was completely wrong
but what would you name it train after
character from The Walking Dead I don't
know that's the only Glenn I know I
guess then training me train face I'm so
happy that there aren't public polls for
naming children there are there better
not be well I don't know about public
polls but I know I've seen people where
they've done fundraisers online like hey
name our baby and for every vote it's
like 5 bucks and baby McBay BJ's know
there's been some wild ones II yeah and
I don't know if it's ever actually been
tested legally in court my thought is if
you're going to take money and somebody
wins you have to name their kid that I
don't I love the name train emic train
case to be honest with you I don't love
the name Poseidon for a train if that
seems weird and I'm deciding like a
water you think yeah yes okay so I would
have expected just people to be voting
for like Thomas the Tank Engine yeah how
come he was in do Thomas but I don't
know maybe Thomas wasn't as riveting as
Glenn or trainee mix train face training
my train base this is what our world is
they should have named the Train boaty
mcboatface that would have been a kick
in the teeth of the boat company yeah
well then Google's health care arm
verily announced just before the weekend
it will release 20 million sterile male
mosquitoes into the wild in Fresno
County California don't panic it's to
test fighting diseases like zika dengue
and chikungunya I'm glad I do not have
that disease the deepa project will be
the biggest US study to set free
mosquitoes infected with wool bhatia a
common reproductive parasite the idea is
that the infected mosquitoes will try to
mate with wild females but the eggs laid
will not hatch and the mosquito
population will decline over time
a million mosquitoes will be released
over a twenty week period okay I love
this story because I am like a mosquito
magnet right so I love the idea of
getting rid of mosquitoes that shocks me
what what the something is magnetized to
me I'm an attractive individual no it
shocks me that you would be okay with
messing with things look it it's not
like the mosquitoes are being taken over
by robots okay they're just being
eradicated there like GMO mosquitoes now
but they're non reproductive GMO okay
but what are mesquite excuse that'd be
good for something and now to have like
sharing ginger blood okay I under - I
get it but don't they feed like I wish
anymore don't they feed birds Oh if you
bet yes bats eat mosquitoes okay and
probably frogs eat mosquitoes - frogs a
mosquito I have no clue anyway I love
the idea of less mosquitoes I don't love
the idea of modifying something to make
less mosquitoes I don't love the idea
when has modifying something outside of
the natural course of creation ever gone
bad for the human race when has
modifying this is this is ridiculous
you're doing right now
I just impression it was like well what
happened to the other ways of
controlling mosquito populations like
don't let it don't let there be standing
water right or seeing the lakes we have
around this area but it's always windy
but but like it's a standing water
situation is Kito's breed in standing
water don't let there be standing water
no but if you don't want there to
genetically modify uh mosquitoes I don't
want there to be Zika or chicky Ganga or
whatever it's called yeah I don't want
dengue fever
I don't want fair isle mosquitoes unless
they to choose to sterilize
Sal's not socialization I'm okay with no
mosquitoes okay that one's got my vote
infringing software Cody is a free legal
media player for computers but software
add-ons can make it possible to download
pirated content the complete guide to
cody magazine instructs readers on how
to download such add-ons dennis
publishing has not yet responded to a
BBC request for comment the magazine is
available at a number of retails
including WH Smiths Waterstones and
Amazon it was spotted on sale by a cyber
security researcher Kevin Bauman it
repeatedly warns readers of the dangers
of accessing pirated content online but
one article lists a series of software
packages alongside screenshots promoting
free TV popular albums and world sport
check before you stream and use them at
your own risk the guide says before
adding that readers should stay on the
right side of the law two of the add-ons
listed in the article are a banned list
maintained by the Cody developers Nate
Betts in Cody's community and project
manager says we don't support piracy
add-ons and so we don't like the idea of
someone selling a magazine encouraging
people to use them WH Smith declined the
comment but it is understood that the
newsagent has no plans to stop the sale
of the magazine Transport Canada has
issued an update in recent week or in
recent weeks to its interim order
governing the use of unmanned aerial
vehicles or UAVs which include consumer
and professional drones the previous
order which went into effect on March
16th imposed harsh restrictions on when
and where Canadians could operate their
drones effectively grounding their
aircrafts in most populated areas of the
country the rule surprised many
including amateur drone enthusiasts
professionals and industry players they
also prompted a strong backlash from
drone owners who signed online petitions
wrote to the Minister of Transport as
well as their local MP MPs and joined
and on
group called node created by Chinese
drone company DJI for the purpose of
making their voices heard those efforts
were apparently successful the new rules
adjust the filament ations imposed by
the March announcement earlier in the
month that the Canadian launch of its
new drone the DJI spark Adam Liz Berg
DJI corporate communications director
for North America Express expressed
frustration with transport Canada's
rules noting that they do that they
would do nothing to prevent drone pilots
from flying recklessly if that's what
they were determined to do well they
penalized the overwhelming majority of
drone pilots who fly safely I'm not sure
how I feel about this one I like it
because it just goes to show you that
your voice can absolutely be heard right
this is people who really stood up
against some super limiting regulations
and they changed the laws really see
speeding up I love I love that they said
that look this is this is wrong you
don't understand what we need to do and
you're not going far enough you're not
doing what we need you're going the
wrong area and like that
what I don't like is that drones are
just taking off in the last couple years
as something fun to do like the fact
that my kids have a little teeny drone
like are they going to be roped into
these rules in some way shape or form it
depends on the weight of them I suppose
yeah I mean a teeny drone it's yeah you
know but if we get the point where you
start upgrading to something bigger and
maybe we're not using it for commercial
purposes but is this going to impact the
ability of just having fun and I can't
have a wonder how is this going to
affect like some of our shows like the
drone zone yeah so yeah you know I wish
Henry was here for this to weigh in on
it because Henry that's true he would
have some good thoughts yeah he would
know exactly even what those regulations
are whereas I'm not quite sure I
understand that you can't fly drones
after like up to like certain secured
areas that you can't be in a airport
sort of
scenario or a little Jersey stuff like
that yeah but still I don't know what
and I just I think maybe they're jumping
the gun on some of the rules that
Transport Canada is rolling out yeah I
think is a drone really transport hmm
depends on asset owned by Amazon I guess
ha ha ha ha okay good point I'll give
you the big thanks this week to the
Albuquerque turkey Roy W Nash and our
community of viewers for submitting
surveys tests this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom i'm sasha
dramatis thanks so much Sasha so if
you're watching you may have realized
that we had news quite early in the show
I messed up the format I even have it
written down right here but I mess it up
anyway see that's what happens when
Robbie leaves things just go hmm so
anyway what we were going to be doing
tonight
before the news that we're now going to
do after the news if things you need to
know from the world of tech so it's not
just news but it's what are some of the
other things that are happening in the
world of tech that may not make it to
the news room because we have stories
submitted all the time but we can only
get so many on every week so what Sasha
and I thought we'd do is just kind of
fill you know what's happening around
the world that's right yeah
one of them that most people should be
excited about is Adobe is officially
killing flash by 2020 not even going to
give a moment of silence because it's
just wonderful it has been a long time
coming ever since html5 flash has been
useless
right what do some things use only flash
I feel like you're yes that's I've
websites that may have not updated
technology like I know you can you can
go to some gaming sites where you just
play flash based games they just haven't
bothered to update to get with the times
and they're stuck back in something from
the 1990s
so but I mean like you've got Chrome
Microsoft edge Safari they all stop
blocking flash I think it was last year
you've got a couple of them that are
going to be doing some support into the
years ahead
like I think Microsoft edge is giving
some support in to 2019 something like
that but as of 2020 Adobe you're saying
you know what enough is enough flash is
dead which is interesting because that's
what Adobe really has been built on yeah
so it's it's going to be neat to see
them adapt and I know they've already
made steps with other areas but it's
kind of its kind of neat so flash is
officially given the swan song I like it
yeah yeah right you have something about
cars right ok so the UK is banning the
sale of new gas and diesel cars starting
in 2040 and then by 2050 expected to
have none on the roads that's cool yeah
although it makes me feel a little bit
of old because I retire in the 2040s so
maybe I'll go to Europe and drive an
electric vehicle I love it you know to
be honest with you I've been watching
the Netflix documentary about that it's
called the pyramid code and I really I
don't
it's a documentary about pyramids and
how contrary to popular belief they were
actually used as I guess electrical
conduit I don't know exactly but they
they created electricity it was like
Tesla had the idea of electricity that
wasn't made from combustion so I like
the fact that we're going the route of
green energy even though it seems like
we're fairly delayed in it by 2040 we're
going to make it happen if that's
stopping the sale so like you can't go
to Europe and buy a diesel vehicle
perfect I mean that's really feasible
don't need to hear 20 years away yeah
there's no any except for the fact that
there is a transition period that needs
to happen
it's not like we don't have the
technology now to make it happen we can
totally be done with it now if we needed
to we do need to I think it's kind of
cool I'm excited to see how it will be
rolled out some of the rules that come
with it how it's going to change the
auto industry and how is it going to
change the oil industry in Europe is a
big place
so if you're going to cut out the entire
sale and use of diesel and gasoline
vehicles instead have a massive massive
impact
so let it be interesting very cool ok
going from Europe to the US this one's
kind of neat Girl Scouts of America
kudos to you so the Girl Scouts of
America have decided to add 23 new
badges in the areas of science
technology engineering mathematics and
outdoors so the science technology
engineering math they call stem so
they're stem badges and outdoor badges
and of these 23 there's a robotics one
specifically for programming robotics
keep your cool I know I'm like I want to
be a Girl Scout of America just so I can
get the badge the point is for the for
that one they have to create simple
programs that would run a robot and
understand how the machine uses sensors
ok so that's kind of cool on the
engineering side of things they're going
to have to design a race car so design
the car design the track and carry out
the test with fair rules so I guess that
so that nobody loses and everybody gets
a medal I don't know what the fair rules
means that's you know annihilating the
other ones well see I like healthy
competition but I just I think this is
awesome
the other one that they're rolling out
within that is with some of the
programming they're working with other
companies from tech related groups like
code
org size starter Goldie box and this
goes with other badges that they're
going to be rolling out next year that
they've already announced for website
designer and fiber security which is
very cool not too many clubs teach kids
about cybersecurity so I think this is
great but the interesting thing but why
they're doing this is Girl Scouts of
America has found that almost that their
members know if that's the word you call
them they're almost twice as likely as
non Girl Scouts to participate in stem
and outdoor activities
sixty percent versus thirty five percent
and as well Girl Scouts are more likely
to get careers in STEM industries law
and business nice that's very nice so
not only is it about getting a badge and
learning some really cool stuff but it's
setting you up for the next phase in
life which is your career other is often
what a great move I love it it's great
well done Girl Scouts of America good
job all right what have you got okay so
here are this is quite the list of how
our lives will change dramatically over
the next 20 years is this an op-ed like
an opinion piece or is this like looking
at the transition of tack and where is
it looking at the transition of tack
okay alright so there's quite a few of
these so we can drill through them it
looks like uber to do is just a software
tool so uber will be the biggest taxi
company in the world really yeah
with all the challenges they're facing
mm-hmm
higher B&amp;B is now the biggest hotel
company in the world yes do that yeah
artificial intelligence computers become
exponentially better in understanding
the world this year computer beat the
best goal player in the world ten years
earlier than expected sorry the best
what goal player go player I don't know
what that is I
I don't know what go player is but you
know it's interesting it was last week
or the week before we had the composer
software that was run by AI so music
that's created by artificial
intelligence
there was beautiful music it was really
quite moving so that's very cool now one
of the things with AI is IBM's Watson
so you can get legal advice from Watson
that's right they said that like 90% of
all law jobs will be done you I guess
you can self represent when you have you
know Watson behind you oh alright what
else's are coming up
Watson help nurse diagnose cancer so no
that's right no yep yep so by 2030
computers will become more intelligent
than humans in the medical industry I
that's kind of scary
considering that there's a lot of
exploratory medical research so it makes
you wonder if it'll be like diagnosing
things or if it will be for removing
diseases from the face of the planet
like hey I figured out how to cure
cancer mm-hmm that'd be kind of wild it
says here that kids now will never need
to get a license and never need to own a
car because of autonomous cars and all
of the driving companies know that's
what it's really yeah see I uh no I
don't like that and the need for cars
will decrease by 90 to 95 percent so I
suppose that would be high speed trains
that's for a situation training ik train
face I can see getting rid of cars I can
see the not need for a license although
that makes me sad because I mean that's
like a rite of passage when you can get
your license and look forward to that
you there got behind the wheel was a
great day
I actually loved having a cart while I
did I love not having a car now so I'm
kind of on board with the no car thing I
couldn't live without a car it says last
year more solar energy was installed
worldwide than fossil energy companies
are desperately trying to limit access
to the grid to prevent competition from
solar home installations but it won't
last
technology will take care of that
strategy interesting hmm
well I mean that's the way things are
going with renewable energy now one of
the things I notice on your list is
about 3d printing we've covered that a
few times on the show and we did have
that one interview last year with 3d
printing how it will rock your world I
think the book was called very cool
stuff but this was saying that 3d
printers will go down from 18,000 to
$400 within 10 years well last week
there was a story on a 3d printed heart
yeah right yeah so 3d printing not only
will be less expensive but already if
it's being used I know that you can 3d
print a house which is crazy well can 3d
print a heart it just it really just
changes the way I guess will view making
like manufacturing right because now
you're going to make this thing and
it'll manufacture in just one piece you
know organs and so yeah my mind is now
like often left field because I'm
thinking okay we've got really good
artificial intelligence that can do
better than humans in some cases and now
we can 3d print organs how soon before
we have like data like animatronic real
life cyborg type 1 of that'll like we'll
have animatronic type animals within 20
years
I bring your cat back yeah all right I
mean if you were to go to a hospital
let's say and instead of having to wait
to be triaged and go through if you
could just stand in a scanner and find
out right away what's going on huh be
seen by what was it pepper this yes
after the animatronic nurse thing yeah
hmm that's very cool okay last one this
one kind of seen the markings of this
start a couple years ago in Sweden but
in Wisconsin there's a vending machine
company hmm that has opened up for their
employees to be microchipped and it was
voluntary process and of their 85
employees 50 of them said yeah chip me
so the microchip will allow them to buy
snacks log into computers and use the
copy machine now this was done two three
years ago I think from a Swedish company
where their entire business is microchip
so you just kind of swipe your hand and
your business comes to life but that's
the deal seasons with this company it's
called three square market and on August
1st they're having a chip party where
they're all gonna get chipped at the
same time right I I musta mind on this I
love it for the simplicity of you
wouldn't need a code to go into a door
you would already know if you had the
security clearances you could easily
open a door somebody else couldn't I
don't like the fact that probably a
reader could easily be manufactured they
could probably reprogram a chip already
implanted in them only or like to go
into doors are not supposed to be in or
perhaps to be able to use or get
anything from the vending machine but
not have the money actually come out of
their account like I feel like I trust
the hackers of this more than I trust
the creators of
well and it's funny that you say that
because they're the Nevada State Senator
Becky Harris back in February tried to
introduce legislation preventing
employers from forcing this on now I
mean in this case it was voluntary it
was hey who wants to sign up but what
senator Harris was saying is that it's
possible to hack the information that's
contained within the chips but I mean
it's if you haven't seen it it's about
the size of a grain of rice and they
insert it between the four finger and
the thumb so like right in here I don't
I hear I mean it's a radio frequency
that it works on you've got people that
are you know there's all these studies
about how cellphones and all I will give
you cancer like hey let's take a chip
that works off radio frequencies and
shove it into your body
right like it does this become a WSIB
thing if they get cancer in the hand
right not so fast
well I guess not only that but I would
worry about creating some sort of weird
like two-tier situation there's the chip
than the unchipped right
but what yes yes they're like it's like
a black mirror thing again well and you
know it's it's funny because I've heard
about the chipping technology since the
80s and it's now kind of coming into
fruition but the basics of it has never
changed it's still the exact same ordeal
that it's going to be this thing that
runs our lives and I is this dangerous
territory here yeah I feel like it's
weird to chip like a human but my
passport I mean socials and my passport
has a chip in it really I got a ten year
passport and the inside the the front
cover of it there's a there's a chip oh
so I guess they scan the passport then
they open it and as long as the
information that pops up on their screen
looks the same as what's there it's not
a forged document so if they have AI had
information in me that could and then in
me and
on me that they could I could prove that
I wasn't a terrorist I guess which is
this going to open the new door of
crimes like AI was slashed and they
stole my chip mm-hmm like I know I know
I'm not a fan of this one very
interesting technology what they're
using for not a fan of this one right
well that pretty much brings us to the
end of the show um do you want to hear
something funny that I saw in the news
this morning yes there is a tick in
northern Canada you know what it's on TV
see so I'm sure that this is completely
a true story you had to bring this up so
there's a tick and not a Lyme disease
tick it's called like The Lone Ranger or
something excessive weird tech name and
it's after bites you releases a protein
into your blood that makes you allergic
to red meat yeah you shared this one
with me this morning I hope I never see
this tick because I love my meat ticket
hilarious when my wife was pregnant with
our first son she knew she was pregnant
the day after because she couldn't stand
the smell of meat like sent her running
for the washroom so we went completely
vegetarian for four months was any worse
four months of my life it was painful
and when you're new in your marriage and
you're still trying to figure each other
out and I thought hey when I go to work
I'm just going to hit McDonald's got a
burger I'll be fine I grabbed it around
like two o'clock lunch time I get let's
smell it on you and yes okay so I would
like I would leave the house at 7:00 to
go to work go out and buy whatever was I
wanted at the time I mean because it's
the morning it's breakfast at that point
but I would eat the breakfast and for
lunch but she would still know like look
I guess smell on your breth I call about
12 hours later okay yep it's horrible Oh
see now you're just making me upset
Sasha so if you got if you got bit by
the stick though it wouldn't matter if
you liked it or didn't like it you just
wouldn't be able to eat it I would lose
although this is a hilarious
this is more like tax Toxoplasma this is
that photos
Toxoplasma the reason why pregnant women
can't change kitty litter because
there's a parasite called Oh who causes
toxoplasmosis so it's very dangerous to
unbolt or unborn children but it's a
it's a parasite that gets into your
brain and it changes human behavior so
it slows your reaction time so increases
the likelihood of a of a car accident it
also is proven to make men more
aggressive and women more passive
so they actually there's a theory that
it has shaped our culture that more
people than we imagine have
toxoplasmosis oh yeah oh not a random
parasite talk yeah I think that parasite
needs to go the way of the mosquito
that's that's what I think that's right
all right well up that's pretty much it
for us a couple things to be aware of if
you have not checked out our forums its
forum category 5 TV post a picture of
yourself that's right so we did that
this week so we did do that this week so
you can check out that photo as well
we've got our partners if you want to
purchase something on Amazon use a
partner links lots of people buying
things like toiletries and household
products and you know it's being quite
you know helpful for the show because
every time you purchase through Amazon
or any of our partner links the you know
we get a small cut that helps pay for
our expenses so for everybody who's
helping out thank you and check out shop
category 5 dot TV lots of good stuff
there raspberry pie you're awesome
I love the pie alright so next week yeah
episode 515 you were not I are not here
I've taken over the news desk finally
get in that sucker back it's been a long
time and Shelley is going to be here and
we're going to be taking a look at a the
ability to play video files from a USB
stick very very cool and I think this
might even help you with your upcoming
wedding perfect so we could use all the
help I can get ok that's my corporate
contribution to your wedding thank you
doing the show and
so Robbie will be back next week we'll
have a normal format things won't be as
messed up as they are right now but just
go cover it well Don go team dots
growing up there we go thanks so much
for watching and I will see you again
next week
that's what's good week
[Music]
