hi everyone and welcome to new every day
my name is Kari and my name is Jen and
on today's show we are in part two of
Prison Break in Acts chapter 12 so stay
tuned we will be right back
this is new every day with Jen wagger
and Gary Webb
[Music]
hello everyone and thanks for tuning in
to new everyday again and we're in part
two of what we're calling Prison Break
about the miraculous escape from prison
that happened to Peter in Acts chapter
12
so last week Jen we talked about how
Herod yeah who was the king at that time
had arrested James and he killed James
one of the Apostles and it pleased the
Jews so he was like I'm just gonna keep
this ball rolling arrest Peter and then
I read a commentary that said you know
what maybe Herod thought I'm not going
to kill Peter right away because it's
the feast of unleavened bread I'm gonna
keep him in prison so then he holds on
to Peter but first he assigns sixteen
soldiers to watch him in prison and make
sure that he doesn't escape yes so the
odds were stacked against Peter the odds
were definitely stacked against Peter
and we're not really told why James was
executed we're just told that he did and
what's what's really interesting is this
is James one of the sons of thunder and
the obituary that he gets is he was
executed with the sword period that's it
that's it there's nothing else you know
about what he did or what got him into
prison yeah and we could say well Luke
didn't think it was important and yet he
was one of the twelve disciples like
even like Stephen the first martyr got
like a whole chapter uh-huh and so it's
like like why why is this all like
obviously that's all that we need to
know yeah and I think sometimes we can
get so caught up in the needing to know
that we missed the fact of what's the
main point of the story yeah the main
point of the story is that James was a
leader of the church and he died he was
executed and so he ran
the Jews happy because here was this
group of men trying to basically
convince people that what how they were
worshipping God was not right that Jesus
was you know the Messiah that they had
long been hoping for and the Jews were
the Jewish leaders were like ah so we
need to get rid of this and Herod and it
was a politician he was put there by
Rome to look after the people so if the
people are happy and they don't rise up
then Rome is happy and says good job
Paris yes good job so so he wanted to
make the Jewish leaders happy right
which is why he arrested Peter because
it wasn't it wasn't he wasn't happy
because the Jewish leaders were happy he
was happy because Rome would be happy so
it was more of like look at me and what
I am doing right hmm I know so it's just
there's some extrinsic an intrinsic
motivation there for sure yes and you
know when you're saying like James just
gets this teeny-weeny obituary I when I
first read this I was like man like why
like Peter lived but James didn't and
it's easy for those questions to come up
like yes well wouldn't it have been
better if James had just lived and then
there'd be more people sharing the
gospel and that's I think part of the
mystery and bigness of the church and
the plan of God working you not to say
like one believer is more valuable than
someone else or one person is more
valuable than someone else but sometimes
persecution and when and martyrdom can
put a fire in the hearts of the church
that nothing else can yeah and and I
really want to be careful not to be like
well yeah Peters more Peter was more
important and was going to be more
influential because that's just like
beyond my my understanding and and
what's really crazy
is that all of the like the disciples
and many eventually were murdered and
gave their lives they had this big
picture thinking about the kingdom of
God mhm
and what life was really about like that
this isn't all there is and our lives
are are so short and all of what we are
is to be put into this mission this
mission impossible yeah
of sharing the gospel and letting the
power of God do its work yeah they
really saw that the transience of this
physical life and saw the value in
eternal life yeah and what you know as
yes we are still only in the first five
verses of this chapter because chapter
verse 5 ends with so Peter was closely
guarded in prison while the church
prayed to God earnestly on his behalf so
some people could say well well they
start they didn't pray for James doesn't
say that but it doesn't say and that's
just it
but it does say they prayed for for
Peter yeah so some people would say well
they didn't pray for James and that's
why he was executed see I can't I can't
believe that because even like my
friend's dad when we were in our early
20s he would like worked with his wife
doing mission work for like a lot of the
youth who are struggling down town and
he suddenly developed a brain aneurysm
that was bleeding and they called us to
pray and we were earnestly praying that
he would would be healed and saved and
he died mm-hmm and so people could be
like well well we were praying but he
died anyway so like where's the plan of
God in that but some people would say
and this is and these are honest
discussions that go on they didn't say
they didn't they didn't pray earnestly
and I only didn't have enough faith they
didn't have enough there was sin there
was sin in someone's life and that's why
God didn't answer the prayer and and we
know that there are reasons why God does
not print answer prayer one is they
simply don't believe that is like James
says in in chapter one like when you ask
and belief like don't be like shifting
you know waves
you see so you have to believe okay fair
enough
it doesn't make sense to ask and not
believe so you have to believe I
secondly he says in Chapter four you
have to ask with the right motives so
these are two very like well yes that
makes sense like I have to I'm gonna ask
I have to believe but if I'm gonna ask I
need to be not asking for my own
selfishness but for the kingdom of God
to come yeah
thirdly Peter actually says that if we
don't honor our husband if men don't
under their wives God's not gonna like
it's gonna hinder their prayers Wow very
interesting right so all these can be
going into the situation when well did
they not believe or were they asking
with the wrong motives or that was their
sin were they looking after the poor
isaiah says you know don't fast if
you're not looking after the poor
because i'm not gonna listen to you so
it's all very interesting that yes there
are reasons why God doesn't answer
prayer but all of those things could
still be in place and he could still say
no yeah because what is the overarching
yeah what is the overarching plan of God
and this is where he does work all
things together he does and so I don't
know why he chose and like you said
persecution ignites the church it makes
it come alive because it is possible
that maybe they weren't doing what they
should have been doing maybe they had
become stagnant a little bit and and I
think when that ultimatum the life or
death is there on the table like you can
take the red pill or the blue pill you
got to push all your chips into the
middle of the table and say either I'm
all-in or I'm not
and we will be back right after this
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching everyone and
thanks for staying with us on new every
day
that's Jenn I'm Kerry and if you want to
go I was ready to jump back in but yes
you're gonna talk about how important it
is if you want to continue to see us
every week that you need to go to our
partners page a new every day TV check
it out see what's there there's a whole
bunch of businesses there that you can
support and buy things through which
helps support us so we can be here that
was that what you wanted si usually my
line but you did a great job I know cuz
I'm so excited to get back into chapter
12 here we go anyway we were talking
about how well you know why are some
people healed some people not healed
some people save some people not saying
like why did James die and Peter not die
I know and so like there is this mystery
there and that I I don't know the answer
but do I believe that that Christians
with the power of the Holy Spirit like
can raise the dead yeah I do believe
that and do I believe that God works
miracles to heal people yeah I do
believe that and so I think I can I can
be okay with the fact that I don't
understand I just don't know I just
don't know why some of these things
happen and why something don't happen
and I think this is where are we open to
what the Spirit is saying to us like if
he has said pray did we pray yeah why
pray know
well then pray yeah and you pray until
you're done praying like and that's
where I was saying to the Lord this
morning I want I I don't want anything
to hinder receiving all of who you are
hmm you know and because and we talked
about this in the last show Jesus's
death and resurrection the blood of
Christ is all we need for life and
that's all we need yeah but whether or
not I appropriate it that's the problem
like whether or not actually like yes
get it yeah and so you're right I'm in
total agreement with you I don't know
because people can pray and pray and
pray and God doesn't seem to answer no
I'm like I think I was praying with the
right motives at least I was being
honest right and that's part of what we
always strive to be in prayer is honest
I think you have to be honest in prayer
to say Lord I don't like this and I want
it fixed I want you to move but your
kingdom come like I'm gonna be honest in
prayer so you know where I'm coming from
but ultimately I know that your will is
best yeah so you can't just well your
kingdom come your will be done I think
we have to be honest in prayer yeah and
and to keep praying in expectation yes
God can do it might as well not pray
which is what James is saying which is
not James the person who wrote the book
of James is not the same James as this
this is James John's brother the sons of
thunder James who wrote the book of John
is jesus's half-brother right yes and
it's interesting that what the church's
response here is in Chapter five despite
James was just killed but that doesn't
mean they throw up their hands be like
this is crazy like look at this
opposition people are gonna be dying and
you know Stephen died and now what but
no it still motivates them to pray with
expectation and verse 5 of chapter 12
says Peter was therefore kept in prison
but constant prayer was offered to God
for him by the church constant mhm they
didn't stop I like that that word is in
there
I read one commentary that said this
verses is beautifully written by Luke
who who penned acts to show the
juxtaposition between the power of the
state
Peter was therefore kept in prison
versus the power of the church the power
of God but they kept on praying yeah
mine says earnestly this is JB Phillips
and then acts in says in verse 5 of NIV
says earnestly yea as well like like
they really meant it they meant it yes
like in earnest means you really mean
what you're praying yeah and like we
know later on that they had been praying
for a long time like it wasn't just like
down on your knees or just in passing oh
you actually pray about this and I
confess I do lots of prayers that way
yeah I guess people come to mind I'm
just like ok Lord I lift them up to you
I ask that you to watch over them and
keep them safe right yeah because we are
told to pray continually but the form in
which it takes is different like some
days you will be down on your knees
because that's the only place for you
and other days you're gonna be driving
down the road and some you know the
Lord's gonna call you to pray yeah so
you're gonna keep praying as you're
driving or you're gonna pull over in
your car but like we have to be open to
praying when when the spirit moves us to
pray like it can't be like oh I don't
have time for that because if the
spirits asked you to pray you do have
time that's a good point
right but are what's most important yeah
like he knows everything that you need
to get done but if he's asked you to
pray right and and what's even more
fascinating is he actually doesn't
really need need us to pray but there's
something about calling us to pray cuz
were told to pray so he does need us to
pray or else he wouldn't ask us to pray
yeah that's a whole other discussion eh
yeah it nice to participate we get to
participate or else he wouldn't ask us
and we don't know what is going on in
the heavenly realms why in the name of
Jesus be gone works
moment and in the next moment it is an
earnest constant long-suffering yeah
prayer yeah so what is it and this is
the way I've often thought about it
God is organizing whatever that looks
like and so as I'm praying well God's
actually working on your heart so I'm
praying he's working on your heart and
I'm gonna keep praying until your heart
until you actually okay spirit I'm gonna
do this right but I have to pray until
I'm released from praying and I don't
know why a hundred percent I just know
that when we're called to pray yep then
we need to pray and I was in staff
meeting yesterday and we were talking
about praying and anointing which is
there's nothing magical about oil it's
just something that God calls us to do
and it's a it's a sign of obedience and
we're talking about it and and somebody
said well you should pray for her and I
was like Oh Lord all of this staff
meeting okay and I got up and I got my
oil i anointed someone I prayed with
them and yeah but it's like when God
calls you to pray yeah and he got a
break that's easy too tied up in the
trivial things that seem important like
administrative stuff which yeah that's
important but but prayers is what is
really important
yes and and to pray with expectation yes
like that God is real that I am praying
to a loving living God I really like
Psalm five verse 3 and it says like in
the morning I lay my request before you
Lord and I wait an expectation like I've
put them out there and now I'm waiting
and God is going to answer my prayer and
and we're already out of time there's so
much more to talk about this but I know
I want to leave you actually with a song
we'll put it we'll put a link for it
it's by Chris McClure a holy moment and
in the song he talks about coming to the
Lord with expectation that we believe
who he says he is we believe that we can
ask him in faith and then he hears us
and He loves us so have a listen to the
song maybe sit in in quiet and ask God
to put someone on your heart to pray for
ya
in expectation in expectation so as we
close off today we fully expect that God
will meet with you because he loves you
and he does really have plans and
purposes for you so may use it in
expectation of hearing from him this
week so we'll see you later have a great
week
catch a new episode of new every day
every Friday morning at new every day
dot TV
we're also on Kodi roku Plex YouTube and
Facebook or if you're in Southern
California tune in every Sunday morning
at 6:30 Pacific on channel 33 television
for the high desert
