I want to look at the sensible sky this
is cool because we think about smart
devices we think about the ability to
you know I have a nest thermostat at my
house okay that means I save money by
running a thermostat that intelligently
figures out when I'm home turns off the
AC air the heat at that time and then
when I get home it turns it back on or
if I'm if I'm making the trip home if
I'm leaving work and I know that the
house is a little bit cold because I can
bring up the app I can turn on the heat
from my app and then by the time I get
home it's nice and cozy
so sensibo sky takes it kind of to
another level because of course nest
and smart thermostats like nest they
require a hardwired central air
conditioning unit furnace those kinds of
things it's a hard wired connection
sensibo is completely different you want
to know so you picture an AC unit that's
in your window or like a you know if
you've got a heat exchanger you know
there all kinds of devices that you
might use but I think in particular of
you know the wall hanging AC units not
central air but AC units that use a
remote control yeah right you use a
remote control to adjust the temperature
my AC back in the apartment before we
got central air at the house it had had
a remote control it was just in the
window right it was a great little unit
but you had to be home to adjust it and
there was no intelligence to it
whatsoever
so what sensibo does is it's an app
connected device through your Wi-Fi and
it then allows you to control your AC
unit that has infrared remote control
technology you can control it from your
app okay okay so you think about an AC
unit that has a remote control as long
as it has an infrared remote control
sensibo sky is going to be able to
control it so let's get into the box and
actually get a look at what this what
this device looks like so here we are
this is the box for sensibo sky
and nice little device let's just get
right into it it's it's so super simple
I mean here's our step-by-step
instructions download and install the
app follow the instructions in the app
enjoy and keep cool
those are your instructions would simple
simple so there it is that's the
sensible sky as you can see let's get
some of this wrapper off of here
there we go I'll just stick that over
there and we've got a little bit of a
kind of a like a double sided tape kind
of thing going on over here so I can
just stick it to the wall
it's also got a mount that I can screw
it in to the wall and then here we've
got USB micro input and what looks like
some kind of a data port I'm not I'm not
sure on that one it almost seems like
it's maybe a connection for a connected
furnace or some I don't know what that
is we'll look it up you can look that up
as well I don't think that that's gonna
affect our use of it today might be for
firmware updates and things like that as
well further in the box how simple is
that now it is sensible sky is powered
by USB micro as I mentioned there it's
got just the USB micro jack so it comes
with a what looks like a good long USB
micro cable oh yeah oh there we go good
length on that anyway so because it's
USB micro it's gonna work anywhere in
the world we don't need to have any
fancy adapters we don't need to have any
anything that's you know extra special
to work overseas or anything like that
now it came with a little power brick
here so that I can plug that in as well
the brick that it came with is it's one
amp so it doesn't need a lot of power
most of the bricks that you already have
are going to have 2.4 amps or even
higher so this is you know this can be
powered by basically any any little USB
power cable that you have so I'm just
going to simply plug this in like the
instructions say so I'm just going to
plug in the USB and we'll see what
happens here if I can do this kind of
blindly there we go and now the sensible
logo is just kind of flash and blue
there on occasion so I'll just kind of
set that down there now I've got this
really cool thing on my phone called
miracast and it allows me to in fact
bring up my phone on the screen for you
so I can actually do that so how cool is
that so let's bring up the sensibo app
there we are and back here so the first
thing that i need to do is select the
sensible sky that's the device that i've
purchased and it says connect your
sensibo sky device to the power outlet
which i've done and then hit next now it
says find the QR code located on the
back of your sensible sky device and
click next okay so on the back of my
device sure enough there it is it's itty
bitty is my camera going to be able to
read that let's see okay so now I can
see the camera there let's see it's
choppy but let's see oh it actually did
it Wow oh yeah choose an icon and name
the AC okay so I I'm gonna say this is
can we call this living room we're just
we're basically pretending because we
don't have an AC unit here at the studio
that we can use with this so we're gonna
say living room next and I've left it as
the default device allow sensible to
allow this to access this devices
location all right in order to complete
the setup sensibo needs to get right
settings permission the permission is
needed to check Wi-Fi and after setup is
complete you may disable this permission
in settings apps configure settings
modify system settings so right settings
permission okay we're gonna enable that
we're gonna trust that this is all good
because sensibo is a legit company and
what do we got here modify system
settings does it just let me why is it
taking me to other apps cool ok let's go
back to sensibo do we see it oh there we
go a living room there we go ok so now I
don't have an AC unit connected to this
as I'm
but you can see up at the top right-hand
side of the app there do you see that on
your screen at the Left we've got
humidity levels we've got a temperature
gauge as well and what's neat about
sensibo is it allows us to actually
control our a/c unit not only the on/off
state of the air-conditioner if it's got
wireless remote it's going to be able to
control it but it also allows us to
control the fan setting and it allows us
to do that from anywhere in the world
because the app is connecting to the
Internet and the Internet is then
communicating back with our sensibo
device and that is is controlled by this
app so cool what does it say ok so
please observe the indication LED of
this device count the number of blanks
okay
1 1 1 okay in order to complete the
setup ok I did that oh maybe oh that's
why it took me here it wants me to turn
on oh it needs the right permission okay
it allows the app to read or write
system settings it needs to read those
Wi-Fi settings so this is kind of
interesting Sasha because what I'm
reading that it's actually doing here
right is it's making it so I don't have
to program the sensibo with my Wi-Fi
settings it's going to glean those from
my phone settings so now that I've got
that set up here let's go back to the
sensibo app I've turned on the access
let's see what it does differently
could not find sensibo device make sure
your GPS is turned on your phone
location settings oh and I've learned
I've lost my miracast
sorry oh and just reconnect there for
you so this is just kind of the initial
setup that you're gonna go through it is
pretty you know as you see it's pretty
straightforward it's telling me what I
need to do let's retry see if it gives
me a connection this time searching for
your sensible device and it looks like
it okay to connect your smart AC to the
Internet
please select ok so sensibo is now
detecting all the different Wi-Fi
networks and my apparently when it does
that it knocks off miracast so that's
why I lose the connection there I'm
going to try to bring up the screen here
again for you there we go
so it's detected all the local Wi-Fi
hotspots I'm going to tell it which one
is mine and then I need to tell sensible
okay what is my password so I'm just
going to enter that here mm-hmm I have a
really strong password so bear with me
here folks I have possibly a it's a
simple kind of class password 1 2 3 no
how does that connect to your actual
Wi-Fi or not you're right the ACAC
that's what's cool so you think about
your AC unit that has a wireless remote
control right it's infrared so as I
control sensibo with my phone with the
app I'm actually triggering a wireless
remote control signal infrared from
sensible so okay so then it's it's not
like sensible is talking to the remote
that's talking to the AC sensitive
correct
how could have lost your remote
completely since about is the remote
absolutely that's correct
ok so it's I got it so that's how it's
communicating yeah all right cool ok so
I'm gonna I'm gonna give it a go again
here
what kind of blinks have we got one one
okay maybe I entered my password
incorrectly let's try again to connect
here we go gonna try one last time never
a good idea to talk and type your
password at the same time that was all
me oh it's me configuring Oh starting AC
Wi-Fi connection and I've lost miracast
but I'll fire that back up for you
there we go waiting for sensibo oh and I
lost miracast
apologies let's bring that back out oh I
see what's happening here Sasha it's
connecting direct my phone is connecting
directly to sensibo it says to use
miracast disconnect the other Wi-Fi
direct connection that's why okay so I
can't really use miracast at the same
time that we're doing this so it's
trying it wants to connect through a
Wi-Fi connection it's almost acting like
a hotspot so that's kind of cool okay so
now sensibo is connecting to my Wi-Fi
network right I can't bring it up on the
screen because as soon as I do I'm
connecting to my Wi-Fi network and then
I lose access to the sense of oh that's
interesting so essentially that's all
there there is to the setup so you see
that this is flash in a way it's it's
getting the configuration and it's
connecting to the network this is now
your wireless remote so through your
through your internet connection through
the app you're able to control your AC
unit alright so then if there are also
like benefits as far as like if you were
to leave the house like the phone app
doesn't know that you're leaving yeah
that's what's kind of neat too because
nest does that nest knows that hey if
I've left the house as I mentioned it
start saving me some energy because it's
it knows that I've gone so sensible is
the same thing once my app once my phone
is left the Wi-Fi network it knows that
I'm no longer there and it and it acts
accordingly so I can program it to say
hey let's turn off the AC unit at that
time I feel like they need one of those
for my hair streamer I think yeah
definitely as a safety precaution so of
course you know setting up something
like sensibo here
on the TV show is a little bit tricky
and as it goes through the connection
settings and and I'm trying to show it
on the screen at the same time I've
probably monkeyed up a couple things the
setup itself is very easy breezy as you
can see you know the steps are well
defined in the app it shows you
everything and it's stable and it tends
to work very very well so give it a look
head on over to cap five dot TV slash
sensibo and you'll be able to pick one
of these up great gift for for under the
tree this year and certainly you know if
you know somebody who has or if you have
a an AC unit in your window or in the
house that is controlled by an infrared
controller then this is definitely
something that will be a benefit to you
I love that it turns it into a smart
device it saves us energy and it makes
it so that I can control it from
anywhere no matter where I am it's
perfect there you have it that sense of
oh I apologize that I did have you know
I'm waiting on a couple connection
things but that's that's what it is on
live TV but check it out cat five dot TV
slash senseof Oh
[Music]
[Applause]
