welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 gb
and now let's get here's your host Rob a
Ferguson welcome to episode number 207
of category 5 technology TV it's so nice
to have you here on Tuesday September
the 6th pretty while 2011 while already
September what up with that what up with
that as she says my name is Robbie
Ferguson I'm Hillary Rumble nice to have
you here nice to see you thank you it's
gonna be here love being here we got
lots coming up tonight too and lots of
fun stuff one thing that I've been
looking forward to we've been waiting
and waiting because it's we're in the
middle of doing the video productions
series we had some server difficulties
following a power surge and so we have
been able to do all the things that we
wanted to do but one thing that we can
do even with limited hardware is stop
motion video I'm very excited to be
doing that tonight so stick around we're
gonna learn how to animate mr. Sulu all
right gonna be great it's gonna be
awesome fun activity for you and the
kids or just you yeah yeah like I use
the kids as that as a way of saying you
know I'm not I'm not that big of a geek
right it's just this for the kids that
are the kids I got these dolls cuz you
know the kids love dolls mm-hmm although
they are very cool star trek dolls I
mean action I should figure it's not
adults action figure what was I thinking
that's pretty funny hmm and also coming
up we got a crazy busy world happening
in the land of news and I'm going to
tell you about it right now doom is now
available in Germany 17 years late
though eating a lot of chocolate crust
cuts the risk of heart disease and
stroke but there's a catch stick around
to find out what that is US scientists
are warning NASA that the amount of
space junk orbiting the Earth has
reached a tipping point oh and linux is
kernel.org was hacked but we know that
the linux kernel itself is indeed safe
and lastly it may not be up to Vulcan
standards but real life cloaking
technology really works well in the dark
stick around because these stories are
coming up in less than 30 minutes wait a
minute I gotta hear what that's all
about cloaking technology cloaking
technology we gotta turns just turn off
the lights hey we'll have to find out
what that's all about it was can't wait
it's got to be legit if you're talking
about it I'm too legit to quit so yeah
it's gotta be I love the 80s references
oh yeah that's how I roll oh yeah we've
got a couple of viewer testimonials
tonight we always welcome your viewer
testimonials on our website category
five dot TV it's just a way of saying
hey to us here at the studio and letting
us and other viewers know what you think
about the show what you've learned so we
really appreciate every viewer
testimonial that comes in we do sure do
so start this up I'm gonna read you a
little something something coming to us
from fat boy 106 from Nottingham England
hey fat boy 106 I first discovered
category 5 TV whilst looking for a
tutorial on how to use the open shot
video editor your tutorial helped me
successfully produce my sister's wedding
video which she was more than pleased
with wonderful yeah I continue to learn
something new every time I visit
category 5 TV and now see it as one of
the most helpful resources on the web
that's pretty cool that's very cool
thank you very much I would like to
thank everyone running category 5 TV and
its viewers for providing this valuable
source of information thanks fat boy 106
for that nice little post we love
hearing from you we also got another one
here from invisible mutant I'm vincible
what did I say invisible you're still
thinking about the cloaking machine
you're right i'm stuck on the cloaking
cuz i'm sewing i'm so excited to hear
about the cloaking machine to my
goodness gracious invincible mutant oh
yay okay hi robbie and crew anybody for
half the second or third testimonial
that i posted here i just couldn't help
myself from not doing this Robbie and
his lovely crew deserves something
better from the community this is the
most fantastic tech show channel I have
ever
watch the incentive to watch this is
uncountable prizes to be won
good-looking and sweet faces oh he must
be talking about this guy right here I'm
telling ya not like God to say lovely
voices and interesting content if I just
a live show I will never miss the
recorded one however the live shows have
more fun interactivity and lots of
surprises I am impatient to see how the
new broadcast system would perform what
kind of bells and whistles would you
robbie and crew adds the impressive
machine specs hmm keep it up the IT
world is so much more cheerful with all
of you you've changed the traditional
image and dull impression of geeks
including me thanks bro invincible where
are we just talking about that being a
being a geek it's a very cool action
figure invincible mutant hey hey thanks
for the viewer testimonial what would I
do to improve upon the specs of the cool
new server that we're putting together
you can find out more about the new
broadcast system on our website category
5 TV I think it's it's going to do
pretty well for us the one thing that
that we we unfortunately don't have the
budget for right now is the solid state
hard drives after it's all said and done
because the original server we were
going to purchase was a used server for
500 bucks so we budgeted 500 and that
became unavailable so in order to go
forward we had to purchase om parts so
and that ended up costing a little bit
more so that ate into our hard drive
budget so we're gonna have to use
spinning hard disks reason I actually
want to use solid-state isn't so much
for the speed anymore because I realized
that a raid 0 like a 2dr or 4dr or 80
will perform very very well but one of
the things that I really want to be
doing more of in the future is to be
able to take category 5 on the road so
that means packing up our gear going to
a venue doing a show live from whatever
spot so one of the reasons I want to go
with solid-state that's non spinning
disks is so that we don't run the risk
of if somebody bumps it or if it if it
gets nudged a little bit when it's
getting moved to and from there's less
chance of actual physical
hard drive failure so so that's the one
thing I would improve upon and I think
and we eventually will but to start I
think the specs that we've laid out are
going to be fantastic so and thanks for
the viewer testimonial if you'd like to
submit a viewer testimonial to us you
can do so a category 5 TV click on
interact and you'll see viewer
testimonials and submit your own we
would appreciate that mm-hmm hey did it
invincible mutant send you a groovy
awesome sweet picture groovy awesome one
I'm gonna be hated invincible mutant has
his office set up in such a way that you
can watch the show up on the screen up
at the top and then have chat room
running on the laptop below or whatever
else and he says that the other cool
thing about having the screen up at the
top for the actual viewing experience is
the fact that if there are other people
in the room it's easier for them to be
able to see what's going on in the show
they don't need to see the chat room on
this laptop me over so that's very cool
I'll a slip invincible mutant a hundred
viewer points for that image all rights
for sending that in well take it yeah if
you'd like some viewer points send me a
picture of you watching category 5 TV on
your device whatever your device is and
certainly try to slip yourself into the
picture if you possibly can I understand
if you're if you're taking the picture
yourself that's a little more difficult
but yeah perfect and some of our viewers
are you knew this week is this the first
time you've ever watched category 5 are
you in the time live yeah I got let us
know we love to hear from you that would
be awesome so if you're new in the chat
room right now say hey guys I'm new yeah
I tell us we're going to give you a
shout out that'd be great d tapio 63
just says hi Hillary hi thanks for
saying hi thanks for being here see lots
of ever lots of wonderful people joining
us in the chat room tonight mm-hmm yes
it torto stryger steve 5 slip 3d and
it's really hard to go through all the
names cuz i know i'm gonna end up
leaving someone out of course yeah
annoyance black i'm cameron better say a
jamison because he gets very very upset
he's true a true blue fan and those who
are who are checking out the chat room
who are thinking hey how come he never
mentions me and your you know your name
starts with one of the you know the mid
alphabet letters we usually start from
either dead or a so yeah in him so Rini
hey jamison that's like okay let's see
who's around the midmark we've got to
give gwg and jonathan little MN little
nice to have you here nobody who's in
the chat room who's actually joining us
for the first time tonight and I've seen
lots of people coming and going
throughout the week just stopping by the
chat room just to say hey they love the
show and we appreciate hearing from you
as well of course it doesn't always work
that that they can join us live thank
you time zone they're not that so and
that's why we offer all the different
ways to watch you do and we've also got
we've got Twitter you'll see there's
yeah my twitter is at Robbie Ferguson
Hillary's got twitter as well I'm out on
the tweet machine Hillary rumble fair
yep that's me and of course our show
itself if you want to follow the show is
at category 5 TV do it yeah follow us on
twitter you can follow us on on google+
yes cat five dot TV / G Plus which
technically is my own personal account
but it it's all about the show so you
can follow us there I've got facebook on
our website if you want to scroll down
the page you'll see us there we are
everywhere essential everywhere
everywhere yeah you can run you can hide
but you can't escape us we're everywhere
speaking of everywhere we will send a
year supply of batteries anywhere in the
world and I'm talking you know sometimes
you get these contests I know Sulu wants
to be in the shot get out of here so
good are you as batteries in the future
okay so eco alkalines are eco-friendly
batteries they're alkaline batteries as
you can tell by the name it's it's not
just a clever name
our eco alkalines and what's cool is
that these batteries they use recycled
material they work hard to keep these
batteries environmentally sit down
eco-friendly is really the term green as
far as that goes but also they offset
their carbon footprint so what carbon
footprint they do have with the
manufacturing process is actually offset
by the plantation of trees and whatever
else is necessary to to make sure that
that that's offset so we have a year
supply of batteries that we're giving
away at the end of the month and I'd
love for you to participate in that
contest just go to cat five dot TV /
free batteries and you'll be able to
become eligible to win those is really
really simple all you have to do is you
can like them on facebook you can follow
them on twitter you can retweet the
there's particular tweet that we have a
link to at this website and if you
retweet it if you do all three of those
things you have three times the chance
to win and and if you you know if you're
not on facebook you can do two things on
twitter if you're only on facebook you
can like them on facebook there's all
these different ways that you can
participate in the contest but there's
no really you know there's no having to
sign up for anything or anything like
that it's really really simple to
qualify so make sure even if you're not
on Twitter or Facebook easiest thing to
do would be to sign up for twitter
account and follow the show get on to
cat5 TV / free batteries for your year
supply of free eco alkalines batteries
awesome that would be so cool everyone
needs batteries that's what I say it's
terrific you need batteries everyone its
batteries I need batteries he needs
batteries yes oh my lanta the fun is
just beginning I tell ya it's just
starting I know loads of your questions
so i'll let you i'll let you take that
away alright question number one come at
us from gizmo at work hey gives me what
work hi all is it possible to monitor
how many devices are currently using my
Wi-Fi connection it could be interesting
to make sure nobody is using it without
me knowing thank you and keep on with
work and he's coming from Montreal so
thanks for email from Montreal cool yeah
and definitely you can monitor that that
Wi-Fi connection I think that the
easiest thing to do because everybody's
using you're using like a Wi-Fi access
point or a Wi-Fi router quite often
times your router will contain some
mechanism of being able to monitor who's
connected to your Wi-Fi I think the best
thing to do is to actually use your
router is going to be the most reliable
because that's the actual you know the
access point to use the term that's
where all those connections are being
made so that device can easily reflect
an accurate output as to what how many
people and who are actually connected to
your router I have a firmware installed
on my router called dd-wrt it's dd-wrt
and i'll put links and everything in the
show notes for episode number 207 for
you let me let me see if I can log into
my router for you here just so that I
can show you how it works on my device
mm-hmm he's having some difficulty
remembering his passwords you've got so
many things going on it's hard to keep
them all straight yes sometimes I think
my keyboard can't keep up with me that's
slightly true I believe it I've seen you
all I've brought up dd-wrt panel here
and on the panel I've clicked on status
and wireless and I've pre click those
just in case there's anything privately
identifying on the on the router itself
and you'll see if I go down here that
there are two devices currently
connected to my Wi-Fi and you can
actually click on that device and it
will tell you what it is so that's made
manufactured by Apple so that's that's
going to be that's going to be my ipod
there it is it's connected to my Wi-Fi
right now right so that's how dd-wrt
presents it and one of the other cool
features of dd-wrt that I love with
regards to wireless and this is great
from a system administrator standpoint
is it's got wit as our wives or whatever
you want to call it wife is actually
pre-configured in the
firmware and what this does once it
loads up it's going to actually show you
a bit of an overview of your networks
and what's flying around your I think my
browser is kinda messed up there we go
each one of those little dots is
actually a device or a Wi-Fi network
nearby me you can find out information
by bringing up the mac address and find
out more about it there's all different
kinds of tools built into dbl dd-wrt
that are very very cool but to answer
your questions your your question the
router is going to have a perfect output
of that mine I love dd-wrt for that it
allows you to not only see the devices
that are connected here but it also
shows you their their signal quality the
status and you can copy that MAC address
and put it into a filter if you like
because dd-wrt includes free Mac
filtering so for example on my network
if you brought your own laptop you
wouldn't be able to connect because I
restrict by Mac filtering specific
devices so my ipod touch has a
particular mac filter or a mac address
that is allowed on my network so any
other mac address is not allowed so
that's that's another handy neat thing
because you're not only just seeing the
device you seen the mac address as well
yeah cool thanks for the question I hope
that I hope that helps but even if
you're not on dd-wrt your firmware might
have something within your wireless
section so go go take a look login can't
read yeah check it out now um side note
just got a little hello coming to us
from a skeptic thinker first time
watching the show live although watch it
before from India sorry thank you thanks
for watching yeah it's so nice to have
you here um it must be a hard time in
the morning in India I would think
probably fantastic they are you staying
up for us and nice to have you here and
yeah great yeah from poon
yeah what was the name again on that um
skepta thinker skepta thinker yes so
nice to have you here yeah yeah thanks
for coming okay back to business got me
a question here from Catherine McCleary
before sorry before I don't normally
like to interrupt but just because
there's some chatter in the chat room to
people saying oh but Mac filtering is
easy to bypass and things just to touch
on that yeah Mac filtering is a nice
supplement to wpa2 it's it's a nice way
to further enhance your security it's
not the only security that you'll use
you'll have wpa2 you'll have your SSID
hidden and you'll have mac filtering so
with those three things in place it's
quite probable that even if someone was
prying they wouldn't even know that
you're your network was available they
wouldn't even see your network because
you've got all those three things in
place and you're able to block them at
every level the SSID being hidden means
they won't be able to see your your
network the mac filter being enabled and
set the specific devices means they
won't be able to connect by default they
won't be able to connect in order to
enter a password and then the wpa2
encryption is going to protect so that
if they do get past those original if
they are able to circumvent those then
there's something in place that's fairly
strong that's going to protect you even
further so it's about having multiple
things in place I'm not saying just turn
on Mac filtering and leave it as is that
would be dangerous for you thank you for
bringing that up in the chat room sorry
yes sure to step on the other but thanks
for addressing that for sure definitely
good to know um okay so our next
question Catherine McCleary rights to us
saying Commodore usa.net our
manufacturing all-in-one linux based
computers just add a monitor when to
make the look of the classic Commodore
64 vic-20 and coming soon ameda
computers they also will eventually
allow one to play classic c64 in amiga
games via a Malaysian with one button
access to c64 mode at least on the c64 X
they apparently make use of technology
developed for laptops to fit all the
guts
of a computer into a form factor not
much larger than the keyboard itself
these machines seem pricey for what is
included hardware wise however as a
former owner of several c-54s and a c128
and an Amiga 500 I'm still intrigued by
the concept my question is have any of
the cat5 TV staff or viewers tried the
vic-20 or c64 X Linux box all-in-one
computers from Commodore USA net and if
so what do you think of them and I'd
love for fans of the classic see Sophie
for an immediate gains oh and would fans
of these classic games be better served
by just running an emulator software on
their existing hardware instead of
buying those linux boxes which look like
old computers that you still up one of
the one of the things that I love about
that mock commodore system is that like
the c64 the the keyboards were so much
different the action on those keyboards
it's like the old IBM licked the 80
keyboards they just were there was
something about them the action on them
was really really nice the Commodore 64
keyboard if they've been able to
successfully mimic not just the look but
also the the responsiveness of that
keyboard I think that would be pretty
incredible from a nostalgia standpoint I
think it looks like an incredible device
in that it's it's one awesome case mod
if you will but yeah I mean you're
looking at a thousand dollars for the
base model really when it comes down to
it and and $1,500 for one that has an i7
in it so the specs can be very good but
you're still looking at a small form
factor system and you know I don't know
what they're doing to cool it and
everything like that but I like the c64
addition the Commodore 64 though the you
know the traditional this one here right
it looks very very classic Commodore but
I was disappointed to find that there
Vic model they're creating the the slim
and it doesn't look at all like Leah no
it's not affect when t by any stretch
but it's pretty cool that an entire
computers fit into that keyboard but it
doesn't at all take me back
nostalgically like the Commodore 60
for model that they're using its
Commodore usa.net and you know i would
think that their target market is not
the average end user gamer i think it's
going to be more the nostalgic rich dude
you know what i mean like it it's really
if you're gonna slap fifteen hundred
dollars into a computer you're not going
to get one that's just oh look at that
that's that's a really cool yeah you
might as well pick up at a garage sale
for two bucks an old vic 20 and rip out
the insides and put an atom board in it
and you know then you'd have something
that you can show off to your friends
anyways but if you've got the money I
think they're appealing to a completely
different different market I have not
tried one to answer the viewers question
there um anyone in the chat room I don't
know how their sales are or whether it's
whether it's been happening for them I
think it's a neat idea i think
nostalgically it would be it would be
something that i would enjoy having on
my desk but i could not see spending
that kind of money on justify that
exactly yeah well these specs are pretty
good yeah i mean like i say there's an
i7 available for 1,500 bucks and it's
pretty decent you know the specs are all
right but yeah for what you get you're
paying for the nostalgia through the
teeth fair enough yeah and to quote
Weird Al as a Jamenson did you think
your Commodore 64 is really neato what
kind of chip you got in there a Dorito
it's all about the Pentiums weirdo yep
alright moving onward and upward oh look
at this little chestnut of an email i
have here coming to us from Morton
obadiah David Daniel located in walled
amor Lima Israel this e-mail range as
followed hey Robbie thank for adduce
part are Assad and forage heaven Flynn
jet kill Jackie are given tail a leg an
to meet until Koontz board egg dimmed
yet if you're wondering if you are in
English Oh
I thought she was playing it backwards I
might have been good night ha this is
actually better pull this is a very fun
email and throughout it our words that I
can identify such as Facebook Google
YouTube um vimeo um what else but
unfortunately i feel like my israeli i
believe that's what this is I'm not
actually sure ok it's probably not as
good as it used to be likes probably not
one of my my top languages so I feel
like I might not be able to translate
this do you know some no oh I don't hold
my leg ha ok let's see if that's
actually a great email and I think it's
quite fun and thank you for sending it
maybe we can like what's mom translate
it online ok I've got to hear from
Morton ok so what I'm gonna show you
something really cool ooh I'm gonna
highlight that entire email okay i'm
gonna copy it to my clipboard okay i'm
gonna bring up my internet browser
whatever it may be gonna head on over to
google the google machine that gave it
because google does this very well cool
up the very top i don't know if you've
ever noticed this but they added this
translate button way back in the days of
Alta Vista and you'll notice that from
is set to detect so we don't even know
need to know what the source language is
hmm two is set to English me so you know
a lot of a lot of languages can look the
same as far as their semantics go
especially when you get into different
alphabets I find it's it's tough to
differentiate because I don't know the
alphabets that are not you know like an
English alphabet I don't know what the
technical term is but so then I run into
trouble and there are some interesting
characters in this email so I'm going to
paste that in and you'll notice that
instantly google has detected that this
is an in fact Norwegian not it's really
like I thought and it's translated to
English that is awesome hey Robbie thank
you for responding so quickly to the
last communication I had for you
yesterday
notice that the maybe the grammar is not
you know verbatim to what yeah yeah what
you would say verbally but you can get
the gist of what the email is asking the
reason I want the opportunity to be able
to ask you about what I want with a
webcam is that I wish that some of my
questions would be included in future
sending or broadcast I would expect
because maybe someone else is wondering
the same thing I want to start new
social networks like Facebook Google+
and others but the possibilities
possibilities that I saver on facebook
and google+ do i use wordpress as a blog
platform to the aux oh i don't know what
that is we're referring to um okay buddy
pressure sounds like peer pressure to
have found software that creates
templates for WordPress which I've paid
for etc so it's it it does a pretty fair
job of me understanding okay well he's
asking about getting on social platforms
and using WordPress in particular it's
paid for a template and is curious about
you know whether they can continue using
that to connect to other other system
other services and there are plugins for
that and wordpress for sure moving on in
the email and and I'd encourage you in
no matter what language that you send us
an email and this is of course a very
long email and that makes it difficult
for us to to answer any one question but
but you can see how Google Translate has
given us an opportunity to be able to
follow through with this and if I scroll
down in the email I'm just gonna and I'm
sorry to have to skip over your
questions here to some degree and that's
largely because of the size of the email
i'll ask you to scale it back a little
bit but i will review this after the
show so that i can give you better
attention but i feel like as far as on
the air goes it's going to be tough to
get all of these questions but so i'll
just scroll to the bottom of your email
here in which you say let's see he says
if I were blessed with a good economy I
would have bought a macbook but I have
an old Mac laptop which is completely
useless because it has the old Mac OS by
the way what solution do you use when
you translate from norwegian to english
thank you in advance for your help so i
feel like i answered one of your
questions there check right at the
bottom by the way what what do you use
to translate there
you have it now if I wanted to I could
then get rid of this text and I could
say good evening I'm going to change
this it's automatically detected english
and i'm going to change this to
norwegian okay thank you for your email
talk for repose didn't i will reply by
email yet will sweat because it was
quite lengthy 40 days i hope that that
you can understand why that is sincerely
Bobby so now I've got something that i
can send back language that is
understood by this particular viewer and
it's fantastic that's the usability of
that is wonderful so give it a try it's
translate google com or your region
specific site for me it's
translate.google.com thank you for
thanks for the question I again I'm
going to go through that it's it's quite
linking act and I'll take care of y'all
I'll see what I can come up with as far
as helping you through whatever issues
it is that you're experiencing for sure
alright well that time Robbie it's that
time take it away it's news time
from the category 5 TV newsrooms a dream
ban on selling June to older teenagers
has been lifted after 17 years the
classic video game was put on an index
of control titles in 1994 as it was
deemed likely to harm youth like
pornography sales of the old-school
shoot-'em-up games were restricted to
adult only stores the rules have been
relaxed because officials believe that
doom is now only of artistic and
scientific interest and will not appeal
to youngsters I know this to be true
because i bought a first gen nintendo
and think that my kids would love it and
they didn't no dice it's just not cool
anymore old school not cool I don't know
homeboy in health and wellness news a
review of previous research has found
that eating high levels of chocolate
could reduce the risk of coronary heart
disease and stroke according to the
study published on the bmj website data
from more than 114,000 patients
suggested risk was cut by an astounding
one-third the researchers warned however
the same excessive consumption of
chocolate will result in other illnesses
there's no winning okay and what is
being called a critical situation
scientists in the US have warned NASA
that the amount of so-called space junk
orbiting Earth is at a tipping point a
report by the National Research Council
says the debris could cause fatal leaks
in spaceships or destroy valuable
satellites it calls for international
regulations to limit the junk and more
research into the possible use of
launching large magnetic nets or giant
umbrellas the debris includes clouds of
miniscule fragments old boosters and
satellites some computer models show the
amount of orbital rubbish has reached a
tipping point with enough currently in
orbit to continually collide and create
even more debris raising the risk of
spacecraft failures the research council
said this statement on Thursday a notice
appeared on the kernel.org website on
Wednesday informing visitors that the
servers the servers that are housing the
Linux kernel source code
had been hacked earlier this month the
breach was discovered on Wednesday the
immediate concern in many users minds
was that the Linux kernel itself was
hacked but rest assured this is not the
case kernel developer John Corbett has
an extensive x.x can't speak an
extensive explanation of how we know the
linux girl is safe and sound in which he
states kernel.org may seem like the
place where kernel development is done
but it's not it's really just a
distribution point so when we say that
we know the kernel source has not been
compromised on Colonel org we really
know it and tanks could soon get night
time and invisibility thanks to a
cloaking device that masks their
infrared signature developed by BAE
Systems the adaptive technology allows
vehicles to mimic the temperature of
their surroundings as you can see in the
image here it also can make a tank look
like other objects such as a cow or car
one seen through heat sensitive scopes a
high-tech camouflage uses hexagonal
panels or pixels made of a material that
can change temperature very quickly
about a thousand pixel panels each of
which is 14 centimeters across are
needed to cover a small tank the panels
are driven by onboard thermal cameras
that constantly image the ambient
temperature of the tanks surroundings
this is projected onto the panel's then
to make it harder to spot the cameras
also work when the tank is moving bae
estimates that the technology could be
ready to put in production within the
next two years you can get these full
stories online at category 5 TV /
newsroom the category 5 TV news room is
researched by roy w Nash with
contributions fire fabulous community of
viewers if you have a new story you
thanks worthy of honorary mention send
us an email at newsroom at category 5 TD
from the category 5 TV news room I'm
Hillary rumble that is so cool very cool
very cool also now really yeah like
that's wild that they can manipulate
heat because it makes sense that night
vision uses infrared heat
so they can manipulate that heat into
making it look like it's a car that's
pretty wild just sitting there in the
field make it look like a cow well
there's a cow just kidding which I think
that would be more difficult I would
think because they would have to make it
look like it yeah moving lame not that
account moves like that but if it's if
it's just standing kind of still they
might get suspicious no that's pretty
impressive technology that stuff like I
don't know you would see like
conceptualizing like films from years
ago and they did it it's becoming it was
called Star Trek Star Trek invented
everything which which is pretty awesome
I'd say how many things can you think of
that we're invented on Star Trek before
before they ever came out it's like the
utter now reality the tablet pc that you
know the the ipad that we're using the
ipod touch it's like you see these
things on old episodes of Star Trek
before that kind of technology was even
fathom abble mm-hmm so in honor of our
ode to Star Trek what are we gonna do
we're gonna animate the whole thing
first of all this episode of category 5
technology TV is brought to you in part
by pogoplug at cat five dot TV /
pogoplug and of course planet calypso
the free online game is available for
you to download at cat five dot TV /
Calypso this is category 5 technology TV
i'm your host Robbie Ferguson now I'm
Hillary rumble and tonight we're gonna
be looking at something that I've wanted
to do for quite some time because I just
thought it'd be fun I mean we talked
about some video production features on
on linux and using free software to do
those video productions we've looked at
open shot video editor and and that's a
fantastic application which we're going
to get back into but then you showed up
with these star trek figurines would you
you didn't ever realize that we'd
actually find it useful I didn't know I
just saw that already don't like them
well she knows because I actually have
like like within arm's reach I'm not I
don't you have to go off camera
and I have like you know I can i can
grab communicator pins and tricorders
and everything else so it's only fitting
tab I'm figures to accompany his it's
only fans collection okay thanks for
that you're welcome i'm going to jump
into synaptic package manager this
software is available on any linux
computer linux is a free operating
system it's an alternative to mac OS or
Windows and it gives you access to lots
and lots of free software within
synaptic package manager what I'm going
to do is just type in simply I it was
called stop motion all one word I've
already installed it just to save myself
some time perfect thanks what you would
do is install that tool I'm here in is
or an OS which is Anna blue to
derivatives and you'll see stop motion
is there creating stop motion animations
with images grabbed from your or
whatever okay with that software here's
what's so cool and I thought about okay
well how are we gonna do this we're
gonna use our our best camera and go all
out and make a state-of-the-art awesome
video because we could if we have the
time truth is I know that most people
don't have that kind of gear most people
don't have the ability to probably do
this in in 1080p so what we're gonna do
is we're going to be realistic with this
tonight we're gonna say okay this is
what you can do with your kids this is
what you can do just at home if you're
if you're just thinking hey this would
be a fun project yeah doesn't have to be
a star trek figurine I mean these are
great but fully articulating people use
Lego they use clay they use whatever
else to do these again get your eraser
on your desk and make it skip around and
do a little dance whatever you want to
do but to make this realistic for you
tonight what I have oh and sorry for
that I've got the big screen up there
but what i have i've got my action
figure which you purchased for two
dollars two dollars at the dollar store
$16 but you know it's not it's not a
it's not a huge investment no fantastic
anyone could do it and I've got a
classic logitech quickcam just an old
USB webcam all right for our backdrop we
don't want to have my shoulder in the
back
see Knightley and I could do this but
what I'm going to do instead keep things
simple I've got the cardboard box from
my motherboard perfect perfect now we
are producing professional video just
like they do in Hollywood well you've
got an action figure over there I've got
sooo you've got you've got Scotty beam
me up Scotty alright so I've got my
quick cam in place and I'm going to on
the screen while you're working on that
I'm going and this is the official
unboxing video of Scotty laddie the
official under Chinese leaving the box
there we go no longer a collectible yeah
just whatever you do don't tear it it
could double its value okay I'm gonna go
into sound and video and stop motion
here we go dad was crying right now it's
okay God well I don't get another one
first time in stop-motion i'm going to
go settings configure stop motion and
you'll see that it's detected my quick
cam so that's fine and so i can apply
and hit close it's going to use that
camera I and I click on this little
camera icon that's there it looks like a
video camera when I click on that is
going to activate my quick cam Oh
perfect there we go so this is actually
live let's see whoa how are you making
out there oh you gobble twist ties but
we're right we're getting here well I
can get started yes so a couple of quick
things you'll notice here it says mix so
what's going to happen is that my frames
are going to get mixed on the screen so
that I cannot just see one of the one of
the problems with stop motion is well
how do I know that it gets move just a
little bit how do I know that it's in
the right position yeah with mex you're
able to actually see that i'm going to
show you how that works I get my guy
let's start off screen there we go take
one picture by clicking on the camera or
hitting your spacebar I'll use the
spacebar just for kicks chair I'm going
to move him in just a little bit space
movement a little bit more and you see
how it's starting to ghost
oh you're making a lot of noise over
there ok moving them in a little bit
more and hit space and now i'm going to
start articulating them so that it looks
a little bit more real so i move them
just a little bit you can see that what
is actually happening here is a bit of
ghosting that's the mix that's happening
so i'll hit space I've got it now I move
them just a little bit more okay move
his arm just a little bit and I can
actually see both images so that I know
that I haven't gone like that because
that's just gonna look so I can kind of
line it up and even if he falls out of
the shot I can put him back to where I
think ok well there's where he was
there's where he should be in the next
frame hit space to grab the next shot
and then keep going ok how are you
making out yeah I'm going I'm going
along I just move yeah childproof
packaging ok I've moved his arm down a
little bit and moved him over ok move
down his leg spectron they're driving ok
and space and women just a little bit
more and a little bit of more
articulation we're not getting all that
fancy where that you can spend more time
of course but we're going to make it so
that it you know it's he's going to move
very unnaturally into the screen this
time I'm going to turn his head just a
little wee bit for the next frame and
again
moved his hands a little bit maybe a bit
too much that's all right there we go
are you gonna catch up soon I'm Scotty
stuck in the dressing room he's got to
get ready for his on-camera experience
dropped his gun oh man okay if they
could see me now hey take a look at me
now all those kids that used to make
funny and say Robby Robby great the
dolls Robbie plays with dolls yeah but I
make awesome stop motion video it's an
action figure yeah it's an action figure
get it right okay see what I'm doing is
I'm articulating him just a little bit
and then putting him into a position
that is just a little bit moved all
right how's he coming help well if he's
if he's not it doesn't have to be
perfect hell I know I know I just don't
want his pants to fall down but oh
that's good idea re he's ready he's got
a double gun thing all right so get him
in there so she slowly you want to
animate him into the set and I'm you
know I can't articulate this guy too
much as I'm cuz I'm not that good at it
here we go okay okay you're ready to
kind of make your way into the set I'm
gonna move just one little degree there
turn him just a little bit are you
stepping in okay okay here she comes a
little bit got the cat little bit more a
little bit more okay oh okay oh there we
go okay so stop I'm gonna take a shot
okay now we're gonna move one I gotta
turn a little bit yeah turn his head
well maybe moved his arm so you can see
that i can i can realign his arm see how
I messed up his arm I can put it there I
can because I can actually see where his
arm was in the previous shot so have you
moved a little bit that's kind of blurry
well the blur is actually seeing the
show yet two frames three frames as a
matter of fact so he moved a tad now
okay a little bit more oh he's a sneaky
one he's moving real slow well
ok well get into the shot ok Yin yeah
okay notice that I'm not taking the time
to do leg actions and so that's okay you
can spend more time as I say with your
kids and here you in yep shot I'm just
hitting the spacebar to make this happen
and we're we're about to have a duo I
think but we're on the same team not in
this movie okay then yep we go there
nice to my face alright making making
your way in good
there we go okay are you an see yea my
belt fell off that's okay drop trou one
frame he won't have a belt okay get rid
of see this is where things can happen
like that you can just put them back
where he should be okay call it
continuity during her yep there we go
yeah this is not a directed seen by any
means come on Starfleet oh hi got your
finger in there awesome oh dear I didn't
realize that oh dear finger gun you have
yeah I'm good okay next next frame this
is this is action adventure this is
really like the old track it's it's slow
paced and poor special effects oh yeah I
hope you guys watching us having as much
fun as we're swimming but just enough
see that blur is is you're seeing all
three frame it's helpful to knit it
helps you to see where yeah you need to
be
okay then let's make them hug no I don't
know about that then I then I will be in
trouble I'm I'm taking you down cuz
Sulu's very angry at Scotty today and I
forget who asked if it was a gamoto or
whatever but this Scotty has all his
fingers oh yeah yeah he was wondering if
he do
I'm gonna punch you if I hit you first
never getting ridiculous okay so we need
to one of us needs to kind of articulate
let's get down a little bit oh here I
get it oh no oh no let's looks like I'm
going down okay articulate the ending of
our movie is trashed their way is the
very okay so that leads me to oh dear
okay what happens if that happens i can
highlight frame number 43 there c43 with
the hand in the shot and then over here
and I go remove that frame good okay now
that one's gone so now 42 a little bit
of hand in that I think you're good
that's just a shot of the 43 as it was
so put put your figure up you're good
there we go and one more frame what
about like a kicks we like oh sure kick
victory kick Oh what's happening I
messed this up big time no that was that
was probably me okay that's kind of like
a victory is mine kind of thing I don't
know probably lay my arm down cuz I'm
there we go okay there we go a little
bit more
there we go okay good yep and I don't
know what now and I guess that's that's
the end of the fellow k that's that's it
yeah I guess okay so what I'm gonna do
I'm gonna switch out of camera mode i'm
gonna click on that big camera there
again toggle camera on off okay now down
here you'll see your playback controls
mm-hmm let's check out how we did are
you ready I'm ready for this that's
pretty good for our three second mini
movie but here's where it gets exciting
we're gonna actually put that on
category 5 TV it's going to be output
and rendered perfect on the show notes
for episode number 207 you're gonna
download it and just with your
microphone with whatever device you want
to use record the voice over what is
actually happy that if you get a couple
of voices in there we might throw you
some bonus fewer points here's your
chance to be in on the Star Trek action
we're going to give away a whole ton of
your points and you know how we work
things around here we usually give stuff
away so check out the show notes for
episode number 207 a category five dot
TV once it's up and you'll be able to
participate in that contest you're going
to find more information there well
that's that's fun though I could see
that you know while we have no purpose
or destination as far as that goes you
can have a lot of fun with that and I
say it's but I could see myself actually
doing that with with the kids no baby be
a lot of fun there so it's limitless as
to what you can do any could also if you
wanted to use like stickman drawings and
yeah oh yeah that's not really so the
next step what we want to do is simply
make sure that our project is save we're
going to go file save as and I'm going
to slap it on my desktop as Trek fight
all right now we want to render it and
we're going to go file export video
and now we're going to actually save a
video so what I'm going to do is I'm
going to go Trek fight and you have to
give it an extension it can be mp4 avi
whatever you want to do so i'm going to
go dot avi and what that's going to do
is this can tell it this is gonna be an
audio video interleave there we go it's
been successful oh okay so bring up my
desktop and you'll see that i have a new
file they're called trek fight avi it's
a video file being played in totem it's
good to go so that was what you're
actually going to be able to download
off for our website and add your voice
to okay we're going to be using free
open-source software in order to
actually add your audio clips to that
video so make sure you're watching as we
receive enough entries for that we'll
we'll be able to proceed with that
contest as well cool cool this is
category 5 technology TV you'll find us
online triple w category five dot TV
nice to have you here tonight and i'm
your host of the show here cat Robbie
ferguson nine Hillary Rumble I show up
randomly yeah I almost called myself
category five feet well he is category
five really let's be honest there you go
yes so okay question um when people are
downloading this what sort of software
what they used to do voice up anything
you like you can use anything at all if
you need to use a device you can use
like your your portable phone yeah yeah
yeah um you're gonna have no matter what
your platform is you're gonna have an
audio recorder app so that's fine send
us a wave file send us a mp3 whatever it
is OGG would be well maybe stick you a
couple viewer points if it's open source
whatever you do that's open source will
give you a couple extra viewer points
absolutely it'll be a compounding so let
us know you know you will have the
details in the show notes for 207 but
you'll let us know how you created the
files and we will actually add it to the
video for you so you don't need to
compile it or anything like that hey if
we have like a bunch we can have our own
little film festival sure I can play
them all yeah we could do that gang if
you have a youtube account you could put
it up yeah I want to master it yourself
that's cool too yeah
something we'll see what happens with
the viewers it's all up to you now it's
all you it's all your creativity just
let the juices flow the sky's the limit
here yep yes siree well hey I think we
pardon me recover quite a bit tonight oh
we did he always you know the time
always goes by so quick yeah sure does
we've got a for those of you who are
watching the RSS feeds or we're we've
got about five minutes just a little
more than five minutes left to the show
so do we have any more viewer questions
that we can actually we do again mom
you're just gonna pull some up right
here it's loading I know the
anticipations killing me um yep still
loading now if you want to send us an
email and a question how would you do
that Robbie you just pop as an email
live at category five dot TV pretty easy
stuff yeah that goes straight to hell
and i will read it okay this isn't a
question actually but kind of a cool
thing from invincible mutant i'm not
sure how many of you would be interested
in this kind of odd stuff i like gmail
to be my default mail client therefore i
would like it to integrate well with my
desktop i have the following scripts in
my path that i can click on any mail to
link to launch my gmail and firefox but
the problem is i don't have a clue on
how to make it integrate with the send
to function and nautilus in other words
having a script that attaches file
straight from Nautilus to gmail i see
and he sends a link there and some info
oh well I i could post the the script
that he's provided there come in the
show notes for 207 sure and query if so
you want to be able to like send to so
you're not sending us then to function
like a file ah ok
I haven't ever done that so you're
you're looking to send a file attachment
basically yes I'm gonna have to do a
little looking up on that seems doable
yeah oh yeah there's lots of stuff like
it when I do a quick google search and
if anyone in the chat room has an answer
they can think certainly put it there
for you invincible mutant I don't off
the top of my head know how that can be
done but I did a quick search for
Nautilus send to email and first one
that comes up is has got some
information about using a command called
Nautilus dash send to I don't know we
have to look into it it I haven't done
it before so nori about that well report
back but yeah if if people in the chat
room have an answer for that I'd welcome
you to do that or I will do a little
research and find out for you okay we
can do that cheers man we can do that no
problem mm-hmm I'm just thinking so I
can pull up another email in time this
comes to us from sunil question is I saw
your video on open shot video editor
great work I had a problem with using
blender though I copied all of your
steps to unpack the blender and copy and
paste and Flander into the box blender
executable executable and I get blender
error pop up box comes up when i try to
create and animate a title and he's
attached the screenshot which is very
helpful you can see that right here so
you've gone through the steps but it's
not working still some problems at 2.59
so that is current the the only thing I
could suggest is this this executive all
so that you've copied and pasted in the
executive all itself right not just yeah
that looks right and whatever the the
tail end of that is it's cut off
just make sure like brows using Nautilus
to this folder and just right click on
that blender file and and just make
absolutely certain that it's indeed
marked as executive all so that would be
like under preferences you'll see that
let's see under permissions so you go
into preferences and permissions and
then there's one that says allow
executing file as program just because
it didn't sound to me like there were
details about the actual error message
or anything like that if I knew a little
bit more about what it is like what kind
of behavior you're getting I'm expecting
that's just not doing anything in which
case that would be the first thing I
would check is making sure that its
executive otherwise it's not going to
run right but if you have a specific
error let me know but another thing that
you can do is anytime you run a program
that you're getting an error and you're
not too sure what's going on in Linux
going to terminal and run that program
so for you it might be terminal and then
type open shot so what happens then is
that it loads open shot from terminal
but there it is it loads it in the GUI
but any errors that happen are going to
be output to the screen in this window
here so you'll be able to see what the
error is that's actually taking place
and that will give you more information
unless it's giving you information on
the screen but that's another way that
you can find out with a linux
application a little bit more about
what's taking place in the background so
good luck with that I hope that you're
able to find it but post us more details
about the problem that you're
experiencing and I'd be happy to to help
you at that point Wow cool we're we're
pretty near out of time that's it
yeah invincible mutant just saying you
can chmod plus X the file that's the
terminal way of doing it and it
accomplishes the same thing as far as
how that goes so yeah you can do that in
terminal as well if you like but with
GUI it accomplishes the same thing to
mark it as executive all but yeah that's
all the time that we have it's been
great having you here thanks so fond of
being here I had super super fun with
this bad boy continue to get your
questions into us live at category 5 TV
follow us on Twitter our twitter ID for
the show is down there and of course you
can find any one of our hosts that are
on Twitter through that through that
account and see that they are followed
there and yeah have a great week and
we'll talk to you next Tuesday night
looking forward to bye-bye so yeah
