welcome to category five technology TV
episode number 394 Tuesday the 10th of
March 2015
how are you so nice to see you tonight
I'm excited we are gonna start a new
series this one's cool how to create the
world's most incredible slideshow from
still images are you talking about your
grandma slideshow he's gonna be awesome
grade 3 slideshows to be abettors hey my
grade 3 slideshow was incredible I was
innovative for a great three kid a
made us hey hello here's what's
coming up in the category five TV
newsroom a pair of exploits
and heartburn software used for playing
blu-ray discs have come to life
physicists are abuzz of possibilities
for meta materials that can be designed
to have surprising properties huija
tools developed imaging processing
technology that can be used to track
people in security camera footage even
when their images are heavily blurred
Microsoft is issued a security warning
about a bug that could let the taxes spy
on supposedly secure communications and
Pat American has been arrested in the
United Arab Emirates for comments he
posted while on Facebook in the US and
Star Trek Online paid tribute to the
late actor Leonard Nimoy with to
permanent in-game statues of spots stick
around
the full details are coming up later in
the show this is category 5 technology
TV starring Sasha dramatis
hillarie Rumble
Chris Noelle's
your kid
and your host Robbie Ferguson
this is category five technology TV
welcome to the show Robbie Ferguson here
Kelsey Jenson how are you nice to see
you welcome thanks for being here
somebody in the chat room is saying are
we gonna do Ken Burns we're gonna take
Ken Burns to the next level now for
everyone who has no idea what Ken Burns
is we'll talk about that all righty just
not now okay now's not the time Kelsey
come on I'm sorry but of course category
5 TV is a member of the tech podcast
network if it's tech it's here cat 5 TV
slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash IA ib did you happen to catch
the Google Plus hangout that happened a
couple weeks ago what was so cool about
that I think the tour the live tour we
took an ipod touch the the latest gen
like it's got a 1080p camera and it just
connected it it's pretty good connected
it wirelessly to Telestream Wirecast
with Wirecast cam and sasha was followed
around the studio and and so we captured
a live virtual to a virtual tour or
studio tour of the new studio space so
if you haven't caught that that's a
really exciting thing to be able to
check out and see you know what the
space is that we're working with here at
Studio D you can actually get that on
our YouTube channel Linux tech show so
check that out if you're not already
subscribed to make sure you subscribe to
that YouTube channel Linux tech show
another cool thing that was there on
that night
Karrie Webb was there Karrie Webb was
there kid was that Eric kid was there it
was good you there everybody was there I
hope you were but if you weren't it's
also on roku under special features
you'll see the google+ hangouts section
and incidentally we're getting a lot of
views on that video and category-five in
general is seen
a fair number of views I believe our
weekly average is about 190,000 right
now which is terrifying but also really
cool very very nervous how much is our
monthly monthly is almost a million
we're at about 800,000 and a half yeah
or so it's very money so thank you very
much for tuning into category-five TV
and we just you know we're it's all up
and up from here right where we're gonna
learn some really cool things over the
next little while this year is very
exciting as you probably I mean I hope
that you know but realistically having
moved into a new studio it was it was a
really really crazy busy time for us and
so there was kind of that transition
period of getting into the new space
getting familiar with it we're still
moving things around I had to say to
Adam our camera guy here tonight that
you know we had to move the whole studio
down to make way for Sasha's new virtual
desk yeah pretty neat pretty nifty but
it takes up a lot of room yeah really
it's virtual it's a lot bigger on screen
than it is in real life but we still had
to move everything back so you know
there's all these kinds of things we're
still kind of adapting to the space I
mean so so it's I think as we learn our
space and we're really kind of getting
to that point but as we learn the space
and what we're capable of with this
place the show is gonna get better and
better because now we're feeling more
comfortable here it'll be a lot of fun I
think so it's gonna be great it's so
nice having you come along for that ride
and that journey now we're kind of
coming out on the flip side and excited
to see what we're gonna have for you
over the next six months next year yeah
thank you for joining us what else oh
okay
with growth 190,000 viewers per week
extreme costs our internet service bill
came in for February and it was insane I
don't know if I still have the scar from
when I bumped my head on the floor but
it's getting there so I want to say
thank you to those of you who have
contributed over the past couple
weeks through a donation through
purchases in our online store but also a
unique way to support the show is by
using our affiliate links going through
you know if you're gonna shop at Amazon
or Ebay or you know any number of online
stores you can go through our website
category five dot TV you click on
support the show and our affiliate links
and all you have to do is just follow
the link to Amazon and then do your
shopping that's pretty useful people are
buying their toilet paper that way
whoever you are I know you're out there
cute
yeah so I got I got our second
Commission check Monday from Amazon for
the sales that you know you guys have
been guys and gals have been purchasing
through our affiliate link and that is
about half of our internet bill for the
entire month so it makes a huge huge
difference to even go and be buying
things like toilet paper
yeah just buy whatever you can off of
Amazon you're gonna do it anyway and a
lot of tell I think these days
especially people are going through a
lot of online stores in order to do
their purchases it's very convenient and
it's so fast these days if you're buying
direct it doesn't take a whole lot of
time to get here so and Dreamweaver 909
making the comment that also they're
doing groceries now would be after a
trip if you don't like going outside you
can support the show and be a hobbit or
whatever it is a hermit hermit that's
the word I was looking for I can just
throw Hobbit in anywhere and it's still
appropriate yeah but hobbits like
outside they live in holes I know it was
it was a mistake I was trying to think
of it and I
so there's that thank you everybody for
supporting us over the past little while
and continuing to do so it's really
necessary because the new space is much
more expensive than working in the
basement of my house uh a category five
TVs newsroom with Sasha Durr made us
speaking of numbers
thank you for watching her show she hit
a milestone on the weekend Saturday she
hit a half million viewers she's only
been on the air for since October yeah
here we are it's March so October
November December January February March
four or five months so that's pretty
good thanks everybody so that's another
great milestone well checking out the
category five dot TV news room through
our YouTube channel
also at newsroom category five dot TV
the video link is there and also on roku
it's there we're on RSS feeds for her
show as well so that's pretty cool
well what do you think I think I know
you want to get into it because this is
something that is exciting to you yes as
well as the viewers as well as me as
well as Adam he's a he's a little kitty
so this is gonna be cool what we are
doing over the course of the next few
weeks is we are going to be learning how
to create a slide show that is so
awesome because we are taking still
photographs and making it look quite a
bit like video and that's how our slide
show is going to go now one of our
viewers mentioned the Ken Ken Burns
effect off the top of the show and was
wondering you know is that what we're
going to do are we gonna be learning how
to do Ken Burns effect so what that is
basically if you imagine a photograph
and Ken Burns of course as a documentary
filmmaker and he's kind of become the
trademark as far as this particular
effect goes so he takes old military
photos and you know things that are
obviously still photographs and gets the
camera in nice and tight and move
around on that image so it gives this
little bit of a perception that it is
motion video because there is a movement
over that photograph it's a still photo
there's not a lot of depth to it
although there are some times with the
Ken Burns effect you can actually you
know have the zooming in and panning
around you've probably probably seen the
effect before yeah but what we're gonna
do is we're gonna take it one step
further and we're gonna do some
parallaxing as well are you familiar
with what that means nope okay you're
driving in a car on an interstate let's
say because we want this to be really
fancy so if you can imagine you look out
and there are cactuses obviously of
course why wouldn't there be cactuses on
that interstate well not on the
interstate because then you'd be
swerving in and out and that that's
really dangerous so they cut those ones
down but the ones that are in the field
just to your right as you're driving at
a hundred kilometres an hour or whatever
that is in miles per hour maybe you know
I am knowing the 60 okay so you're
traveling down this interstate you look
out your window in the distance our
beautiful snow-capped mountains
obviously it's the desert and so you're
picturing this aren't you and this is
totally messed up because there's also a
herd of caribou and some deer forget
about the animals this is probably some
surreal place but anyway so as you're
driving you look out your window and
what do you see you see cactus cactus
cactus cactus but the mountain is moving
so slowly in that background yeah as the
cactuses are flying by now why is that
it's because of the distance to those
mountains they're real and the cactuses
are closer so they're moving quite a bit
faster and anything between the cactuses
and the mountains are gonna seem like
it's moving a little bit slower than the
cactuses but faster than the mountain
all right so that's called parallaxing
so where we lose that kind of
three-dimensional effect in a photo is
because we can't turn the photo and see
the parallax effect of
of that photograph because still photo
now your phone does something a little
bit it's got two cameras on it so what
it like on the back so you can do like
3d photos and there's a really like it's
so much what I was playing around with
it the other day and it's just so much
we can we see it Adam could you you've
got a microphone there and you can you
can bring that into the set if you like
Adams bag bag so this phone is able to
simulate a bit of a parallaxing effect
hi Adam
oh thanks sorry my camera guy could have
zoomed in on you or at least raised up
the camera but no no so he's just take a
photo okay want to take a photo of Adam
yes so that's good yep so this is going
to create a parallax style image because
her camera what kind of phone is that
it's an HTC one mate okay so this has
two lenses and is able to create a very
look if you scroll in here if you zoom
in I guess I think you can see it up
here there's oh okay yeah yeah yeah
and and a cool robot yeah so this is
able to create a bit of a pseudo
parallaxing effect there you go so if we
can show that to the camera and if you
can get in there now as you tilt the
phone see how the back behind him that
gives a real kind of perception of it
it's popping out of the screen isn't it
a little bit I don't know how well you
can see it it's a little bit harder on
on camera just because but you can kind
of see that that effect of the
background moving it a little bit of a
different rate than the phone or the so
that's a bit of a parallax effect but
it's very very subtle because it's
created by two lenses taking two
pictures at the same time a bit of a 3d
kind of effect yeah but cool nonetheless
so what we're gonna do is we're going to
take a photo and we're gonna actually
create parallax on a flat image so this
is an excellent exercise for say wedding
photographs perhaps some
nice photos of your family you know you
go for a family hike or take a vacation
you want to do something a little bit a
little bit nicer for example kids
building a sandcastle or something and
oh well that would make a really great
parallax photo so you take this still
photo even though you don't have
equipment to do something fancy like
your phone does we can take a still
photo and then parallax it so that we
can actually move around in that photo
space just a little bit so that it
creates that kind of video like almost
like a slow-motion video so that we've
got that real slow kind of pan but
because of the parallaxing that we're
adding it actually kind of moves the
background at the same time as the
subject and gives us that 3d effect now
at the end of this series you're going
to actually be able to see this very
effect but we're taking the the 1rs kind
of trip to that point so you're gonna
learn along with us as we as we learn to
do this another example of where this
may be good is say you've got old photos
right photos of people who are long gone
for example loved ones or even
historical photos you know that you want
to do something a little fancier for
when it comes to your presentation or
something along those lines we can do
some really really cool with the stuff
with those old photos and of course we
all have photos that are just our
favorite photos you just happen to be at
the right place at the right time you've
got one of those Kodak moments if you
will and and that is the photo that I
want to use to do a parallax effect now
for tonight for our first demonstration
in the series we're going to be taking a
look at this photo of my kids on a
bleachers in Halliburton County this is
in the town of Halliburton and so
sitting there on the bleachers we want
to take this still photo which using Ken
Burns effect we could do something you
know along this line where we can you
know pan over the image now I'm not
actually animating I'm just simply
dragging the bar so that's kind of the
Ken Burns effect with maybe a little bit
of zooming in at the same time yeah so
it has that kind of a thing to it but
we're going to take it to the next level
so first of all now this is quite a
process per photo
we want to learn the basics of what is
needed in order to do that so basically
what we want to end up with is layers
okay so when I create if I was an artist
and I was able to paint I would first
create the background layer and then on
top of that say in Photoshop I would
create the next layer and the next layer
so that I can move things around now
with the still photograph we don't have
that advantage unless you happen to plan
it out in such a way that I was smart I
set up a tripod I took a picture of the
background first then I got the kids in
there then I took the picture of the
kids then it's a lot easier to work with
we don't have that we don't have that
advantage so we've got to work with a
photograph from the archives that was
taken with a camera just in my hands and
just snapped and now we want to turn it
into video so that's a little bit tricky
but if you follow along as I say you're
gonna learn how to do this entire
process but we do need layers so what we
need to do first of all is duplicate our
layer never work on your master layer
because if you break something you want
to be able to go back so I'm gonna turn
off that top layer and then I'm gonna
work on my bottom layer here I'm using
the GNU image manipulation program I
love it because it's free yay and it's
awesome pretty much the same thing as
Photoshop we have the cost exactly there
you go so you hit the nail on the head I
was thinking we should have a jingle
that we maybe can sing every time we
introduce the GNU image manipulation
program yeah it's really great and it's
free it's available for Linux Mac and
Windows
that's can't go wrong with that right so
that's free software that we're using
tonight we're gonna do our best to use
all free software throughout the course
of these demonstrations so that you can
follow along without having to spend any
cold hard cash and then instead you can
just donate it to us $60 on us I like
her stock this is why we keep her around
okay so here's my photo lovely little
picture but here's the thing okay
remember I've got two layers here so
that when I've edited the bottom layer
the original I still have the top layer
to work with what is another thing we
should do often save and save often save
and save often and save all your layers
so don't save as a JPEG because then you
lose your layers when you an example so
we're gonna learn about that in just a
couple minutes time so there's a clone
tool over here on the right hand side
looks like a little bit of a stamp don't
get lost if you hover over it it will
say clone tool all right I know what
that is
it's the clone tool I have selected the
layer that I am currently viewing
see how it's visible okay so now the
clone tool exactly what I what I've done
is I've clicked a single click you know
what I'm gonna do I'm gonna turn on my
right now you can't see my mouse Kenya
so I'm gonna just do a little quick
thing here we're gonna go comp is - -
replace and kaboom now you should be
able to see my mouse lovely thing okay
so as I holding my left ctrl key and
click somewhere on the image it creates
this crisscross now if I go over here
and I draw over my Sun notice what I've
done all right I'm going to undo that
because of what I first want to do is I
want to make my brush a lot larger so
over here with remember we've got the
clone tool selected my brush size oh it
is actually on my right hand side here
the size is set to 20 pixels right now
yeah
like 380 is like that this is a big
image by the way so that's that's gonna
fit right in between the bleachers so
that's kind of cool my image that I'm
working with is 4900 pixels wide and
3,200 pixels high yeah so as I control
and then click now if I click on my son
it's painting over him with what I
clicked over here okay so what I need to
do is I need to create that bottom layer
of my image because I didn't have the
convenience of having the camera on a
tripod and being able to snap the
background and then snap my kids in the
shot it doesn't always work that way
when you got kids you take what you get
that's how it goes the rest yeah okay so
I'm gonna undo that we're gonna do the
best job we can we need to look at my
boys and my daughter and see okay what
is happening in the
kram now we see that there are some
yellow flowers so what I want to do is I
want to control and click I've sampled
those yellow flowers so now if I click
up here I'm drawing with that texture
see that so now if I click over here I'm
able to draw over top with that texture
as soon as I hit his foot it's gonna
start sampling his foot see that so I
need to then stop clicking so that it
goes back to its sample over here and
then start painting over top again and I
just need to keep on doing that I'm
gonna zoom out just a little ways so
that you can really get a feel for what
it is that I'm doing so I so see what
I'm doing I'm not I'm not painting over
see I got a little bit of the bench
there so I may want to move my control
click into say this tree and bring some
of that tree out this way see that so I
basically am able to create a very
realistic effect that is going to get
them out of the photo because again
remember what I'm actually doing here is
I'm not working on removing my kids from
the photo I'm working on creating a
backdrop for our video because we need
to be able to parallax over this there
we go
okay so I'm gonna have control click
down here get rid of some of this stuff
here
get rid of the bench and over here
see that pretty cool huh that's
interesting that's right
it's always fun seeing like things that
you see like their one photo that also
they're not just no not they're
different now they're different yes now
you see it now you don't exactly alright
it's like that movie what movie now you
see me now you don't there's a movie
called that yeah it's like a magic movie
it's so original yeah so I'm I'm
literally I mean you can see Kelsey what
I'm doing here I'm literally just
clicking around and I'm control clicking
to grab a sample and then I'm painting
over top so now you see I'm actually
getting a really good effect that those
benches are not there and in inevitably
the kids are also not going to be there
so I'm gonna grab my son here notice
I've control clicked over there and this
is a little bit trickier because you see
what's happening here we've got a
building we've got grass we've got trees
so I want to kind of move around here
let's grab this tree let's see if I can
throw that in there see what I've done
huh okay I'm gonna grab this wall over
here that's a control click so I've
chosen what I'm gonna stamp from and
then I'm gonna stamp it right here and
of course if you make a mistake you know
always hit control Z and roll Z will
undo but also you can just grab a new
sample there we go so now we've got a
new tree there they don't even exist and
now I can control click on the area that
I've our that I've just created and
continue to work downward or pull my
daughter out of the shot
don't worry tally I'm gonna put you back
okay so now you see what's happening I'm
starting to get to the point where I
need to consider how the green of the
foreground interacts with the kind of
dark and shadows of the background but
that's starting to look pretty good so
if i zoom out I've got this kind of nice
greenery in the front I need to get my
other boy out of here yeah I'm gonna
grab a sample of the building
and drag over except that part of that
trees Club yeah that's okay cuz we see
we plan it out wedding yeah I hit
control Z cuz I didn't get the line just
right so now I can grab this tree and
keep going down
there we go so we start to get a pretty
good pretty good now this particular
thing doesn't have to be exactly perfect
and the reason for that is because the
kids are still going to be on the shot
they're still going to be on top the
background doesn't have to be perfect we
just don't want to see remnants of the
kids shoulders in the background yes
that just wouldn't make any sense
that's a weird 3d effect
so now we've got this background that
looks like it's going to work pretty
well I can turn back on my foreground
you can see there's my kids and there's
the background so the next step is
really now let's get in here and we're
gonna notice what I've selected here is
the last few marquee the free select
tool and I'm gonna get in and start
tracing around each of the kids and then
we're gonna do as accurate of a job as
we can now because of the the fact that
this is a demonstration I'm going a
little bit lacks with the accuracy a
little bit because you may want to spend
say an hour to perfecting this photo
whereas we only have an hour show and
we've got other things to do but we're
gonna demonstrate the techniques so that
you can actually go through and create
this really really awesome effect so
we're gonna pick it up I'm gonna throw
over to the newsroom though and Kelsey
and I are gonna keep on working on
tracing this while we're talking about
the news and and then we'll be we'll be
right back with you to carry on where we
left off so over to the newsroom here is
sasha dur made us it's Tuesday March
10th 2015 and here are the stories were
covering this week would you like some
malware on your popcorn security
researcher has found two seriously scary
exploits in the way blu-ray runs hidden
code in the background
how can one material make our shoes more
comfortable and protects power plants
from the effects of earthquakes at the
same time progress is being made on meta
materials and we'll give you the latest
buzz computers can now detect and track
people even from very blurry security
video footage the newly announced freak
bug allows the interception
easy decryption of supposedly secure
data a man has been arrested for dissing
his employer on Facebook and could face
up to five years in jail and the massive
multiplayer online games Star Trek
Online has paid tribute to Leonard Nimoy
who passed away on February 27th these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere
chroma key green screen kits are on sale
now at cat5 dot TV slash green save over
50% off the regular price get all you
need to build your very own green screen
studio and start doing special effects
for video or still photography now cat5
dot TV / green I'm Sachi drew made us
and here are the top stories from the
category 5 TV newsroom a pair of
exploits and hardware and software used
for playing blu-ray discs has come to
light
Stephen Tomkinson a security researcher
for NCC presented his research at the
security conference at Alberta
University in Scotland on Friday at the
event he showed how he'd been able to
create a blu-ray disc that detects the
player it's running on and then chooses
one of two exploits to install malware
malware on the host computer blu-ray
discs support additional content like
dynamic menus which are built into the
disks using blu-ray disc Java and these
use excellence for user interface
Tomkinson found a flaw and CyberLink
PowerDVD which is included in many
windows-based computers that allowed him
to leave the excellent sandbox and
launch malicious code the second exploit
targets blu-ray players he was able to
get root access on a blu-ray player
where he was able to trick the system
into running a command that would
install malware since the video
continues to play users may not even
suspect that something malicious is
going on in the background until the
exploits your beings are until the
exploits are fixed users are being
advised to avoid blu-ray discs from
unknown sources so be careful not to buy
your blu-rays from you know a flea
market or somewhere where they're at an
incredible deal and maybe not in our
packaging Robbie
a lot of a lot of that kind of stuff
goes on you see a lot of bootleg discs
and stuff the flea markets a good
example but you know somebody brings out
a box of stuff that looks a little shady
maybe not quite legitimate and they
could put malicious code on there that's
a little bit scary okay that is scary
and one of those things where you just
you're better off to just go and pay the
extra dollars for safety well they have
Netflix these days too I mean that's
true physicists are abuzz with
possibilities for metamaterials that can
be designed to have surprising
properties tweaking the structure of
materials to manipulate things like
their appearance is already fairly well
known the next phase is changing their
mechanics a major conference is alive
with ideas designs and samples including
springy ceramics unfilled ability cloaks
and programmable rubber sponges they
could help build spacecraft tiles or
even terrain sensitive shoe soles
professor Martin from the Calgary
Institution of Technology in Germany
works on cloaking but not in the way
you're thinking his aim is to make
things invisible his aim is not to make
things invisible sorry
they will not be invisible instead he
wants to hide them from physical forces
and last year his lab produced a
honeycomb like material that made an
object beneath it unfeeling really yeah
that's exciting if this particular meta
material or this particular metamaterial
was a solid lattice that acts like a
fluid in certain ways deflecting
pressure around its hidden cargo which
in my opinion is something the Pirates
will love in this picture a small
honeycomb structure made from the
material was able to successfully cloak
the cylinder beneath it from being felt
Wow yeah I wonder what that would do for
like I'd love to have that on the bottom
of my shoe oh yeah able to walk and not
not feel the stuff that you're stepping
on is tough imagine that in like a
workforce how steel toed shoes with with
actually being able to step on a nail
and it just kind of absorbs the yeah
the nail as a waitress let me tell you
if I like feel what I was standing on my
whole day yeah I feel smiley personal
bed mattresses mattresses think about
that example exactly I like this
honeycomb fan Wow the Princess and the
pea Wow yeah there's no end to it it was
shown that a careful pattern of such
materials could divert damaging
earthquake vibrations turning the ground
itself into sort of a metamaterial it
seems might go so far as to protect a
powered station from a tremor so that's
an amazing value in there yeah that's
very cool so you think within earthquake
environment where the foundation would
shake possibly crack or fracture and in
a power plant or a nuclear plant you'd
have some serious serious problems
caused by that my assumption is though
it's probably something that can't be
retrofitted which means it would be new
belts yeah exactly but I mean there
comes a point in infrastructure where
some of these buildings have to be
rebuilt anyways or through expansion I
mean they're building new buildings all
the time but maybe some of these old
buildings need to be retro rebuilt
because they can't be retrofitted but
that could be an answer to a lot of
problems I like it Fujitsu has developed
imaging processing technology that can
be used to track people in security
camera footage even when the images are
heavily blurred Fujitsu laboratories
said it's technology is the first of its
kind that can detect people from low
resolution imagery in which faces are
indistinguishable detecting the
movements of people could be useful for
retail design reducing pedestrian
congestion in crowded urban areas or
improving evacuation routes for
emergencies it said every movement to
use computer vision algorithms to
analyze the imagery and identify the
rough shapes such as heads and torsos
that remain even if the image is heavily
pixelated the systems can pick out the
system can pick out multiple people in a
frame Eva
if they overlap I would wonder though
until this is actually developed how
many people might be misidentified using
multiple camera sources it can then
determine if two given targets are the
same person by focusing in on the
distinctive colors of a person's
clothing an indoor test of the system
was able to track the paths of 80
percent of test subjects so 20 percent
can't be tracked and those are the ones
wearing the invisibility cloak
that's right I can't differentiate the
color with the computer be able to
figure it out you know I like this in
some ways and it scares me in this
technology okay so to be clear it's not
tracking okay the tech this technology
is not saying that Sashadhar made us
right walking through the mall they're
saying that's at work it's saying that
is a torso and it's the same torso that
I see on this camera and it's the same
torso that I saw over here ten minutes
ago right but then cross-reference that
with other software with a higher
resolution camera at the entrance of the
mall this is what they're not telling us
high resolution camera takes a picture
of you on your way in and says okay yeah
he's the one he's the only one wearing
that sweater and so as now they have a
high-res image of me they've put it
through facial recognition programs
which already exist and they are able to
say hey that's Robbie Ferguson we've got
now we've got access to his social
profiles and we can see all this
information about him and then using the
low resolution cameras they can then
track my movement through the mall and
they can say oh that even though these
cameras say I don't know who that person
is we can cross-reference that data with
other high-resolution data and say oh
that's Robbie Ferguson there through
them all even though we can't tell from
that particular image so it's almost
like a sugar coating oh well you can't
really tell who it is well you can if
you cross-reference the data because
we're able to track
so if I'm able to look at you and say
that's a chador made us and then from
afar I can still see you walking even
though I can't
from afar tell me that's you I know that
that's you so I can make that
differentiation so from the computer
that's what they're not telling us and
that's where it becomes a little bit
ominous why on earth would you put
something like this out and call it
something other than what it is why spin
it in a positive way when everybody
could deduce so that the public will
approve of it it doesn't this person of
interest is the next step right but it
doesn't matter if we approve it or not
it's gonna happen anyway absolutely
already yeah but you have to just wear
layers wear layers and protect yourself
change your posture I don't know I can't
figure it out I don't know who that guy
with the yellow dress sure it is this
umbrella that this guy is carrying
colors maybe I could go shopping and
change in the change room there you go
I don't even know what to say yeah other
than Microsoft has issued a security
warning about a bug that could let
attackers spy on supposedly secure
communications called freak the bug was
found in software used to encrypt data
passing between web servers and web
users initially the flaw was thought
only to affect some users on Android and
Blackberry phones in Apple's Safari web
browser Microsoft's warnings suggest
millions more might be at risk of losing
data the Freak flaw was discovered by
encryption and security expert
Karthikeyan Berber Gavin and lets
attackers force data traveling between a
vulnerable site and a visitor to use
weak encryption this makes it easier to
crack open the data and steal sensitive
information since it's two statistics
gathered by a group set up the setup to
monitor the impact of the Freak floss
suggests about nine point five percent
of the web's top 1 million web sites are
susceptible to such attacks
hmmm that's scary the monitoring group
has also produced an online tool that
lets you check if your browser is
vulnerable to the flaw you can access
this tool and learn what you need to do
at freak attack comm I don't know
Microsoft now
well now that they are mentioning it
because originally it was thought that
this was just smartphones and things
like that but to find out that it's also
affecting the Windows operating system
and nine and a half percent of the
world's largest websites that's a little
bit scary because if we've talked about
it before if someone is able to
intercept play man-in-the-middle with
your data and it's encrypted in a non
safe way and they're able to decrypt it
rather easily then your financial
transactions and the things that you're
doing online that should be encrypted
and that you trust our encrypted could
be compromised and that's a scary scary
I have a weird thought this freak attack
com that you go to find out whether or
not your website is at risk your
computer your browser on your computer
your phone ok because I was gonna say
could anybody just log in and and see
whether or not you're at risk and then
target that way big no yes however
through this service there the it will
just simply tell you if your browser is
affected by expletive basically exploits
a browser or test if it is exploitable
there's no yeah and then click here to
shop on Amazon now that we know American
has been arrested in the United Arab
Emirates for comments he posted on
Facebook while in the US helicopter
mechanic Ryan pate wrote on Facebook
while in Florida after arguing with the
global Aerosmith aerospace logistics
over sick leave on returning to Abu
Dhabi from Florida he was arrested for
breaking the country's strict cyber
slander laws the laws were introduced in
late 2012 and making an offense to use
the net to mock or deride organizations
and individuals his trial is due to
start on March 17th which is st.
Patrick's Day
and he could face up to five years in
jail and a large fine if found guilty
well he was on sick leave and in the US
while supposedly working in the United
emirate ever I don't know Nick there's
something more to that don't judge come
on cause he's on a beach in Florida
doesn't mean he's not recovering from as
far as I understand it he's seeking
medical help from American doctors oh
and so to be on sick leave from your
work in order to be in America that
receiving care and and it would be
frustrating if you're you're here you
know in in the United States or Canada
for medical treatment and you need to
stay longer and your your employer won't
let you that's true but I wonder what
they're what slander is like it's just
stating the facts slander I think no I
think he was probably pretty nasty but I
mean some people have tempers all right
sometimes that unfortunately shows its
way onto Facebook where an emoticon
can't necessarily show that you're you
know you're just taking it out so if
somebody is watching that and it's
illegal it's illegal oh he's not gonna
have a happy st. Patrick's Day
massive massive multiplayer online game
Star Trek Online has paid tribute to the
late actor Leonard Nimoy with two
permanent
in-game statues of Spock one includes
the phrase live long and prosper while
the other reads the needs of the many
outweigh the needs of the few
in the announcement posted on Friday on
the Star Trek Online website executive
producer Steve ricasso addressed what
the late actor meant to the Star Trek
community calling Leonard Nimoy a
cultural icon and explaining that his
passing has been felt farther and wider
than Leonard himself could have possibly
known and it's that humility despite all
of his skills talents and fame that made
him someone we all cared about Nimoy's
name also joins another memorial on the
site alongside creator Gene Roddenberry
DeForest Kelley James Doohan and Majel
Barrett the actor who originated the
role of Spock passed away on February
27th at age 83
for all your tech news with a slight
linux bias visit the category 5 TV
newsroom at newsroom category 5 TV for
the category 5 TV newsroom I'm Sasha
through mattis thanks Ashley this is
category 5 technology TV I'm your host
Robbie Ferguson you can't see me
she's over there but I'm Kelsey hey
Kelsey how you doing good great okay
we're gonna jump right back into our
tutorial we're just gonna kind of
quickly wrap up I was able to get
through all of the marquee of my
children so look at what we've got we've
got I've traced simply traced around
them and the bench okay so this gives us
a really good starting point and then
what I did it now you see if I turn them
off look at what we've got this really
cool marquee right around that space so
then I copied to my clipboard the
children so now I can now disable this
layer paste out of the clipboard and now
I've got this layer which I will now
right-click and go layer layer to image
size there we are and then we will right
click and go select none' now it looks
exactly like what the original photo
right so what we can do now is we can
move the children around on the image
and it doesn't look like we've got
anything behind that you know we'll
tweak it a little bit over the course of
the next couple of weeks but basically
we're able to move them around on that
image and we get a pretty cool effect so
that is not what we're going to achieve
we're actually going to have some nice
kind of fly-in effect where the
background is moving at a different
parallax speed than the foreground and
we're going to get a real kind of 3d
effect to it that's what we're going to
be learning over the course of the next
few weeks but that's all the time that
we have to commit to it tonight I hope
that you enjoyed the the first step in
our three-part series how to create the
ultimate slideshow from still photos I
catch the rest of that you'll find it on
our website category 5 TV or also on
YouTube at youtube.com slash Linux
Tech Show yes questions all right give
me the questions okay I will do that
sorry our first question comes from
Courtney hey Courtney says she was
clicking around her file explorer and
came across a subfolder that surprised
her oh it surprised her I didn't put
that there
I'm sorry go on
it looks like Windows is storing all of
her history the folder is PC OS users
Starflight searches everywhere and there
are thousands of files in this folder
yes or so you think okay big question is
can she delete them all and have you
found that folder in your computer every
computer has it that is well not really
but Windows 7 Windows 8 Windows in
general has indexed search okay you know
what that means no when you go into my
computer or computer on the newer
operating systems you've got a search
ability so you can type in star dot jpg
and boom all of the JPEG files on your
computer are pretty much instantly up on
your screen doesn't take a whole lot of
time pretty nice how does it do that it
indexes reference points basically we'll
call them ok it's not the technical term
but reference points to those files
they're not the actual files they're
references to the files so that when
Windows can very very quickly find them
when you do a search if it didn't do
that it would have to rely on the media
to be able to pull all that data and it
would have to spider through the file
system and the NTFS file system is
problematic at best with that kind of
thing it can be very very slow so in
order to make it faster they created
this kind of virtual folder that stores
everything so what you are looking at is
not duplicates of those files
it is those files it is a pointer to
those files ok so if I if I have a
that is a very special picture to me
okay and it's the only copy in the world
and it's on my harddrive you need to
have a backup by the way but it let's
just say for the sake of the example
okay so this is the beautiful picture of
someone that I love and if I've done a
search for star jpg now there's a
reference point and in that folder
searches everything okay for this file
now it didn't copy the file it didn't
move the file it just simply said that's
the file whenever anyone does a search
that's the file so now if you go into
that folder and delete the reference
point you can't really do that the
reference point points to this file so
if you say delete this it deletes that
so then I've lost my only copy of that
file in the whole multiverse hopefully
there's a parallel universe somewhere
where that still exists yeah let's say
you know what let's do it let's go there
I got Telestream Wirecast and the
ability to browse my hard drive so let's
go users category five tech TV searches
everywhere and what do you notice it
looks like it's got everything so these
are basically all the files that have
been found when I've done searches so if
I'm looking at this folder it looks like
there is a copy of fifth anniversary
which is taking up nineteen point five
megabytes in this folder users category
five TV searches everywhere commercials
ok that's a problem
cuz that's taking up space on my hard
drive and if you browse you'll find oh
my goodness even the big 2gig files are
here so i want to what delete it free up
some space on my hard drive ok let's go
to properties and what do we notice ok
look at the top here users category five
tech TV searches everywhere commercials
fifth anniversary I've gone to the
properties of the file what do we notice
location F not see sort me as the folder
that I dropped it into
slash commercials so there's a folder on
my F Drive called sort me and it's
commercials so if I delete this file
you're deleting it from the location I'm
deleting it from that not from my C
Drive it's taking up absolutely zero
space on my hard drive in fact well I
mean very very little let's go back to
searches and right click on everywhere
and go properties and say how big is
this 248 bytes it's a virtual folder
it's not a real folder at all it's in
fact just a place not place the windows
stores those links to those files for
searches so be very very careful if
you're messing around with that should
be hidden on most systems you don't want
to delete anything from there cuz you're
gonna delete the actual file ok so
notice that those files were on my F
Drive ok that's a big one terabyte drive
my C Drive is a little tiny 120 gig SSD
yeah so if I had thought oh well this is
actually taking up 17 gigs on my C Drive
my temptation would be to delete
everything but I'd actually be deleting
it from my F Drive so I guess in a bit
of a simple terms would be like like an
index in a book sort of symlinks if
you're familiar with that on Linux
although in Linux I believe most of the
time if you delete the same link you're
just delete in the same link not
necessarily the file that is the
destination but yeah be careful of that
okay Courtney and thank you for the
question that's that's cool yeah I hope
that we've been able to help stay away
from oh that's good to know if I ever
found that I thought hey this is 2
gigabytes you think it's duplicates No
thank you I appreciate this and just
leave it all this disaster averted Wow
thank you
the next question comes from John Brown
hey John
he has been inspired by our progress
with the nikon DSLR 5100 to purchase and
reflash his own
so use the nikon hacker film where
firmware sorry his testing to date has
been with the avermedia game broadcaster
HD card okay that's a capture device yep
question is how's your mag well card
allow you to pull in 1920 by 1800 or
close yeah yeah the mage well card that
we use is a 4k capture card
okay it pulls in up to 4k video over
HDMI the avermedia cards only do 1080p I
can't believe we're at the point now
where I'm saying only 1080p like five
years ago not even tell you if he was
please oh my that big who who wouldnt
their right mind would ever need more
than a 42 inch TV yeah yeah so yeah I'm
pulling 1080 by well I'm pulling while
we're streaming at 720p so what I pull
is actually lower than 1080p because the
resources that I would use in order to
pull 1080p would be higher than pulling
720p now we don't get a true 720p frame
because the DSLR camera has an oddly
shaped sensor right so when we pull
video what you see here right is from a
DSLR sensor which is not sixteen over
nine which your screen that you're
watching this on is so if we took the
video straight off of the camera in
1080p it would be stretched that's why
we're staying with mage well because
they allow us to now take that stretched
image which is pulling in for us at
seven you know it's like it's something
around 720 but then we just kind of
shrink it down a little bit or but yeah
we've had no trouble pulling anything in
with the mage well card and it is the
best of the three cards that we've used
and we tried the avermedia and we tried
the black magic cards and black magic
was not a go because they are too picky
about the resolution of the dimensions
and the avermedia was the next best
thing it pulled it in but it was
stretched and the mage well card gives
us full control over everything so it
can look really really great the show
show is going to be starting at the end
of the month and I'm very very excited
about it now we're pulling things
together because it cost money for us to
be able to launch new shows so because
of last month's internet bill things are
tight I'm really really hoping to be
able to bring this to you if you want to
support that show I would ask that maybe
when you throw a contribution our way
through our website just make a little
note or pop me an email that says you
know I want that money to go toward the
show show and that is specifically a
broadcast a supplemental broadcast to
this bra show that is specifically
geared toward people like yourself who
want to be able to broadcast on the web
so I'm going to be taking the knowledge
that I have from the mid-90s is when I
started broadcasting on the web I mean
as soon as high-speed Internet was out
and even before that I was broadcasting
so the knowledge that I have I hope is
going to help a lot of people I don't
claim to be all that or you know the
go-to guy but what I know I'm willing to
share and that's what the show show is
about and so if that's something that
you want to be a part of and support
then I'd appreciate that and these are
the kinds of questions that we will do
much more than just talk about I'm gonna
be giving you full examples but check
out mage Welkom ma GE wel L and C some
of the devices that they have there I
would stay away from the external
devices go internal PCIe and that's
going to give you the best performance
anything over USB is going to be
subjective to the limitations of USB
right so what are some of the
limitations of USB throughput bandwidth
power the more devices you have the less
you can do
because it's shared bandwidth and CPU
usage USB uses it's a hog when it comes
to CPU so if you're pulling 1080p video
over USB CPU usage goes way up we are
pulling HDMI I'm gonna switch real
quickly back to our Wirecast system and
you'll see here that while we are
pulling video we're streaming we're
recording to disk we've got all these
cameras open and we have CPU usage about
40 some-odd to 50 percent so that is
really because we're using the mage well
card we're pulling in over HDMI HDMI
through PCI Express is very very low
resource intensive because the card is
pulling in the video and my computer is
really just run wire cast so but if you
had a USB device it's gonna be clocking
up your CPU probably about 20% heard of
ice so alright one more question this is
from Calvin sorry Calvin Calvin Calvin I
have made that mistake before not the
union units of temperature wish we were
talking about the lights and I kept
saying Kelvin or Calvin whichever one is
the right one I said the wrong one and
so I got hated on for that but Calvin we
got it right so nice to have you joining
us Thanks
you would like to know how will this
switch from upstart to system D affect
the average user or will it mainly
affect programmers and power users like
Robby like you I guess is it better is
system D better than upstart for vivre
vivid and what are they firstly I guess
what are upstart and system D okay
ginormous question I'm gonna take the
easy way out and just remind you that
we're out of time that worked out well
for me but I do want to help you but
okay I'm talking about in it and system
D and upstart and all this kind of stuff
is very very technical very
right so maybe you know a good thing for
you to research I will post links I had
a chat with Garvey in our chat room
today and and he had some really great
resources for us to be able to help you
understand this I'm gonna post those in
the show notes for episode number three
ninety so you've got a nice little
starting place
I'll tell you though in it is basically
it's the first thing that happens when
you turn on your Linux computer the
computer has to do something what's it
gonna do it's up to an it to tell it
what order to do things in what is
dependent on other things and when we
can do all the things that we need to do
I know sorta but if you think about okay
I need to have I've got an ass box a
network attached storage so my hard
drive is on my network so if my network
card is not yet connected to the network
and my computer it tries to connect to
the NASS box
how is it going to do that because I
don't have a network connection yet if
it tries to start the X environment the
desktop operating system the desk
desktop that I see before the Nvidia
drivers have loaded well how does that
work because now it has no it can't do
it soin it tells it the order in which
to do things
so the original Anette that has been
around for years and years and years is
is obsolete because it was very
sequential it was very wait for the
network card to come up then
Nass drives then do the then launched
nvidia then launched acts and and it's a
very time-consuming processes so the
boodle boot process was very very long
and slow well on comes up start from
canonical to try to remedy that one of
the developers there started it and the
canonical decided to backup and they
included it in their distribution who
Boone to and it was really great because
things are happening in parallel so I'm
loading your network drivers and Nvidia
drivers at the same time and when the
network drivers are up I'm loading Nass
and when I when your video drivers are
up I'm loading X and so all this stuff
is happening in a multitasking way and
things are working really really well
but then system D comes out a couple
years later and says okay we're gonna do
we're gonna take it one step further
we're not only gonna multitask we're
gonna put everything in these little
containers and say okay now if you want
to upgrade your Nvidia drivers you can
pull that one out pop in the new one and
everything still runs and you don't have
to restart the whole computer you can
just restart that container or that one
driver and things will still work it
also means that the logging system which
normally would have to wait for things
like the file system how can you start
saving to a log file if your hard drive
is not yet mounted because there's
nowhere to save it so it has things like
buffers and sockets that to make it
really lace peak starts logging in
memory before the hard drive is even
mounted and then once the hard drive is
mounted it says ok now I can save to the
hard drive so it's able to do things in
a different order and it's not quite as
sequential as the old way of doing a net
so your boot is but then it also is
needed when you shut down because you
think ok well when I shut down what
happens to my computer everything
doesn't just crash and all the power
goes over it has to do the backwards net
it has to D init everything and close it
down safely and save the work and then
close out the log files and do all that
and that's all a part of it as well
system D was accepted by debian as the
new init daemon so that's a big thing
because Ubuntu is based on Debian so you
know
okay we've been developing this thing
called upstart for so long and it's been
coming along really really well it's
stable its rock-solid it's working
really well but now Debian which we are
based on is print is going to be using
system de okay maybe that's the way to
go and that's kind of the way things are
going so you know probably some hurt
feelings and developer land and you know
that's it's a hard thing because you
know they've been kind of neck-and-neck
and all of a sudden now okay Canonical's
product is going by the wayside so we'll
see what happens over the next little
while I hope that that little quick
summary has has helped you but otherwise
we are completely out of time I went a
little bit over there wha-oh I will post
links for you to really summarize things
and then give you more details so our
intro music is gonna run out before that
happens I'm gonna restart it and we're
out have a great week Kelsey thanks for
being here Adam cheers man and we'll see
you next Tuesday night we hope you
enjoyed the show category 5 TV
broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every Tuesday at 7 p.m. Eastern
if you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV check out the local
show times in your area at category-five
TV and find out when you can watch live
and interact in the community chat room
category 5 is a production of prodigy
digital solutions and is licensed under
Creative Commons Attribution 2.5 Canada
we'll see you next time thanks for
tuning in
