what you're about to experience is a
free worldwide interactive broadcast
from Ontario Canada we broadcast live
every tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time
get your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host where
I'll be Ferguson welcome to episode
number 185 of category 5 technology TV
nice to see ya great to have you here
tonight we're going to be continuing our
series on web development we are in
episode number five of that yes very
excited to be moving through that and
that we're gonna be talking a little bit
about it a little bit later on in the
meantime hey Krista how's it going good
good we never quite have a planned out
how we're gonna kick things off it's
like okay go go go and we're on how's
your week on Oh busy so far busy
yourself about the same yeah it seems
everything's kind of picking up a yeah
let's bring spring fever is that what it
is I think so everybody shopping for
spring and getting ready for everybody
seems to be buying websites that's good
that's sad excellent it is good Eric how
are you sir I am well good to see ya and
how's the rest of the gang out there hey
cat five TV yours yeah here
I had lots of people in the chat room
eric is there uh Krista is there I am
there say hello relatively quiet in the
chat rooms over have you look normally
you're just creating a nuisance over
there well I try yeah you can find us
online category 5 TV and within that
site you'll see the interact menu and
there is the the live chat room where if
you're watching this during the live
show you'll be able to join us in the
chat room and of course if you're
catching this after the fact you can
also jump into the chat room there's
there is some activity throughout the
week as well when we're not live on the
air and then be nice to see you there
this week on our website category 5 TV
we introduced a new feature very excited
about this we're always trying to
increase the amount of I guess community
interaction the ability for people to be
able to communicate with other people on
the site and and really become a part of
the category 5 TV community and one of
the things that you'll find on our
website now if you're a registered user
and you log into the website is that we
have internal messaging which is
basically like that like an email
service for category 5 viewers that is
strictly within the the website itself
so you can send messages to me and two
other people that are registered on the
site and you can communicate that way
it's quite cool so cool so we're still
better testing that and today I was
testing it out and all right we're
almost ready we're gonna announce this
on the show it's great and I sent out my
first test email like I'm mass mail and
it failed miserably of course so about
six or seven thousand people have an
email in their inbox that makes
absolutely no sense but it looks like
it's from me so if I if you are the
recipient of said email it's because
there was experimenting with encryption
because everything is going to be
encrypted through the new system we want
to keep everything safe so you mad the
decryption algorithm was not quite in
place so you can go in and delete that
and of course that's going to
automatically purge itself in 24 hours
as well or you can hang onto it and talk
to rob you but again sometime down the
road yeah you don't know how many
messages I've ever seen today's hey
what's
with his email is just a bunch of
gibberish so if that's you just
understand this is a failed test attempt
and rather than starting over we just
decided to just let it go it's going to
expire in 24 hours and disappear from
your Inbox anyways but that's a cool
feature internal messaging and you'll
find that again on the interact menu but
you have to be a registered viewer
obviously in order to send and receive
messages within the service and that's I
think couldn't be really cool so send me
a message on there just to say hey also
we would welcome your viewer
testimonials and speaking of we do have
several viewer testimonials their
category 5 TV again on our interact menu
there are the viewer testimonials you
can send your own and we're just going
to jump into some of the ones that have
been received over the past couple of
weeks Eric I'll let you kind of take
over at that point all right we have one
from far far away this is from Kevin in
Kenya hey Kevin um it's a here goes I
have watched this broadcast from episode
one Wow discovered it when it was at
episode 11 webcam 60 would campus odes
okay got it and now is huge never once
did the information become stale each
time there was and still is something to
be learned love the new format each time
there is a show-and-tell kind of thing
the web dev stuff made my day well night
I may not always make it live on the
show but mural religiously downloads the
episodes and religiously watch them keep
up the good work sometimes Dale yeah
thanks Kevin one here from phil
cunningham from our cunningham because
i'll probably get corrected that's ok
from suffolk UK says well put together
program a must for any computer freak or
user so there are two classifications
according to who fill of computer users
and users and one is perfect i suppose i
fall under the Freak category Eric we
generally use geek but freaking you know
it was fine yeah it works well there's
one from Dennis Kelly from Grand Blanc
Michigan mi is Michigan yes um
okay and Robbie again I wanted to thank
you for all your help and knowledge your
show has helped me set up an unraid
freenas multiple screens and 3d cube
through compass thanks a lot Venice
awesome always glad to help Dennis Ron
says hey guys just a note to let you
know and maybe a few viewers that I did
my taxes with a boon to this year yes I
had to use virtualbox and I load an XP
into it but it worked absolutely no
problem I just imported last year's
taxes and a way I went thanks from
Rhonda gay and that's very cool I need
to consider that yeah if you're if
you're limited to you know if you think
that you have to have windows maybe it's
not the fan not the case in this case
that Ron just simply went with
virtualization installed windows XP to
do as taxes you can do you know whatever
else that you need to do an XP and then
you shut it down and you're back to a
boon to so that's very cool very cool
all right well here's one from Torben do
mayor or could be do merit for the
Germany wow I found category five dot TV
on narrow and was so impressed that i am
now almost done with watching all the
episodes I could find on mural it is
absolutely amazing to see how the show
constantly improved and I am looking
forward to my first live experience
tomorrow tomorrow a lot of the programs
you mentioned and tutorials you featured
on the show have really helped me and I
really like the interviews as well
unfortunately I now have the problem
that I want a pogoplug yeah I've never
heard of it before I watched your show I
don't really need one but the features
really got me hooked Robbie you are a
great guy and with a funny guy like Eric
and the funny and adorable Hillary your
show offers a very unique combination of
content and entertainment i would i
would also like to greet Becca Carrie
Christie and John their show is cool
beans homie that's from turbaned in
Germany thanks doorman they're getting
used to having you here i'd say i'd say
greets out to krista is
um she's sushi beans as well I'm very
cool beans oh they're torto says by the
way Krista is adorable as well ah yes
why didn't I get called why why didn't I
get called her I have been called
adorable before I've not by anybody
named Corbin Christ has been called
adorable on the show Hillary's been
called adorable airs over there making
noise and I've been called a freak how
do you look at it I guess it's just it's
long all the way you look at it thanks
yours you can submit a viewer
testimonial on our website category 5 TV
click on interact and go to viewer
testimonials you don't have to be a
registered viewer for that we also
accept video testimonials if you'd like
to say hi by way of a submitted video
that'd be cool as well and will display
that on the air category 5 TV nice to
have everybody joining us tonight great
to see you in the chat room looks like a
lot of people joining us there and
really great to have you we have a copy
of wire cast that we're going to be
giving away within the next few weeks
and I would encourage you to get onto
our website category 5 TV and again on
our interact menu you'll see the
Wirecast giveaway and register viewers
are encouraged to vote on their favorite
entries and we would appreciate you
doing that we're going to take those
votes and we're going to be able to pick
out who the winner is at the end of the
contest to win a free copy of wire cast
which is the broadcasting sweet that we
that we use here at category 5 in order
to do the show and you can find out more
about the program itself a cat5 TV /
Wirecast but again on our website
category 5 TV click on interact and then
go down to the wire cast giveaway we
really would love to have you help us to
pick who the winner should be cool
viewer questions we got lots will you
have some questions here's one I didn't
get to last week we almost got to it and
it's mmm King yeah um hi Robbie the
super geek oh look at all the names on
guys adorable quite adorable come on
super geek the super free hi Robbie um
that wasn't all from yeah I am using a
laptop with an LCD monitor in extended
mode instead of mirrored the screen
black of button on my laptop is function
f 6 whenever I press that shortcut key
for those shortcut keys the laptop
screen goes to sleep immediately but the
LCD monitor still stays on is there any
way that can they can be synced thank
you cheers thinking yeah I don't have to
work on that name okay rubble good have
you got for we do our best we certainly
do i would say see the function f six
key is actually just going to basically
put the laptop display to sleep which is
typically used to like if you're doing a
presentation for example what you're
experiencing is what you should be
experiencing it's meant to leave the
projector running connected to the d sub
or the vga but it would it would
actually deactivate the laptop screen in
order to one conserve battery power but
also to to keep it going on the
projector or external display so that's
that's an intended purpose of that key
that turn off just your internal display
now there with what you're doing what it
sounds like is he wants to turn off both
displays at the same time or basically
blank those two screens there's a couple
ways you can do that first way of course
is to use the blank screen saver which
is you know kind of a makeshift way to
do it ctrl alt l in linux is your lock
key so that locks your computer and i
tell my wife all the time don't forget
to lock your computer because the kids
get on to it and they delete short cuts
off the desktop and they do stuff
that so control all L does more than
just like both screens it also locks
your computer to the point where you
have to enter a password in order to get
back onto the system so it's pretty
handy but that would have a similar
effect now the other option of course is
to use a command that would control the
power savings of your of your display so
for example if you were to go into
terminal or if you were to hit alt f2
for example and type X set DPMS force
off what that command is going to do and
I'm not going to do it on the show
because then I'm going to lose my
desktop possibly cause an issue with the
capture but what that actually does is
it uses power save or leader suspense s
in the DKMS in order to suspend the
output to the displays and that will
again that should affect all displays
connected to the computer because you're
not specifying and of course be ready to
if if you can't wake it with the mouse a
gang hit alt f2 which is going to bring
up your run dialog which you may not be
able to see with a black screen and you
would do the exact same command except
DPMS pardon me force on instead of off
and that and then you have it back on
but moving your mouse you've got to move
it you know fair amount in order to get
it to wake back up but that command is a
little different than Control Alt alt
ctrl alt l leaves the monitors running
but blanks them whereas the using DPMS
is going to actually turn off or suspend
those monitors as well so hope that
answers your question in my experience
with laptops usually the function
whatever it is at five or six or
whatever key it is usually there's three
positions there's the the the the laptop
right colonel monitor or both well
there's the screen blanking coke but
then there's also the
one that you're thinking of there eric
is the one to change a which video
output you're using oh and I thought
about touching on that but then I
thought well that's not because he's
actually trying to blank the screens and
both of them at the same time it's a
little bit of a different scenario I
think that except DPMS force off is
probably going to be the best way to do
it so all right and Erica just to get
you into the chat room if you bring up
pigeon it's on the internet menu and
then when that comes up hit buddies and
then join this is how you can actually
connect using using pidgin I'm as well
bring it up on my screen okay pigeon
instant messenger is pretty great so
join the trip yeah join a chat and just
before I do that I'm just going to
disconnect from my msn because I don't
want to reveal people's email addresses
so you see me disappearing off msn you
know why there we go okay so back at my
computer here I've got the buddy list
for Pigeon instant messenger up and if i
hit buddies join a chat now i'm already
connected to freenode okay so you can
see i'm robi f at irc.freenode.net under
the channel there you would type in
pound or number sign or half category
five so the number sign and then
category five no spaces and then he hit
join and you're actually going to show
up in the chat room there and this is
what it looks like it actually comes in
and looks that quite nice it's easy to
to use and a lot less lag than using say
the the web-based CGI chat so this works
quite well nice to have you join us in
the chat there mmm we can make a
tutorial out of anything they gave me
didn't suck me in the broom closet yep
this way you know and I said last week I
mean in and this is it happens to be the
week that he showered you know you know
why does wires got a little bit in this
to the little room yeah I don't know all
right well maybe take one more question
before we get started on our
honor review you're here maybe oh well
you know if you if you're ready for me
here's one from let soaps we just I lost
it there we go sorry i clicked in the
wrong place we have one from this is a
big one I gotta skip down one okay and
if you do get miss today then do note
that we will put us you we will try to
get to you in a future show as well okay
here's a question for me Roberto's and
the operating system we're talking about
the dual boot windows will boo to a
ten-point ten perfect bluetooth okay so
the question will the upgrade to 11.04
will get rid of my perfect ubuntu or not
and probably I missed that show don't
think so but what's with the new kernel
2.6 awesome show 10 chocolates and five
stars I'll strap myself to a chair neck
tues next Tuesday not to miss the show
always get to it late argh okay and that
was from Harry so there you go okay so
I'm not sure what you mean about the
colonel there but as far as perfect boom
2 goes when you upgrade your system to
the new version of ubuntu perfect boon
to is a script that allows you to
receive and install some needed extra
stuff that gives you multimedia and
things like that upgrading your system
you should be able to maintain some of
those packages however because the
repositories are going to change when
you upgrade your system you're going to
actually lose the ability ability to
update a lot of those some of them will
still continue because they're from the
official ubuntu repository so they'll
automatically now be available in the
new repositories for the new version but
that said some of the other stuff some
of the non-free things are no longer
going to be available so at that point
you need to download the new version of
perfect boom tube from perfect into dot
category 5 TV which of course does not
come out until after the alpha test
phase of 11 point oh four
and the reason for that is that there
are still a lot of repositories that
have not yet received all the packages
so we wait until about a week after the
distribution is released and then code
in the the new repository so that
everything is there and everything rolls
over just fine so of course being that a
boon to 11 point oh four doesn't release
until the 28 you're going to want to
wait until that time in order to upgrade
and then watch perfect Bluetooth
category 5 TV to get the new version of
the script and you'll be able to upgrade
your system as well cool good guy just
reminded me that the betta was actually
released a couple days a few days ago
and that that's true I got a little lost
there because they change the way that
they're doing the betta for 11 point 0
for everything is is just like madness
because they're doing so much to the
operating system the distribution so
much so that Jonah bacon has commented
in his blog that that he's excited about
the progress but at the same time seems
that there's a little bit of
tentativeness and and warning that there
are going to be several bugs to expect
when the operating system first comes
out because I'd have to say that 11
point oh four is one of the biggest
steps as far as Ubuntu's and Canonical's
pushing the desktop towards I guess what
you would call the future of desktop
operating systems so
cool now how about somebody who has 10
point 10 at this point yeah and the
upgrade to 11 is it going to be more
resource intensive are they going to be
able to use it on the same system sore I
should be able to do hardware yeah you
should be able to i would expect i mean
there have been problems with with
compiz and i think they pretty much got
those lifts but it's going to be more
hardware-specific so i'd be very careful
if you have an older system it might you
know you want to always have a backup
just in case that upgrade breaks your
system there's a possibility of that but
they do everything that they can before
the launch this is the 28th to make sure
that it's not going to break systems but
of course if you start playing with the
office and bettas then there is a very
high potential that you could break your
system cool so it is time to get back
into web development and it's great to
have krista krista wells joining us
she's a graphic designer from Barrie
Ontario nice to have you here again cool
it's always good to be here yeah we are
just working on coding the website that
the Krista has has developed for us and
learn that in the first part of the of
the series web development which you'll
find a cat5 TV / web dev of course the
files that that we have created up until
this point are available for free
download and you don't have to be a
registered viewer in order to get there
cat5 TV / web dev and when you get there
you'll see that we also have episode 184
s files there so if you're following
along with with us tonight that's the
best package to get that is going to
have everything that we're going to be
looking at right off the get-go another
key point here that that I'd like to
make is that you'll notice that the
episodes have actually been broken up
into their individual segments so when
you click on watch part one for example
you're getting a 23 minutes serie
segment part two is 35 minutes part
three is 30 minutes and so on so we're
doing up the series very much as we have
in the past with the meat where the the
series is being broken up and you're
able to watch that without having to
necessarily watch the entire episode you
can just watch the feature itself so
again that's cat5 TV / web dev and we'd
love to have you follow along with us
tonight so we left off just kind of
working on a menu system last week and
you
everything up on your screen there
already you will pull up a desktop
presenter for me to step out your your
computer screen of me as well and on my
system here I have the files from the
184 file off of cat5 TV / web death it
contains my index dot PHP which I'm
opening in 2g edit and it contains my
style dot CSS which I'm also going to
load up in there welcome to the show JC
developments nice to have you here so
where we left off is with our menu there
which we just kind of mocked up a half
mocked up but it is text now you see so
if we bring up our our browser we go
demo cat5 TV we're going to jump into
the folder 002 you see this is where
we're at so the menu is no longer an
image it's actually a graphical or a
tech a text-based menu so we can start
making these into clickable links one of
the things when we're developing a
website is we want to make sure that its
search engine optimized so this contains
a lot of text and things that the search
engines are going to pick up on one of
the key things with your menu navigation
system is that it really needs to be
text and if it's not text if you're
going to go with images there had really
better be a good reason to do that be it
a super fancy font or a button that just
absolutely cannot be created using CSS
and images with text overlaid or
something like that so there really
needs to be a good reason for that and
you need to use alt tags and title tags
in a case like that because the search
engines are going to be looking through
your file and they're going to find only
the text the images are not necessarily
going to get indexed the same way so if
I have a button that's for example about
aspire place then that is going to be
the name
that link basically as far as the search
engines are concerned so it's going to
boost the the standings of that search
query if it's just an image that says
about us fireplace and it's still
clickable but it's not going to have the
same way in the search engines the
search engines are really looking at
your front page of the website as this
is what my business is it's very
important that that initial you know
just like the the whole first
impressions thing right for with people
a search engine gets on your website and
when it gets to category five dot TV
that has to say what the show is about
and what is going on with this site so
the search engines say okay that's what
category 5 TV is all the subpages yeah
they need to be optimized to but there
that's content within category 5 TV so
category 5 TV / blog myblog for example
is not going to carry the same way
that's just category 5 TV so our
homepage needs to be pretty rich with
text and i want to tell you these things
because i want you to be able to build a
site that's going to do well in the
search engines and also perform well
across multiple different platforms so
that's one of the reasons why we're
going with text only here so then you
say well it just doesn't look the way
that the mock-up did so let's bring up
our maka which you'll find in your file
under the raw folder you can open that
in the photoshop if you have it you can
open it into the free gimp application
from gimp.org if you'd like to get that
it's available for Windows Mac or Linux
and you see that our menu here is all
caps and it is just a white text whereas
on our website it's coming in at in a
different way now Krista do you know
what what font that you used for that
menu there i'm pretty sure it's just
ariel just ariel can adjust with small
caps there so so what we can do now
it'sit's defaulting to like a it looks
like a Times New Roman or something
which we definitely don't want so what
we're going to do is we're going to
bring up our CSS and that that ID as we
remember it is menu so that text is
actually falling in our index PHP within
the div ID equals menu so with the menu
CSS style we can now start controlling
what this is going to look like so for
example color colon pound FFF which is
the same as saying ffffff so again for
the sake of making a smaller file we're
going to go at that path reason for that
is just to kind of quickly explain how
that works it to shorten hexadecimal
color code to three characters instead
of six which doesn't seem like a lot
you're only saving three bits of data
but in a huge CSS file once your file
gets quite large it's going to it's
going to amount to you know could be
kilobits of our kilobytes of data which
is which translates into kilobits of
download time and things like that so
what how that works is the color white
is ffffff okay so to shorten that you
see FF FF FF it all matches so that way
i can go like that similarly if my color
were i'm just going to make something up
i don't even know if it's a real color
GD like that okay let's just pretend
that that's a color so that could be
like that because the the dd's all
matched up however if it was like I
don't know give me a color anything at
all let's use our color up here do we
have one yeah oh its fate well that's
right that's good example because see
this one you might think that you could
go okay well now that one can become 800
but it can't because what that actually
represents is 80 80 000 because
tues right 0000 or 88 so if I were to do
it this way it's the wrong color so this
particular color that's why up here
we've had to leave that as six
characters as opposed to down here when
it's tough enough f we can leave that as
three characters that's just a little
small small trick and of course you can
use the GIMP to generate these color
codes if you're not sure what what to
use bring up again and get in here to
your color palette here just click on
your foreground where do we go there we
go and now we've got this kind of swatch
thing where you can drag your cursor
around and change the color so if I
wanted that color of red you'll see over
here there's the actual color okay if I
wanted white down at the bottom there's
the color and there we go all apps okay
so that is obtained by clicking on my
color swatch for me
so what we need to do okay so now what
I've done is I've colorized that white
so let's bring up our ftp application
i'm going to upload those changes to our
website itself okay now at the end of
the series we're actually going to be
able to offer you web hosting at a
discounted price as well so if you're
considering developing a website and
then you will want to stick around for
that coming up in a future segment for
the web development sake we're just
working on that right now getting a
partnership with the hosting company but
that will be in place for you so and
we're going to try to make sure that
that's as substantial as possible so
it's very cool yeah just so you know so
don't go out by and web hosting just yet
for your for your website will be able
to hook you up with a good deal okay so
i'm going to create a new folder here on
our host that says that's 003 and
perhaps eric if it would be possible if
you if you see anything this relevant in
the chatroom coming through that i'm a
mess just because we're coding away then
just just let me know where as long as
it's relevant to the web development
that we're doing okay so i've uploaded
that 2003 now
ok
and i'm going to upload ok so I've got
my stylesheet now uploaded I'm going to
close the GIMP so I'm done with that and
let's get back to our website so you're
looking at 002 let's change over 2003
now you'll see that men you see did I
save that I didn't save it see the star
up there okay so we've got color on menu
is FFF all right now i'm going to upload
that with my ftp application that's just
the style sheet style dot CSS and now
back at our website if i refresh you'll
see that the color is now turn to a
perfect white okay so now you're saying
that that's Ariel so here's where things
are a little bit different than HTML
we're going to go font family Ariel for
example ok now it's gonna we're going to
expand it from there but we're just
going to get this started now most
people going to have Ariel but we got to
keep in mind that some people may not
okay so i'm uploading that and
refreshing
you'll see the font has now changed to
Ariel okay so what we'll want to do is
just get online get on to you know your
favorite search engine then just do a
search for font family Ariel and what
you're going to find is that people have
made some suggestions as to what what
would be a good font family property for
the Arial font so click around on some
of those and here's someone who's using
aerial as the default Helvetica is the
fall back and sans-serif as you know if
if the user doesn't have either of those
it's going to default to whatever this
is the default system sans-serif font is
so that to me that sounds reasonable
that sounds good so let's paste that
into our CSS here okay let's go look
like that clean up that
okay so that's what we end up with I'm
going to upload that and learn to use
the the web as a as a resource because
sometimes you'll come across stuff where
it's like well you know how do we do
this or that with CSS how do i take that
font for example let's just say we want
to do a font transformation I can do a
quick search for CSS all caps for
example so what I want to show you is
not to be afraid to use things like
Google and whatever search engine you
use and you and say oh yeah okay I could
do text transform for example and go
uppercase okay
so while while I know that you can use
that as a resource you know what I mean
like it's not you don't have to know
every little CSS trick you don't have to
say oh well Robbie knew how to do that
but I don't know how to do that so I
can't replicate this use the search
engines as a resource so that you can
say okay well can I use CSS to go all
caps and here with one of our first
results is taking us to w3schools com
and we've got this text transform
command so let's jump back to our CSS
file here and within menu okay I'm gonna
just simply paste that in text transform
uppercase okay you see how picky I am
about my code I'm always going to have a
space after the colon things like that
all right so I pasted that in you can
type it in because you know it now i'm
going to upload my style sheet and
you'll see now without having touched my
index PHP and without having actually
coded all caps into this when i refresh
it's now all caps okay but the
interesting thing is if I hit control
you and firefox to view the source and
then look at how it's actually being
output it is not all caps so what's
happening is is that CSS is using the
text transform property to now convert
that visually to the browser as all caps
so you're not yelling at the search
engines when they do is an index of your
site they're seeing the search engines
will actually see it as the regular case
which is kind of interesting so next up
we need to actually be able to make
links out of our menu any questions up
until this point I should ask how are
you following on oh we're good so far
easy peasy
no questions in the chat function
perhaps like you sheet or anything live
and then or do it and then upload it so
you're not back and forth year with the
change it uploaded refresher this is
live baby no we're not we're not doing
that that's part of the that's part of
the fun I want you to be able to follow
along I want you to be able to to take
catch how this how this takes place but
thanks for that error was triggered yeah
blame it on the rain yeah all right this
episode of category 5 TV is brought to
you by pogoplug available at cat five TV
/ pogoplug and of course planet calypso
cat5 TV / calypso and do make sure you
check out our sponsors that encourages
them to to support category 5 and of
course their support is a large part of
what helps us to be able to do what we
do here so again cat5 TV / pogoplug and
cat5 TV / Calypso cool all right so
we've got our menu basically programmed
in there ready to go all right it's
looking good and if you're following
along its demo doc at five TV / 003 but
right now there's there's nothing there
but text it's not actually doing
anything so we want to actually create
links for example we don't have any
pages yet so we can't actually make them
go anywhere but what we're going to do
we're going to say your time we make a
link in HTML a href equals we're going
to just go to tip pound because that's
not going to go anywhere normally we
would go index dot PHP which we can do
with home because that's exactly where
it's going to go okay for about us let's
use that
because we don't want to go anywhere
just yet we are going to change that we
don't need etc okay so that's kind of
what it's looking like so far now what's
going to happen to our CSS when we
upload this you're going to see
something happen here if you're
refreshing on the website you'll see
already that our menu now looks kind of
off
and i'll upload index dot PHP here we go
they're so now you see we've lost our
styling we've lost the color of our menu
and that's because now this is actually
a link and so it's being interpreted a
little bit differently than just plain
text so the only thing that's being
interpreted the way that our CSS asks it
too is that little separator in the
middle the pipe okay so in order to
change that now what we want to do if we
want the style to be the same okay I'm
going to go menu and then I'm going to
go comma how many which is the in the
menu ID and we're going to go eh alright
so that's linked basically and this is
just to keep it real simple okay so that
is now going to colorize if i upload my
style dot CSS that's going to colorize
those links as white okay but now what
we want to do is we want to actually fix
the fact that it's showing with an
underline as well
okay so where we want to go is the same
place where you go
text decoration none just want to get
rid of the other line that's what I want
I know ok so that's good
I need to determine what's going on with
our space in here i'm going to throw the
border back on to our menu just to see
what's happening here see if it's gone
and gotten real narrow on us
no it hasn't but it is spaced a little
bit oddly the a is getting one hundred
percent okay so what what I've done
there and this is you know
troubleshooting as we program is I've
created a bit of an issue there because
my menu ID has a specified with okay so
if you have something like this occur
you know that okay well I've specified
that this carry the same as menu and so
now my link is that wide as well so
that's causing a big problem so to fix
that what I want to do is I want to
separate out these two elements so menu
is going to become a rapper and a is
going to be outside of that rap is going
to be inside of it but it's not going to
have a wid specified ok so I'm going to
grab those those things that I needed
there ok I'm going to change the color a
game to white because this is a
different element this is now the link
on menu but see I've separated those out
so that the link no longer has the width
specified
so let's see how that works upload that
it's just my style dot CSS sample site
is demo cat5 TV / 003 for tonight and
now if i refresh you'll see that my menu
is back to where was however now these
things are links I guess you can't
really see that because it hides my
cursor however if I click you see that
it does create a border around it
because it is a link so next up let's
get a little bit more fancy let's change
our color of the menu if I if I make
crystal this is your creative baby oh
well I don't know what I'm gonna do what
I'm gonna do is I'm going to just take
it down to a slightly less vibrant white
okay we want to have a little bit of a
rollover effect so let's take that and
we'll try all AIDS and just see how gray
that is again you can use the GIMP or
Photoshop to use your color palette so
now that's changed it to a bit of a gray
probably a bit too great for your liking
oh yeah oh yeah maybe sitting on top of
the red that's kind of a tricky color
too bad neutrals on top of let's let's
go a happy medium ccc is in between
they're so it's just a slight gray but
what's going to change here what I'm
going to do is I'm going to go sorry
i'll so i'll show you what ccc looks
like here okay
now back at our CSS without having to do
any JavaScript or anything like that
we're going to just go menu a hover okay
we're going to create a new thing here
and notice we're not having to create
new IDs because this is all happening
within menu that's that div and it's
happening to the link and it's happening
when I hover color f F hat okay now
upload that so what I've told it to do
is when I hover my mouse over that link
i wanted to change from ccc to FFF CSS
allows us to do things like that so now
when I hover my mouse over it it's
actually changing the color okay so you
get that little bit of a rollover effect
you can also do things like if you want
to add like an effect like an underline
that shows up when you hover over
sometimes that's a nice clean effect
kind of thing so so we're getting
through the navigation system the CSS as
it is and while visually it doesn't look
like we're making a lot of progress this
is all part of the process of creating a
website so here we have our navigation
system in place it's ready to start
receiving you know our menu items but
for now we're just going to leave that
as a placeholder and we're going to jump
back to our mock up here and see where
we need to go next we've got that would
Grimm
right so let's get started with position
in that wood grain jump over to our
images folder there it is there
woodgrain underscore BG is 950 by 275
which I'm going to have to refer to a
game ok go rename that and I'm just
going to copy I copy the name to
clipboard I'm loading up index PHP and
we remember from previous segments in
this series what that file does and
we're going to go outside of see where
div ID menu opens now it closes there so
I want to create a new line there okay
because this /div is actually closing
the wrapper we need everything to happen
within that wrapper so we're going to
now create a new div and we'll call this
header they don't think we've used that
yet we're going to add an nbsp which is
a non-breaking space
basically an empty character it's
something invisible so that it just is a
placeholder so now in our CSS file and
you can move down a little bit here and
we're going to create the new header
okay we're going to go height and again
our height is going to be the height of
wood grain BG jpg at 275 pixels just
like that and now if we upload that file
notice that I've only put a red border 1
pixel around that just to show me where
its landing
mer because I didn't upload index dot
PHP which contains the doom we are
technical difficult when I'm not even
like I mean if you ever think any why
isn't it showing up there's probably
something you've done a half obvious
Lisa so you'll see that this is now
being placed up at the very very top of
the site and that's because of the way
that the divs are being positioned so
like because the fact that we have let's
see we have a logo floating left we've
got a menu floating right so what we
need to do we need to tell our header
let's see if this does it want to clear
both which is to clear both our left and
right let's just see if that's going to
put our position in the right spot there
we go okay so if you understand what
happened there this is flow that our
logo is floating left our menu is
floating right when we created a new div
it was in the middle technically so it
ended up on top of both of the other
ones because it wasn't floating at all
so it's at the very very top of the page
now I told the clear both which means
take the left and the right and then
clear that so that you're now clear of
those two elements and now our border is
falling in the right place so we're
going to implement our wood grain we're
going to go background URL images wood
grain BG jpg ok just like that and i'm
going to say no repeat because there
isn't going to be any repeating on that
we don't have to specify a position for
it because every think it's going to
fill the entire element so now if we
save that and upload style dot CSS
remember I'm not having to change
anything in my index at this point
because I'm just doing it all through
CSS and now it's going to slap that wood
grain in there with the red border so
now we want to remove the red border
from that because that was just a
placeholder to tell us where this was
going to land there we go upload our
style dot CSS file and refresh and now
we're starting to come together with the
way that our website is going to look
this is category 5 technology TV we're
online a triple w category five dot TV
and tonight we're continuing with part 5
of our web development series and you
can find that particular series at Camp
5 TV / web dev one of the things that
we're working towards is actually having
serious like this available strictly
through our RSS feeds we're working on a
new feed for that as well as our mobile
app well I call it an app it's really a
website and we had a question come in I
don't know if you saw that one Erica
some people asking specifically about
whether we have a mobile version of our
website do you happen to have a chance
we'll take a look all right ah here's
one from invincible mutant okay it was
in King yep but by the way what is your
ok nope I have just gone to the category
5 web from my mobile it seems to be
bandwidth-intensive you have a launch
mobile site your next question yeah
alright so what I do have for you is
that mobile doc at five dot TV and what
this is you can see you can add this to
your desktop of your mobile device and
it gives you access to the current show
as well as
past shows so if i click on episodes for
example it actually gives me a list of
all the different shows here and you can
click on one to find out more
information about the episode itself and
of course you could play it it also
shows you how many megabytes it's going
to use of your data plan if you are on a
data plan of course that if you have
Wi-Fi that's advisable but this app is
mobile cat5 TV and I think you'll you'll
find that that works really well on any
mobile device and certainly we try to
make that compatible with absolutely
everything and in particular it's it's
neat to see it running on tablets I've
seen some pictures of people using it on
a tablet work yeah it's actually coming
up full screen and works really really
well so that's available for you at
mobile category 5 TV or pardon me what
with mobile cat5 TV should say so good
correction there and what I was what I
want to do is I want to actually have
features like this available on that so
you'll be able to zoom in right on the
feature as well so nice to have you here
tonight and hope that you're enjoying
the the series it's been a lot of good
feedback ok yeah yeah that certainly a
lot fun for us I think to to be able to
really sit and work on a particular
project like this so which for this week
I'm pretty happy with the progress as
far as that along just starting to take
shape they're starting to look like like
your website in your mock-up so we'll
leave it at that for this week but what
I will do is I will upload the files for
you so that you can have everything as
it is this week you'll see those at cat5
TV / web dev and we love to have you
follow along and please respond to that
site you can actually post a comment at
the bottom and
we'd love to hear from you we've
received a lot of good feedback a lot of
people saying that it's it's a lot of
fun and they really appreciate the the
series so and I even got one today from
John who says that he's not interested
in web development it also gives them a
chance to sleep or there's there's that
too and if you're finding that you know
hey this is this is not my forte is not
something that interests me or anything
like that then we will we will be of
course wrapping up the series as we
finish off the website and we appreciate
you hanging out with us anyways we've
got some great incentives for you of
course being April it is another month
I've got a ton of these guys to give
away I just felt the chat room go pro by
excitement but you know there is
incentive for for you to join us week
after week here at category 5 TV you
know we'll send you prizes and cool
things we've got a copy of wire has to
give away if you want to broadcast your
own show that's pretty cool and we're
always adding more things to that as
well so we encourage you also to check
out our website category 5 team you get
involved in the community and and like I
say if you're if you're not sure about
the series if it's not something that
interests you I hope that you find other
things here at the show of interest as
well and this is a series that will
probably I get a feeling them we're at
part 5 right now we haven't got a set
schedule as far as how it's going to go
but I think we'll probably be ready to
to make this site live within the next
few weeks ok so this Reich has a
suggestion that would make this a whole
lot of fun and he was gonna send us a
bottle of jameson I believe but suggest
me a new game every time you miss Primm
announced a word oh yes everyone takes
your drink thanks Chris Reese oh wow
when we make it through the show it's a
good coffee but yeah you gotta get
through the show we could that's a test
that game it's out sorry sorry thanks
Aaron I'll leave those on my side
you know Chris and I I think we'll get
along fine you know there are viewers
who gave up on me just like you Eric
I've never gained as well I'm only
waivers nothing gang up I love what I
saw oh here he goes correcting my mind
what is that I i do get email correcting
my my grant of grammar and pronunciation
and stuff and it's like I appreciate the
comments but helps you better yourself
well I guess but it's just it seems kind
of irrelevant to me to some degree
better bigger tomato tomahto tomato
potato tomato potato in just a high
blind Pippa Lee knee no weapon for real
I love that line I'm feeling melancholy
just just for the sake of feeling Milan
CLE oh that's what I think about
goodness yeah right uh yeah you can get
your questions in cat live at category
five dot TV Chris right making fun
having fun I know okay who was that said
Oh Eric perks up you hear the word drink
what was that Jacob oh we're gonna have
to start calling them father Jack and if
you recognize the reference then then
you will get a chuckle I'm sure it was
pronounced bouquet fantastic pull up the
chatroom nice to see everybody there a
category 5 TV and our chat room is very
active during the show and certainly we
do have a lot of people to join us after
the show as well so and we're we're
gonna be sticking around in the chat
room for a few minutes after the show as
well if you want to say hello so hello
well uh do we have any questions or
anything like that that we can touch on
I wanted to leave the the series at at a
good spot there tonight so that we can
come back to next week well I did want
to point out that the you know the Maple
Leafs in the Washington capture tied 1-1
that's a good thing beliefs are losing
no that wasn't really relevant was it
I'm sorry wow that's great there's a
game on tonight the Leafs are perilously
close to hitting the golf course what's
going on a couple people in chat room
asking where Hillary's at tonight with
the news and she took the night off
tonight so she will as far as I know be
returning next week it was just another
obligation if she had and we're happy to
give her the night off so so yes there
will be news again next week cool cool
yeah you playing hockey these days there
today's my last Tuesday night for the
summer your last Tuesday night yeah wow
so what does that mean for you like that
means we'll probably to stop somewhere
after the game oh but are you and are
you doing well this season like how i am
still walking and talking and not on
crutches so it's yes i'm doing really
well okay if that's all it go today by
playing well all right well I was Eugene
doing as far as the rankings going stuff
oh no no we're we're not we're not in
the hunt we are failing miserably
exactly we are also melancholy indeed I
can't even same illogically it's trying
not to encourage him folks it's I'm not
doing well at it after all right
alright hey it's been a lot of fun
tonight it's nice to have everybody here
John great to see you mm-hmm nice to
have you here this week we covered
everything and Eric always a pleasure to
see general various around its hide it
yeah and of course nice to have you here
thanks for being on the show and being a
part of the series again tonight no
thanks for having me yeah somebody was
mentioned to me a story that I'll just
throw in a very last moment because
we've got a moment here we're talking
last week about wireless security and
the fact that you think that you're safe
and we have started talking about packet
sniffing than that and the fact that
somebody could pick up stuff an
intercept data that's being transmitted
from your laptop or wireless device here
your mobile device to Wi-Fi things like
that we talked about encryption and i
think that the point I maker are
reasonably valid especially considering
there are pack packet sniffers and key
loggers out there and somebody mentioned
to me just today actually on that note
that that they recently heard of someone
who was on vacation or something and
they there was somebody sitting at a
picnic table near their car and the
person locked their car with the key the
key button thing and this person I guess
had some this is this suspect of what
they suspect anyways had some kind of
packet sniffing device that allowed them
to trace the code that was generated by
that that key and so they were actually
able to then reverse a tunnel some kind
of hacker device or something and they
were able to then open the car once that
person had laughed just by pushing a
button on their device because it had
logged the code and it had picked it up
so so what my friend is saying is it's
actually a better idea just to use your
key these days there's so much effort
though no see I should have to put the
key in and turn kind of scary because
tires are out there with those kind of
devices someone with enough money to buy
one can just get your key code and all
of a sudden they're opening your car if
you've got an auto
knows what they can do I don't know you
know somebody worse than enough money to
buy one of those is probably not wanting
to well my Kobalt maybe maybe they still
know but they got into the car and they
took everything that the guy owned that
was in the car like he's on vacation
he's got a car loaded up his stuff right
so you got the trunk filled with with
all your ear stuff there goes my smile
aki equipment whatever yeah so that's
that just just a little story for you
anyways have a great week everyone nice
to see you and will talk to you again
next Tuesday night as we continue our
series on web development and we look
forward to talking to you email us this
week live at category 5 TV and we'll see
you next Tuesday
