welcome back today I am joined by Akash
air Kinski and he is here from pine
sixty-four we're getting really excited
about all that's to come over the next
well over the course of 2019 and here to
tell us all about it
Akash it's great to have you here thanks
for joining us thanks for having me
Robbie can you tell us a little bit just
briefly what makes pine sixty-four I
mean I know the answer to this I know
why our community is so excited about
pine sixty-four but from your
perspective within the company what is
different about your company you know I
think that especially since we
introduced the pine book we kind of have
grown past in a sense past the SBC
single-board computer business
I mean single board computers are still
our bread and butter it's what we do but
ta.lim who is the founder of pine 64
clearly has a much broader vision for
what pine 64 is supposed to be in time
you know so the pine book is clearly a
step in a direction of opening up a a
broader spectrum of devices based on the
SOC s that are used in our single board
computers and the pine book was a first
step this year we're looking at
introducing the pine tab and
subsequently the pine phone we have been
you know here at Boston we're announcing
def kits for the pine phone it's a big
step towards you know yet another thing
in our line of devices that was
wonderful
can I touch on the pine phone just
really quickly because yeah I know we've
we've mentioned it here on the show
before and and the specifications are
you know not up there with the latest
and greatest Android phone I think it's
important for us to know who it's for
and why it's so exciting so for me what
is exciting about the pine phone
immediately is openness think about a
phone where you have absolute control
over the operating system you're not
locked into a service provider you're
not locked into an OS that is an
astonishing venture absolutely correctly
so the whole point of the pine phone is
to have mainline Linux running in this
device we are working hard with you know
a number of projects that would be you
know you be poor it's post-market OS KDE
guys plenty others and the idea is to
create something that is not supposed to
rival your you know daily driver and not
your iPhone not your you know pixel or
what have you it's supposed to be a
privacy oriented phone running mainline
Linux for those people who you know
cherish and value privacy and for those
who may need it in their business you
know in their organizations
you know we're introducing it well the
pine phone is gonna have features such
as you know physical switches for the
camera for the Wow for the LTE module
for four speakers so easier now actually
toggle switches to enable and disable by
Hardware not software that's absolutely
correct yes so completely physical
switches which will be you know which
are already there in the dev kits which
we're demoing here at FOSDEM
but they will find themselves into the
actual product I think that's really
important from a privacy standpoint for
those of us who are concerned about that
and I think that's becoming more and
more of a concern these days especially
in 2019 because you know realize folks
that with a hardware toggle switch to
turn off your webcam a hacker cannot
reenable it with a software switch a
hacker can re-enable your webcam you
don't even know that it's on hardware
it's off it's completely disabled from
the OS and inaccessible so that's
exciting so as we catch as as the pine
phone is going to be to the latest and
greatest Android phone that it's kind of
where the pine book has landed and that
it's not meant to be the most powerful
laptop it's meant to be an entry level
for something that's new and
citing and a completely different kind
of grade of I don't it's never been done
before from from what I know yeah I mean
you're absolutely correct Robbie the you
know the whole point of the pine book
was when I first wrote a post about it
you know fine book what to expect you
know I ended the whole post on the on
the forum with writing you know if you
expect this to replace your work or
school laptop you don't that's that's
not the point I'm not the intention at
all mmm-hmm not at all it was meant for
you know for tinker's for learning Linux
for people who just wanted to get into
armed devices and who had you know a
package of sorts rather than having you
know a separate screen and the board and
all that yeah so it never was meant to
be seen as a you know as a full-fledged
laptop innocence you know it was meant
for tinker's what we initially
envisioned was because you know there's
so much space in the chassis and there's
an exposed USB header inside we thought
you know people would be hacking you
know mobile connectivity into it you
know who may do some GPO stuff on the go
with it which is possible you know via
the SD card slot and you know these sort
of things these were our you know our
assumptions but people went out and did
a lot of other cool things with the pint
book you know and it clearly there is
clearly a market among the tinkers for
this sort of device very cool and and
you have shown fine 64 has shown that
single board computing is now entering
the next level I mean the rock pro 64 is
an astounding board it you could use it
as your set-top box and it's a fantastic
system so now I just want to first of
all before we talk about what's to come
from Pine 64 Lukasz I just want to thank
you for choosing to be on category 5
technology TV this week and for those of
you watching we should understand that
the information that you're about to
learn is under in bar
go and we're about to lift that embargo
which means this is brand-new
information that we cache is about to
share so Lukasz thank you for choosing
our community to release this
information could you share with us what
is next for the pine book so this year
we're introducing the pine book program
in a sense it is a part of a mmm of the
brach Pro 64 lineage in a sense it
features the same SOC same memory and we
expect it to be completely compatible
with a single board computer that is
that we have rolled out last year
basically what we're doing is we're
taking the Rock Pro 64 as a as a
starting point and the the board is now
going to be in the pine Book Pro it's a
custom PCB which is being developed for
the laptop but we are kind of creating a
continuity in a sense that those
operating systems which have already
come to the pine to the rock pro 64 will
make an appearance definitely down the
line on the pine Book Pro it is much
more powerful than the pine book as much
more memory has four gigs of RAM and we
expect that you know this could really
be a daily driver and it comes you know
with features that you know there's so
many people out there who these days you
know take a a Chromebook and they
transform it into a a Linux laptop sure
and you know that's that's that's
fantastic
and in a sense we looked at that market
and we thought you know what about a you
know a a proper laptop a real laptop
replacement based on you know arm 64
architecture that you know that is built
from the ground up with free and open
source software in mind and when you
know and having features which you
rarely find on high-end or mid-range
Chromebooks such as you know a lot of
tast an internal story
1080p IPS panels you know these sort of
things as well as high quality of
materials for the build I mean we're
using an aluminum alloy for the pine
book Pro you know Wow okay this is this
is groundbreaking that you're changing
the entire world of single board
computing SOC with the release of the
pine book pro so I think okay there's
lots of laptops that are available there
are a lot of Chromebooks that I could
convert to Linux and so the immediate
thought that comes to mind is price
point we all know of course pine 64 is
all about open platforms and so we can
expect the same from this device so
without getting too much into that just
real quick price one hundred and ninety
nine dollars one hundred and that's what
we're aiming for we're looking into you
know we also heard our community people
are you know talking about that shipping
cost a lot and the current arrangement
which we have we're looking into that as
well
we hope that you know whatever we do for
the pine Book Pro is gonna translate
also down to the regular pine book so
wonderful you know there's more info on
that
I'm not saying we've got it all figured
out sure yeah you know we're thinking
about it with that in mind what kind of
timeline are we looking at for the pine
Book Pro you know second half of the
year literally the first prototype is
here we've got three prototypes you know
they will go to our you know three
prototypes go into three heat projects
that we're working with we're left with
no prototypes at this such as developers
of the operating systems to be able to
build for the for the pine book Pro
that's correct yes so we want to have
you know at least two or three you know
operating systems in place for when it
rolls out and you know we also going to
have a scheme where developers will get
their you you know other develops other
developers will get their units a bit
earlier ahead of you know
users so that they can port their OSS
right now because because it's because
the pine Book Pro is is generally as you
mentioned a Rock Pro 64 at its heart it
does that mean that the transition
period for those operating systems is it
going to be a lot easier for them to
develop operating systems for these pine
boot pros just because it's already
available for The Rock Pro 64 so here's
the thing I'm not the most technical guy
sure there and I don't want to pretend
you know like I like I know the the
answer with all certainty but I can tell
you is that from talking to you know the
key projects that we work with it it
does appear that it's a question of
changing out the device tree and you
know supporting the the features which
you would expect in a laptop so you know
the LCD and I know you know the battery
and stuff like that but it in principle
it appears that you know the porting
period should be much shorter than in
the case of a completely new SOC you
know something that nobody has ever
worked on that sort of thing so yeah
very good very good
okay so beyond the pine Book Pro there
are some other exciting things coming
out of Pine 64 during 2019 now one of
the things that we've been looking at
here on category 5 technology TV is the
smart home smart surveillance as a good
example but one of the concerns that we
have with the smart home is you know
where is our data how is the cloud
interacting with our information and
how's it being stored from a privacy
perspective essentially and and so
having control over our cloud data
having control over our surveillance and
things like that it's all very important
to to us this year as we think about our
data privacy so maybe you can share a
little bit about I mean we know again
Pyne 64 I can't stress enough is all
about we found openness and creating
platforms that are hackable and that you
can work with so I'm really excited
about this new product called cube can
you tell us a little bit about that
so cube is to our knowledge one of the
first if not the first completely open
source IP cam we have already approached
developers who you know who who deal
with this area of Linux and spoken to
them and listen to what it is that they
would you know like to see in such a
camera and we got a lot of feedback and
we we actually had a prototype at FOSDEM
last year so this is you know long in
the making this is this isn't new stuff
I mean we we talked to developers for a
year to see what it is that they'd like
to see in one of those cameras and I
think we we nailed it in a sense I think
that you know a we're using an SOC which
is very low powered but it is pretty
much completely mainlined
so already so even you know so there
isn't much on our end that we need to do
so exceed those incredible work on these
all winter processors and does this fall
into hey it's gonna be easier to port
our software to it will be easier for
developers to port their software to it
fantastic yeah so it will be a you know
the Linux is in very good shape on it I
understand that there certain questions
of implementing the actual sensor at
this time you know we don't have an ETA
for when the cube is going to be
available but it will be available this
year and we're looking at you know
having its function in both indoors and
outdoors wonderful science that brings
me to one of the things that's really
exciting for me about the hack ability
of the cube camera is the GPIO and could
you share with us the you know this
camera so that think about this inside
the camera there's a full GPIO can you
tell us what that can be used for Lukasz
plenty of things but one of the things
is that we are thinking about a
motorized case
for for the cube which would allow users
to you know to interact with the camera
and basically you know have have the
camera move in four axes and you know
you could have all sorts of robotic
applications I know that people also
have you know thought about people who
fly drones and stuff like that are
really excited about this I find that
like what a brilliant idea so rather
than having to buy a different camera to
have pan and tilt features I have the
same camera and I just add the GPIO
component for pent and pan and tilt and
then the software's hackable so if I
want to add digital zoom which brings me
also so specifications wise do you know
the resolution of the camera at this
point from the top of my head I believe
it's 8 megapixels ok but so please don't
quote me on this because this is I'm
doing this from memory but I am pretty
sure that it is 8 megapixel Sony sensor
fantastic um I'm looking to see if I
have the specifications I do not will it
shoot 1080p video are you sure that it
will shoot any DP video at 8 megapixels
yeah we'd be able to take some really
high quality stills and do 1080p video
which would be fantastic so again not
quoting on that I do see it's the IMX
179 so those of you who would like to
look it up and all of the specifications
are going to be listed in the the
description below so if you're
interested in the pine Book Pro the cube
I've got those specifications listed
there for you so check those out beyond
that I mean you guys are working on
things like a retro gaming case anything
else exciting from Pine 64 I mean this
is huge you guys are making some amazing
waves in in what SOC is going to mean I
think knowing that we're going to be
able to get a pine book Pro which is
going to be on par with like a good
medium or a high-end Chromebook at that
price point is just that's mind-boggling
I'm happy to hear that you're excited
yeah
we've got a few things in store you know
we're also making the pine tab yep which
is a tablet which is going to have a
magnetically attached Abul keyboard
that's going to double up as a as a
cover that's based on the a 64 okay
we're updating the much-beloved
rock 64 and we're taking another stab at
the pine h 64 which we introduced last
year it's didn't really you know we
listened to the community and when the
community comes back to us and says you
know this really isn't up to scratch you
know that this isn't what we hoped and
expected you know we go back and we
really do you know take it on board so
you know we're taking another stab at
you know the H six SOC from Allwinner
this year and in a smaller form factor
with integrated Wi-Fi and bluetooth you
know for all of those who who really
hope to see a pint 64 board with you
know a module already soldered onto the
board wonderful well I mean to you to
the team keep up the great work we're
really excited to take you know get to
we've had so much fun playing with pine
sixty-four boards over the past several
months they've just been you know one of
those product lines that honestly I can
say has been impressing us and and you
are just showing us today that that is
going to continue in 2019 and so keep up
the great work
Thank You rebby okay thank you so much
for joining us and thank you again for
choosing category-five TV to unveil this
information take care
[Music]
you
[Applause]
