welcome back this is category five
technology TV and as promised tonight we
are learning STEM education from Oh bot
and Oh bot has just found its way to
Canada thanks to Johanna Garcia the
founder of Canadian classroom and this
is a company that's been around since
1999 she was at a trade show and they
show off a whole lot of different
educational toys and things like that at
this trade show and while there she came
across Oh bot from the UK and decided
hey this is something that we don't
really have here in Canada and I'm gonna
show you all about it how it works but
because we don't have this in Canada
let's bring it in so Canadian classroom
has got it here in Canada now it's
available in the UK it's avail it's it's
growing it's a it's a very new product
though so tonight we're gonna be showing
you what this what this can do and how
it works basically STEM education is
something that here at the show we've
been really interested in promoting and
learning more about and becoming more
involved in because I love the idea and
I think the same is for the crew here
that encouraging young people to learn
science technology education mathematics
things that are going to skills that
should that should help them in this
tech driven world and that's exactly
what Canadian classroom is working on is
bringing into Canada are all these great
stem based toys and and different ways
that you can get involved in stem now
these are really cool because they teach
kids and I say kids very loosely because
my seven year old is is loving it I'm
loving it I'm a little older than seven
it's a state of kids kids of all ages
will say I think as soon as you can sit
down at a computer to the day that you
can no longer sit at a computer you're
gonna enjoy these but it teaches you to
code and I've got 200 bots in front of
me today I've got a red one and a blue
one you might think but the blue one is
in fact Microsoft Windows driven and the
red one is
ready for this raspberry pie okay okay
so yes so I've got this connected to a
Raspberry Pi 2 and I've got this one
connected to my laptop which is Windows
10 is what it's running right now so the
the software that each one runs is going
to be a little bit different based on
the platform that you're connecting to
so this one being connected to a
Raspberry Pi
I've actually coded it to just kind of
look around and and blink its eyes and
things like that in pure Python so these
are commands that I've just programmed
in just to give it a little bit of
activity here on the show but we're
pretty much gonna be working with the
Windows one tonight which is coded using
an interface that is basically very very
similar to scratch and scratch has
become a really great learning coding
language if you will a visual coding
language for kids to get involved in
coding and to learn syntax and to learn
the interactivity between different
commands and and the workflow of coding
so so that's really cool we're gonna be
looking at that one tonight you can
purchase these either disassembled like
a DIY kit which is you know fantastic if
you really want to sit down with your
kids or yourself
it would require parental supervision to
help with this but you can actually just
get the parts and put it all together
yourself and then build it or you can
buy it already preassembled so here we
go can we take a look yeah okay first of
all now what I want to do is I want to
actually bring up their website just you
can get an idea and impression as to how
you can you know what what they're
offering with Obot and it is it's a full
platform I'll say it's not just a robot
I think the robot head is really the
extension that allows you to feel as the
person who's coding it as if you are
interacting with a physical thing it
makes it so much more fun it makes it so
much more fun when you code something
and there's an immediate response
whether it be blinking or talking or
moving its head
whatever it may be it's responding to
your programming so so it's really an
extension of of that so it's not just
you know the same old kind of coding on
the screen you get a lot more to it so
you can get the Obot kit and all that
kind of stuff I'll let you browse it but
it's Obot code UK and the instructions
are fantastic
everything is well laid out which i
think is really important with something
like this because you you you know you
you don't want it to be over complicated
and part of this is the learning
experience and making it fun and they've
done a fantastic job of doing just that
so there's kind of the kit and what you
need and it's all detailed in such a way
that hey you know what you and the kids
could really really do this if your
grandma grandpa mom dad aunt uncle this
is a great a great project to work on
together or if you don't want to build
it yourself you can get the assembled
version anyways so what I want to jump
into is the coding end of things of
course there's the software which is
available for Windows or raspberry pi
raspberry pi again you're going to be
going through the process of setting up
your PI with the Obot and coding it in
python and so I've installed raspbian on
there essentially and just followed the
prompts to install the needed drivers
and software and it's got a diagram here
to show you how to power it and all that
kind of stuff on windows on the other
hand it's in the app store so on Windows
10 you can just download it and install
it from the app store which is pretty
great in that and I'm gonna be showing
you the interface in just a couple of
moments but you can actually start
coding the Obot before you even get a no
bot so you can start learning how it
works you can start playing with it see
if you're going to enjoy it before you
even get the product so so that's really
cool you know what do you what do you
mean by that that you can start trying
it like coding and trying to is there
like a visual yeah Jeff as soon as soon
as I show you the interface it's it's
gonna be like oh okay I see I see so
let's let's bring it up and and you'll
see what I mean so here it is
looks like scratch but it's got an Oh
bot on the screen right so when I for
example if I run the Reis
script he moves he blinks on the screen
right so anything that I do in my code
is happening in in real life on the Obot
so if we take a look at him and run that
same code reset all boom well my mistake
sorry it's there you go let's move him
around a little bit I'll just run this
script here so this is actually
happening on the screen as well see I'm
moving there oh you can learn to do the
movements and everything else on the
screen you can even do the speech
synthesis everything else cool okay
that's so simple what I've done there
okay so let's let's get into the like
kind of dive into what is possible here
now first of all Oh bot really really
cool to have you here on the show hi
I'm very pleased to be here on category
five technology TV today and it is great
to have you here can you tell us just a
little bit about you know are you are
you able to speak French for example I'm
a multilingual Obot Cecily's saucy so
you're gonna say bossy salsa
nice so this speech synthesis and the
Obot itself is able to be coded in such
a way that we can do multilingual
applications so we're not limited just
to English I've done French there now
where it gets that on the Windows
version is through your your locale
settings so you add a locale and windows
automatically downloads the voice
synthesis and the the text itself like
the dictionary and everything else so
it's part of the Windows operating
system in Obot then translate that into
robot movements now I'm not gonna get
too big into the coding end of things
tonight because realistically there's so
much that we can do with this it's it's
gonna be a lot of fun for you for your
family but I'll tell you a little bit
about what what we've done so far so I
hooked this up and it only took a couple
of minutes time to get this up and going
at home yeah actually it took a little
more time to set it up than it did for
the kids to start making it safe hoop
jokes of course that's the one thing the
kids think the first thing was like poop
jokes and red eyes and like evil sayings
and things right typical kids yes so my
ten-year-old he is big on scratch he
loves coding and he really took to it
right away
now he's scratch experienced he's he's
done a lot of stuff and so he just
jumped on it and started coding away and
making his own program
nobody's doing with your life insurance
story once
which is like Sakura story what
I'm sorry I didn't tell you born here
then I was surprised and you can see the
the like excitement around this they're
just going at it
you know I'm hands off and the kids are
just taking over and doing their own
thing
I was surprised though that our
seven-year-old actually jumped on there
and he spent literally an entire day
teaching Obot through code to tell a
story so it was talking it was moving
around and he had actually written and
coded this hilarious story from the mind
of a seven-year-old through the Obot
hello my name is in the rough it's nice
to meet you want to be read okay amazing
and it's good storytelling your words
for you
hello my name is thrust it's nice to
meet you want to be friends
what was that self very cool so what
kind of features come with the old
bottling is it something where you just
program it or can you like is there like
a visual sensor where you could talk to
it and talks back like there are tons of
sensors Jeff and again I can't show all
of the features of what's possible okay
check out one of the things that we can
do is get on back onto their website and
if you go to program and then code
snippets now these code snippets are for
the Windows version and you see all
these kinds of things that you can do
from web querying like it'll actually
tap into the wikipedia API so that you
can ask it questions and things like
that to interacting with a webcam so
that it will actually follow your your
face on the webcam and you can speak
back and forth with it so there are
actually some sensors for things like
when I hear a certain word I can program
it with and I guess that would be an
event
so when see when hello is heard and I
can change that word to any word and and
program it to respond in some way based
on the words that that adheres is it can
I take the risk of doing this live sure
I'm just gonna add test this when the
word test this is heard I'm going to
stop the program and then I'm gonna say
say I hear you okay
so let's see what happens here
test this aiyo you know what I don't
even have a microphone Jeff yes yes the
answer is yes you absolutely can set it
up to do things interactively and I just
realized that I don't have a microphone
plugged into this laptop so let's get
into a little bit of the coding end of
things you can see that he's doing some
some things over here because I've
already set up some programming for him
let's go into the program and let's
create a new file so we're just gonna
again we're gonna get into the very
simplistic setup and it comes with some
documentation that is again I've
mentioned that they're really keen on
making this simple and easy to get
involved in you get stuff like this
where it's like here's a project so the
first project is how to make him nod the
second project is how to make him speak
and the third project is how to now make
the mouth move when he speaks so let's
actually get a quick look at how that
works and I'll bring it up like that so
I'm gonna first of all make him speak so
let's go let's set up an event and we're
gonna say when the green flag is clicked
let's say
hi there everyone and rocky tho hey lee
hwon now you notice we're still in
french mode because we were talking in
French there so I can actually control
who is going to be speaking so that was
not French it didn't translate or
anything like that it just simply she
has such a strong French accent and it
was a French dictionary that that it
wouldn't work so in English so I've
changed to an English speaking robot hi
there everyone there you go
okay so you notice that the life and
starts talking but there's no movement
so let's do something a little bit
different so now what I'm gonna do is
I'm gonna set up a control loop and
we're gonna say forever we're going to
we're going to loop this and let's set
up some we're gonna set up a sensor but
what we need to do is create let's see
see there's so much stuff here hey Jeff
you're pretty familiar with with this
well yeah this is very similar to the
siggy doll yes yeah it's like a scratch
interface yeah absolutely absolutely so
what I want to actually do is I want to
set the lips so let's see if it's in
motion here yes set top lip first of all
and then set bottom lip now by default
it's gonna set the position to five
which is the middle but what I want to
actually do is I want to set up a sensor
and say okay the bottom lip is the
bottom lip sensor and the top lip is the
top lip lip sensor so now and let's
let's create a event to make it say hi
there everyone so we're gonna create a
new event and I'm gonna do this instead
when the space button is pressed or I
can set that to any other key so now if
I push start and hit space hi there
everyone so now the motion is
synchronized with the words and it's as
simple as that
but we've just learned how to code we've
just learned how how these two elements
work together so they the
the motion is being controlled by the
voice so I mean what else can you do
there's so many different projects that
we could get into you like this would be
great for maybe class presentations like
I feel like it'd be a group of kids and
one every week or one one team of kids
every week would get to program the
robot to do a quick presentation for the
class right or you know I I just picture
like when I was a kid this would be such
a good tool for me to not only learn
like cooperation but also to be able to
get up and present something and you
could present anything with this robot
right let's be clear when you were a kid
this was Johnny Five right oh yeah yeah
let's do a little bit more okay let's
get into the motion so when space is
pressed let's do a little more than just
speaking and moving the mouth let's
actually do a couple of different things
like I like moving the head a little bit
as as it speaks so let's let's let it
look at the camera right now it's kind
of looking down so find that spot so
head turn eight let's try that and see
what happens hi there everyone so that's
the wrong direction and notice I just
hit space too to try that hi there
everyone
so four is approximately looking at the
camera now with the like the eight and
four is that based on like a clock like
the 12 hours or no I think it's it's the
position like 0 to 10 kind of thing okay
and so what we're actually doing is
we're coding based on like presets so
five is the middle and ten is far one
direction and zero is far the other
direction
now I can go ahead not with head nod I
can now make robot look up a little bit
so let's try let's try eight
hi there everyone perfect now let's get
the eyes to turn just a little bit more
toward the camera hi there everyone
beautiful yeah right you think that but
it's we're learning and it's so much fun
let's make the eyes turn to green
because we like green eyes hi there
everyone okay so this is where you're
talking about going with the red eyes
and I'm like yes see that's where I
would jump in and I go red eyes and be
like I am going to destroy the world
something like that right my robot would
be like let me cook you a lasagna you
just want to replace your grandma let's
look at a couple of the sample codes
that are available now it comes with the
welcome script and this one as you can
see is quite large but what it does is
it shows you some of the ways that you
can interact with Obot so we've got some
loops that just kind of move it around
all the time let's take a look at what
that does so you can see it's blinking
and it's looking around doing those
kinds of things and then there's some
things that if I press space for example
a human they're open to point one here
ready to be programmed if there is
someone there please type your name in
now I notice it's waiting for my mouse
movement so I can actually move the head
with my mouse oh that's crazy
isn't it cool so I can control where
it's looking what it's doing that's neat
and you can see and so what we're doing
is we can learn on the screen so if I
bring that up kind of wide so that you
can see the entire code you can see and
learn and there are even notes to help
us to learn how to code Oh bot so it's
it's a lot of fun there's really no
limits other than your imagination and
it's gonna teach you how to code and I
think you know this is something that
I'm really excited about with the kids
I'm excited about this but I also think
that this product itself is is really
really cool
absolutely I mean I will love this as a
kid I love it now as an atom oh yeah now
with something like this could you
like I'm picturing my kids in the
morning just the way our house sets up
they come down the stairs into like the
living room area before they head to the
kitchen to get their breakfast if I had
a little raspberry pie and the old BOTS
sitting there in the kitchen could it
pick up the motion of them coming in
every morning like quarter after 7:00
and say good morning what would you like
for breakfast like could you show
program it to do stuff like that so that
it's always live and always paying
attention yeah and you could actually
use like the Alexa API or things like
that like you can use API so that you
can interact with it right and talk with
it right I think that this would
probably like parents would like this
for programming like okay time to brush
your teeth and probably kids wouldn't
you know talk back to a the robot said
you see uh maybe I'm somebody's gonna
yell at me on YouTube for this but I
would also be keen to just stick it in
my kids room and then like 10 minutes
after I leave the lights
I'm watching you have the motion sensor
so that when anybody walks by it just
it's like that old Billy bass thing walk
down the hallway and the fish started
eating that but make it interactive
so if I look at the code here now again
I'm looking at the Windows version here
Jeff
okay but in the Windows Windows version
for example if I go into sensing you can
see all kinds of different ways but
notice well when you can actually use a
sensor that says when a camera when
senses a face or when a camera senses
movement
okay those can be triggers these are
sensors so instead of controlling based
on keys press like pressing the space
button I can in fact control like set
the Obot to do something by seeing
something on the camera or by seeing a
face on the camera
hey who goes there great right that kind
of stuff and then interact what's your
name who are you what are you doing
brush your teeth so we could program one
to like when we go live every week say
it's show time it's show time yeah yeah
absolutely interesting I think what it
boils down to I mean it's really a
difficult thing for me to show because
there's so many different things and you
can say well can I do this
yeah you're coding it you're programming
it there's really no limit beyond your
imagination so if you want to add a
webcam Jeff and make it sense your face
or your kids moving through the house
absolutely you can do that if you want
it to interact with a Web API let's show
you the Wikipedia system for example
this is mind-blowing to me so if I run
the Wikipedia sample script which you
can get off of their their website it is
web query and run that now when space is
pressed it asked me a question I can see
that so see I'm already learning to code
by looking at the screen what do you
want to know about what would I like to
know about now this one is prompting me
on the left-hand side I'll bring that up
so you can see that on your screen it's
prompting me to enter a query so if we
said something like Linux for example so
let's say I wanted to learn more about
Linux and interact with my Obot in order
to learn that wikipedia says Linux
listen Lin KS is a family of free and
open-source software operating systems
built around the Linux kernel typically
Linux is packaged in a form known as a
Linux distribution or distro for short
for both desktop and server use the
defining component of a Linux
distribution is the Linux kernel an
operating system so we can program it to
do well you know if you wanted to write
a program that tells you the weather
forecast when you interact with it right
use some of the available open source
code because it's it's available on the
code is on github the Python code is
available for free on github and you can
you can set it up however you like and
so if the microphone is hooked up to if
folks are use a laptop with a mic so if
the microphone is hooked up to it could
you have a full blown conversation and
it respond to you or do the responses
have to be
program you can use I would say yes but
but that would take much more experience
than I have encoding the Obot right
because you could use the Raspberry Pi
version connected with Python and use a
Python library for say Alexa or another
interactive AI and then it would tap
into Amazon system for example and be
able to communicate using that but a lot
would be the the the front end of that
interface so right absolutely that can
be done that's wild in that cool all
right I know what's going on my birthday
list you are not a kid have you chatted
with me lately I'm very much a kid in a
grown-up's body I'm like Tom Hanks big I
saw that one the opposite if anyone has
any questions about Obot at all make
sure you get on to our website category
five dot TV send us an email there has
anything coming in the chatroom at all
just before we move on but if you are
looking for this on your on your
birthday list or whatever it may be or
you just want to pick one up make sure
you head on over to Canadian classroom
comm check them out it is also available
on amazon co uk so if you want to use
our partner link we are partnered with
the with that website so you can
purchase it through that if you go
through our website category five TV
click on support us and then visit
through our partner links or of course
you can go directly to Obot dot co dot
uk'
isn't that awesome so much fun it's so
much fun I want one you've got virtual
reality you don't need a robot well I
could have a robot that uses instead of
an alarm clock it would just like all
the cygnets eyes would glow and be like
it's 4:45 oh wow we can think of so many
different I think we need to start our
own code base where all of our viewers
get a no bot and start creating like
yeah you heard it here you can do
anything that you want
so start coding and let's see what we
come up with awesome
[Music]
[Applause]
