sorry lady yeah I love you we get
started any time we're 30 mm society why
are you holding up the show there's
really no gap in the speaking my leg for
me to suddenly do the show
go ahead this chocolates there's I can
put my cupcake on the floor they're
coming yeah all right Rob Ford can I
start
we don't need to hear about Rob Ford
right now no you so noisy what's on top
of that cupcake unless raspberry mmm
[Laughter]
rude chocolate agree I'm offended here's
my topic okay enjoy as we're trying to
do the entire I won't even have a TPA
weekly I was skinny and we regard the
talented podcasters on the 10th song
gasp any work you will get a new home a
new Sabich in a whole new way so get
ready for TP and Weasley welcome to
episode number 100 of the TPN weekly
podcast is Monday June the 17th 2013 and
of course being the 100th episode of the
weekly podcast here TPN it is a very
special night tonight the TPN podcast
was originally the very first one
started on April 20 of 2009 so here we
are just over four years later the first
episode was hosted by Todd Cochran
himself from the geek news central and
here we are we're actually hosts from
category-five technology TV our website
is category 5 dot TV and it's our
pleasure are honored to be here hosting
Tech
the CPM weekly podcast tonight I'm kind
of you know and it's kind of exciting
for us too because you know as TPN
weekly podcast celebrates its 100th
episode we are actually celebrating our
300th episode at category live TV we've
been around a little while so we're
actually doing that tomorrow night and
so we hope you can join us a category-5
TV just to quickly introduce ourselves
my name is Robbie Ferguson my name is
Dirk good I'm Rachel shoot I'm Rachel
shoes I do it sways with the microphone
up to my face and say it again
non-crystalline is just one just one
nice too haven't you
yeah nice to have some of the team here
with me tonight and of course just to
kind of let you know what's coming up
tonight we are going to be just looking
at some interesting tech related news
stories that are going on in the world
today for starters apparently robots can
be controlled by thoughts this is a true
thing we're gonna be talking all about
it tonight
I'm trying it though and you're not
moving stop I can control myself with my
thoughts what others there well the next
topic we're going to talk about is a
school code breaking contest and it's
set to select this cybersecurity talent
of tomorrow interesting and we'll be
talking about the new Playstation 4
which will be around $100 cheaper than
the Xbox one oh and last but not least
Honda is building a lawnmower that was
at a top speed of 210 kilometers per
hour
excuse me I don't want to be that seems
fraught with peril
danger Will Robinson
boy oh boy look out of a backyard oh my
gosh Eric kid is at it again the
neighbors are scared get the kids inside
we're going to say get the cat in the
house this won't hurt did it try to be
serious please all right this is the
train let's be serious
basically seriously robots are a step
closer to reading our thoughts thanks to
researchers at the University of
Minnesota biomedical engineers at the
University's College of Science and
Engineering have developed a
non-invasive system it's like a cat
looks like a cool little swim cap with a
bunch of diodes coming off of it it
actually has 64 electrodes and it tracks
the electrical activity of the the
person who's using it taps right into
their brain flow using that the brain
signals can be sent to a computer and
the translated and sent over Wi-Fi to
some kind of a robotic instrument
they're actually using it with a
four-blade flying kind of robotic
helicopter thing and you can control
with their mind so for example when a
research subject was asked to think
about making a fist with their right
hand the robot would simply move to the
right the subject didn't have to
actually make a fist they just had to
think about it so literally just by
using their thoughts they were able to
control this robot they could actually
get good enough just in their little
test to maneuver this flying robot with
their thoughts through hanging rings in
the gymnasium
they could actually fly it right through
them and the lead researcher Ben hey is
a biomedical engineering professor he
said that the technology has the
potential to be used to create
thought-controlled wheelchairs also
think about this artificial limbs that
can be controlled just by thinking hey
if I make a fist with my right hand what
if I had a one robotic Iron Man suit
instead of an Iron Man suit now that's
interesting let's talk about that you
know know what is your thinking and I'd
like to smack that guy don't want it I
think that a lot with you Eric a lot of
robot here like I would have kept that
inside but my new biomechanical arm
it's fraught with peril
I wonder though and the the lead
researcher makes makes a point that
people who are paralyzed or have a
neurodegenerative disease could actually
use this technology non-invasive is what
kind of interest me is the fact that it
can be done without having to install
any kind of microchips in the person's
brain or anything like that in the later
stages of ALS or something order yeah
all the musculature absolutely somebody
even as simple as you know had an
accident and has lost their their limbs
so are these like walking robots like
iRobot type you just sit there and send
mind vibes and it goes and walks around
and yeah I think it is it's actually
avatar and it's pretty good copy all of
a sudden just materializes like it what
if it just like goes outside and Rob
someone you want something that's like
oh don't have here yes holds up it just
chosen hold up a bank got to be amazing
Linda do I just was wearing the cap wait
is the guy out in the car was that thing
with all the diodes coming off of it
holding a right yes what else can you
use this thing for and look at iron and
I'm these cupcakes
I think feed you could you think about
it there you go
sound effects so is that topic if we
expired that topic I mean that was false
what do you guys think pop us an email
alive a category-5 TV and Eric said he's
making a good old mess right here in the
studio here you go buddy have an action
will get them as nappy little way to
open we need to get this guy a robotic
arm that can be controlled by his
thoughts again I think this idea is
fraught with peril yes this is any
indication
like us in order to be able to do this
you have to have a brain for it to read
so you know when I go how first entrance
exam Guiness sorry it's no good coming
of this conversation qualification
alright hey tell us all about like ah
what else have we got here and what
we're going to be talking about schools
let's talk about it
schools are being urged to sign up for a
code-breaking competition aimed at
developing the next generation of cyber
security experts teenagers from 14 to 16
will put their wits against each other
to break secret codes to uncover hidden
messages and then write their own
schools will score points for coming up
the toughest codes and then have a
virtual contest attempting to crack
those of other schools it's an extension
of what is known as the cyber security
challenge which is in its fourth year
and was designed to find and encourage
people to work in computer security
protecting people and organizations from
hackers and computer viruses hmm I've
seen sorry go ahead I was going to say
good luck for teachers trying to figure
out what the notes say that are being
passed back yeah have to be a cobra code
yeah right and they're teaching the kids
to do this I think about these apps that
you see on on your your mobile devices
and I've seen people are posting them on
Facebook and stuff because maybe they're
stuck on one of the code breakers and
it's got some kind of code and you've
got to hack the code in order to play
the game good exercise but yeah it's a
mental exercise but do do you think that
app developers could potentially be
doing what these guys are doing which is
to actually be kind of watching who is
hacking the codes and keeping track so
that if you actually beat the game and
become like the master logo you yeah hey
Liam we're actually we're in kind of a
game company where the FBI
you can watch lists we're either going
to hire you or arrest you so because
you're dangerous so you know what do you
think that
could be a possibility as possible yeah
kind of scary a little ominous that just
the tactic of getting kids to hack in
order yeah but really what kind of codes
you think the majority will come up with
like jql seized a pig latin okay so
everything's right we have a new
language and it has 26 characters but
they're all upside down correctly so you
take every letter and turn it into a
number that was IA owned a owned a oh I
don't think yes ha ha ha ha hack the
code come on Eric come on I owned a
owned a does that sound Klingon to you
be chocolate ecumene here my mommy
calling me crystal what do you think ha
I don't think much which I wasn't really
listening to thank you seems to be the
story uh I think it could be a good
thing or a bad thing I mean and
technology is where the world's going
right now so it might be a good thing to
start teaching them how to do this sort
of stuff from the get-go again needs a
great week cold well I mean it get your
mind and not defy physics you need and
you need to learn code breaking what I'm
sure I will teach you grammar but you'll
know how to break FBI code like a like a
puzzle kind of thing it gets your mind
working in that kind of a set if I want
a Rubik's Cube well last week they teach
grammar Rachel I just think you didn't
they say it's your didn't pay attention
last week when I was pondering the
Pythagorean theorem and applying it to
my life I realized that there really
wasn't a lot in school that was
applicable you never use the Pythagorean
theorem I I did last year I used it to
determine that I usually get here come
on of course I've never seen
certain that hammer saw extra you're
trying to rocoto no but what I mean
angle or anything where I'm going with
this is I think that they're smart to
recognize that these kids have the skill
already within themselves so they're not
teaching like a few yeah no but they're
not teaching the kids how to crack code
or write code like say their instead
saying okay here is here's the code now
crack that code I mean the average 14
year old when they get the me video game
yeah there are a couple of days into it
when they figured if all kinds of
secrets
let your document yeah and it's codes
and I think the majority will just give
up after five minutes like take a glance
at it I'd and also I think you taking a
little stickers off the Rubik's Cube
really yeah yeah did you do that Eric
never but it's a generation of I'm
thinking a generation of self-taught
individuals who have grown up with
computer technology and the need to
excel at understanding that technology
there's two different kinds of sides of
the coin there's the people who just
learn in order to survive in a
technological world so the people who
know how to use office to do word
processing and spreadsheets and and then
there's the people who actually
understand the inner workings of it and
you know the computer scientist mind who
wants to get to a higher level of
understanding of the way that a computer
operates or the way that that that
thinking the programmatic mind thinks
their members varying levels of that for
me pursuing it to write their documents
to the guy actually writing programs
it's an attic level but the actual died
of regular programs to do your bird
process and that's a whole different
well and then what about the guy who's
writing the exploits to compromise that
application and then you've got the
higher level of the protection England
you know writing do not believe some of
these encryption software guys have
built in some
back doors here and sure oh yeah but
that aside you know you've got these
kids that are growing up and they either
have that mind or they don't so do you
have you know you if you have that mind
they're they're going to weed that out
they're going to determine okay well
fifty percent or whatever percent of the
people are going to be code breakers and
maybe it's a very low percentage right
for many folks everything to take it at
face value and then others are a little
bit more inquisitive a little more
cynical hmm deep deep deep yeah you guys
lost me to encryption I was thinking
about Pantone colors little time all
right
so Sony is set to sell the PlayStation 4
for cheaper price and Microsoft's rival
Xbox one the Japanese firm announced at
the e3 trade show as the machine would
be sold for three hundred and forty nine
pounds in the UK $399 in the US and
three hundred ninety nine year olds
across Europe it added that it would not
impose restrictions on secondhand games
sony also unveiled what his spots would
look like having previously kept the
design under apps at its february ps4 a
press conference for many in the
audience at the los angeles event the
scale the price difference came as the
biggest shock earlier in the day
microsoft had revealed in its new
console would cost 429 pounds in the UK
499 in the US and 499 euros Steven
Totila editor-in-chief of the new gaming
of the gaming news site caught the coup
said I would say Kotaku Eric what do you
think oh my gosh Elle's version of what
a cool guy like a fun to just fight
about the pronunciation What did he say
quote ah let me get to it Microsoft is
going to need to look again at its price
or explain why it offers better values
such as the inclusion of its Kinect
sensor hmm I think it's awesome for Sony
that they happen to make their
announcement just after Microsoft
that Microsoft is probably on the
scramble how did they pull that off
that's awesome like way to market
because Microsoft on one hand with the
Xbox one is saying that you're not going
to be able to I'm not gonna be able to
say hey Eric would you like to borrow
this game that I bought and play it on
your xbox one no you can't do that
Krista I'd like to sell you this game
for less than I paid for it because I
don't play it anymore
well I can do that but if I do then the
game gets locked so that you can no
longer sell it and there's all these
hobo copy-protection through the roof
and you know handcuffs put on you as a
gamer being able to sell your game so
now Sony coming out and saying well our
PlayStation 4 by the way one hundred
dollars cheaper and we're not going to
restrict your ability to sell those
games or put used games on your console
wonder what would happen for the rental
companies if you can't sell or use use
games on an Xbox one do they have
special games that kind of the get
around the editor or some kind of a no
results for you know rentals yeah what I
don't know I'm just
yeah we're just you're losing it's just
a theory but what would happen because
you walk into a rental store and how
people still do that right we've got a
great to do we've got a great video
store here in town bandy Bandido video
and Barrie Ontario and you it's really
the only one that's left but you go in
there's movies and there's everything's
mostly blu-ray and some DVD now but in
those games
they'll be just no VHS they closed down
the VHS no they actually closed down
half of the store and sold off all the
VHS movies they're dumped number-wise
crap no you can go ahead and rope on and
get these things for a lot cheaper
really I got an Xbox and Kinect for
under 200 on Groupon yeah but you're not
going to get the newest and latest and
greatest right it's not an Xbox one red
yeah well I got a Wii for 99 bucks and
not a belief indeed I did
and it's fantastic I use it for NASA for
a Wii with Wi-Fi internet and it came
with Mario I think that's a great deal
how long the came with Mario yeah I came
to me you mom feel like actually Mario I
don't even know but no like not him but
the game o comes ahead come with a real
mom you make the pizza yeah yeah I got
the Kinect sensor and my living room is
too small so you have to speak about it
if you want him to so I know it you just
trained me you just all trained
everybody do not jump on the couch so I
got the Groupon deal and now I have to
buy a bigger oh honey
Wow I saved $100 on my xbox but I had to
spend a hundred thousand to make room
for it yeah you know you got to look at
the big picture here Rachel I can today
you're wondering like my hair is purple
I Polson of the hairdresser and it said
free haircut and in small letters I
didn't notice it soon enough with color
oh dear
so what would you do in a case like this
I mean the ps4 comes out it's $100
cheaper than the Xbox one doesn't have
the Kinect sensor but it's a ps4 it's
not going to restrict you from using
loaner games or well lime is good and
you why would you go the other route in
a situation please Microsoft products
better do you think it is I don't know
what do you mean you can tell an Xbox
game Xbox one is going to say the Xbox
system from Microsoft fuck then the new
gaming console from Microsoft which was
announced is $100 more than the ps4 and
they will restrict your ability to use
used games so you can't sell your game
how long do you think is going to take
the cyber security
oh you know the breakers to figure that
right but then in order to be a part of
that you've got a bloggers or got a mod
your your device or do something else
that a firmware update is going to
to act and say hey you're using a modded
device and now we're not going to let
you continue or some other crazy thing
who knows I mean all speculation right
but time for a ps4 saw it's like buying
a blu-ray player I mean at 100 bucks
junior games yeah I think I want a lot
more
what kind of lawnmower we don't like
Aaron okay you've got five acres or
something but still and even then can
you imagine someone left in your mood
down there five inches you know the
groundhog the other in the back well
yeah that's that smear that goes about a
mile no there's there's enough accidents
with our Benjamin just put you know yeah
yeah a you know v6 and in little tiny
long arms yeah well let's let's not get
ahead of ourselves Chris like I like to
hear about let's hear what what we're
talking about here only we talk about it
first you know you can whatever so
because a lot of engineers and they are
racing to build the world's fastest a
lot more after being put up to the task
by Top Gear magazine they are targeting
a speed of 130 miles per hour or 210
kilometers per hour I would easily be
the current record of ninety six point
five miles per hour
claimed by the fuel additive firm Gold
Eagle I first look at the machine it's
showing flames coming off as exhaust and
has been posted on my lawn on fire you
don't have to generate July or August
the fire ban I can't move my life
the British lawnmower racing Association
said Top Gear's mowers would not be able
to compete in July's world championships
because of strict limits on the number
of modifications allowed on the motors
and bodies of the lawn mower okay that's
infuriating
lotta said it had simply taken on the
project to promote its forty credentials
okay I don't know flames coming out
exhaust that's kind of cool ladies going
down the highway yeah I just
very Parks and Rec folks are gonna buy
it let's get her done boys
okay so first of all they do this to
show you that they're a sporty company
that's a lawn mower the lawn mower I
mean anytime I forty Ferrari I'm sorry
Ferrari uh how fast do your lawn mowers
go I'm sure nobody know that I got a lot
of girls riding lawn mowers oh yeah yeah
but did it shoot flames out of its back
end really not see no he would hit
nothing wings nope
okay so Eric there is actually an
association called the British lawnmower
racing Association No so I work for
Honda and I'm coming in to you and I
I've got a hairy I've got yeah I've got
this machine that does 100 210 km/h
kilometres I prefer vile say kilometres
thank you very much sir just you're
British
I'm Canadian which is a clogged room hey
did you say clogged room
that's a kite yeah I don't I can't even
follow what you're saying kilogram
kilogram okay I need to write down the
beer kilometer where's that mental
drones flying
no but seriously okay so I'm coming you
with it my 210 kilometer per hour
basically go-cart
I think of it why copy to the ride-on
lawn mowers ride on me and hold on
you'll make sure you've got your cake
line I didn't because I don't know I can
imagine a bunch of idiots getting their
hands on one of these like I was at the
hospital once and the doctor said he had
just dealt with someone who lost a digit
trying to cut a ditch cut into the
headlocks as a headcount in the district
yeah trying to cut his edge what's his
lawnmower okay that's nice doing that
with a 200 koala get a lot more done
right okay I'm assuming this is a raw
more yeah yeah
we're not going to use it right on Lord
adore hedge well if you could do some
really true enough yeah what would you
think that stunt drivers like go
sideways you just kept it on bag girls
and do your hedge would you typically
think though Eric that you know you
would use the right on lawnmower
tolerate if they want us to do a promo
for it yeah that'd be a great idea the
whole Troma's like why are they doing
this I mean when you think about you
know guys sitting around thinking you
know here's a great idea let's make a
lawn mower that travels it faster than
my car at a time and it's top speed yeah
that sounds a helmet I Drive it and all
those motorcyclists well these
modifications be accepted by the British
lawnmower racing Association that's what
I want to know
I mean before we even start tackling you
know because they're pretty a serious
body that the lawn mower racing
Association yeah I say the British lawn
mower they even say goes Hilo meter you
know it's crazy so how much is a week
how many stone what would you do with
this thing other than race even shine a
program in your driveway
they're good a big salad really big
sellers what is yeah no I don't think
it's really for cutting grass you don't
think so it's for showing on I think
that if the labor actually guys it would
have related to do if the blade were
actually spinning and you're traveling
at 210 kilometers an hour there's
something in the centrifugal force that
taps in send me back in time it actually
it actually causes a rift in the
space-time continuum
somehow opens up a vortex so just like
for wolves or gigawatts oh my goodness
Erik I'm just saying just does not sound
that word harder to ignite this is
mixing now but yes and yeah I prep rant
that was inappropriate I do appreciate
you correcting him though it means a lot
I did point out that it wasn't their
slogan you did I did yeah officer faces
what do y'all think email us live at
category-five dot TV any of the stories
that we've mentioned tonight and of
course our 300th episode happens
tomorrow night at 7 o'clock Eastern Time
and you can catch that a category-5 not
very much - five is it - four he's
thinking about it ridiculous but I don't
know it depends on one just say Eastern
Time Eastern
you know I just go onto Google and just
say what time is it in Toronto and well
you'll know or go to our website
category five meeting time - you wanna
you guys make it so difficult category
five dog TV it actually has a countdown
so you'll see it's like twelve hours
check out the website and if you missed
it then no problem you go back to the
website and watch it on demand kind of
cool see the history of category five
but this is rogue and weekly I'm going
to think about raising my right fist oh
this is TPN weekly episode 100 wonderful
to be here tonight we are category 5
technology TV my name is Robbie Ferguson
American Rachael shoe I'm Krista Wells
thank you guys for being here and
everybody listening on home
thanks for being here with us tonight
and have a fantastic week next week
they're going to be talking all about
all the big announcements from Apple and
there are some big ones and I don't even
want to touch on them because I know
yeah or I do Christa's like oh we should
have talked about the Apple announcement
is definitely said I'm ty o s7 bring it
on
no thank you party to stick with Android
Debbie Downer hey just saying if I
wanted awesome then I gotta manually
Oh max what was that inappropriate was
that across the line this show is
g-rated family safe so we're going to
stop this argument right now because i
justá-- is in love with her Mac mm-hmm
find out all about it on TPN weekly next
week for all you maybe in the scandal
sheets next week to might be why should
paparazzi when I leave today northeast
crystal wills with all the time that we
have folks have a great week
talk to you later good night good night
kids how I say ciao ciao experience
reason I was racking up reading now as I
was looking at the precreasing the beer
stains already and I see this another
sector haha still there like it sure is
anything oh boy my kitty my cupcake now
you can eat your cupcake everybody have
a pretty sure you could do it oh boy I
want to pull a Michael Scott that's what
she said everything oh my gosh oh sure
got it
