[Music]
welcome to new every day so glad to have
you here excellent topic today we're
gonna be talking about the beginnings of
your ministry and a message that got
placed on your heart with the craziest
of acronyms that every time I hear it
you know somebody's going to go sorry
what did he stick around
this is you everyday with Jeff Weston
and nine screws
welcome to new every day glad to have
you here I'm Geoff Weston
I'm Lawrence Cruz and we've got a
fantastic episode for you we are gonna
be telling you how you need to have lots
of whites okay alright alright so we
just start yelling at it
no it's an acronym it's it's a it's all
about you know alright I don't know but
it's it's this wonderful acronym that
actually you know you have presented but
we're gonna unpack it today and it's one
that you know the first time I heard it
I went okay this this is gold this makes
sense yeah and so when we were talking
about today's episode you know I said to
Lauren some like we got to talk about
wife's because it is the basics of why
we are here I mean the last two episodes
we talked about you have a place in the
church you have a ruling on a purpose so
what is that purpose and that's what
today is all about it is yeah it's great
it's it's great to ask the question why
am I here right it's even better to
answer and I'm gonna suggest to you to
discover what the Bible says in
answering the question sets of sailing
where we're actually doing the very
thing that God has asked us to do it's
related to our the previous two shows
yes Jeff regarding us as the body and
being made exactly the way God made us
so it's like okay God now that I've
recognized my part in the body like
what's the big picture what's going on
here hmm and that was the question if I
recall correctly you were asking at the
onset of your ministry maybe not exactly
in those words but that's really where
this all started for you
yeah that's correct Jeff it was so I
entered into full-time ministry in 1990
if you don't yeah if you don't I think I
was just a diapers yeah right thank you
for those of you my age and maybe a
little seniors and who has that guy over
there and Lawrence that's because of
that quarter-century comment I made a
couple of weeks ago that's what it was I
get it you got a good memory so yeah so
I mean and I went to I began Bible
College four-year degree program in 1986
okay so I mean they were full-time
studies but I mean I was greenhorn but
loved it I was all-in and enjoyed every
day of my Bible College yeah like I mean
I wouldn't trade any but some of the
likes exam week was tough at times the
all-nighters three in one week I was
Green I didn't necessarily like that
right but you know what I'm saying
it was great so in that sense like I was
full time study I was all in and I was
invited to preach places to sing to meet
people in churches all over the province
of Ontario in Canada and loved it with
everything in me but you know what Jeff
for me there was such a huge difference
between being in a college setting where
I think this is the easiest way to say
it where my professors you know the
teachers they were great and they had my
whole course outline for me right and
basically you know at the beginning of
the semester here this is what you're
doing for the next four months right
yeah and then I'm like yeah no problem I
read it go ah how am I ever gonna get
all this done and somehow you do it and
you get her done and it was fantastic
you graduate you know the tassel goes
over it's like wow God I'm ready to do
everything you got me to do now I'm
sitting in the office so as a pastor
going where is the cell
you know like and nobody's instructing
me anymore like it's all right here
that's you very quickly go from the
student to the teacher and everybody in
the church is going what do you got for
this Sunday yeah yeah and I'm like
exactly yeah I'll get back to you on
that right and so I remember I'm
thankful I wasn't the leader of the
church I was assisting a man whose name
happens to be John McDonald and I bring
that up because it's the same name as
the first Prime Minister of the country
of Canada that's interesting not the
same guy I know he says I've old but I'm
not that old so anyway I was there with
Reverend John McDonald and he was great
he was kind to me and he basically
taught me the ropes but it's like okay
I'm on mmm I got a sermon to preach and
I've got messages to prepare and
programs to organize and Jeff I was way
over my head okay that's fair I mean
fresh out of school yeah yeah and I mean
I think even my alma mater has has given
some attention to that to try and
prepare people a little bit more and
maybe because the people who were there
just weren't getting it like I'm not
blaming anyone whether they said it or
not I just found myself lacking but when
it came to the sermon and I I loved
theology and III still love and I loved
studying it and writing an essay is good
but to say something to people who you
know they're not even in they don't even
they haven't read their Bible let's say
some of them for years
they have one when they were baptized
and you know what do you say to them and
I've just been with for year you know
mm-hmm and I've been immersed in anyway
I'm I got a preach and I don't have a
clue what I'm gonna say and I'm
desperate and I'm scared like again I'm
feeling way over my head right and so
what I was taught I remember hearing is
prior to going to Bible College I was
listening to a guy at lakeshore camp in
Coburg Ontario and one of the guest
evangelists there was saying how like
don't you dare
at least that's what I heard don't you
dare ever get up behind that sacred desk
until you've called upon God and got a
word from God and I remember a young man
like realizing this was important great
teaching yeah I mean Here I am all these
years later remembering it and I'm glad
I was taught well it was my time now in
1990 and I'm on my face literally before
God I'm on my knees and I'm praying at
times I'm like Lord I'm desperate for
you and I finally I settled down I said
God what do you want me to say to these
people and I felt the Lord directed me
to a passage of Scripture in the book of
Acts okay
chapter 2 okay all right and and it was
chapter 2 beginning at verse 42 shall I
read it yeah please sure let's ok ox
chapter 2 oh pardon me verse 41 those
who accepted his message were baptized
and about three thousand were added to
their number that day that's a lot of
people one day and I remember reading it
go on okay I like the thought of new
people being added to the church a few
people saying they I belong here and I
want to be baptized I'm not ashamed of
the gospel I'm happy that you know yea
identify with the church I'm like okay
this is now all of a sudden you know hey
if you've those have you been traveling
with the Lord for years and you're
reading a positive Scripture and that
God just like illuminate that you know
the brightness of your screen if you
will you know there was no screen of the
thing but you get what I'm saying
so 3,000 were added to their number that
day verse 42 acts 2 they devoted
themselves to the Apostles teaching and
to fellowship to the breaking of bread
and to prayer everyone was filled with
awe at the many wonders and signs
performed by the Apostles Oh signs and
wonders all the believers were together
and had everything in common verse 45
they sold property and possession
to give to anyone who had need and
everyday they continued to meet together
in the temple courts they broke bread in
their homes and they ate together with
glad in sincere hearts praising God and
enjoying the favour of all the people
and the Lord added to their number daily
those who were being saved this is on
top of the 3000 the thought just had
that already came in so you can imagine
I'm young I'm brand-new I'm in I'm
thinking that's what I want for this
group of people that I was called to
serve okay yeah and so then God's giving
you the scripture and I mean before we
quickly go to a break what was that
moment for you with the scripture where
you're like that's the one like why was
it that why was it that I chose that
path yes what was it that stood out to
you yeah interesting what that's a good
question so much of it in there I saw
the fact that the church was growing
mm-hmm I saw that the people were caring
for each other I saw that there was an
attention to the Word of God and I say I
just come from college I mean I I
couldn't get enough of the Word of God
and this is what I wanted to share that
experience with other people who I was
hoping would also be hungry and I
thought that's it Lord this is what I
want so I wanted to preach that passage
of Scripture to as my first sermon to
the group of people that God had called
me to okay well we've got to take a
quick break when we come back we're
gonna hear more about this scripture and
what God has revealed through that and
how I think I would like to ask how it
has changed things for you since those
early days of the 1990s yeah stick
around
stick around for more from new every day
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today
cap five dot TV slash shirts welcome
back this is new every day if you're
just tuning in the first half of this
episode we've been talking with Lawrence
about his beginnings of ministry fresh
out of college and having to do his
first sermon overcome with fear wasn't
the fear of God over his head and saying
god what oh my god myself man what do
you want me to say and God led you to
Acts chapter 2 and we just read that
scripture before the break yeah so what
is the message behind Acts chapter 2 in
the scripture that you read okay that's
a great question so it's about how you
started the show by saying we're gonna
learn about multiple wives and it's like
that's how I say it do Jeff there was
this rightly or wrongly I was encouraged
you know in homiletics class like how to
put a message together to you know kind
of make make some structure to a message
so that people could understand it and
so I was kind of looking at this passage
of Scripture wanting to do that so that
people could understand these these many
verses that were just so alive to me and
like I told you many of them were
younger brand-new hadn't read much it's
like what can I say and so I was single
at the time and and
available no more looking not wanting to
be single and I had my eyes on this
pretty gal who's now my wife
what's that wife there it is so I'm
busted it's like the overflow of my
heart I come up with an acronym wif e
now I was talking to someone last week
actually Jeff who who brought up the
same acronym to me regarding this
passage of Scripture so with all
sincerity I say to you before God as my
witness now I believe this was original
to me I'm not here to say this is mine
and I own like I Pritz personal to me
and I get it but it's not about me
saying this is mine I have this guy
saying what like other people are doing
this - and then he jokingly said he goes
maybe you started it and I don't know
that's not my reason for sharing it but
either way I'm happy to tell you that
there was this acronym WI f e that that
D marked the very things that we read
about in Acts chapter 241 and following
okay okay so so W stands for worship
okay alright so here I am Jeff I'm ready
to preach a message read these these
verses and say hey group this is where I
want to go this is who I want to be
together as this group together as this
church here in this place called
Ingersoll Ontario which happens to be
some of you may know this Amy Semple
McPherson had a ministry there now there
there's a name for you to look up she
was used mightily by God in revival ways
I knew nothing about that
you know I'd heard about her but I was
in the very same town where she once was
now for some of you that might be of
interest google her and then strap your
seatbelt on because lots went on there
it's also a small town known for
limestone and cheese and yourselves
ingersoll cheese so W back to that
worship yeah this is the first love
letter wife
w stands for worship and here it is that
Jeff when we worship the Lord we magnify
our God right okay about making our God
bigger o in our Lord we make room for
you with the ear that I have Lord I want
to give everything that I am to worship
you you are God and I am NOT you are the
created
I am the created one and with all that I
am Lord I willingly exalt magnify honor
and large make you famous oh and I can
and as I say it now it's still part of
who I am Jeff that's what I believe we
are created for as people on this earth
right to worship the Lord totally agree
yeah and the beauty of his holiness so
I'm seeing that passage of Scripture
right okay so that's the w.w I stands
for instruction okay that makes sense
okay and it's from that the verse that
we read and says they devoted themselves
who these are the first Christians right
the early church like Peter speaking
3,000 people get saved and that you
remember they were just previously
afraid because Jesus left and the Romans
are there searching hunting for them
yeah it says they devoted themselves to
the Apostles teaching I love that word
devoted but there's a whole lot of media
if there is it's about being all-in
right it's not wavering but hey we're in
and what did he mean by that
there's a passage of scripture that says
the Bereans were more noble than the
Thessalonians because when they heard
the Word of God preached they carefully
searched the Scriptures to make sure
what they were hearing was true what and
they caught that was called nobility and
I want I was saying in my very first
sermon I was casting vision saying this
is what I believe we can be people of
worship and people of instruction where
we don't do anything unless it's it's
founded upon the Word of God that's the
eye okay so we've got the why yeah
and we're getting into the wifey that's
the F stands for fellowship oh that's
easy
okay there you go and so and hey that's
not a word that I like used right like
when I was playing street hockey hockey
and my fellowship with my boys yeah you
know what I mean it's like it's just
kind of honestly I confess it kind of
felt weird to me yeah
and I still don't use that other than in
a biblical context and then
understanding what it mean and they hung
out together they shared life together
that's right yeah we do that yeah even
here like it's it's not a burden to come
here and do the show like we like doing
it we're hanging out sharing each
other's lives that's what I think is a
good Street takeaway if you will for
what the word fellowship means 100%
experiencing life together so I'm
reading this and hey this first
congregation of people I want to share
life with you
well that's different for some people
too from what may be that what they were
expecting from a pastor but I mean I was
young and believed in this I've read
this but from a guy I think it was dr.
Dan Spader who said he who spends the
most time wins hmm that says a lot right
yeah and so I was ready to dive in and
share life together that's F all right
so we got the whiff let's get to the
wife e okay he stands for evangelism
3,000 were added to their number right
upon the first sermon I've never seen
that but I'm willing and and then of
course remember at the end of that as we
were reading near the end of Acts
chapter Tunis and the Lord added daily
yea those who were what Jeff being saved
well in that at the end of the day is
the Great Commission I mean you go to
Matthew 28 that's what we've been told
to do go into all the world who are you
they're in college with me Jeff I was I
was in kindergarten that's exactly what
it was come on friends you know at the
book of Acts is it's like the
fulfillment of all that God said to do
right yeah and then it's this ongoing
unfold
clothing of the people of God doing he
said it the Great Commission and the
Great Commandment love each other and
tell the world that God loves them
worship be people of the word and
instructions share life together tell
other people about Jesus and then a
couple of years went by and I added one
which is where we got the multiple wives
though life is not listen don't do that
you know it's bad grammar grammar but it
just makes it easy for this guy to
remember wif e s s is for service you
know what that is
it's ministry yeah and that's what we
were saying the past few weeks about the
body we're all gifted by God yes you are
gifted you who know Christ you have been
given gifts from our God what are you
doing with him something so I don't even
know where they are that's okay
figure it out and then use them to the
glory of God see talking about it
excites me to no end
rate from a scripture and I can tell you
thirty years later it's as alive to me
today in fact even more so that if this
is all I do for the rest of my days
worship instruction fellowship
evangelism and service and devote my
life to these five things Jeff I'm I
think I'll die a happy man I know you
will
praise the Lord oh yeah you know it's
funny when I first heard you talk about
wife's something that went through my
head is you know it's going to be really
easy to remember that and the
application of why we're here because we
are referred to as Christians as the
Bride of Christ right then when you say
yeah well we're the Bride of Christ
we're the wife's mm-hmm this is what
we're meant to do is the worship the
instruction the fellowship the
evangelism service I mean you cover off
all those five things and that is
everything that the church is meant to
be for a Christian life and what God has
called us to be it's like you cannot be
the Bride of Christ without those five
things right on and we get to be those
five things right yes you know and
that's a good benchmark Lawrence how are
you doing how's your worship of the Lord
okay yeah have you read lately are you
getting instruction are you listening
are you right where you are
have you siloed yourself remember that
from weeks ago oh don't do it
have you told anybody about Jesus and
your smile of you entertain are you
practicing hospitality and what are you
doing to serve someone and make somebody
else's life better it's awesome ok I get
fires you have to talk about it yeah
that's good well unfortunately we've
only got like a half an hour to our time
so I know we can't just keep going but
you're sitting here maybe you've cat you
know caught the last few episodes and
you're going okay so I get that I'm
supposed to be part of the church I have
a role in the body of the Christ and now
you're telling me that in my role
there's things I can do and so we want
to encourage you to live that out it
doesn't mean you have to go oh you know
what I'm gonna pick up instruction I'm
gonna be a pastor that's not what we're
saying
no we're saying fulfill your role in the
way that God has designed you within the
body of Christ
maybe that role is simply to be an
encourage and part of that is living out
the fellowship it's picking up the phone
and going hey I just want to know I want
you to know I love seeing a church on
Sunday and it was great to have you
there and you know you're you really
blessed me pick up you know hang up the
phone you just might make somebody's day
I mean we've heard lots of stories
throughout the years of all took was a
simple phone call when somebody was
about to off themselves and it made all
the difference you never know how God's
gonna use you and maybe it's I mean I
think of my grandpa couldn't hold a note
to save his life but that man loved to
worship and when I think about my
grandpa that is the one thing that
stands out is how much he would just
worship Christ with everything in him
and he was the epitome of the W of wife
and he surged to this yeah he's yeah
what's Dan's I remember him as a man of
service yeah so there was a capital S in
his life and you're saying you know it's
amazing what else yeah so I mean what is
your role what is your place within the
church God knows he made you for it so
we want to encourage you to spend time
talking to God have him reveal your role
as the Bride of Christ as a wife within
the church sounds great all right you
have a wonderful week and we'll see you
next week
catch a new episode of new every day
every Friday morning a new everyday TV
we're also on roku Kodi Plex YouTube
Google Play Music podcasts and news book
or if you're in Southern California tune
in every Sunday morning at 6:30 on kbdb
TV channel 33 television for the high
desert
