I like a random computer questions area
yes okay so you know I retropie on my PI
right now I have heard about this didn't
know how you did that
is there where you can undo that
temporarily and then redo it again why
would you ever want to do that - well
because it'd get married and I need to
do a playlist and I think that that
might be the best way to lay music right
at the wedding all right is that lays
out the best way there's a man called a
DJ okay there is a thing called a budget
okay so what are you thinking okay cuz I
have them play songs that you have
selected yes okay because I have a band
92 just push play that's right I have a
band that's starting for like the later
part but I'm just talking like the
background yeah here yeah okay is that
easy or is that like she's like overkill
to be honest with you okay
because you could set up a volume you
know player and get it up and go in
create playlist and this and that and
then connect to it push play you got to
set up a Wi-Fi hotspot I think what you
where's my best back then I think just
like set up a playlist on your phone or
something or just a like an mp3 player
but to answer your question yes it can
be done what you could do is you could
get a second SD card because you
wouldn't wipe it out and and then have
to reset up retropie no take out the SD
card alright little tiny chip put in a
new one install the whatever you want on
it and then just switch them back and
forth so could I have multiple ones if I
wanted to do like a like a photo frame
so it would be just like a display I
guess like just a monitor really instead
of a frame yeah
and then I would just hook it up to my
PI and have picture cycling through it
but then it could also just be my
retropie when I want it to be but again
now see I love the idea I love where
you're going with it okay for a DIY fun
project yeah but I've done weddings
before uh-huh I've shot what weddings
from like a videography standpoint and
everything simplify make things easy on
yourself okay
and what I mean by that is cat5 dot TV
a GP tech the black 1080p player okay
mm-hmm it has an HDMI output oh and it
has a USB and an SD card slot okay all
you have to do is stick all your
pictures on an SD card or a USB stick
plug it in push play done there's no
setup there's no there's no risk of this
is not going to work if I can't figure
it out when I'm supposed to be getting
married today right you don't need that
you can't come to Newfoundland Toto fix
the things land is a long walk Canada
there's part it was part swim to it
actually oh yeah you could take a bit of
a triathlon your job yeah okay that's
the route I would go all right so that
answer my question you may have access
to one of those because I just happened
to own one I do actually
one second okay not that one this one
here it is this is so cool this is what
I'm talking about this has never been
open so I assume it's not an empty box
here you go this is exactly what you
need okay that's it and just USB yeah
SD nice either one you can use it has
VGA output optical output AV output and
HDMI output now you just plug that into
a TV done sweet no setup alright that's
what you want to do that's what I wanted
to yeah cat 5 TV slash AGP Tech but it's
spelt with a k' agh Tech AGP Tek alright
you'll see that below alright alright
keep it simple I'm gonna the last dress
don't add stress to your special day
okay thank you that's my trick
[Music]
[Applause]
