I work in an office that has some
windows-based computers some Linux based
computers I want it to be able to open
on my computer using the new office
online tool okay I want it to be able to
or some tool or some tool open documents
on my computer so that the format
wouldn't be all mixed mashed up the way
it is when I just open it Libre right
okay yes right oh good this will help
you a few okay so we looked at because
one of my laptops is all it's all
LibreOffice yeah it's Linux based and so
often I get word file sent that I open
them up I'm like oh that's a tough thing
because that can be any number of things
fonts yes the user used and they didn't
tag the file so when you open it you
don't have the same fonts and so it's
all messed up so you've got to figure
out what fonts they used and install
those fonts in order to open them
properly sometimes people don't realize
that hey if I create a file on my
computer it's not going to translate
when you send it over so there's no
solution to that beyond fixing the file
correct plain and simple
so that's not that's not a LibreOffice
problem no but that's fun if it's one
page you get something that's yeah yeah
but typically with the document it's
going to be like a generic font that you
can substitute another serife font or
something like that
wing-dings whole document it's a script
but so the the problem lies in the fact
that files are not tagged so the fonts
are not included with the file you have
to have that font installed that's one
good example
that's why PDFs are so popular portable
document format so when Adobe it was it
yeah I guess it was Adobe that did PDF
and they they created a format that's
not typically editable right but it
looks the same from computer to computer
to computer that's why it's done so well
on the web because it always opens the
same so if you create the document on
your computer and then you export it to
a PDF file you can then send it to
someone and they will be able to print
it will always look perfect right yes
that's why we do PDF that makes sense if
you then take that docx file or ODT file
and send them that file they may be able
to open it but it's probably not gonna
look the same it's gonna look a little
wonky mm-hmm so understand the reasoning
the underlying problem that exists there
so I suggested why not look at Google
Drive Google Docs or now Microsoft
Office online which is available for
free when did it go free
what's Microsoft doing go to cat5 TV
slash MS office you'll be able to just
sign in with your Skype account or you
can create an account using your email
address whatever you want to do yeah so
let's take a quick look at how this is
going to translate so I've created the
world's easiest font using a liberation
serif font the easiest doxo on I've
saved this as a doc X you see the file
name in the top left yes so I just went
file save as and I've saved it as word
format so understand what I'm doing here
is just demonstrating that it will work
with docx files right so I don't have to
convert them or do anything fancy I'm
just gonna I'm just starting with this
very very basic docx file okay save so
now jumping back to my browser I have
Google Drive and I have Microsoft's
onedrive which does provide free space
up to a limit just like Google Drive and
then you can pay if you want more space
right so remember last week we took a
look at this just really briefly on the
fly and we didn't really know how to
open a file in MS Office online because
we didn't you couldn't find the
connection right I thought it might be
onedrive but it was just put me through
this loop of click here click here click
it turns out it's because when I created
my account to be able to access MS
Office online uh-huh I didn't verify my
email address it sent me an email that
said click here to verify your email
address and I didn't do that that's why
last week it was going through this loop
of your not verified your not verified
he can't so I couldn't get in right
there's a little bit of a headache so I
clicked on the verify and boom lo and
behold
now office online so if I go cat five
dot TV /ms office and I open word
so there's Microsoft Word it's free
office online apps click on word then at
the bottom here open from onedrive and
now it just takes me to my onedrive so
that's very similar to Google Drive
right I'm gonna show you both so I'm
gonna go new file upload keep in mind
now I'm on Google Drive so this is
Google's product we're gonna look at
both Google and Microsoft ok because
both of these allow you to collaborate
on my desktop I've got that file it's
gonna be the only docx there it is test
local file upload to Google Docs it sees
the docx at the bottom right and it's
removed the file extension and it's
there now go over to Microsoft's
onedrive let's see how we upload to this
hmm
maybe over here no not quite as
intuitive I find Oh files
ah there we go documents ok new upload
upload I created a folder called sashes
test document hah never quite got their
files test local file that's my doc file
now here it hasn't removed the docx
extension it's still docx ok back at
Google let's double click on that file
and it has opened that in my online
editor called Google Docs
it also has Google sheets for
spreadsheets and it will accept any
format that you throw at it now but here
you are in Google Docs you notice
there's no longer the serife font it's
changed it to something called normal
text again it's going to change the
formatting of some files because it's
supplementing fonts and things like that
right so if you've got check boxes that
are actually a check box image from a
font it's probably not going to
translate right we need to make sure
that those are transferable but what's
neat about doing it this way is now
moving forward I always have them online
so if I send it to somebody I'm sending
them the Google Doc right they can go in
they can open it and
it's always going to be the same right
because it's still in Google Docs in the
cloud jump back over to Microsoft's
product and let's see how this one
handles it I'm gonna double click on the
file looked like it was going to take a
single single click and there it is
same thing now it kept the flaunt the
same which tells me that it's probably
tying into my local fonts so fonts that
are installed on my computer itself
which definitely it looks like that's
what it's doing that looks like kind of
the default set for Linux or for
Microsoft Windows I'm on Windows 10
pardon me so there there you have it so
it was able to open both now where these
products Excel Jeff is file share so now
Sasha you want to be able to share this
and some folks were joking like don't
put information on here don't share this
it's not secure look at all the people
who are going in and editing it well I
purposefully during the demonstration
opened it up to the world and just let
people at it Wow
what you're going to do is let's just
say it who is the email provider for
your company they say Google it is
Google you go to Gmail when your email
that's true right
do you use Gmail I do yeah work but yes
okay well in your instance everybody in
your office has access to a Gmail right
because that's what they use yeah so
what you can do is you can just share it
with your company
exactly anyone at your company can open
it at this file nobody else can right
that's how you can do it so and I can go
as far as just setting up an email
address if I wanted to go live at
category five dot TV and then what do I
want them to be able to do they can edit
they can comment or they can view mm-hmm
this is Google Docs so with that I can
set up those permissions the way that I
want them jumping over to the Microsoft
product how do we share here I know that
it's going to be available there it is
share share with people no I want to
share with aliens come on now live at
category five dot TV what does it say
recipients can edit recipients can only
view ah
Recep
don't need a Microsoft account
recipients need to sign in with a
Microsoft account so presumably that
means that you could send it without the
need for them to sign in so that's an
added level of kind of that's an added
level of authentication to ensure that
they are who they say they are because
you if someone else got ahold of the
link they wouldn't be able to open it
right so that's pretty cool so I think
both products could achieve what we want
to do yes
now maybe this isn't for this
demonstration but what about loading an
ODT how does word online show it how
would it work with an OD T so this is
the default format so basically the
question is is there cross compatibility
between the products right because
sometimes you know I might be sending an
OD T to some right and they don't have
LibreOffice na and is it gonna load
properly so can I just take the same
file I'm gonna change this to an OD F
text document which is ODT file
extension and I'm gonna save this as
Libre just so that I have a distinction
between them jump over here let's jump
back to Google Drive and upload grab my
LibreOffice so this just demonstrates if
they are compatible cross-program
so does Google Drive recognize ODT files
there's the Libre one and that opened
just fine yeah
now interestingly enough you can go file
download as so now if you need to
actually send it to someone who doesn't
have an internet account or something
that you can download it as docx or ODT
right or rich type you can do PDF yeah
yeah obviously don't have to buy like a
PDF program plain text and zipped HTML
epub over to the Microsoft product let's
try the same test upload files and grab
that file that's the Libre oh D T file
and open and there it is
open it and again single click on on the
word online and it looks the same now it
warns though ODT documents some
compatibility issues could
if you edit this document details and go
into some details that's their way of
saying weird formats better user words
better than OTG right that's just that
is that's like okay I was I was doing
some schoolwork over the weekend with
one of my classmates where she asked me
to edit some of her work and so she
works in Word and I work in Google Docs
and so I so I could open it and it
looked wonky but I knew like I wasn't
editing her formatting I'm you like the
wording was correct right so then I sent
it back to her she's like I don't like
the way your stuff looks so imagine this
now so pick your base and say okay
you're already a Google user so use
Google Docs exactly which is Google
Drive drive.google.com is where you want
to go to sign in if you're not a Google
user if you're really Microsoft Office
lover then maybe the Microsoft online is
the way to go right but both seem to
offer similar functionality and they
give that collaborative nature so my
thought is Sasha so yeah there's a
little initial hurdle where some files
if you upload them they may need to be
reformatted but once they are now they
are in the Google Docs format or the
Microsoft Office online format and you
know that it's going to be compatible
right so that when someone else opens
that it's going to look the same on
their computer do a couple of minutes
work just yeah yeah I think so I think
that'll work really well perfect
[Music]
[Applause]
