welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode number 504 for Wednesday
May the 17th 2017 nice to have you here
now it has been quite the week for
cybersecurity researchers and we've got
two heavyweights in the industry they're
going to be joining us tonight to speak
about the wanna chronic threat we're
going to learn what you need to know and
nothing but stick around Sasha
what do you got for us here's what's
coming up to the category 5 TV newsroom
Netflix is messing around with pricing
in Australia we're on the cusp of what
could be a world-changing evolution in
battery technology thanks to an Israeli
startup mp3 is dead sort of let the VR
headset legal wars begin a company that
won 500 million dollars from oculus is
now going after Samsung's gear VR and
the wanna cry ransomware is taking
online threats to a whole new level
stick around the full details are coming
up later in the show
this is category 5 technology TV our
live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV is a member
of the tech podcast network if it's tech
it's here cat 5 TV slash TPN and the
international association of internet
broadcasters cat 5 TV slash ia IV well I
am your host Robbie Ferguson welcome to
the show Sasha dramatis is here with me
and Henry Bailey Brown it's so good to
see all of you I can't actually see you
but you can see me I know you're here
and it's nice to have you here ok just
quick housecleaning off the top as we do
I had a hard drive fail in my own rate
server you heard about last week on
episode 503 and went through that whole
process the good news both drives
arrived we were able to rebuild from
parity and the parity drive did not fail
so we don't any data
then I upgraded on raid to six point
three point three the latest version of
unrated supports dual parity drives and
so I stuck the four terabyte secondary
parity drive in there rebuilt that one
and it took as well so now we have dual
parity and we've got an expanded array
and didn't lose any data so great on
folks its job Ravi its move unread way
to go pat on the back and thank you to
those of you who have supported us
throughout the months and you know these
are the little expenses not even little
expensive but the expenses that are
unexpected here at the studio that have
to be taken care of but luckily you know
just for my sanity
we've got backups but backups take time
to recover from and the stress of you
know what what files and consolidating
things together and all that kind of
stuff so sacrum and our we have our
light Bolton now Oh our light bulbs are
in yeah can you see that we can you guys
I hid in your glasses once in a while
when our camera if you look straight at
your teleprompter yeah look up a little
bit see oh there's the light spotlight
that's the lights and yeah it certainly
looks a little brighter in here tonight
but you know what truly it's our
supporters it's our every little thing
that you do adds up and makes it
possible to to you know when something
fails replacements there's so many cool
ways that you can support category 5 TV
networks Asha where can they go well you
can use our affiliate links which is
great idea super fun you could also be a
patreon which will afford you great
prizes prizes you can just head on over
to category 5 dot TV and you'll see the
support us link and as sasha says there
there are what we call our partner links
or affiliate links or shop with our
partners if you will that's that how
it's named on the menu but the cool
thing about it is you buy from Amazon
anyways you buy from eBay anyways and
it's a way to support the show because a
percentage of every single sale goes to
support category 5 TV so we appreciate
everyone who does
I mean if you don't want to buy anything
and you just want to give us money
there's ways that we have to take it
okay I'm really really excited
finally finally there is a trailer for
Star Trek discovery eggs now is where
we're live on a Wednesday night and CBS
CBS access released the trailer 11
minutes before we went live it already
is on our Facebook page so if you go to
cat5 dot TV slash Facebook or just do a
search for category 5 technology TV on
Facebook you're going to be able to
watch the real trailer I'm not talking
about just a ship going mmm but that's
kind of logo in space and like no no
more that we've got a real trailer with
actors and everything so make sure you
check that out really excited to finally
have a new Star Trek show starting up on
this fall so all fantastic oK we've got
to get into it now
you've heard of wanna cry wanna krypter
wanna Crypt
this is the newest stream of ransomware
that is attacking not just business
networks but the entire world we're
seeing a huge infestation of this
malware and it is it's unprecedented as
never as far as I know nothing quite of
this scale has ever happened before so
it's being beamed
potentially cyber warfare it's being
called all these kinds of things that
you know we're not really sure what is
this right now is it just ransomware by
some lucky hacker who decided to make
some money and is doing a fair job at
that just a bit scary I don't know but
we've got some industry professionals
here with us tonight in order to talk
about that mark skelton is our first
interview tonight he's a professor of
practice in the information systems and
management group at Warwick Business
School in Coventry England and he
researches cyber security he's the
author of building digital ecosystems
and he's also got a new book that's just
a just about to come out you can
actually go to cat5 dot TV slash mark ma
RK and when you go to that link you're
going to be able to see the book
actually order a copy right off of
Amazon as well so check that out mark it
is so great to have you here thanks for
joining us well so tell me Robbie uh I
mean you you have to be on the other
side of the Moon not to see some of the
issues there coming out of this cyber
attack so thank you very much for having
me yeah Cheers and you know it is we can
just get right into our conversation
tonight because as you say you got to be
living under a rock to not know what's
going on and essentially you know this
is worldwide news we're speaking with
you from Ontario Canada and you're in
England and this is a real global event
now can you give us a little bit of a
backstory on what you've seen as a cyber
security researcher is is really
happening in in kind of the the whole
ecosystem of the international yeah
that's a good question to ask because
that's the sort of thing I tend to look
at you know you need to put this in
perspective you know one way to look at
it is well this is just Microsoft
machines that are being affected so if
I'm on iOS from Apple I'm using an
open-source system and this doesn't
really matter it's not that of an issue
but then you hear about 11 million users
or pcs being affected and you get lots
of different numbers I where I position
this as I tend to call this is the third
wave the third wave if you will of cyber
attacks I mean the first way by
describing the genesis of what I call
enterprise scale at cyberattacks is
really the line of service these offices
is phrased right here and you know
that's they see stopping access to your
system secondly we've got data breaches
much like the famous Sonny Sonny attack
which some with that arguably not
particularly terribly good film but some
clearly was a initiative out stealing
data and reissues of taking money off
you this is really the third way just to
get to the point which is around
ransomware where it's actually holding
you psychologically to rent and for
money or to inflict some emotional
damages on you but equally you're seeing
this now having attacked hospitals in
the UK right you know in Canada in
Russia's being hit very very heavily
it's over about 110 countries and really
this is a smorgasbord a palace
the ecosystem that we're now living in
but the 24/7 always connected all these
devices but now the legacy of all these
sort of operating systems and whether
there's a gap you know an air gap and
there's clearly been an exploit here has
been been opened up by but we believe
criminals although it has been some new
news on that we can talk about as who's
caused this but it just shows the scale
the way we're connected today doesn't it
and the the nature of the threat now is
about ransomware unfortunately and do we
suspect that this is a targeted
attackers as you know it's so widespread
it seems like this is just like how has
this thing spread so quickly to so many
systems what are we looking at from that
perspective well academically we talk
about narrative engineering which is a
rather ponzi so that flashy words that
what does I mean but you see this with
which fake news and you hear this in
terms of information being put out there
into the internet to create an impact
now I think well this is it's a call the
target is difficult to say that because
effectively if you say exploits on a
weakness in the Windows XP system that
we read which is an old version of
Microsoft's operation system but there
isn't what you hasn't Windows XP was
cancelled so you know how is this still
a problem today like there is nobody
runs Windows XP anymore right well
obviously not is that the two things of
driveling of the poor National Health
Service in the UK clearly got a got one
here and that they haven't they've been
repeatedly warns not you know to upgrade
their systems to the patch spikes or the
patch up in March this year to fix this
and they told them you've got to upgrade
your systems but actually you can talk
about some how we put it some unlicensed
software which may be in Russia and
elsewhere people using you know any
potentially other on the say there's
illegal versions so these aren't
protected by patches so this is what's
happening so complex issue I hear you
okay so what makes and now we're all
kind of at this point in like our
viewers and pretty much the world at
large we've all heard of ransomware so
we know that it is it's an attack it
encrypts your files it wants you to send
Bitcoin to basically pay
hackers in order to get your files back
what makes this new attack this wave of
the wanna cry or one equipped ransomware
what makes that so significantly
different and why is this now a global
event when there have been ransomware as
in the maps that have gone around well
obviously you know one of the things
that is different this time is that
another criminal group stole some
software which is called blue eternal
there's also some other software this
has other unusual names now this
software was from the NSA which is
reported by the Israeli Cyber Security
Agency other days ago this is in the
fact yeah yeah we believe started so
what we're finding is to combination two
things you've got a worm which is a
thing that sort of weave is way through
into your XP vulnerability really
there's been a backdoor method provided
by a military grade weapon cyber weapon
which was stolen from the NSA and there
what's happening is the combination is
so lethal this is why it's managed to
get through file firewalls managed to
break through into all these pcs and so
the question is even if you have the
patch you probably would have been
protected but these computers because of
this additional piece of stolen
military-grade cybersecurity weaponry
it's nice to do so much damage all over
the world it's such a different world
that we live in isn't it from you know
20 years ago and this year this was all
speculated you know this is something
that was future ask cyber warfare and
things like that and I wouldn't mind
touching on that without getting too far
into you know it's so easy to fall into
conspiracy theories and and theoretical
you know like we could just banter here
and come up with all sorts of ideas of
what might be going on but just backing
up a little bit we keep going back to
this this exploit is from Windows XP is
it something that's also affecting other
users well indirectly because so
basically this is another service and
also you know you lose patients medical
rather lose the records you lose medical
care time you can't go to banks you
can't go and buy staff care
the disruption this creates you know
robbing and uh it's that's that part of
the impact and what they're trying to do
but basically it's a financial game
they've kind of so they've done a fire
fire store bid like the famous some you
know diehard 4.0 movie of you know the
one and that's a it's no joke in this
kind of technology when it can get
through break through the barriers of
devices and Internet of Things now with
all these things connected the damage
you can do is really what I particularly
like if I can just sort of razor her
point is from the Microsoft legal
council the head of illegal in Microsoft
wrote a blog a couple of days ago so
that was very interesting me advocated
that we should introduce to think all
the digital Geneva Convention the
digital Geneva Convention and I think
that's quite interesting isn't it
because I think what's happening is
because if they're NSA and others not
just the NSA no you look at the UK
government others are all sort of stop
oiling these side of weapons to protect
themselves but also to be able to do
surveillance and do national security
rate activities there's an issue about
you know if you stockpile nuclear
weapons you stop our cybersecurity
weapons they need to have the same level
of due diligence you don't want to leave
the door open government one going
missing you know this is not a good
thing so I think it's a good call by
Microsoft well I have an issue with I
don't know what your thoughts are is
that should it be just Microsoft saying
they are the first responder you know
they were bit like the judge and the
jury well it's their system in the first
place they've got hacked
yeah and now they're saying we're going
to fix you but why was it hacked in the
first place you know yeah you know like
an issue so not an automobile where you
know we got to recall this car because
it's our problem right like this is this
is much wider scale than that
yeah and and you know this does bring us
to the you know and it's it's such a
dangerous thing for us to to get into
this conversation because like I said we
can so easily slip through two
conspiracy theories and things like that
but but it really does we do get the
sense that we're looking at a cyber
warfare kind of issue here so the
underlying technology being that it
comes from these government bodies and
now has that been stolen through data
theft and and used by cyber criminals or
what are we what are we looking at
but we're looking at that as you know
the whole Edward Snowden affair and
WikiLeaks and the self-appointed and
intensive is particular side of the
political divisor you and persuasion
advocates for some you know you have
these potential of digital male you and
I are talking on this connection right
now it's a very powerful medium you know
you're in different parts of the world
but we can connect in instant time and I
think the people the reality that we
have to understand this is not new is
that the ability to work at the speed of
light with these technologies which is
not the physically doesn't have the
physical constraints that the physical
world has is that you've got situations
where people can still information about
you and your identity they can basically
do enormous amount of harm within hours
or minutes or seconds even and this is
really the issue we know with artificial
intelligence and being able to automate
this that said this is the third wave
robbery in terms of the ransomware is a
intelligent cyber weapon it's not a dumb
brutal sort of brick through the window
economy and this is intelligent it picks
you out I you know where this make out
is a good debate it presents itself as
something like this this could be some
really smart kids making money off of
their hack it presents itself that way
it reads itself that way it pops up on
your screen and says your files are
encrypted in order to get those back
send money to so why would like just
this is you know to put a theory out
there why would a government use some
tactic like that in order to in or in
order to infiltrate computer systems and
essentially like looking at the
hospitals and looking at government and
possibly charitable organizations who
don't have never had the budget to
upgrade from Windows XP for example so
why would these be targets of this
widespread attack but it's always a
vulnerable they get attacked I think the
two points quickly all this is
unfortunate people with the least money
or cash constraints or you know
ironically the people who may be using
illegal versions of the software that
get caught out with this but actually in
terms of going back to the narrative
in the some of these things is about
creating obfuscate no creating a fog a
kind of noise of the market that might
be to do to undermine an election that
we might be to undermine certain
credibility's or in most cases with
trivial intent is to steal money or to
get intellectual property no not
pointing fingers towards the Asia for
example or equally it goes both ways to
be even-handed about this it is now
really we talk about the police talk
about that so if either this is the
fourth theater of war we talk about land
sea and air is the three they're
battlefields if you will of war it is
now the fourth area war raised now the
digital speech to world and I think we
have to realize this reality this they
think about Microsoft legal counsel
saying we needed additional Geneva
Convention because this thing is rapidly
getting out of scale you know I mean
yeah absolutely and it is it's a
changing world right now in that you
know we we are no longer dealing with
you know your antivirus because we've
gotten irises that might get into your
your boot sector like that's no longer
the big concern and I sell anti-virus
and I know you need the firewall you
absolutely need the firewall don't opt
out of that don't turn it off I was and
I was talking to another cyber security
expert friend there's a very very
technical experts in this area and he
says one of the critical things to have
the wake up with the wanna cry issue so
that was very interesting I put it on my
Huffington Post log and was this issue
around this type of cyber attack is very
sophisticated that you and I are not
technically able to actually fix it so
we just like locking the front door with
your antivirus as you say Robbie but
that's not sufficient these look at this
is a worm and then it was using
military-grade so the backdoor methods
in addition to that so like hang on a
minute you know you don't bring a knife
to a gunfight sort of the answer yeah
but it's not it may be laughing at it
but my toy lightsaber I didn't work see
it didn't work and but I think the issue
is that it's a multi-level response
that's negative point one and point two
is we now need government's not just
Microsoft where we need experts to deal
with this kind of threat British now so
gone to the third law which is a machine
learning it's artificially intelligent
and just the normal patches and fixes
isn't going to be enough going forward
and I think that's the big wake-up call
though you're scaring me reject here
buddy
look you know the evolution which I can
tell you better yeah yeah now are there
other folks in that you know we know
about Microsoft's proposals and what
what's going on there but what is that
what's in place right now to to protect
the world at large well the two things
probably one says the government's have
got their big agency so in the UK for
example the National Service Security
Agency which is specializing on
monitoring this list threaten it and
their jump to the GCHQ now the the
national surveillance agency in the UK
the similar operations are in the United
States of course and Canada and
elsewhere so we have at the government
level now taking far more serious
attention and investment in the area but
I think the gap that this missing at the
moment is really you know to put it
bluntly we get our pants we found our
pants or missiles basically between ads
are all set with Microsoft they they
they're not updating their software
probably and they put commercials around
it so Windows XP is now a old older
version so you don't support it but
that's not really acceptable as a
consumer I've lost my data I've been
attacked so I think we need to have
vendors particularly having more
accountability and responsibility both
sides of the pond in wherever they come
from is that when you're selling a
product this stuff you gotta look after
it and so that you're ready to do more
like where is hard and where does it end
for a software developer because you
look at a car and you buy a car and how
long is your warranty for that car like
at a certain point it becomes your
responsibility and when we add
cybersecurity researchers like yourself
have been saying to folks for years now
upgrade get off of Windows XP
do not continue running that system
you've got that computer that you barely
ever use that still has XP on it never
turn it on scrap it get rid of it it's
not I just not really fair to put it on
Microsoft I don't think as much as you
know we're Linux people here but it's
it's such a tough thing
hafiz I think bigger than that yeah I
think you hit the nail on that it's a
really good point you're making here
because I think the nature of what
you're describing with a car the analogy
of a car is it's a physical thing you
can touch it you can say oh I'm going to
put in a new engine I'm going to
basically scrap it yeah and it's
available we're ez8 software again
running forever
indefinitely at exactly and that's the
problem so I just read that apparently
yesterday then the dear old MPEG free
format is patently now you know thought
this out it's no longer supported but
that doesn't mean to say it's gone away
it's very still potentially because then
it's not analogous in this area but the
point I'm making into the digital world
exploits both modern systems as well as
old systems and I think again there
needs to be some accountability I've
been saying in the media last few days
that maybe we need a cybersecurity
police force bit like them you know the
first responders they do call you not
ghostbusters no Jack you need to
basically take this up with somebody and
I don't think there's a clear way
forward yet and I think this is a big
wake-up call for everybody
yeah and we'll see a lot of changes I
think over the course of the next little
while as well Marc we really appreciate
your time and and for sharing with us do
we have any any inkling as to what's
next with wanna cry have it kind of
papered off through the efforts of
security researchers and companies now I
wish I could tell you that says no this
is just accelerated obviously the
package for this particular attack but
this is going to be more than norm going
forward whether you have more insidious
and psychological attacks on our
identity liberty and rights and I think
really this is just a matter of
escalation
I think the concern particular is around
weapons of cyber weapons by governments
now need to be under much more secure
environments because if this stuff gets
out you know I can give you the quick
analogy with say in advanced biological
weapons just to pick a very serious
example you don't expect those with
category 4 or category vice laps to
basically be opened or Institute's and
so I think the problem with digital of
course is that they're much more
vulnerable so we need to be very careful
about this going forward
sure and I think it's quite possible
that you know companies and hospitals
and industries need to take this more
seriously to take protection more
seriously it's amazing how like DLP
solutions and endpoint firewalls that
that prevent data theft and things like
that they've existed for so many years
and they've evolved to the point where
they're very very good and yet so few
have them in place
yeah the VP's insist on follow
procedures point one I mean it's a
silver package you know how many times
you need to act and basically change
your behavior now this is a this is a
wake up call but I think what's more
concerning is if we're getting
military-grade military-grade substitute
your weapons out in the open market
rather than adult web this is not the
great developments and I think that is
going to be something that for the
authorities on both sides of the know
all over the place are going to be
exploiting so this is not going to be
the last story I suspect unfortunately
for sure for sure any I do believe that
this is that you know kind of the start
of change for a lot of a lot of the
industry because people let you say it's
a wake-up call people who realize they
don't hey well we've kept these machines
running and we've thought that it was
okay and we've ignored the mornings of
our IT people and you know now it's time
to really step things ansel will see the
evolution over the next in a while
absolutely if you've got connected cars
you know you've got banking and online
banking
you've got medical devices maybe even
wearables on your body and stuff knowing
your identity in your your very life
could depend on these systems working
properly in the in the new economy so
this is I think a level of security and
surveillance but also prevention I think
the prevention has been proven in this
cases it's not ready yet and the society
recycles they now got this morning first
warning that this is where ransomware
can go just as amazingly over a hundred
ten countries got attacked in this yeah
that's not just one or two I mean it's
like everybody going down on this one
and I think what I've said earlier was
we do need a much more investment in you
know in America or Japan or in modern
economies need to be sharing information
need to be responding as a almost like
the fourth emergency service across the
globe as well as within their own
countries because this is this is a
state of war not
exaggerating this to be alarmist the
years that we need to be treating this
incredibly seriously wait more than we
know the level that we're doing at the
moment we've got to be very sure and
strong in our response as we're sure as
hell the prim ones are going to be doing
the same yeah and it's a big wake-up
call for a lot of folks including myself
where you know it's it's kind of
becoming that way where okay we need to
be ready for what's to come and and
that's the fact
that's intentionally the fact of this
world that we're living in right now so
we've been speaking with mark skelton
mark thank you so much for your time
mark has a website if you want to check
him out and learn more about his
research check out his books as well
it's mark skelton com I've got that
linked below and mark thank you so much
for your time
thanks Rob Lee thank you very much
today's argument all the way best take
care and just another mention that we do
have Mark's books on our site if you go
to cap five dot TV slash mark this is
category five technology TV thanks for
joining us tonight as we dig into this
one decry wanna cry what I wanted to be
the romantic correct I want to say want
to cry well we're looking into the wanna
cry strat now we have a huge viewer like
a global viewership and I know that
North America wasn't strongly hit but
again our viewers are everywhere and I
mean many of our viewers quiet Linux
bias you use Linux but that doesn't mean
that you add that you can all of the
time which means that at work and and oh
yeah might be a fan yeah right so if you
or somebody you know or love has been
effective I want to cry we want to hear
your story so comment below because I
want to know I mean how far this is gone
I personally don't know anybody that has
been but I also live in North America
where the where was lightest not going
to it yeah yeah and I see it I think
over the next little while we're going
to see those infections kind of you'll
start to see them in the local news as
well right right that's the scary thing
we do have to take a really quick break
but when we come back we've got another
interview we're going to be speaking
with ESET senior researcher senior
security researcher pardon me he is
Stephen Cobb you've heard of him before
join us as he shares his views on
want to cry threat stick around Jeff
Weston Yellin
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website what are you no all right you're
terrible actor what this we're acting
comes into play oh I don't know we're
Arctic you're supposed to act okay fair
enough
building a really cool website are you
building a really cool website you need
hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
it's sure how much harddrive space do
you have how many email account how many
domains can point to it well we've got
an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are going to get
unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name the roof of your own calm
guys to put that amazing website that
you've been working on on there if you
run if you want to build a WordPress
site fine
sign up cap five dot TV slash green hose
still fulfill the papers on it just
don't do it but hey it's a great deal
folks best deal you're going to find
five dollars and change per month going
to cap five dot TV slash dream host
welcome back to this category five
technology TV and our website is
category five dot TV now we're talking
all about wanna cry this ransomware
attack that hit over the weekend and we
are joined tonight by Stephen Cobb he's
a senior security researcher at at ESET
Stephen it is great to have you here
thanks for joining us great to be here
now Stephen we've all heard of
ransomware we've heard of things like
you know it started with things like
cryptolocker and it's evolved since then
but we're really hearing about wanna cry
from all different news outlets all
around the world and you know the
question comes out you know is this all
hype what is different about want to cry
there have been ransomware attacks in
the past so what is you know your
perspective on what wanna cry is and why
it's so significantly different
all right so it wanna cry or which we
detected something we called it one
equipped er and different companies
called it slightly different names but
this thing which started ahead on Friday
really is a blend of a fairly standard
around somewhere that encrypts files and
asks for money paid in Bitcoin to
decrypt the files but with a spreading
technique which borrowed from an actual
NSA tool or exploit that is very very
effective so once this thing hits a
network it can spread very very quickly
within the network and so this is not
how a criminal would want to spread a
piece of ransomware because as you can
see from the news coverage actually last
four days I the person who released this
or persons who released this I instantly
jump to the top of the cyber most-wanted
list so and it's because of this
infectious capability which we would
refer to as a worm capability and it and
if you know if listeners our viewers are
in the space worm is something which
goes back to the very beginning of the
internet right where something called
the Morris Internet were improved kind
of accidentally but the worm code which
is self-replicating codes it spread
incredibly quickly can block the whole
internet it back then it did and and
have been outbreaks since that overtime
where somebody is released something on
to the internet which is used that
highly connected state of Internet
machine to spread very quickly and then
within companies which many which have
huge networks of connecting machines
very spread very very quickly within
those networks and and that led to this
rapid pace of distribution and we're
looking at you know we hear about
ransomware attacks where there are one
or two companies that are infected and
they lose their files they're encrypted
and we hear that in the news but this is
you know what is the difference in scale
here what are we
looking at so I haven't checked the
latest figures but it rapidly went to a
hundred thousand and two hundred
thousand system learning is this
company's individual arm well see I
guess tricky to to pass the statistics I
think we would say that two hundred
thousand systems let me get close to 300
thousand now and then we sort of
spreading country to country they and
obviously the first big reports were
those coming out of the National Health
Service in the UK where I think actually
call the other an abundance of caution a
lot of systems were shut down
proactively which was a smart thing to
do
um you know back in 2000 with me I love
you were broke out from the Philippines
it was the decision of a lot of
companies and frankly federal agencies
and government agencies just a plug on
the Internet sure yeah an example I was
speaking with with somebody who runs the
towers at all the airports in Canada and
they just literally ripped out the
Internet they they have no internet now
yeah I mean it it was infectious in a
way which really wasn't well controlled
sure and and so yo you this leave this
account of speculum I speculate about
who did this you know somebody you
realized what would happen Vicki you
just the use of ransomware by criminals
is endemic but it tends not to get
reported I mean we hear lots and lots of
cases of companies and individuals you
know getting their photographs encrypted
and turn money ask um you know this is
the whole area with internet where you
can learn about what bitcoin is to go
and pay you around somewhere right and
some of these ransomware programs have
their own customer service to help you
get Wow
oh yeah yeah I mean and I think about it
you know my wife showed me something
last night a Venn diagram of people
using unpatched systems and people who
know how to get Bitcoin but they really
don't overlap that much right I mean for
about a year now I've been asking
audiences when I speak
how many people know how to pay
something with Bitcoin right some very
few people do so so yeah a good a good
piece ever ends aware has instructions
on how to make the payment and they do
provide customer service and I did not
do that with one a crypto that it's
interface has a button that says how do
I buy Bitcoin or something like that
like it's not because you have to
explain it to people um and so you're
looking at very profitable a malware
scheme here but one way she would
conduct in a fairly orderly manner
typically um and and we've seen
ransomware sofa before wanna cry we
still kind of two levels one is the the
use of email to random people right to
infect them with infected email the
other is more targeted where we have
seen criminals go after an institution
they know has valuable file ok but the
kind of thing being a hospital sure and
then you can mark then you can make and
set us for 300 Bitcoin but for 300
dollars in Bitcoin but you can ask for a
lot more money and we've seen plenty of
cases of that against hospitals around
the United States and we were speaking
with with mark skelton a little bit
earlier and one of the points that was
made is that these are industries and
these are networks that perhaps don't
have the budget in order to upgrade and
that's the very reason that we have this
exploit in existence now I want to back
up just a little bit because here on the
show Steven we we do try to avoid
conspiracy theories when we can and we
we hear about the NSA exploit that is
involved in the capabilities of this
ransomware to spread can you can you
back that up for us with just a little
bit of you know what this is not a
ransomware that was created by the NSA
this is no this is something that is
exploiting a factor in Windows that was
created by the NSA is that a correct way
to look at it yes so in its role as a
spy agency and a protector of America
trusts are the NSA like agencies in
other countries like GCHQ in the UK I
you know explores malicious code
capabilities or they probably wouldn't
even call it malicious code but
penetration code or or network
monitoring code and they found a hole in
part of Windows called SMB and they
develop a facially just strict file
sharing yeah and and they they find a
way to exploit that and they wrote the
code for it and then we're actually two
parts of the code
um the part that gets a starring role in
this is called eternal bull you know one
of those computer generated code names
they use at the NSA yeah so the NSA has
been has been creating these codes which
this code which exploits are unpublished
vulnerabilities shall we call them or
sometimes they called zero-day exploits
they've been doing this for some time
they have a collection of this stuff and
it was compromised so a group called
shadow brokers has been making this
secret NSA code available and so the
code that is eternal blue that which is
the bit which is leveraged by one a cry
yeah you know there I mean you can
literally go to to get her the download
okay so they have the code that the NSA
developed is that yes okay yeah so so so
you've got the NSA developing secret
code that exploits unknown goal on
publicly unknown vulnerability that are
unpatched in commercial product it keeps
those secret to use for his own purpose
but somebody stole or leaked and so
those have been been published on this
group the shadow brokers they wanted
money for it they didn't get money for
it so they published some of this code
okay people then figured out how to you
know put that into practice in the real
world and in fact we we saw this last
month already um being you know being
used in various ways out on the Internet
and in fact we were we were protecting
and the ESET products against this
vulnerability before one after I came on
the scene as we goods in fact hey like
you you've known about this and you've
protected against it before it happened
so you know it's it's Windows XP that
can't be updated its hacked versions of
Windows 10 that that can't be updated
that still have this exploit in
existence yes so so one of the things
that happens with an outbreak of code
like this is that you you kind of find
out the weak points in the global
infrastructure right so as you as you
correctly say XP which actually is
supported by Microsoft so to be clear
Windows found out about this problem
there's vulnerability enlarge and party
and they actually passed it for XP oh
and some other unsupported systems if
people were paying for support so say
you're a large manufacturing facility
and you've got a lot of robots that run
Windows XP right you may pay for
Microsoft support Microsoft will support
you but what the world discovered on
Friday is is a large number of people
using bootleg XP bootleg Windows seven
run bootleg Windows 10 and particularly
in developing countries you know where
they either can't afford to get a
licensed version or something or they
can't afford the support or that you
know they need something which runs on
cheap hardware so a lot of systems out
there were not matched and and those
were susceptible to this problem can I
ask like when you look at a heat map of
the attack Russia is is read with this
attack is it because of like is it an
attack on Russia or is it just that they
are using a lot of view on humans he
really get into a lot of trouble during
to many conclusions right he right from
neo it's deceiving about that heat map
because it really looks like that's the
case but is it just a library well in
the window you don't know why those
systems are in play right so you say oh
look somebody targeted
because it's all impact or you might say
no nobody in Russia had patched any you
know there's like you don't know which
of those at it um we had our own heat
map which was which was fairly useless
because it was showing how many of our
customers were infected and very very
few worried about it right yeah so it
and it depends you know there are
there's a lot going on in something like
that reporting and I just like it you
know the question who created this it is
very difficult to determine without a
lot of information right and typically
more than you can see in the code and do
you suspect that this is a very
successful hacker that is doing this to
make a lot of money or do we suspect
that this is potentially cyber warfare
that is trying to create a smokescreen
for something else as we were speaking
about earlier in the show and what's the
suspicion in on that front so I think at
this point it is very difficult to
distinguish even probabilistically
between multiple different scenario one
scenario is that somebody who didn't
understand the implications of what they
were doing thought this would be a cool
thing to do to add a worm capability to
a piece of ransomware push it out there
um you know and they'd make money
quicker than anybody else home that
hasn't worked by the way because there
are other ransomware programs that it
made a lot more money than this one um
another scenario is you kind of hinted
might be a havoc factor you know let's
let's kind of wreak havoc here sure
because if you knew what the implication
of the code was you would know this
thing would spread very very quickly
right or you know another another
scenario would be that somebody wanted
to point out how insecure our
Internet infrastructure is around the
world and there's a precedent for that
you know the very first macro virus that
spread widely was a proof of concept and
so why the motives of virus writings and
people who release malicious code are
very difficult to ascertain until you
get to speak to them in person
we're speaking with Stephen Cobb he's a
senior security researcher with ESET
questions in the chat room at this point
in the interview yes we do we have a few
wonderful questions here I actually have
two right now that have been really
going around firstly we just want to
have confirmation of how exactly this
stuff spreads right so like is it
through emails is it through downloads
things like that and the second part of
that question are other systems also in
danger like Mac on other systems such as
Linux things like that older versions
maybe but what about the new stuff so
that a lot of people are asking those
questions as well so to take the the
second part of that first this
particular cry this particular thing
which we dug one a krypter and and broke
out it on Friday is a Windows threat all
right so it's written to exploit Windows
um technically though um it would be a
mistake to say you couldn't have a
outbreak on other operating systems um
and and we certainly have seen
ransomware for all of the different
opera for the next Mac Mac operating
system Android iOS people are trying to
exploit those vulnerabilities and
weaknesses in those systems in order to
extract ransom even if it's as simple as
locking up your phone until you pay to
unlock it in terms of exactly how this
one's spread I think my my understanding
at this point and we're still doing
analysis on this is that it was probably
seeded through email attachments and
that's the classic where you know there
is a an attachment to email which is
very intriguing you
tempted to click on it that brings down
the the malware of the first part of
malware onto your system and then it the
malware calls back to the clan and
control center of the c2 and get
instructions and then in this case see
if it can spread to other computers
connected to your computer and so that
is where a lot of the speed and impact
of the spread came from and and in fact
that was also the way that was
implemented with and ended up being the
weakness and this particular version of
the code because on that c2 connection
were is open to interference and that's
what happened when you know somebody
gentleman from the UK that registered
the domain that was being used for the
command and control center and that
essentially sinkhole or Kooks Inc hold
the thing and triggered a kill switch
within the code and that those things
the the kill switch and the c2 or
standard parts of many different kinds
of malware uh but it was generally
considered to be a mistake that you
could actually just trigger a kill
switch through the through registering
that domain so again that you know these
are things we take as condoms let's do
yeah who was behind it it was somebody
certainly can be made a mistake Wow
right now is Stephen what can users do
to protect themselves like individually
and also as businesses yes sir
so I think I think the one rumor that
you know if you had to boil it down to
would be patch right it would be make
sure you are installing your operating
system patches I mean a lot of systems
now Windows 10 it's doing what amazing
patching for a lot of people um and so
you want to make sure if you can as a
individual user as a company can you if
you can if it's feasible to automatic
patching I do not delay if Microsoft
comes out with or Apple comes out with a
critical update or an updated says fixes
security vulnerabilities you want
Installer right thumb on the other hand
you have to you have to note that it's
not as easy as it sounds but this is
this is something which is being asked I
think in some of the news reports if you
install a big patch on your two hundred
unit network you have 200-seat Network
and that crashes without word right
typically what happens in a company
situation is that the IT department
received the patches test them to make
sure they don't break anything that
you're using and then rolls them out and
so that can delay things um there are
some systems which it's in d-double 202
update and an example would be embedded
operating system where the operating
system is part of a set of code and this
happens in medical equipment that's been
certified at a certain set of
configuration so it's not necessarily
possible to just immediately update that
and so on the corollary to that is you
should be reusing so the second thing
after part is security software you know
that there's good security software out
there that was already looking for the
exploit that was included in one
occurring and a good security suite will
protect against something like this
particularly if you've got piled up
dating enabled so you know for in our
product but other products as well you
have a cloud connection to your security
software so that as soon as a new thing
is detective that is pushed out to all
of the systems and so we had several
levels of protection kicking in and our
product over time some well before water
crept came out then on the day that it
came out and continued updated because
guess why other people have thought hey
I might tried it and so we're seeing the
same exploit now being incorporated in
different
with malware Bitcoin mining malware is
one example where divided the other bad
guys trying it on your machine I'll use
your machine to mine Bitcoin a cab ought
net to mine Bitcoin I got you yeah
that's crazy so ESET has been protecting
its users already from before this
infection came so are there specific
products for business or home users that
are going to do a particularly good job
of protecting against these kinds of
cyberattacks because we think about
antivirus for example this is not right
this isn't going to classify itself as
the traditional virus that's coming also
so you know that's an interesting an
interesting point because traditionally
our main products are security software
has been an antivirus product sure and
you know when virus is me viruses come
and go but with a lot of other kinds of
malicious code so we call it
anti-malware and what you know it's hard
to make people say anti-malware they
still call it anti bar yeah yeah and
then we started out anything like
network protection within the product
and anti-phishing within product and
malicious web site blocking within the
product and yet we're still kind of
talked about as a you know an anti-virus
kept but it's a good end point security
product is what you're looking for and
you know we have a range of endpoint
security products for every platform and
and for the business and for the
consumer and that's what you want and
these days endpoint security product is
going to do those things yes it's going
to know if a new virus or one comes out
and block back it's also going to be
checking things at the network level
like we do and it's going to be looking
at how the user is using the machine so
that if they're in email and they click
on an attachment which is going to a you
know an infectious website that get
blocked cartoons on now what is next for
wanna cry are we are we going to start
seeing this taper off with all the
attention that has been getting from
cyber security professionals or is this
something that's going to continue to
evolve
and turn into something that's fine I
don't know I don't wanna take this
lightly but if I had to guess I would
say that sometime on Friday it's going
to wake up again because d'arnot these
things need to hit up right just ruins
your weekend
you calm down with a big me ride botnet
attack on the DNS services it happened
on a Friday um there's actually some
logic to that if you're going to launch
a piece of malware I shouldn't even say
this but you know the bad guys already
know it Friday not a bad time you know
people are leaving early for the weekend
from a criminal perspective it makes
sense to attack on Friday yeah please
don't fight I honestly don't know what's
going to happen next you know it depends
which of these scenarios um wanna cry
conforms to yeah who is doing it and
what's their what's the point is there
is there any clue like is the thing
calling home at all or so you know
there's North Korea has been floated
because of similarities of you know big
chunks of code okay in wanna cry which
which are also in code related to the
Lazarus group which is associated with
North Korea okay and but but that's not
conclusive at all we don't know we just
don't know well I would say this that
Mike myself and my colleagues at ESET
are very conservative
around attribution because it it's at in
the nature of code that it can be
exactly replicate yep and it's just it's
just like an mp3 recording you can even
just clone if you add in tonight right I
mean you can match things together and
so what we if we see a similarity our
first suspicion is a red flag right oh
okay red flag false flag
oh oh you mean for the Raven already in
flat there yeah not that not all false
like the red flag sorry of all you mean
in your definitions when you see that
and
yes sir also we haven't really had
actually seen code which were where
somebody's trying to make it look
Russian oh okay right so it's it's a
it's a known thing in malware right is
to throw artifact in there to throw
people off if they're trying to find out
who wrote it
gotcha okay well Stephen I appreciate
your time very very much I mean we're
going to see this thing evolve I think
over the next little while hopefully it
does not hit Young Friday but keep up
the great work there at ESET and and you
know with all the protection that you're
providing the proactive nature of the
you set products make sure you check
them out see SATCOM Stephen Cobb joined
us tonight and thank you very much for
your time sir thank you great to be here
have yourself a great night you do all
right this is category five technology
TV and we've got to head over to the
newsroom so Sasha Durr made us what do
you have for us today here are the
stories were covering this week in the
category 5 TV newsroom Netflix is
messing around with pricing in Australia
we're on the cusp of what could be a
world-changing evolution in battery
technology thanks to an Israeli startup
mp3 is dead sort of let the VR headset
legal wars begin a company that won 500
million dollars from oculus is now going
after Samsung's gear VR and the water
cry ransomware is taking online threats
to a whole new level these stories are
coming right up don't go anywhere
now here's another great way you can
support the shows you love for the
category-five TV network by shopping at
gearbest that's right Jeff cat 5 TV
slash gearbest
it's an online store for the geek streak
in you or loved ones
of course I mean especially your loved
ones right because cat5 DV /
gearbest quite frankly has all of the
greatest tech gifts that you could ever
hope for at rock-bottom prices to their
cellphones you betcha
cap five TV slash gear best has a wide
assortment of unlocked Android cell
phones and tablets global compute
consumer electronics those like a great
gift absolutely from hi-tech watches to
action cameras headphones even virtual
reality headsets cat5 dot TV / gearbest
have you covered they literally have it
all Jeff literally and really it's like
a superstore right from the comfort of
your own chair at your computer through
the interweb yeah I there's no way they
have it all it's true it's just a bunch
of random electronic except me what
about clothes yep both men and women
fashionable apparel at rock-bottom
SuperDuper prices kinda like this well
look at this coat what do you think it's
a slimming mock leather jacket I love it
it's available for less than $30 plus
free shipping a camp five dot TV /
gearbest yeah alright you kinda got me
there Wow any other questions for me
gentlemen now that the winter is past
flying season do they have any good
deals and say couples oh my goodness
well check this out dude
they have everything check out over 500
various drones and not only that they're
available markdown 5o 32 up to 63
percent off the regular price love
what's website again while you're going
to find gearbest on our partners pages
for any of your favorite category 5 TV
shows like new every day
category 5 technology TV the pixel
shadow but of course if you want to shop
absolutely right now and you want to go
straight to the site all you have to do
is visit cat live dot TV slash gearbest
so that's easy tech 5 dot TV slash your
best that's right
happy shopping I'm Sasha drew made us
and here are the top stories for the
week of May 17th 2017 would you pay more
to get your necklace fixed how about on
weekends when the urge to binge strikes
harder a price hike could well be in the
works with the streaming giant quietly
testing out changes to the cost of plans
in australia netflix has tested up in
australian prices by as much as three
dollars australian over the weekends
increasing its basic plan from 899 to
$9.99 a month its standard plan from
eleven ninety nine to thirteen ninety
nine and its premium plan from $14.99 to
seventeen ninety-nine a month netflix
confirmed that it had tested price
changes but was quick to emphasize that
it had not made any announcement to
change prices either locally or globally
regardless australians could be up for a
Netflix price increase within a matter
of weeks in addition the federal
government is set to extend Australia's
10 percent goods and services tax to
intangible supplies such as digital
content games and software which would
also impact the cost of using online
streaming companies such as Netflix
quickly I just want to say never have I
ever had a company test a price change
and then be like oh wait no nevermind we
will not increase the price I feel like
it doesn't really go that way it doesn't
like it's a few try this tax we're going
to try it give it a try see whether or
not Rio doesn't last so long for the
last days okay forever it never know
what happens if your hydro bill goes up
well really like it's just it's
something I wrote a taken for granted
because like remember one that flex came
out and it's just like the solid nine
99 or whatever and now they've added the
current like now you have the normal 999
but 999 and you can install it on all of
your friends computers yeah that's what
we do like for our family but now
there's like the two-tier system in
Canada anyways how it's like the premium
like $14 which is what I like I have the
best Netflix and I love the best I love
Netflix like I love it so much it's
ridiculous how much I love Netflix so
guess what Netflix I'll probably pay
more I don't want to I'll be sad about
it but you got me cuz you give me good
shows it's good content yeah and they
have never originals is the problem of
this you get hooked on downloads
originals and then you can't even be
like I'll just cancel and go back to
cable or I'll just use you know a Roku
or something that you can't do that well
because Netflix alright but you can't
judge
enough about me it sounds like science
fiction but smartphones with batteries
that fully charge in just five minutes
could be available to consumers next
year the technology was first shown off
in 2015 when Israeli startup store dot
demonstrated its flash battery at the
CES tech show in Las Vegas chief
executive door and miser dwarf recently
said it is now expected to enter
production in early 2018 mr. Mizer Dorf
said that he could not reveal which
manufacturers were signed up to use the
technology in 2015 he had said his
firm's battery contain materials that
allowed for non-traditional reactions
and the unusually fast transfer of ions
from an anode to a cathode the
electrical process that charges a
battery the design involves
nanomaterials which feature extremely
small structures and unnamed organic
compounds the company also unveiled an
electric car battery that charges in
five minutes at a tech show in Berlin
this week the firm said the battery
provides 300 miles of range way to go
all right
mp3 the format that revolutionized the
way we consume music since the 90s has
been officially retired in a manner of
speaking the government
and research institution that created
the mp3 format the Fraunhofer Institute
for integrated circuits announced that
it had terminated licensing for certain
mp3 related patents in other words they
didn't want to keep up keep it on life
support because there are better ways to
store music here in 2017 in its place
the director of the Fraunhofer Institute
said that the advanced audio coding or
what we know is the AAC format has
become the de facto standard for music
download and videos on mobile phones
it's simply more efficient and has
greater functionality as streaming TV
and radio broadcasting use the format to
deliver higher quality audio at lower
bit rates than mp3 so sorry to see you
go mp3 James company ZeniMax which
successfully sued Facebook owned oculus
for 500 million dollars earlier this
year has filed a new lawsuit over
Samsung's gear VR headset the suit
alleges that Samsung knowingly profited
from oculus technology that was first
developed at venom acts then
misappropriated by oculus executive John
Carmack Carmack whose company id
Software was acquired by ZeniMax in 2009
was one of the driving forces behind the
gear VR while the headset was released
by Samsung it's described as powered by
oculus with heavy software optimizations
developed by Carmack but the lawsuit
alleges that Carmack owed much of his
success at oculus to software he
developed as part of a team at ZeniMax
among other things the tech the Texas
Court filing claims that Carmack
secretly brought oculus and former
ZeniMax employee Matt Cimber into id
Software's office offices to develop an
attack plan for mobile VR which oculus
would later take to Samsung the Samsung
gear VR was was also built on some of
the same code as the oculus rift which
was the subject of Vettii Maxis earlier
lawsuit the new lawsuit officially
accuses Samsung of copyright
infringement using ZeniMax VR code
in the gear vr as well as trade secret
misappropriation unfair competition and
unjust enrichment xeni Max's case could
be bolstered by the previous judgment
against oculus since the gear vr is
unambiguous unambiguously based on
oculus software Oh dangerous all right
to say 2017 is a dangerous year to be
online is an understatement
with reports of 200,000 computers
infected in 150 countries this past
weekend mankind's newest cyber enemy
want to cry takes online threats to a
new level want to cry not only encrypts
the computers files and makes them
impossible to read an unprotected PC
with wanna cry also encrypts files on
protected computers if those files are
configured as a shared drive on the
infected machine we've seen this in
earlier forms of ransomware the malware
also searches for other computers to
infect over home and business networks
there by propagating itself across the
internet with devastating effect in the
past health facilities police and
government offices have had to pay
hackers to get their files back with
water cry propagation doesn't depend on
you opening a malware a laced attachment
in your email although that helps and
it's easy for hackers to come back for
seconds
hackers can easily alter detected
malware to make it hard to identify
again and send it out afresh they can
also try to infiltrate backdoors into
computers they infected the first time
Microsoft is under no obligation to
continually update operating systems it
retired along long ago namely the big
issue here comes from Windows XP the
public had been warmed warned that
support for - for security updates would
end but continued to use old Windows XP
systems despite warnings not only from
Microsoft but security professionals and
shows like ours
keep in mind - that Microsoft makes
millions of dollars by charging agencies
such as the federal government to
implement security updates for its old
Windows XP systems to make those
expensive updates more widely available
to the public and enterprise free of
charge would undermine that cash cash
flow
for an in-depth discussion of the wanna
cry threat join security researcher mark
skelton along with ESET senior senior
security researcher Stephen Cobb on
episode 504 of category 5 technology TV
thanks for watching the category 5 TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category-five TV newsroom i'm
sasha dramatis Thank You Sasha this is
category 5 technology TV and our website
is category 5 dot TV see how I faked her
out there yes like oh no play was to
continue what's happening what's
happening why is he hovering over a
button it doesn't take much to yeah you
like a little movie hand girl stuff
little squirrel yeah that's all the time
that we have tonight it's been so much
fun having you here and we learned a lot
about this one a cry threat tonight so
make sure you join us again next week I
look forward to seeing you
same time same place here a category-5
dot TV take care
Oh
[Music]
