I'm so interested in robots and how
they're being used in things like like
medical and education and all of the
neat things that robots can be used for
these days robot a robot lab is a leader
in inspiring the imagination of kids of
all ages they're building 21st century
skills like programming computational
thinking and they use robots to do it
please help me welcome a lad in bar he's
the CEO of robot lab hey lad nice to see
ya hey thanks for having me and I see
you've brought some friends I see now
yeah
well it's so great to have you on the
show and we're looking forward to
learning all about what you're doing
with robots in the education sector
first of all you know robots have come a
long way in the nine years that you've
been working with robot lab can you tell
us a little bit about the progression
right off the bat you know what have you
seen that is the biggest kind of change
as far as driving the robot industry I
think the main trend that we are seeing
is that robots are becoming less geeky
you know if you're looking like 10 or 20
years back robots were basically kids
that you need to solder and work on
electronics and you know why are things
and connect it and build your own thing
right and in the recent years we are
seeing you know they move towards what
we call today smart
toys which are you know preassembled
products that are capable of doing many
many things by themselves like the non
robot that we have over here and they
can be extended that can be programmed
to do many other things so I think this
is the main shift that we see and on top
of course you know the direct with our
staff like you know better CPU more ya
know memory and so on but the fact that
you know you don't need to solder them
you don't need to build them yourself
open the robotics were to you know way
more people way more industry than what
it was just a few years ago and now your
focus at robot lab is primarily on the
education sector
in that and like how how do you bring
robots into classrooms and what is the
incentive to really to do that like why
like why bots yeah so with the cool it's
funny because the big why here is
actually coming from the students
imagine you know where you know typical
teenager right sitting in a math
classroom yeah the teacher is talking
about quadratic equations
what does he have above his head why why
do I need to learn them it's not
interesting I'll never use it in my life
right this is you know the main things
that happen here
they just keep asking yourself why why
why why do I need to do all of this
especially today that you know they have
access to data on their smartphone they
can you know ask Google whatever they
want and we'll get an answer why do I
need to learn that
why don't we develop equations and all
of that so what we are showing them is
we're helping them understand why they
need to learn that and we do that with
robots now robots I mean as you can see
here they are very alive they are very
visual and they can help the students
understand these kind of subjects so in
one of our programs for example the
their students make the robot dance now
making a robot dance it's something you
know noble of fun for itself but if you
really want to make the robot move let's
say there is a very popular dance in
schools now raise the roof right so it
won't you know to make the robot raise
the roof you don't have to be able to
control each one of the joints and set
the angle okay control you know the
motion of the robot and what we do is we
show the students that you actually do
that using math okay so you program that
using math to actually create the
equations that make you know mirror the
motion perfectly smooth so they applied
the math into something that they care
about that they really you know want to
make you know move and interacting and
dance that's that's the you know the
biggest incentive here right so I'll add
when you talk about mathematics for
example like how does how does a student
learn to program one of these robots is
it its own language or talking just
learning Pro
ramming in general so we have to you
know two ways or two areas that we you
know apply this robot that the first one
is using obviously computer science so
we want the students to be able to
program to study programming and they do
that by working on these robots either
from a drag-and-drop interface very easy
you know beginners can like in no time
can just like you know drive pretty fine
if it is right okay does connect them
together and boom the robot just that
can stand up and talk and interact with
you but the robot also supports Python
and Java and C++ so you can take it you
know further along and you can create
you know whatever you want
we have students created you know
Twitter accounts for for these robots
and the robot actually tweeting and
sending pictures and messages and
everything so I take it then just you
know these are not powered by Microsoft
no because we've had bad experiences
there yes version of Debian that runs on
that oh yeah so we are safe here I mean
very cool
so I mean truly the teachers are
teaching like I'm like multi-layered
lessons if they're teaching sort of
computer programming and then also
mathematics or physics exactly this is
actually the second type of you know use
case which is we don't want you know the
teachers to you know teach programming
in every class when they're teaching
math it should be math right I mean
that's a main focus of the lesson
sure so what we are doing we are
allowing the students to control these
robots directly from a web browser so
they don't need any coding or
programming or anything like that they
just make the robot you know you know
execute the equations or run you know
what we want them to do study at that
lesson so hasn't it has now been
basically you know just to understand
the inner workings has it been built as
an educational tool so that it's easier
for teachers to use to teach these
lessons whether they be mathematics or
science or programming I know the now
was created as a novelty robot that
do many things it's a platform and there
are many uses for that I mean we've seen
people using it you know all the way
from you know retail environments really
to helping patients you know after after
surgeries and so on recovering you know
faster and so on so it's a platform that
can do many many things it's totally
open it's not limited to anything we
found the niche in education because a
few things first of all they're cute
darn adorable except you give me the
evil eye right now so they are here then
and you know this cuteness factor you
know removes a lot of barriers so it's
not like an industrial robotic arm that
can leave the I don't know the three
thousand pound car you just like and you
know when you kill you it's something
that you know won't harm you and because
of that and because of the you know form
factor it's actually the I mean kids are
really you know want to work with that
the second thing is that robots are not
judgmental and this is a very powerful
you know thing in education sure a lot
of times when you know think about
students again when they make a mistake
you know feature the parents who ever
just like them you can do better right I
mean it's just like driving we are like
very judgmental and you know many times
kids just like you know the cringe ins
and I don't want even to try again
because I'll fail right and I don't want
the same negative experience but if the
robot made a mistake let's say I wanted
the robot to raise the roof that's what
we said then we didn't get to raise the
roof we got like crazy dance sure yeah
yeah that's really heat so you know I
blame the wrong but the robot won't be
angry at me I'll try harder because I
wanted the little guy to do you know
what I want so cool because for
non-judgemental they are you know a
great tool that empower the learning
students it's it's really neat to me
that you've learned that about the
robots because like it takes having that
experience and realizing that hey
they're not gonna write be hard on the
kid exactly regardless of what I do it's
cool yeah it's like the endless patience
that they have they lost as long as
their battery right or that
yeah yeah they can be plugged in a
laptop with motors and sense yeah now
that's perfect no I mean as far as in
the classroom are they pretty like
hearty because kids are kind of crazy
sometimes kids are kids and you know
with that I mean one of the important
things that we offer to schools is a
worry-free warranty so no matter what
happens you know we'll take care of you
and you know there won't be like crazy
expenses to fix them great I mean we had
kids that making the robot accidentally
walking off the edge of the table and
you know we got broken robots and in a
very bad shape but that's okay I mean
kids are kids
and I this is part of the learning and
we want them to be able to experience
and to experiment with with things and
figure out you know what went wrong and
you know how would I make it better next
thing that's how we learn mm-hmm now how
easy is it to implant like the actual
education for the teachers because
you'll have to teach the teachers how to
teach the kids right or do they do they
need some sort of special training as
far as bringing a robot that's a great
question I mean we don't expect you know
math teachers or literacy teachers you
have to become PhD in robotics just in
order to work with these kind of tools
so what we are doing is we are making
the the you know control and the
accessibility but the access you know to
the to the robot very very simple so as
I mentioned earlier you can either
control the robots from a web browser so
for example you know let's take another
math example if you wanted a robot to
walk on a grid and wonder what you walk
to let's say on the great - like a
two-by-two or whatever it is they need
to figure out what's the angle that or
what need to turn it and how farther or
it needs to to walk so they can just set
these two parameters on the on the web
browser heat go and the robot can go so
the teachers don't need to understand
anything about robot Peter science and
programming and everything right each
math so this is one way
the other way is using the very easy
drag-and-drop interface basically you
know I want the robot to stand up I'll
drag a box which is stand up box and you
know hit play and they're all it will
stand up I don't need to program all of
that to consider you know the motion and
the center of mass center of gravity
where it is and these kind of things
that are all hidden from the teacher
yeah it sounds very it sounds very
multi-layered as far as the level of the
education that's required in order to
achieve what you're looking to do so
what would kind of the age span be of
like we're really focusing on on now the
robot that we see on the screen today
what would be the age I mean it must be
as I get better at it so we have the
programs we develop programs from
kindergarten all the way to college
level again it's not really you know age
restricted or something like that what's
you know has to be age appropriate is
the content and what we are teaching
them so for example in the elementary
school we are teaching them a
storytelling which is one of the skills
that students are using today with you
know very short tweets or snapchats at
that you know no one cares anymore about
like spelling correctly right because
great become gr and the number-8 right
and these kind of things so you know we
teach them you know how to create a
story and how to write a story and how
to make this robot stand up and tell the
stor reel sound effects and with motion
and all of that and this is a way more
engaging you know a way to teach this
kind of subjects to students and it's
much more rewarding than you know
writing a 500 word essay you know Sen
submitted by Friday or else oh this is
lovely a huge big thank you this means
that you'll be teaching generations like
to use proper punctuation and it's a
good start right so then the question
comes up I mean Jeff Weston isn't here
with us tonight but I know that if he
was he'd be on the edge of a seat going
but but but are they going to take over
no jobs no there
hands are robots eventually going you
know is the goal to to replace teachers
here or what what's happening so the
goal is not to replace teachers and you
know these are not going to take any
jobs if I told the goal is to augment
the teacher and you provide more tools
to engage 21st century learners right I
mean well I think I feel like there is
sometimes but in my life when I was
learning I would need extra time with a
task to actually grasp it but mostly
math tasks but that a teacher just
didn't have the time to give me so then
this could be you sort of in a special
education or enhanced education
situation as well where I mean that
robot could be dedicated to that kid
in a time when the teacher needed to
focus on the rest of the classroom as a
whole right yeah definitely we have that
as part of our program it's basically
for oh you can call it remedial you know
intervention so if someone needs an
extra you know attention they can
actually get it with the robot so here
is the activity makes the robot do X it
doesn't really matter what and by
working on that the students get firstly
hands-on experience writing second they
get the chance to learn at their own
pace with the tools that they care about
it because equations on the board don't
work they never work today in their
hands you know it will never work
mm-hmm yeah way way to keep their
attention with something that's modern
and edgy and fun and cool be a fun
detention tool like you are not allowed
to leave the classroom until you teach
the robot how to properly say this
sentence so how say in the statuses
spell it correctly because if you want
spell it correctly
the robot can pronounce it correctly
right trouble okay okay yeah no that
makes sense that makes total sense hey
we're talking with a lad in bar and he
is the CEO at robot lab you can find
them at robot lab dot-com find out all
about what they're doing in the
if you have questions join us in the
live chat room category five on freenode
or if you're watching this after the
fact of course you can comment below and
we'll extend those questions as well can
you make them say something anything
even just introduce themselves I heard a
voice earlier when he was saying his IP
address right unfortunately say oh okay
so I couldn't connect them right now for
a chat but yes they can definitely say
they can definitely talk they can
definitely interact okay and now my next
questions that then is could it happen
in any language are they easy to program
say as a French learning tool in an
English classroom so they support 27
languages there is actually a cappella
if you're familiar with this voice
engine embedded in the operating system
so the robot can both speak and
understand 27 languages so that's
definitely possible again we're looking
they're looking at now a lot but can you
tell us a little bit about the
specifications of the robot that we see
here I mean it looks like they're
attentive they're looking around is that
just head movement or they actually
taken pictures what's going on here so
what's going on here is this we have
four microphones around the head so the
robot is trying to localize the source
of sound as I'm talking so if for
example you know there is some echo in
this room so it's a little bit confusing
for him but it's basically trying to you
know close on the only coordinates of
the speaker and give this a human you
know natural feel that I'm looking at
you when I'm talking to you right we
don't want robots that are like yes what
do you want right yeah yeah
looking at ceiling so we have four
microphones around the head we have two
cameras this is the top camera over here
picture it over there is basically
looking forward and the bottom one looks
down towards the legs so we can detect
obstacles and you know places where the
robot shouldn't go we have inside
and we have a full computer Intel Atom
1.6 gigahertz a gigabyte of RAM I mean
you know computer for you know for
anything that we want we have a network
port on the back just like on the matrix
man yeah I mean here we go so that's why
he's motionless in his spine yeah i
suspended the motion because I don't
want him to like you know right right
but they are fully wireless as well you
know Wi-Fi is no way to go with this
kind of robots the eyes are actually
infrared sensors so they orbit cannot
turn on and off like TVs air
conditioners or DVDs or has a remote
control we have a sonic sensor gyro
accelerometer and decked and sensors of
the robot can sense when when we touch
it so it's pretty pretty advanced Robert
we have 25 motors around the body and
are they full they're fully articulating
I presume they they can move around and
and interact with their environment
autonomous Lee autonomously yeah if you
load the program on the robot you can
just you know cause your computer let it
run the program runs on the computer
which is with motors and sensors right
that's great I feel like the children
like I two nephews that have autism
I feel like robots like this would be
great to teach some social skills even
as far as eye contact and I mean if
these if these robots are looking at me
when I'm talking but if I'm not looking
at you when I'm talking like if I'm not
looking at the robot when I'm talking
maybe it doesn't get what I'm saying
right like in my in the program and
there's no are there's no intimidation
factor they're speaking to one of these
so you're teaching effective
communication yeah and you actually test
a very important point here there is a
program for you know to help
autism treatment if quality treatment
the first one the autism spectrum is
very well yeah but especially in the
emotions and in the detection detection
of like human interaction throats are
awesome and the reason is this is out of
a research from Notre Dame University
the reason is that the autistic kids are
very intimidated but by all the
different you know levels of
communication that we have as human
beings we have different tone of voice
we have you know bad emotion we use a
lot of nonverbal communication which is
like you know a sensory overload for
them it's in yeah they just prefer to
shut down because it's too much for them
with robots it's very precise I mean the
motion will be exactly the same motion
it would be hundred times in the
thousands bar right the tone of voice
will be exactly the same tone of voice
and it gives the kids the confidence in
what's going to happen so they are
opening to listen to actually be able to
digest the information that being passed
to them and by working with this kind of
you know robots and this kind of program
we've seen amazing amazing changes in
kids and parents lives there are kids
that started to communicate after
working on these robots I mean some
experts wouldn't even talk to them and
after you know sometimes working with
that they can actually communicate a
connection to talk which is awesome
and I would imagine just the
programmability and being able to do
more than just play with it and actually
learn you know I think about learning
how it works and programming it and and
in telling it hey do this and having it
do that yeah would just be incredibly
exciting yeah we have a professor at
Northridge California State University
in North Northridge that actually made
the robot as a training tool for you
know basically teachers for forty
stickies so the robot is is the sticky
so you throwing a tantrum you know the
teacher needs to you know relax the
robot so this is the
Wow seen seem late you know the kid is
an example right so that's a completely
opposite end of the education factor of
the robot it's so cool yeah yeah is a
tool and there's a platform it can do so
many things it I always say we are
limited by our imagination I'm excited
to be around in this time of life like
robots are coming to us in you know all
these exciting new ways and this is my
favorite so far I'll tell you I'm going
I'm going together
hey hey lad what is you know what do you
see as being kind of the next step in
robotics in education when it comes to
what you're doing with robot lab what's
what's coming up so we're not using only
humanoid robots we're using many other
different products from quad copters to
Rovers to I'm sure you're familiar with
the bb-8 the fewer one so we're using
different yes I robots and I would say
the the next wave will be more like
specialized you know tools now well
these these are great and there are
suits sincerely and seriously great
tools
yeah they you know might be overkill for
some tasks for some you know something
that we want to to teach our kids so
there will be different robots that will
be able to do different things probably
better than what human and robot can do
I mean like as mean we can run up to a
certain speed for money if we need to go
faster we'll take a car we won't you
know improve our running capabilities
200 miles per hour right right so these
kind of things we just keep seeing over
and over again
and this robot can't fly and if you want
to take aerial photos and want to teach
you know kids about you know areas and
range and so on
it's much easier today to the quadcopter
so you know this is how we are working
in in our company we're trying to find
the best fit you know the best product -
the best sub - the subject that we want
to teach and how do you see you know
what's the difference in the kind of
quad copters that robot lab is working
with versus you know
the kind that I fly to shoot my video
exactly the same so they do they have
just the same kind of thing and just
learning how to it's the same yourself
yeah it's same thing but what we teach
is not how to fly them is we're using
them for example we have a program that
uses the quadcopter to teach elementary
students about shapes so we are flying
that we let the teacher flight above the
school yeah we go do they you know play
and just like right above the schools
and they take a video of that and then
they go back to the classroom and they
need to analyze you know what are the
ships you know the school is built from
sonic wave squares or triangles we have
circles and so on and then they go in
and do the measurements so if one edge
of you know our gymnasium as an example
yeah okay it's a hundred foot okay
what's the area okay and just kind of
one out so you're doing the same you're
doing exactly the same stuff that we all
learned in school but you're just saying
oh here's a way to keep the kids excited
about it right that's right because this
is a little different generation that's
the whole thing when when was the last
time that you used you know I don't know
the angle my Gurion theorem I use that
one every day maybe it's okay if you
know you look at your school and you
actually need to change the walls or to
do something how much pain do you need
okay so let's measure that and it's not
just like a you know an assumption or
whatever let's take a tool a cool tool
that really engages the student and use
that in order to help them to measure to
help them you know to practice the
skills that you want them to study I
wish I grew up at one of your schools
man because I learned with the yardstick
yes well a lad in bar is from robot lab
calm please check them out and a lab it
is such a pleasure having you here on
the show thanks for bringing now and now
along with you today as well they're
super cool cool thank you thanks for
having me and Cheers did you notice the
bots behind us my son Zack loaned us his
two robots because he knew that we were
talking about robots tonight so I
thought oh it would be really cool if
Dad were to put my robots
on the show so thank you to Zack for
loaning us those tonight right and even
when he was here playing with them and
he was so engaged with them bro BOTS do
something two kids and two adults that I
have never seen with anything else like
they just are so much fun I think
especially as you get into autonomous
activities that excites me the robot up
here that can program it right from the
controller so he sets a program and then
he pushed his play and it does all the
things that he programmed it to do and
he loves it not yeah it's I mean these
are we saw now and now is like
cutting-edge the best it's got that
Intel processor in it in its brains
smart stuff fast stuff and able to do a
lot of things that's powered by Debian
which we love you love this it would be
such a handy tool on so many levels even
I was thinking homeschooling because
some parents are really into
homeschooling their kids if she really
that robot they just sit around drinking
whiskey I'm just saying it would it
would be helpful to keep an ongoing
because you have kids are different ages
right so you're homeschooling say three
kids you can have an ongoing lesson with
one child while you're having a
breakaway lesson with the other two
right I like it
it's like increase in your stats I'm a
little cute little robot very cool stuff
you
