for those who prefer Linux or are simply
curious about Linux and other open
source technologies this is category 5
technology TV
welcome to category 5 technology TV
episode number 278 for tuesday the
fifteenth of january 2013 wow i think
i've missed about five episodes oh hey
good to be here hey buddy I am well I am
well yeah good thing you didn't catch me
last week I had the cold thing that
would have to attend I was just like
he's not going to say it is he older
cold nice to see you and nice to see if
you're watching on YouTube as well
tonight we are broadcasting for the
first time ever live to go you to do too
yeah it's uh now we've got a quick like
it's cat five dock TV / youtube if you
want to get right there otherwise of
course our youtube channel is category 5
TV without the dots we just lose the dot
from our domain name and you're good to
go okay they're not gonna do the clothes
cup to go when that be amazing because
no matter what you've read I am NOT
anti-american he's Eric kid but I heard
kid I'm not me Ferguson I used to have
you here uh hey we're also on google+
and we've got our community all built
and ready to for you to join our
community cat five dot TV / g plus and
we would love to have was that yeah
that's pretty cool Eric we sent out a
ton of prizes this week because even
we've got wonderful viewers who from all
over the world of won some prizes from
her I guess Canada Post lost money and
it's funny you should say that because
there were some things that I ordered
for Christmas gifts on December third
and they never arrived so january 12th
or something the company reshipped them
oh because they sent it through canada
post and it never got here surprise
whoops no that's a pose just the fact no
you don't say anything bad i still
didn't know that they have hit man yes
we love them we love Canada boat canada
post is spectacular yes indeed hey
we got coming up here well I'll tell you
coming up in the newsroom Apple's shares
fall in light of lower iphone 5 sales
expectations for the 1st quarter of 2013
I actually wrote a check the other day
and I wrote 2012 and had to scratch it
initially there's a new pill sized
imaging device can help doctors detect
the precancerous condition much earlier
than existing techniques Firefox rappers
whoever is ending Eric attacks right ya
later please I may turn the wireless off
in a second firefox os-based smartphones
are coming this year to the low-end
market Wow and it looks like it's time
to say goodbye to windows messenger
stick around for these stories and
others coming up later in the show hey
that's big news okay what else we got
coming up we are gonna be giving away
another prize and tonight it's a big one
a beggin how much do you pay for your
phone service like 60 bucks a month kind
of thing probably 100 bucks a year kind
of give or take a pup how would you like
a free okay year of phone service okay
yes thanks you don't have to bother
watching he's giving a date service
right we're also going to give you a
free year of long-distance anywhere in
Canada or the United States so make sure
you stick around we're gonna be given
that away in just a few months time plus
we've got an awesome interview tonight
we are going to be talking together old
sets and he is from Austria and going to
be chatting with us about his API so you
can secure up your contact registration
forms on your website we're going to
show you how that is done we do have to
take a really quick break generald I
know is standing by general we're going
to come right to you in just a few
moments time and we will be right back
don't elbows with a hard G notice off g
come on Gerald yeah this thank you sorry
that's why I'm here that's why I'm here
he's doing on laughing on the other
we're gonna be back to Seattle right
after the break at eco alkalines we
believe you should be able to trust your
batteries not just here but
here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here Eco alkalines
of the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco alkalines provide
performance the rivals leading national
alkaline battery brands at a comparable
price find out more about the Eco
alkalines difference eco alkalines calm
this is category 5 technology TV welcome
back and we can be found a category five
dot TV tonight we're going to be looking
at look need some things from a coder
perspective which i think is going to be
a lot of fun for us for you as viewers I
mean hey stick around we've got prizes
for you and some fun stuff to learn as
well but we're here with get old sets
and get old is joining us from Austria
get old it's it's fantastic having you
on the show thanks for joining us
tonight yes thanks photo about letting
me what were the reason that we've got
get old here with us tonight is we're
gonna be looking a little bit later in
the show we're going to be securing up
or making a little better a contact form
or low going to create in PHP a form
that allows people to register or
download a trial version of software
from your website sometimes you know
there's this thing called 10 minute
mailers and and those disposable email
accounts that can be a real headache for
people who are you know creating
registration systems and things they're
good for you as a user because you like
to protect yourself you like to keep
yourself kind of anonymous right but for
somebody who is selling or creating a
service and needs to be able to send you
information or let you know that there's
you know discount on the product or
something down the road it's importantly
you give a real email address to those
people I'll give you an example here at
category 5 technology TV we love for you
to register on our website that's
important reason for that is it allows
us to incorporate viewer
and things like that ways that we can
create incentive programs and and we can
also what can we do we can email you
when you win a prize I never get any
emails like the a couple of you have
emails like that this week hey you know
I give you stuff yeah have a pen I've
got a cold cup of coffee here it's great
thanks with these 10 minute mailers that
their candy because sometimes you want
to sign up for something that you're not
too sure is legitimate but when you're
sure that something is legitimate it's
important to use a real email address
because that company may need to contact
you category 5 is one example you know
that we're trustworthy we've got our
privacy policy and we're not going to
give out your email address another
example is that I sell software as part
of my profession and we do offer a free
trial that people can download and it's
important for us to be able to do that
because i want you to evaluate our
software and i want you to be able to
say you know what this is good software
i want to i want actually use this i
want to purchase it so when you go
through the trial process i say in the
form i say i need your email address
because i need to be able to contact you
when your trial is coming do i need to
be able to say here's a link all you
have to do is click this like i'm going
to give you ten percent off and you're
going to be flying with a full version
of that software so if you use a
ten-minute mailer you get the trial but
then when i try to email you back and
say okay now i need to follow up you've
only got a 30 day trial it's going to
expire in 10 days all of a sudden there
you are unreachable I have looked I'd I
can't help I can't hook you up you're
going to go onto google you're going to
try to find somewhere else to purchase
it you're going to buy it through
someone else and I've lost money even
though you came to me first so it's not
really fair is it so it's it's sometimes
about the loss of money when you're a
programmer you build a site and you say
you know I need to collect this email
address for a reason there's a reason
that I'm collecting your email address
I'm committed as a as a broadcaster and
as a web designer he'll use the phrase
webmaster just because I want to use it
yeah that's awesome glass from that so
let's say I'm your webmaster and I need
to collect that email address because
it's important for me as well yeah it
simple
it's important for me to be able to
contact you when when need be so that
email address is is part of that process
and it's also part of the handshake
agreement when you sign up for things
that hey you know you are a legitimate
spring a real person and so there's a
flip side to this as a programmer we
recognize that most of the time and get
old you may know even better than myself
but it seems a lot of the time if I get
subscriptions and trial downloads from
ten-minute mail or email addresses a lot
of the time these aren't legitimate
users these are people who want to take
a take something and not be a part of
anything there there may be downloading
a trial I've even seen it where people
will download a trial and sell it and
then they've basically sold a trial
version of software using a 10 minute
mailer and I can't contact them I can't
issue licenses or anything so I think
that becomes a big problem as well so
that's the flip side not only do we need
your email for for the service and for
the product but also I think it can be
it can it can be a red flag for us is
that not true it can be a red flag for
us as programmers that if it's coming
from an illegitimate email source we
know that it's quite likely that this
person is trying to defraud us or scam
us out of something that is rightfully
ours our money or your money and the
fact that you're offering a service and
you expect to be able to get legit
contact information somebody and you're
assuring them that you're not using it
for you know to get them on any spam
list or anything that's the thing you
know yeah and that's why they want that
kind of an assurance sort of you and
trust the companies that you're giving
that email address too so when you give
your email address to category 5 you
know that you can trust it I'll get Eric
I'll get you to bring up the chatter in
case there's any feedback from the chat
room other other reasons that you may
want to give your email address out and
get our old I'm going to throw it over
to you because what garold has created
is something that is just an awesome
add-on for any web
developer who's concerned about this
particular issue and it doesn't concern
everybody I mean it really concerns
those who legitimately need that email
address in order to either turn a profit
or to be able to contact that user in
our case we you know if it can fill our
database you know there is that with
their spiders and bots that go out onto
the web and subscribe and subscribe and
subscribe register register register
using these fake email addresses and
here's one way that we can weed them out
is through gerelds API so get old it is
fantastic having you on the show thanks
for joining us tonight I'll let you kind
of introduce yourself and what it is
that you've created and what brought
that about yes thanks Robbie for
inviting me I'm really excited to
contribute to to your show to the show
number 278 I guess yeah so it's it seems
that you're pretty successful with your
show and with your colleagues it's so
it's nice to be invited in such as show
what yeah you already mentioned that my
name is gathered and I think the main
reason to be here today is to introduce
you a little bit too to what I created
and i would say everything you said
before you mentioned before about
disposable email addresses is completely
right if someone uses a disposable email
to subscribe somewhere then you can't be
sure where i would say at least ninety
nine percent that this will not be user
that will that will use service in a way
that it is meant to use and that it will
pick become for example and paying user
it's relatively hard to find out if
someone subscribed with a disposable
email domain why it's complicated
basically it's complicated because there
are a lot of different domains out there
for example if you use
a very popular service like male inator
calm they are more than 300 maybe are
about thousands domains that you could
use to use this mainly NATO service and
si si ordinary user so ordinary
webmaster to enter pin your annotated
connotation when using yogurt is that
the problem is that you simply do not
find it out you cannot you cannot find
out usually by yourself if you don't
mean is negative 8 it or not because you
need a response in the second in the
same second this is a subscriber wants
to be subscribed to your service and
that means that you need to have a lot
of domains checked before right and I'll
be honest Carol I have tried it I
created something that I you know I
scripted a long time ago and tried to
continually be putting in these male
inators and 10 minute males and and all
these things and so every time a new one
would spawn up i would add them to the
list as a bad list right that's right
they keep popping up there's there's a
new one every day it seems like it seems
as soon as I think I've got them all
somebody just goes and finds another one
that they can use to get into my service
without without a legitimate email
address so how do you propose or how
does your company proposed to solve that
problem for the web designer or we'll
call him the webmaster ok so my
proposals really to use this API the
reason is to have a as you mentioned to
having having a local blacklist you will
always be a step behind your you use
Pizarro spammers if we do it in with
this centralized API where I collector
my colleagues are collecting the domains
and checking the domains to be sure not
to have any any wrong entry any false
positive in this list I think it's it's
really the easiest way for any webmaster
because to be honest blocking disposable
email addresses is usually not the main
work of the webmaster there are things
they have to do and that's why I think
this is really a very very small part of
it should be a very small part of the
daily work of
of the webmaster and that's why I
proposed not to start using a local
blacklist while if you like to do why
not you can you can have a local
blacklist and to check only against my
service if the if the used domain is not
a list it's it's the moment a couple of
years endpoints they're good all that
you mentioned about spam and I thought
oh that's another legitimate reason that
people use 10 min of mailers is because
they want to register for a forum for
example or a message board and they
don't want their real information
because they're gonna say something
nasty so they use yeah right one of
those fake email addresses and they can
subscribe they've authorized it then it
disappears say they're not you know so
that it's another that's another good
example and interesting to say yeah you
could control through through your own
local list and your own local kind of
checks and then if everything checks out
throw it over to your service and say
okay well now what do you say about it
so on your end who is it that you know
do you have you know a slew of
programmers that are sitting there
finding all these websites how is it
that your service is able to find all
these new tamanna mailers as they pop up
now first of all I have a huge list of
domains currently so I already checked
approximately 10 million different and
frequently used to means this is one
huge benefit compared to them to let's
say to an ordinary webmaster because if
you look at your for example it at your
hit rate of your of your service you
will find out that there are some
domains that are used frequently like
gmail com yahoo.com nth all the
subdomains of you who don't come like
would add co dot IM for example or dot
CA yeah but there are also a lot of and
i would say it approximately at least
seventy or eighty percent on most sites
and that you find out that you never
have seen the domain before so you need
to find out really in this in a second
if this is legitimate it or not so one
benefit of my of decentralized api is
that i know a lot of a lot of domains
and i hit the
chance already to check if the domain is
legitimate it or not and I do it on on
several race it's the end every single
domain that is flagged from my from my
analyzing service as possibly a
disposable email domain survey a service
domain that provides a shot with such
services then I look to it manually and
edit to the blacklist or say okay no
this was a this was mistakenly by my
analyzing services and this is a
legitimate domain because what what what
I always really try to do avoid is to
have any false positive in a list
because nobody wants to block legitimate
use of mistakenly right this is one one
one point of quality that it's really
really good on on our side I would say
so for you to be able to receive these
domains and to be able to see now you
mentioned that in order to determine
whether a domain is legitimate or not
you're seeing what your system spews out
to you as being you know it's already
weeded through all the domains that have
been sent to you that day and says okay
these are the ones that I think might be
illegitimate so then you have to
manually go through and say yeah that
one is bad that one's bad that one's
okay and it's just right right so so
everything that sounds like everything
has happened transparently already by
the time my site ever sees that email
domain but it makes me wonder for the
viewers sake what is there what is in
place as far as privacy am i sending you
email addresses as they are being
processed or what happens there no I'm
I'm I'm really not interested in in
collecting any email addresses the only
thing I'm interested in is collecting
two main names so my service does not
ask you for for submitting email
addresses I only wanted to see the
domain and you will also not get in a
correct answer if you submit email
addresses to get in get an error message
that this is not not not really
formatted SSO domain so yeah I just want
to collect domains right okay if the if
I if I see the domain for
my API sister domain for the first time
yet usually or you get an OK response so
that we do not block it and stand after
a couple of minutes it will be will be
analyzed and Stan check manually in
addition that's that's good to know so
if you're unsure if the system is unsure
it will still allow that one through so
it may happen once in a while that I'll
get a false negative but in so doing
you're basically eliminating the chance
for false positives that's right so this
is not it's really a blacklist kind of
kind of answering not a white listing
because the white listing will not make
any sense right now some people in the
chat room I saw there are wondering
about the technology the underlying
technology how we connect to this
service we're going to be looking at it
a little bit later on but but we can
certainly touch on the fact that we are
using you know JSON and and PHP
serialized arrays you're able to return
as plain text I understand as well so
there really it's a it's an all-round
solution that we can use for for any
kind of service is that right yes you
can use it for any kind of services and
if it is if it really be the case that
you need for example an XML response and
I don't have implemented it yet it's
only a matter of some days to implement
it because they and the underlying and
database is already there so it's only
only kind of how to format and how to
how to hand over the information to to
my users that's it this is a category 5
technology TV we are talking to garold
sets who is joining us from disposable
email addresses it is it called block
disposable email addresses comm with
hyphens in there but block disposable
email addresses that's what you need to
know now we just because that's you know
the domain block disposable email
addresses com with dashes and everything
hard to say here you go cat5 TV / bad
male bed male
now right just remember that cat five
dot TV / bad male we're going to get you
hooked up and you can get basically if
your first 200 Cory's a month absolutely
free so love the the model here now get
old we'll talk a little bit about the
cost of this thing because you know
where I was mentioned to you before the
show that I really like the way that
you've set up your your your pricing
kind of you know your tiered pricing and
then that is just so the viewers
understand basically your first 200
queries per month are absolutely free so
that means for small small blog small
website you know and keeping in mind
that as good old have mentioned you can
run your own checks first and then if it
goes through everything there then you
can send it over and so you could have
already eliminated stuff before it even
gets to forwarding over to the API but
what happens is the more queries that
you create the more you know the
basically tiered pricing model so
because of that it ends up that you know
if you're just a Joe Blow user running a
blog running the news site you can use
it and it's absolutely free and then as
you start making money because you're
getting hits and the idea is you're
going to make money off of banner ads or
whatever get some google ads in place
and you'll be able to offset that cost
easily enough so where should i guess we
can just really send people to your
website which as you see at the bottom
there's cat5 TV / bad mail is what we
have set up for you get all bus thanks
for what you know for we're talking a
little bit as programmers and saying you
know we can use PHP we use json we can
use xml responses whatever else to get
the data back from the API what about
somebody who's not a programmer let's
say they've got a wordpress blog I used
blog as the example what kind of options
are there for them yeah are there isn'ta
good news this debt for example for
WordPress there is an out-of-the-box
solution already there so you can find
on my on my website a link to two
different plugins like for wordpress for
example that I did by myself or we did
by ourselves but there are also some
let's say user contributed modules here
like for PHP p be so for the forum
software or their popular tactic forum
software yeah yeah and also for drupal
for example for v peloton for chango
which is a Putin interface and some
others and the good thing is also that
most of my users if they create
something to tell me and I put it on my
website so we can we can spread it
around yeah and yeah and the other way
to implement this as you mentioned
before is if you're a developer most of
them are they know how to use a JSON
response for example how to auto formed
after and antic theory so it's it's
really it should be it should be easy
for everyone to access the service and
instant information and one most one
more single regarding their regarding
term Jeffrey 10 to 200 to the free per
month per user yeah you you can imagine
that if you have 200 trees it means that
you have 200 possible subscribers and
months and having 200 new subscribers
months is really really I would say a
huge number because you do not you know
check against the service on every
single login but only if there are new
users and it is really a really high
number i guess because having 200 and
you can you yeah if you're running like
a wordpress blog and there's 200 people
registering on your blog yab the future
number team-high yeah very cool very
close I have a question here in the chat
room yeah what's up is the API using SPF
and or dkim I'd be a question for you
get out a question for me but let me see
SPF and DKIM no it's not not using it
because so SPF is it acknowledged I
don't know if everybody knows but SPF is
a technology it's the sender policy
framework it's a name for it and it's
usually to find out if firm
if a particular IP address of a mail
servers allowed and legitimate to send
emails with a particular domain so this
is not what I do because it's not the
focus so I really focus only only on
detecting disposable email addresses
this is the just the only thing and that
kind of brings us to wear robes and I
really love it right but that brings us
to where we were mentioning about how
you would kind of create and get all
touched on this you would kind of do
your first you know you do your own mail
checks anyways because you're not going
to send you're not going to allow people
to subscribe through email without first
cleaning it up anyways and making sure
that it's good to go and then send the
query over to this API system and that's
when you get that response back so
really it's it's an additional thing
we're going to actually I'll just
mention get all that tonight we're going
to have something new to add to your
website because we're going to be taking
a script we're going to be using the new
easy API and with that particular API
we're going to be able to create
something in PHP that's going to allow
you to add this to your PHP site so if
you're a bit of a developer or if you
just know a little bit about PHP and you
want to learn how to do that we're going
to be doing that tonight and that'll be
something you can add to your site if
you like kettle and that is going to
show you a little bit about how we've
already done a little bit of processing
anyways using PHP's built in syntax
checks and things like that and then
we're saying okay yeah pass it passes
all these checks now we're going to
throw it over to get our old system and
see what his system says whether or not
this is a one-minute mailer or
disposable email account of some kind
all right mmm so if there were any
questions that of course was in the chat
room I know you know this is pretty new
to a lot of you and will be very excited
to to feel those for you this that just
after after the after the feature
tonight after the future well we're
gonna be looking at it very very shortly
get old really appreciate your time
tonight love your service love what
you're doing I think it just it takes
what I do which is try to weed out the
malicious and fake and script bot users
and get them away from my database and
focus on the real users who
to subscribe to my services and I think
that what you're doing really really
helps to be able to do that effectively
and so we thank you for that what you're
doing is great the API performs very
well and we're excited about it so I'm
happy to have you on the show tonight
we're happy to be be able to support you
in that way as well so yeah thanks
thanks again for invitations thanks for
the positive feedback it's always always
good to hear and what's really exciting
is that if I look to my into our user
base it's really really nice to see that
the series is used word right in the
meanwhile like from Canada Canada like
from the US from different countries in
Asia from Africa from all the northern
countries like Sweden Norway and also
the interesting thing is to see who
really uses it not only their the
country where they and the cures are
originating from but also to see for
what what's different services so out
there and I couldn't I never imagined
what services have this high number of
queries and and stand the need not to
have a legitimate uses it's really
really a it's really interesting to see
if you if you look at my website I have
I think you've already seen a short
presentation i think in its lights which
is hosted by a SlideShare where i listed
some some some branches some industries
using using to service just to just to
get an idea who could need it so it's
it's really it's really nice to see that
that this did this project is spread it
all over all over the world in the
meanwhile and it's what I kudos to you
to have created something that people
all over the world are saying you know
what that we needed this you're doing a
great job of it you're making it happen
and it works and it's cut get out on on
the spam on our website so thank you
very much and again an encouragement for
our viewers check out that website at
the bottom just below get all their cat
five DVD / bad mail and when you go to
that website check out the presentation
the dimensions and also some of the API
examples and all that kind of stuff get
oh thank you for being here on the show
and have yourself a great see you later
yeah okay this is category 5 technology
TV i'm your host Robbie Ferguson thanks
for joining us tonight you're okay I'm
Eric Kidd mine and this is category 5 TV
and it's a member of the tech podcast
network if it's tech it's here and the
international association of internet
broadcasters so what do you think
Panther news peanut let's do news here
the top stories from the category 5 TV
news room shared an apple of all three
point five percent out of the report
suggesting that orders for the iphone
unexpected since it released the iphone
5 in September Apple is reported to have
cut its orders in half for the display
panel featured on the phone for the
January to March quarter the reports
seem to be confirming the demand for the
iphone has fallen in the wake of
increased competition doctors have made
a pill sized device that can take
detailed microscopic images of inside
the gullet it is hoped the US technology
could become an easier way of screening
people for a condition called Barrett's
esophagus which can lead to cancer
unlike current imaging techniques the
device can be used while the patient is
conscious takes only a few minutes into
said to take some the best images ever
seen for this purpose the hope is that
the device could help doctors work out
who is at risk and detect cancers at a
potentially more treatable stage
smartphones developed by the creators of
the Firefox web browser expected to be
launched in Europe in 2013 Chinese phone
equipment marker ZTE said it was working
with a European wireless carrier to sell
Mozilla's Firefox OS powered phones said
te chief executive cheng nixon something
yeah I'll go with that for now also said
the phones could be market in the US
this year when finished the phones will
compete with Google's Android but only
at the lower end of the smartphone
market that's interesting I had wondered
with some of the announcements that are
going on with regards to Linux making
its way to smartphones with the boom to
yeah what where did that leave mattila
because they had just made the
announcement then a boon to comes out in
mu boom 2 is a big player so you know
it's where was that gonna leave him
sounds like it's a different a different
level of over different work sure for
the the lower end market which is very
cool i thought linux on the mobile could
mean lower end stuff being cheaper being
faster being better because it's cheaper
because they aren't the licensing and
the patents and all that kind of stuff
to deal with so could be good be real
promising we're excited about what we're
gonna see Microsoft is switching off its
windows live messenger service on the
fifteenth March oh well I still use msn
like crazy from Pigeon but I still use
it
on that date messenger Loggins will no
longer work and users must turn to skype
said Microsoft in an email sent to all
messenger users the email also
encouraged user stop date to skype and
familiarize themselves with the service
before the switch off the service which
is a consequence of Microsoft's
acquisition of skype in october two
thousand eleven for 8.5 billion hmm i
don't know that's done it's in dollars
you can get the false stories at
category 5 TV news room the category 5
TV news room is researched by roy wa ash
with contributions by our community of
viewers if you have a news story that
you think is worthy of on-air mention
email newsroom at category 5 TV for the
category 5 TV news room I'm Eric Kidd
thanks Eric tonight's show is brought to
you in part by quarter eee electric find
them a triple w quarter electric com
also netflix get your free one month
trial of netflix a cat5 dot TV / netflix
and i promised it we've got something to
give away for you tonight a long year
phone service from net talk to a Wi-Fi
we've got this device to thank you i was
gonna send it to you folks okay fine i
just feel it's a second just so i can
show them that's this all right we're
gonna be reviewing this on an upcoming
show but just to give you a quick idea
it is just basically a little phone box
that you connect to your internet thanks
bark you connect it to your internet you
connect it to your telephone this
particular model and then talk to a
Wi-Fi as you can imagine supports Wi-Fi
so connects your Wi-Fi network you just
you know you put it on wherever plug it
into your phone it becomes a phone jack
whoa and it connects you to the into the
phone system through the internet you
can call anywhere in Canada or the
United States absolutely free you can
get a local calling number and ladies
and gentlemen are you ready for this
announcing it here on category five
tonight it's been under embargo it's
been top secret now we can tell you that
the nettalk duo Wi-Fi is able to port
your canadian phone number so if you are
currently with another service provider
you hook yourself up with net talk and
it you know when you work it out you pay
an annual fee it's like 30 some odd
dollars a month it works out to be you
know three bucks a month
say a little bit more than three dollars
a month técnicas so here to break it
down and you end up getting free long
distance anywhere in Canada to the US
you can port your Canadian or United
States phone number so if you've got a
current phone number you can switch it
to this device and you don't have to
change your phone number because some of
the other services were able to do that
in certain areas but not know this is
Canada Wow to those in the United States
of Allah we've had porting forever yeah
this is new as in today this this is
this is news this is Canada now has
portable phone numbers because of
nettalk duo Wi-Fi we can give that to
you so what I want you to do is go to
cat five dot TV / phone ph 0 NE and when
you're there and sign the petition
saying to give that Derek sign the
petition I'm gonna get the air kid
Saturday okay no I think you want this
for yourself and I'll see what I guess I
didn't getting you in the meantime get
over to cat five TV / phone cast your
ballot next week we're gonna be given
one of those away all right and you know
it's that's a pretty sweet deal is with
you and I think we ought to put this
back in the box that looks important the
English those directions just to be
absolutely clear we're giving you the
device and we're giving you one year
free service absolutely free thanks to
nettalk duo so check out more
information cat five dot TV / phone cast
your ballot and you'll be good to go so
I'm just going on record that's way cool
how does not that is way cool awesome
stuff okay Ellie I electronics inc are
just fantastic friends of the show here
category five been good friends of the
show ever since we started this program
you'll remember them you'll know them
from some of their brands eco alkalines
bag to nature liquid image canada the
masks with the cameras that's one of
their products free play human powered
devices inc for dummies talk buds
they've got just a ton of products
that's just to name a few check out
their website le I products com and when
you're there and if you have any trouble
getting their cat five TV / eco
e co will take you to equal outlines you
can navigate their site from there but
they were just they were at the Consumer
Electronics Show last weekend in Las
Vegas so they sent us up our good friend
Mark from LA I sent us up a video and
just said here's some clips just thought
you know you guys couldn't make it to
the show maybe some of your viewers
would be interested in seeing a little
bit i mean he's just walking around with
a handheld camera but a little bit about
what the show looks like and and what
you can expect next year if you decide
that you'd like to head down to the to
the consumer electronic so we're excited
to to display this for you and I share
that with our viewers you share that
with the viewers I guys I'm gonna take a
look myself as well because it's it's
it's amazing when you consider the the
scale of this show the the CES down in
Las Vegas is your so it's incredible I
just can't imagine the scale of this
thing so we'll just take a quick break
as we as we take a look at the video
that mark santos it's not in the budget
for us to go to work we're here every
week we never miss a show you could do
the show from the how cool would it be
to broadcast the show from there it
would be cool send your donation yeah
all right we'll be right back
here we are at the eco alkaline display
of CES beautiful Las Vegas
what we have here is a brand-new
technology by H 0 0 this is a micro film
on an iPad or an iPhone and it's
guaranteed not to be harmed by water for
up to two years phenomenal new product
will be coming to Canada sometime in the
near future now we're entering the ink
for dummies booth this is another
partner with le I and we are currently
holding the Caney exclusive to outside
vendors
uh
one of the most recognizable brands in
the books and cooking
here's an innovative new company aee
that liquid him are parting me that le
aya will be looking to do some business
with these folks house cameras point and
shoot they also have remote control
cameras new stadium footage very similar
to the drone
there's our rep Jackie
their POV comes complete with all the
accessories
these are Wi-Fi 1080p or POV cameras
this is eat on
this is the heat on booth and they also
partner with the Red Cross
booth is avan tree and this is another
partner with Ellie I
and this is a relatively new brand that
we've been developing in North America
and we've just also started to launch
this product line in the United States
we're now in central hall and this is
the Intel massive
and the continuation of the Intel booth
now we're at LG LG's boo and this is LG
Smart TV cinema 3d I'm going to attempt
to get some video of their massive
screen and see if we can get some video
through the glasses
hard to describe but the screen is
approximately 140 feet wide you can see
the opening is people walking through
the opening i'll give you an idea the
scope and size of their display
scream Lee impressive
this is the latest from LG is OLED
ultimate display
Ultra HD TV
this is now inside the LG booth
it's approximately 50,000 square feet of
display space
for the ultimate in gaming wireless
mobile gaming and 3d
now we move along to the appliances and
here you have
smart refrigerators smart all smart
appliances all can be operated with your
iPhone or Android device
LG is becoming a leader in the appliance
divisions
smart washer/dryer
right
now we're coming up to another major
booth and that would be Panasonic
right across from Panasonic very
impressive
under your world TCL
one of Panasonic's claim to fame is a
pioneered and continue to promote plasma
TV
now we're inside the Samsung
and again it's another massive booth
about 50 60 thousand square feet
showcasing everything from TV to
wireless to sports
now we're back at Intel and what we're
pictured here is the intel laptop tree
wow that's some cool stuff done some
tree blows my mind newer gurgling heaven
how can I build a laptop tree rd
programming well do you want some of my
old I've got several dead laptop I don't
think those were dead lab no they
weren't at the top of the line hey if
you're down there in Vegas at the show
send us a postcard in fact if you're
anywhere on this planet send us a
postcard we like postcards you can send
it to Eric well you can send it to
Robbie or you could send it to the gang
but at category 5 TV post office box to
9009 Barrie Ontario and that's in Canada
l4 n7w 7 so yeah send us your cards and
letter we would really like to get them
we do love to receive those we do we
want our first card of 2013 and hey
check out our mobile site m dot cat5 TV
hmm there it is am that code this stuff
alright are you ready to take a look at
the API I love Gerald's block disposable
email addresses API you can find out
more cat five dot TV / bad mail all one
word check this out I've created a
really really quick script for you Eric
and we can pretend that this is anything
okay so we're gonna go Robbie Ferguson
and I'm gonna let's use my email address
they get a ridge register with a ten
little Bailey no yeah so the notice what
I click on register it says email
address is considered good a
registration will proceed this is just a
demonstration okay now watch this we're
going to go 10 minute mail com we know
that that's one of those disposable
email address providers register and
even still it says that my email address
is considered good now why is that
cuz they haven't been we'll see i've
i've created a thing that if somebody
miss types an email address right blah
blah blah and click register it should
you know if there's something wrong with
that okay you've got a space or caught
the right but it seemed like that one
email address is considered bad because
you know it's not it's malformed right
so I've already created some level of
validation there's a validation on that
email address and let's take a quick
look at how that's happening we're just
simply using PHP and we're saying okay
if it if PHP's filter VAR says that hey
this is a valid email then hey we can
say email is considered good right but
that's really the only check that it's
doing it's not telling me whether or not
these are legitimate email addresses
it's not checking if the domain exists
it's not checking if if these are 10 min
and mailers are not so let's take a
quick look and see how we can actually
do this and we're gonna have to jazz our
way through this they can test any email
address that they like the viewers just
because of the chat room is saying no
test this one test this one you can test
any one you like I'm going to give you a
copy of the script at the end of the
show so don't worry about that so what
I'm going to do I'm going to actually
take my script which is a really really
simple registration script it's just the
form that if submitted it posts if
there's a post it's going to say ok
there's a couple little you know there's
a strip tags on each thing so that it's
they're not going to inject some code
and then it just checks if the if the
email address is valid so now let's say
okay well let's let's actually get on to
the API let's register on the websites
we're going to bring up a web browser
here and we're going to go to that
website cat5 TV / bad mail and when we
get there we can actually register let's
see how how tricky get old has made this
for us don't go to bed male ma le ma IL
of course cap 5 TV so I'm going to zoom
in and click on sign up and we're going
to simply enter our email address make
sure you use a real email address folks
he'll know and then check
subscribe this is a good example of why
you real email addresses because we're
subscribing to an API here so here you
go okay so it's asking me for some more
information my name Robbie Ferguson my
password make it strong and what kind of
comments you want to send to get old how
about hello got old and we'll go with
that o is the beer in Austria yeah I say
I heard of you make sure you do this
okay I heard of your service on category
5 TV that that would let him know that's
a good idea register and this tells me
hey check your email to activate your
account so i'll just bring up the
thunderbird i'll do the same whatever
you're using grab your email and there
it is
oh okay big long link click on that to
activate and lo and behold we're done
from his point of view we're registered
ready to go so now we want to know what
do we do well we click on that link that
says register our API key register our
server IP to get an API key rather so
click on that and let's give them some
information first of all I'm going to
have to find out what my IP address is
because that's what he's asking for some
needed me to log into games that's fine
enter your password they enter their
that was pretty easy as far as signing
up goes okay register my new server I
need an IP address so I'm gonna jump
into the terminal I'm actually going to
just ping my domain easiest thing to do
is I'm going to upload it to category 5
TV so ping my domain get my IP there we
go
copy that to your clipboard and paste it
over to to the script there to add this
the server ok how many queries do you
think you're going to have a month I'm
going to just this is just for the sake
of an example so i'll just say 50 now
you can put in whatever you think it's
going to be keep in mind that 200 or
free and beyond that now you just want
some information what what website is
this going to go on and what are you
going to be using it for as we was
saying it's interesting to find out what
people are using this report so might as
well come here we go we're showing this
off on category 5 so get old now you
know and register the server and we need
suspense music get old add some suspense
music to the website for us all right
there we go we've got our API key how
fantastic is that we're ready to go now
I can build a script based on that here
we go ok so i can actually bring that up
on my other other screen here all right
you ready I'm let's ready willing and
able ok so a couple of things that we
need to do first of all we need to
connect into the API now I've got my API
key from the the previous step leave
that open ok so what I'm going to do I'm
going to first of all create a function
that's going to check mail a little bit
more thoroughly so we're going to go
function this is in PHP by the way I'm
going to call this check mail you can
call it whatever you like and we're
going to say we're going to pass along
the email address to that function so
let's set our domain in the way we're
going to do that we're going to parse
the email address so we're going to use
an array pop which is now I'm going to
do this a little bit backwards first of
all I'll explode that just so that you
can see how this is working so i'm going
to go explode at symbol dollar sign
email so what I'm saying there is that
I'm actually going to break it apart at
the at sign so the it's going to create
an array now i'm going to array pop that
so that it's only going to keep the last
of the email address after the act ok so
now domain is actually you know if i
send live at category 5 TV dollar sign
domain because of this command here is
going to become cat
where e 5 TV so mikey has copied and
pasted from the website i close firefox
let's go over to let's go back to his
website here cat five dot TV / get that
bat mail to bed Gerald here we go I'm
going to click on sign up there is no
sign in button now sign in and manage
it's a little bit different I found it
hard to find but if I click on sign up I
can see log in to manage my settings
that is an easy way to get there so log
in now and that takes me right to my
server list so there's my API key for
the website that I've already created
you don't have that memorized what my IP
address no the apt now we're going to
actually enter that into our script ok
so paste that into dollar sign key now
we're good to go my request here's where
things get a little bit fun because
we're actually going to be creating the
JSON request to to the API and i will
paste this onto the website you don't
have to do this all longhand like I'm
doing block dash disposable email calm /
easy API because I told you I'd show you
that new API we're going to say we're
going to use JSON that can be JSON that
can be a PHP read the instructions on
the website there are some examples
there to show you and I'll show you
quickly where that can be found on his
website under help and usage you can say
easy API and scroll down a little ways
and you'll see the now it's not PHP if
he wants to realize it's actually going
to send you can use serial or text so
JSON cereal and text if you want to use
the easy API and of course the full of
PHP API also includes XML and things
like that so we're just going to use
JSON so that's where you would enter it
you would actually change that to serial
if you'd like it to be a serialized
array mph
json and we're going to tell it what
what we're actually going to scan so
first of all we need to set the key
which we already set that's our API key
and then slash dot dollar sign domain so
we're actually sending over to get old
service we're saying okay check dot
block disposable email calm / easy API /
JSON / my API key which is that long
string / category 5 TV that's what we're
sending so you'll notice that because of
that explode and a rape up we're not
actually sending him a full email
address so you don't have to worry about
your privacy we're not sending an email
address we're only saying category 5 TV
is it good or is it bad and it's going
to respond back and tell us whether it's
good or bad so next up we need to
actually process this query so we're
going to we're going to say okay we're
going to call this response and equals
file get contents that's going to use
PHP to reach out to the server through
our request okay now we're going to
create an object from that so we'll call
this DEA for disposable email accounts
equal equals json decode we're going to
actually decode that response and now we
should have an actual working script
that has now received the the
information from that service so if i
print our that lets say i exit here
let's go print our dollar sign all i
need to return there don't
DJ and let's call it so we're gonna go
dollar sign do I don't need to do it
yeah okay let's go dollars check mail
let's do it this way check mail you got
less than the memory of it well we're
gonna we're gonna go to that category 5
TV so you see what I'm doing I'm just
doing a quick test we're going to
actually print out the results of this
now we're going to upload that to the
server let's bring this up you guys
don't mind us going over time dia so
there is the result of live at category
5 TV because it's a print our it says
domain status is ok alright so that
tells me that hey category 5 is not
flagged yes alright alright so let's
actually make our script do this for us
so we'll get rid of that test stuff
there the print are and the return sorry
zoom kind of messes me up sometimes
there we go get rid of that that was
just for your sample ok so we've got the
we've confirmed that the object is
created and working and it's it's
connecting out to the JSON it's
receiving the JSON object back so now we
have to actually do some processing
we're going to say for example we saw
that that the request status was set to
success so if dollar sign DEA request
status is success then what do we want
to do well then we're going to do
another if statement we're going to say
if and did you notice that from our
object there's something else that's set
here it is domain and status ok ok so
not request status but now domain status
is category 5 TV okay it's saying yes so
here let's let's actually do something
to do that so domain status
equals now we can do this one of two
ways either we can we can start with
block or okay you can say okay we know
that that's the okay domain but let's
actually say okay well the alternative
to that is block so that way okay is
kind of by default so now we're this is
basically access denied right so we're
going to return false alright else so
this is well what happens if domain
status is not blocked so now we're going
to say okay return true it's a good
email address so that's access granted
all right so now we've got something
that says okay let's go through check
the email address if the domain status
is block return a false response
otherwise return true this is not
blocked so now from there we can we can
make it a little bit more intelligent
but basically what we want to do is we
want to add that to our already existing
check see it says if filter bar email
filter validate email okay so at the end
of that so if it's that and check mail
dollar sign email because we already
know that dollar sign email is from post
email so now we're going to run that
function and we're going to check it
against that email and now if I haven't
created any any errors if I haven't done
these syntax errors as I'm talking and
typing at the same time hopefully it
means that things will be good there we
go no syntax error is good Robbie
Ferguson live at category 5 TV register
it's good everything checks out live at
ten minute mail com register bad see
that
Rollo now that's pretty quick but that's
simply oh yeah it's instantaneous yeah
and you see that I try it now we went a
little bit over time because I'm trying
to show you how this is done through
code and we don't often get into code
here at category 5 but I want you to
understand a little bit about how that a
cold last week you sure cast your
questions get us at live at category 5
TV and of course that code is going to
be available for you for download on our
website category 5 TV it'll be in the
show notes for episode number 278 you'll
be able to download a zip file so that
you can play around and sign up for an
API key and add that to your own code as
well I think it's a fantastic thing as i
was mentioning through the interview to
be able to just kind of weed those out
and whether or not you allow people to
register here's the other thing you
don't have to block things just because
it says they're from a 10 minute mailer
maybe you just want to know about it so
you can set a little flag in the
database or you can send yourself an
email as the administrator that says hey
here's a registrant it looks like they
might be trying to pull one over on you
because it's a 10 minute mailer so check
into it a little bit maybe it will bring
up the anti-fraud score a little bit
things along those lines right so it
doesn't have to block it's up to you
what you do with the API it's just
giving you the opportunity to know is it
good or is it a 10 minute mailing right
so it gives you the opportunity to
loosen the screws a little bit or take
them exactly got it so everybody thank
you so much for being with us tonight
here at category 5 TV make sure you
check us out online triple w category 5
TV we are on youtube cat5 TV / youtube
gets you there and we want you to send
us some folks curtains I love getting
them yeah Erica's been fun having you
here it's been fun to be in here I think
we covered everything and don't forget
to cast your balance a cat5 TV / phone
we got that phone service to give you
from that talk duo and you really need
to tidy up your notebook I've got cords
for joy to the world here there's you
know no T spikes to our team Krista
Rachel years old yeah thanks to you
everybody if you him off Lisette and I
thanks to our special guest get old sets
as well and find out more of those API
cat five dock TV / bad now All Right see
everybody have a great week party next
Tuesday
we hope you enjoy the show category 5 TV
broadcast live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at 7pm users if
you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV check out the local
show times in your area at category 5 TV
and find out when you can watch live and
interact in the community chat room
category 5 is a production of prodigy
digital solutions and is licensed under
creative commons attribution 2.5 canada
we'll see you next time thanks for
tuning in
