welcome to category five technology TV
episode 557 I'm Jeff Robby Sackett and
tonight we are gonna be covering two
amazing reviews the first one ditch the
paper we've got the e paper and as well
we're gonna be taking a look at a PTZ
camera that's gonna blow your mind with
a price point of a blow even more so
this is category 5 technology TV
[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
Technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex another HLS video players for local
show times visit category 5 TV category
5 TV is a member of the tech podcast
network if it's tech it's here cat 5 TV
slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters cat
5.2 be /i AIB we're here
welcome to the show I'm glad that you
are here I'm Robby I'm Sasha
yeah I'm Jeff how you two been good yeah
good week oh yeah awesome week the
weather's been delightful so I've been
outside always yeah outside too we had
to do some gardening just got seasons
tickets to treetop trekking oh I just
bought that for
well not seasons tickets but just a tree
top trekking thing for my wife for a
birthing see I like the way that this
works like your gardening your planting
things they grow into plants plants grow
into trees treetops trekking I got
tickets for treetop treetops for your
wife for her birthday
are you oh yeah put her down the zipline
I I was not planting I touch things and
they die I was the one that was hooking
up the chain to a bush that I don't like
hooked it up to the back of the Jeep put
it in four-wheel drive and hit the gas
perfect so there's an eiderdown hole in
our and it was sown a few gardening
that's me the best part was we ripped it
out then our neighbor who's like an avid
gardener walks over found two pieces of
cardboard I think they were like ripped
up pizza boxes and he put like a 9.0 9.1
and he walks over holding like these
score oh nice because how amazing things
look when I ripped out that Bush I was
so happy wonderful wonderful yeah I
haven't gotten too much gardening done
although I did plant rhubarb I got
rhubarb root this year okay cuz I've
tried doing it from seed I've tried
doing it from a little seedling plant
and it's never worked out so I got an
actual root from a farm and it's like
this big
so I buried that
hoping for better success like you
somewhat the same note the other day we
cut into a tomato that would had been
sitting on the counter and I was like
this tato has been here for a long time
but it looks really good so we cut into
it and it had sprouted on the inside
I've seen that before that's neat
is that you just plant that it's like a
I didn't I got oh there's an alien
tomato but if you think about it I mean
if you've got tomatoes that fall off the
vine and they hit the ground the whole
point is that as it decays it creates
food for the seeds Reyna
felt weird to me because it looked so
good on the outside and it was rotting
on the inside so I had a green pepper
growing inside a green pepper
let's have that that's what I actually
sprout seeds and eat the sprouts so cuz
they're good for you right so that's our
gardening minute folks with the
gardening minute let's get over to tech
nems linux.com this is my distro on a
raspberry pi and it's been going
smashing way well I might say and I
appreciate everybody who's using it it's
really cool because it's I've seen this
thing grow and I'm watching the kind of
the the growth curve and it's always
going up and up but we're in the process
in the middle of the 1.4 release cycle
right now it was meant to be released
earlier this week I put a delay on it
because I decided that we're gonna drop
check m'kay and we're gonna go with a
doggy OS which if that makes sense to
you I want to send you like a shirt or
something essentially like a big
decision at the last minute to change
the way that it operates and so I've
been just going crazy coding this thing
it's painful to watch compiling on a
Raspberry Pi because I was committed to
bringing this to the Raspberry Pi it's
also coming to amd64 it's coming to two
various platforms I'm hoping to bring it
out as an OVA as well so you can deploy
it as a virtual appliance but I was
committed to bringing it out on the
Raspberry Pi because that's kind of our
base platform so slow to compile like
you're sitting looking for four hours
while the OS compiles just know
whether or not it worked right so and
I'm come close I say 99.9999% that's
great yes yes it's a lot of fun though
I'm having so much fun like I enjoy
tinkering but this is I'm building the
software to run a Raspberry Pi as a
server in an enterprise environment so
if you're not familiar with Nagios head
on over to NEMS
linux comm just like it sounds an EMS
it's a it stands for nagios enterprise
monitoring server so what it does is it
kind of I mean it can do so many things
but it can keep track of your your
hardware so if a hard drive in your
server is going to crash or if it's full
and you need to know about it you don't
have to check it it will email you or
SMS you and let you know that's awesome
it's really cool and the fact that it
runs on a Raspberry Pi little micro
computer that you can stick in the
server room or wherever you want to put
it doesn't generate a lot of heat
doesn't generate doesn't use a lot of
electricity and it works really really
well so check out Emma's Linux comm
that's what I've been up to that's the
tech minute I think there's probably
more tech tonight - perhaps
category-five shirts are still available
we're gonna keep them going teespring
is amazing they've been they've just
been reroll ngey promotion so when it
ends they print and send out the shirts
and then they do another promotion so so
that's been working out really well we
appreciate everyone who has bought a
t-shirt so far head on over to cap five
dot TV slash shirts it's way to brand
yourself as a really awesome person to
wear a category-5 technology TV shirt
yes I would say I support that statement
but you can send us a picture of you
wearing that shirt we would love that we
would - is standing by waiting for your
pictures contest at category-five TV so
we have a limited amount of debt
effective - VR games left available but
you still can win and you win by
emailing again contact the contest at
category-five TV
now tell us who you are where you're
watching from how you're watching you
know just send us a picture of you and a
shirt really mm-hmm all right and if
you're not really interested in sending
a shirt picture you can check us out on
the Google Play Doh Gugu we are on the
Google Play you can check us out so it
is a category 5 TV slash subscribe good
temps all right well we've got to take a
really quick break but when we come back
we're gonna be talking about ePaper and
saving the earth one ePaper tablet at a
time Jeff I almost feel like that's
incompatible statement EEE paper we'll
find out stick around for a limited time
get your hands on limited edition shirts
from the category 5 TV network these
high quality shirts are manufactured by
teespring a fundraising website and your
purchase will help support the shows we
produce get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5
TV slash shirts to support us and get
your official Network shirt today cat5
dot TV slash shirts welcome back this is
category five technology TV this is
episode number 557 that means there are
five hundred and fifty seven weeks of
this thing so if you enjoy the show get
over to our website category five dot TV
you can catch back episodes back seasons
you can download them as BitTorrent
files and get entire seasons all the way
back to season one when I was staring at
a web cam scary stop by in my basement
when you look at technology it's cool to
see the development oh yeah so neat even
just when I started which was I think
season five now yeah yeah like it's come
a lot of leaps and bounds yeah what I
enjoy the most is not so much the
advancement of the way that it's filmed
and the shows put together I enjoy the
way that the topic topics have changed
sure
like I think back to the beginning and
some of the stuff you covered it was
very basic because you were just getting
started and now it's like the sky's the
limit and part of that is because the
world of tech has changed right but it's
the stuff we cover now and that I like
viewing that I always try to keep things
fresh and sometimes we go back to old
things because they've been revamped
right the software has gotten better the
hardware has been improved you know
we'll look at Plex on a Raspberry Pi 2
and then Plex on a Raspberry Pi 3 B+
right you know so it over a couple of
years things change and so we want to
bring it back so that's why sometimes we
re address some of those topics but yeah
that's been a lot of fun over the past
10 years almost 11 years that's true
haven't had a break folks haven't had a
break you took a week off two weeks
there I was gonna say there was two
weeks you're gone one you actually sat
there in the audience make sure that
everything went make sure we didn't blow
it up and then one week you just didn't
show up because I know that I know that
you're going to take another
vacation roll y'all up for doing and you
handle the the new way that we do things
around yeah I wanted to zoom over to you
it's like that or if I want to just jump
over to me it's like that hey hey you
wanted to say something yes I wanted to
say remember how the the whole community
well yes yes I do the whole community
okay the whole community got together
and ended the whole build for the
computer for Dave yeah right well I feel
like the whole community should probably
help us like set the schedule for the
show we can they can help us with the
topics and stuff I feel like we badly I
think it would go really well I could
just challenge accepted I could see some
really advanced topics and before going
I would like to see Sasha explain this
one I can tell you some things I can
tell you that I know how to do something
with an array I don't know exact cause
I've been I know I do something I wait
hold on I mean coding yes oh this is so
these are topic ideas folks yes okay so
I tonight we're gonna be learning
something about an array okay guys
you're supposed to be talking about a
paper mm-hmm okay sorry
we're getting to that we're getting I'm
sorry that's the build up the
anticipation right so I have been now I
just have to okay so I downloaded an app
and it's called grasshopper and I will
tell you more about it later but I'm
learning how to code and I realize that
I've been on cat5 for like five years
and but I'm actually learning how to do
it myself right now
very good so I'll walk you through it
eventually maybe one Robbie's alright so
very good grasshopper who says you
should show people have some containers
in a raspberry pie no she's picturing a
Tupperware cake Sasha and then gardening
with Jeff let's actually move on to
ePaper yeah let's talk about ePaper why
ePaper is actually possibly a good thing
okay
what possibly yeah because people say to
me well why do you need E paper
I mean come on those things you know
Marsh man I heard your your complaints
about it and I understand and I and I
totally hear ya they just are another
piece of electronic stand up in the
landfill when they stop working okay
whereas paper biodegrades and and this
an you know true true true actually
yes okay I feel like you're gonna try
and convince us otherwise I don't know
I'm not I'm not here to convince anyone
anything I'm here to share my story
right and then you make the decision
based on your own story Jeff let's do
you want it do you want a role player do
you want it sure
Kate give me call this is this is me at
work and in my business okay hello oh hi
how are you good and you good good I'm
sorry I didn't I didn't catch your first
name my name is me me me that's an
interesting name where are you from from
here okay yeah
from here me from here okay so I I've
made a note now so that as the
conversation is going on because I want
to be a personable salesperson and and I
don't want to be just another
salesperson so I'm referring to you as
me yes and from here and and you know
how's the weather here and and you know
so having these discussions and so I'm
taking notes with every phone call every
and I take a lot of phone calls so as
the call comes in I'm taking quick
little scratch notes right those scratch
notes are one-off stuff that I don't
need to keep that I don't actually use
that I don't need to take you know scan
into my computer or anything like that
they're just one-off things so that I
can be a better salesperson so that I
can be a better and when I say that not
to be salesy but to be to be more
personable because I want to be that
person that is that I genuinely care
about you calling me about your needs
right so I want to I want you to feel
that hey I care all the time I go
through notepad after notepad at work to
important information in the moment that
I need to refer back to quit but then I
have to shred it because I work at a
clinic and it's patient confident like
if there's a name on it it's confident
I need to shred it so not only am I
wasting paper but I'm also you know
spending time shredding yeah exactly
okay so here's my scenario so I do this
and I and I scratch these notes and then
I take another call and I scratch more
notes and then I take another call and I
got more paper and I'm scratching these
notes and at the end of the day you know
it's it's ten minutes past the end of my
shift
I'm still on the phone phone calls over
and thanks have a nice day and I'm out
the door and you know cash out and go
right then the next day I'm adding more
notes more adding more notes and then
all of a sudden I'm like oh my goodness
this stack is like this I don't know
whether any of that is important so now
okay I'm gonna just phone's ringing I
got to keep going I got to keep going
right it's taking more now it's taking
more notes stacks getting bigger finally
I get around to going through and I
realize wow all this stuff is just
one-off scratch notes so I don't need
any of this I'm going through oh here's
a paper that I do need right and going
through the stack and I just wasted
maybe an hour or more okay doing that
but then I've got a stack of paper like
this right so under my desk I keep a box
so I'm doing this as to actually test
the theory under my desk I keep a box
for recyclables for shred and that box
is entirely full after just six months
right okay entirely full so you're
talking a heavy box that's full of eight
and a half by eleven pieces of paper
right that is just scratch notes just
scratch notes oh which are recyclable
though all of which are recyclable but
it's now a box yeah the environmental
impact sure fair enough right yes right
but really it builds up and it builds up
and it builds up and now I'm back to
building up building up building up now
that's under the desk
building up building ok so let's put a
stop to that so let's get some e paper
so I picked up two e paper tablets okay
to test rights and my theory was okay if
I have a small pocket one I can put this
in my shirt pocket at work and I can
take this to my meetings and I can
scratch notes at my meetings perfect
okay that's how much you pay attention
your meetings tiny little
is thinking oh for sure tiny attention
in the meeting I have an amazing memory
if I just scratch notes my scratchy
notes are just a bullet point and that's
an entire paragraph is it genius this is
not no but but that was okay so this one
I keep on my desk beside my phone now
I've been doing that for about two weeks
now okay I have no paper on my desk
none right not a one right because when
I finish my notes yes and then the call
is complete I push the button and it's
clear I'm getting myself one of these
absolutely okay and here's why okay I
just went for a team building in night
at an escape room and they had one of
these in the escape room and I was the
note-taker and so when you were finding
out you know clues and codes and trying
to decipher things I was using it and
then when we figured out that step I
would clear it and then start again
right and I loved it anymore right
somebody said to me well okay so you're
taking these phone notes right how do
you now transfer that to the computer
how do you now do something with that
and I say I don't need to know these are
my scratch notes now at the end of the
day I look over it and I see all these
and I scratch things out because it
works with my fingernails so let's
actually jump in here so that I can I
can show you this let's see I've got a
camera over here that will give you a
little bit of a better view so I can
take my notes here and I can actually
scratch them out with my finger so if
I've got a note I can cross it off like
that with my finger nice and easy I
don't even have to get the stylus out
okay and then to clear it I just hit the
button and now it's a clear tablet so if
I'm taking my notes so I've got my notes
here and then at the end of the day I've
got maybe one that is not scratched out
so I clear it and then I rewrite that
one at the top of the list right so I've
got a note here that says Jeff call and
now I know tomorrow that that's the
first thing that I need to do right and
then when I'm done that so this thing
gets full full full by the end of the
day and then I push that button and it's
clear again
it seems like such a simple thing but it
actually works
need I remind you sits on my desk beside
my phone not a single piece of notepaper
right okay the two different sizes one
for your pocket one for your desk yeah
have you found that one is more usable
over the other okay so here are a couple
of things that I've learned and things
that I would look out for as you're
shopping now we do carry these and I've
got a selection in our shop if you go to
cat5 dot TV / e paper you'll be able to
check them out but here's what I would
show you this one is a little bit larger
and it has one feature that the little
one does not
sighs so also stylus watch this so no
they both have a stylus okay they all
come with a stylus I don't see this task
oh so it's it's held in there fancy yeah
yeah so I'm gonna right away so here's
me these are incredible notes I can't
write upside down that's what it is no
medical script I'm gonna push the button
ready it's not working right right
because this one has data lock so that I
can't accidentally bump that because
there's a little tiny switch right here
that I can't rip at the beginning of the
day just to make sure that I don't
accidentally bump that button now at the
end of the day I can flip that switch
hit clear and it does it okay this one
here this one does not have a lock
button so no matter what if you
accidentally hit that button which I
have done because this is meant to go in
my pocket it's not ideal so you
definitely want to be more careful with
this one this one's got the lock so I'm
not kidding this would be super super
helpful at work I was perfect right oh
yeah
well people come in and they start
talking to you and you just jot down
boom boom boom boom or they're coming up
they're approaching and you say to your
coworker Oh what's her name again Oh
Lucy
right exactly then it's just sitting on
your desk oh hi Lucy right usually yeah
build customer service and report
exactly and usually it's things that I
don't need long term so I usually end up
writing something and then when it's
done I just scratch it out ya know even
as clear
paper laughs that is needed that is the
thing so for myself with my job yeah I
can't have short term paper well that's
not true I could I'm sure that a lot of
my notes yeah even if it's just a simple
phone call goes into a file for long
term information your government so this
would be totally useless from unless
there is the ability to download it
right these don't have that's right
that's right okay so for long term use
not such a great option but for short
roads not when it's for at all
so with this so I scratch things in and
if there's anything that I still need so
after a meeting for example these are my
notes so these are my scratch notes and
then I sit down the very first thing I
do when I sit at my desk is I set that
down and I type out the long form of my
scratch notes right and I emailed them
to the person I have the meeting with
Ryan I say thanks for meeting with me
here are my notes these are the things
that we discussed these are the things
that were we're going to be doing and
this is what I need from you this is
what you need from me and then clear
bright so and there are scenarios where
this is not ideal of course sure yeah of
course but for me and in this in again
in my environment it works perfectly so
I'm really really pleased with it it has
served its purpose if if if if it's not
clearing they do have a small battery
and like a like a watch battery some of
them have watch battery some of them
have like a cr2032 so you just have to
change that battery and it will still
work even without batteries but it will
not clear if it doesn't have batteries
right okay I want you to see something
here because I have a camera on my phone
so there is no ability to plug this into
a computer or Wi-Fi it for printing
purposes
correct correct because nothing like
that it's a strictly you see it's right
under and clear it right on it clear it
I want to see you you've drawn a
wonderful picture there say I am an
artist now I'm gonna be really clear
with this because it's a question that I
see it is kind of an FAQ on Amazon they
are not at all illuminated okay okay so
you cannot just like normal paper you
can't use them in the dark it doesn't
work right okay but if you do take a
picture and you want to use it use OCR
you can just take a picture and yeah
just email yourself yeah they were fine
so if you can get you can get these
they're only 15 bucks to maybe 25 bucks
for bigger better ones yeah they're
cheap and you can get them at camp five
dot TV slash ePaper
I think in in my case absolutely worth
the fifteen dollars that this posher
because now my desk looks neater I feel
better I feel decluttered and I feel
more organized right yes so it's a good
thing I like it now is maybe you don't
know the answer to this but is it made
of recyclable components like does it
say on it
Jeff that's a hard one because now this
is like PVC plastic okay so so this
would be shred yes that would be yeah so
it can be recycled the inner components
I don't know what they are I haven't
taken one apart there's steel screws the
satury of course you can take out and
for me right there I'm going alright now
it's a no-brainer because it's one thing
if you make something to get rid of
paper like oh you don't need all the
paper waste but by the way this is
totally non recyclable it's gonna take a
billion years and it's gonna ruin the
that's probably not the case you know
looking at the fact that you know this
is you know there are some recyclable
components Church oh great so even if it
does die you know it goes in the
recycling and you're not ruining the
environment that way so that right nine
times out of ten change the battery and
it's back to life Jeff right that's true
yeah good times I like it there you go
folks we're gonna be right back when we
come back we've got a camera for you
that is PTZ pan tilt and zoom IP camera
with ONVIF with optical zoom all this
stuff going on for it we're gonna show
you that in just a couple of moments
time but here's the thing the kicker
it's only 200 bucks stick around
[Applause]
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching it's all
about the PTZ for you and me the pizza
that puts how long have you been sitting
on that one about two seconds before I
said it came out a board sheet easy yeah
you know me okay so we we've already
covered the tablet now we're talking
about the PTZ camera oh this camera it's
been sitting in the studio for a while
has been here sometimes we don't always
get to review something right away right
but here it is this from Juan's cam and
this came to us a little while ago and
we've been using it because it has an
intervalometer feature that
automatically uploads a picture every
moment directly to an ftp server so
that's one of the beautiful features of
it yeah and so we've been using it to
post pictures on our website
automatically during a live show but we
finally wanted to actually review it and
show it to you so this is a it's metal
it is explosion-proof
in Italy it is tamper proof and vandal
proof huh suppose someone could
spray-paint it but I mean it is it's
they're getting it done it's it's
Wireless yeah it does have wireless
other than you're gonna need power right
so it hangs normally like this on a wall
right and it can be outside or inside
but it is waterproof and it is
whether proof and everything else and
it's only $200 now when you look at a
PTZ camera so when we say PTZ it is
really good I mean you think about it
okay this is a 1080p camera right when
you think about that it's in a metal
body it's cool you can set it up and set
it and forget it and it's 200 bucks
that's a great deal if you look at the
price of a good metal chassis
surveillance camera for example you're
gonna probably pay 150 to 200 dollars
just for that right
this being PTZ means pan tilt and zoom
so in software you can control where the
camera is looking you can zoom in on
things right so it's perfect for
surveillance but it's also great for
things like if you just want to set up a
shot and zoom in on something and then
let it take pictures that kind of thing
like a web cam it's fantastic yes like
the craziest web cam ever should we take
a look yes all right so I mentioned it
does need power a couple of things that
right off the bat are important to note
it does not support p o-- e out of the
box okay so how it but it does have
Ethernet this is something that is not
in the specifications it has Wi-Fi but
it also supports Ethernet so if you're
looking at it and you wonder oh I don't
want to use Wi-Fi for this I want to
actually hardwire it can I do that yes
it has an inline Ethernet port so that's
what we're using it effect to try it and
it has a 12 volt power input so being
that there is a 12 volt power input
right next to the Ethernet even though
it does not support power over ethernet
you can buy little adapters so we tried
that so we picked up a couple of
adapters that were for surveillance
camera power over ethernet exactly the
same kind of thing and has an Ethernet
and it splits out into power mm-hmm but
it didn't fit oh okay but we were able
to pump 12 volts through it but it
didn't fit so we headed over to the
local electronics center that is kind of
like the Radio Shack of days gone by
and they sell everything so we found the
jack and the plug and so we created with
my new soldering iron
we created an adapter that now adapted
that power over ethernet that little
three inch cable okay to fit into the
Wan scam and it works so we have
established we've created Power over
Ethernet for it for just a couple of
bucks and that's perfect so just make
sure though if you do that because power
over ethernet can be like 48 volts you
want to make sure that you don't
accidentally plug it into 48 volt port
because you're gonna be throwing 48
volts into that and I don't know what
that's going to do right it's a 12 volt
camera 2 amp so we're just using a
standard wall wart power adapter sending
that through the ethernet cable and
splitting it out at the end and there
you go chuckle mm-hmm so specification
wise it's plug in place so I plugged it
in tonight thinking I was gonna have to
do some setup and I didn't it would just
it worked the router found it DHCP gave
it an IP address and I was like whoa I
can actually do this
now what if you've got a password
protected oh you will oh well it's a set
it up on Wi-Fi yes you would okay but it
does support like like Wi-Fi automatic
detection and the gotcha okay so you can
be like what do you call that the Wi-Fi
but I don't know what's the button on
your router called sync no we'll go with
that though somebody will will fill us
in on what that's called
it's got 1080p video but it is and it's
up to 25 frames a second but it has
three simultaneous feeds coming out of
it at all times so three so 1080p and
then you can set the other two
resolutions to lower resolution that's
pretty typical of an IP camera so that
you can use a low resolution for say
surveillance and the high resolution for
video broadcasting or something like
that right so it goes up to 1080p and
then you've got two other resolutions to
deal with as well it has a two point
eight to twelve millimeter lens for our
photography fans out there with five
times optical zoom let's actually get in
on this so that you can see it a little
bit better
there you go so this is what she looks
like and that is optical zoom lens which
is exactly what you need because with
digital zoom it's gonna be very grainy
this is what you see when when somebody
breaks into a local shop and then the
police post on the Twitter account
here's a picture of the person and it's
just a bunch of blocks and you can't
understand what you're looking at right
that's because they've used digital zoom
now this is optical zoom so you can get
in there five times it's like a
telescope right right so it's very very
clear crystal clear in fact full 1080 P
even zoomed in and so no longer looks
like Steve from minecraft was I want to
rub your store at least then you could
track him down that's right yeah
as Jeff mentioned it's got 802 11 and
it's b/g/n Wireless so it isn't yep so
if you want to plug if you want to just
set it up and just power it from an
outlet you can use Wi-Fi to to do it so
you don't have to run any cables to it
or anything just you know plug it into
an outlet and you're good to go okay um
it has night vision as you can see
there's my biggest question yes so there
it is I know we're a little bit out of
focus this is autofocus on this camera
I'm gonna just cover the night vision
sensor you can see that the night vision
LEDs have come on so there are six
high-powered LEDs and they're quick to
come on quick to turn off and that works
really well as well right so when the
lights are off it automatically turns
those those on and switches to night
vision what is the range for night
vision do you know that I do not know
specifications will probably be online
but in any room that I've plugged it
into it's been fantastic yeah as far as
field of view perfect once you get out
around the edges you start to get some
vignette II
pomping out on the edges right but but
it works really well in the in the line
of sight at least so that's good because
I know security cameras that I've
installed in the past that have night
vision mm-hmm they say oh it's good for
like 30 feet but 30 feet out you can't
really see anything it's like god did I
just see it ghost maybe I don't know
you know an assessment that's like that
yeah exactly unless you get with like
within five feet of it and then the body
glows because just that sensor isn't
quite right and that's been on super
night-vision cameras so that's that's
exciting that you got a good quality
camera with a nice night vision
absolutely and and another nice feature
Jeff you think about okay well what
happens if internet goes down what if
the what if it loses connection to the
Wi-Fi or the Ethernet what happens it
has a built-in SD card reader it's
hidden within the unit so you can't
actually access it like somebody
couldn't go up to the camera and take
the SD no they you have to take it apart
to get to the SD card reader so then you
think oh that's a lot of work to put an
SD card and it supports up to 128 gigs
so what they've done is they've included
a 16 gig card in there so it's already
ready so you can set it to automatically
record to the card or automatically take
a picture every five seconds and it will
automatically save that to the SD card
and then roll them over so that if
something happened you can just access
them through your browser or unplug the
camera and take the SD card out and
you're good right so I just noticed in
this this is what I love about the chat
room we're talking in the show and
people are like oh I'm gonna get this
very oh you know it's 80 meters infrared
oh thank you
fantastic that's really impressive it's
this is impressive all around like when
I say this is only $200 if you look at
PTZ cameras of this grade you can pay
upwards of 1200 to 12,000 yeah usually
you're in around the the $1,500 range
for that kind of thing so that's why I'm
just kind of going through I'm going
through the bullet list of features so
that you understand how cool this is pan
355° tilt 90 degrees so that's like all
the way up down okay and then 200 and or
355° pan I mentioned it's waterproof
I mentioned ONVIF support now that's
important that's the open network video
interface for them yes they created a
protocol to to make it so that cameras
it was like a spec for cameras to be
able to communicate with hardware right
so what it means to us is that with
ONVIF
because this camera supports it as soon
as you plug it into your network your
DVR will see it if you have a non
variant DVR if you want to install an
envelope on your phone you can actually
bring up the camera and control the PTZ
through your phone through and through
any ONVIF app that's the thing it's not
it's not proprietary so you're not
having to look at this and say oh it's
it's a Chinese camera and we're we're
not gonna be able to find the right
software for it no no it supports on
Biff so that means it's open so you can
use any ONVIF compatible software right
awesome yes cool all right but can it
make you breakfast
just wait yes oh wait no oh but when I'm
talking about on if it can even connect
to tell a stream Wirecast okay because
yeah because it uses ONVIF now there is
latency so you're not gonna use it as a
live cam per se but if I just kind of
set that right here and I just switch
over like this so then I'm actually
looking and you can see there is latency
there but we can see this is what the
camera is now I'm a lower bitrate here
there you go there it is and we're gonna
take a real take a screen shot if you
don't have a server for people to be
able to use as a webcam it can support
up to six simultaneous connections okay
so that also means six apps six
different computers connecting to it and
stream right and so you don't have to
have like a big server environment or
anything to use it is there a microphone
did I miss that I don't know if there is
now I've seen that there are audio
settings but I've never got audio out of
it okay personally I truly feel like if
you are the sort of person who does a
lot of ordering on you know Amazon
mm-hmm any of our partner links and you
get things delivered to your house this
should be one of the things that you buy
because I feel like if you had it set up
then you would at least have a picture
so you can see what's going on all right
absolutely should we take a look at the
interface yes okay so this is what we
see now the camera is on my eye it's on
my IP block because I got DHCP from my
CP server so I just got that by logging
into my router now out of the box I'm
going to type admin admin to connect
pretty standard yeah and it does nothing
nothing because I'm in Chrome so I need
to allow flash to run here oh okay so
it's flash based yeah no it's not flash
based but the web interface in order to
see the camera is using a flash media
player so add my IP address 192.168.0.1
oh nine and add that so now if I jump
back here and refresh oh yeah there you
go so now if you look can you see my
mouse cursor over here so I can actually
control the camera like this now I've
got it sitting in an odd spot because
because it's meant to be hanging on a
wall it's not meant to be sitting on its
butt so when I click on right it's
actually kind of tilting instead of
turning but let's actually I'm going to
show you what that what that looks like
so as I'm clicking around in the
software here I'm just going to click on
the automatic calibrate so that you can
see the motors actually moving this
camera around okay okay
and it's also automatically zooming in
and out and things like that I'm going
to show you that in a moment let's bring
this back over here and jump back to our
let's see G there we go so this is now
in the software yeah okay I feel like
there is no reason why Dave's not
getting this for Christmas okay so this
is an expensive show for me this is a
very expensive show how dare I show you
all these really cool things right so it
looks great there is a latency there on
Telestream Wirecast
but it is or at least I'm going on Biff
to the web browser my mistake to switch
right over to Telestream Wirecast looks
like this so this is directly on vith
over the ethernet to Telestream Wirecast
this is ONVIF to my laptop so I
currently have two simultaneous
connections
okay so quickly through the settings
because I am conscious of time but I
jump into the settings so that I can
show you because one of the things about
these kinds of devices is to get on to
these websites like gearbest and you
look at the the device and there's not
really good information necessarily
available and they're not made here in
the United States of America so you
can't really get that information from
yeah so I'm gonna show you what this is
like
so jumping over to the interface first
screen I see that there is an SD card
inserted and it is 16 gigs I can format
that this came with it I did not install
this now let's go into time set I can
set my time zone to NTP so I can choose
an NTP server which means it's going to
automatically set the clock based on the
time zone that I select so I'm going to
select Eastern Time and I'm gonna use
let's try time nist.gov automatically
adjust clock what time if we got right
now the clock is actually it's already
correct so I'm going to hit apply so is
that just picking it up off your network
time it may because I do see an option
sync with PC time but I didn't click on
that but it's possible that it came set
properly I
but yes now I've got it set to NTP so
it's going to get it off the internet go
into video settings this is where you
can see the three different profiles
that I was talking about first profile
resolution is 1920 by 1080 is the
default and you can go down to 720p
bitrate was defaulted to like 6000 I
turned it down for tonight's
demonstration because I didn't want to
be maxing out our internal bandwidth
frame rate now they set up to 25 but I
see up to 30 hello so that's good I will
definitely I will just set that why not
okay key frame interval 60 I'm gonna
leave that as is constant bitrate or
variable bitrate variable bitrate is
going to if there's not a lot of motion
it's going to use less bandwidth so
leave that active unless you want every
single frame to be constant you can go
CBR that's what that means video code
quality the smaller the value the better
the image quality lower
floo larger flow control so if you're
having trouble with the stream maybe you
want to increase the compression so that
it's a smaller stream and not using as
much bandwidth second stream you can go
640 by 350 to 320 by 176 or d1 or CIF
which are standards used by your DVRs
for surveillance purposes and again that
does look like it goes up to 30 frames a
second and you can set the variable
bitrate now the third stream is not
letting me set the resolution it's set
hard to 320 by 176 great for little
thumbnails or if you just want to keep
an eye on things on your phone and use
very little bandwidth that's cool on
screen display time on screen camera
name and what I want the camera name to
be so if you look at the camera here I'm
gonna jump back to Telestream Wirecast
you see IP camera up at the top left so
I'm gonna turn off on screen display
time and on screen display name so I've
just unchecked those and then I'm gonna
click on apply so if I jump back here to
the camera hit apply let's see if oh and
it says frame rates oh it does say the
frame rate is over 25 so it is in fact
heart set to 25 so let's fix that
good to know right I mean we saw it
there don't want to make the assumption
okay so now apply and jump back to our
camera and you see that it's not clean
output how do you like that right okay
next screen here we've got audio
settings see Jeff but I don't know where
audio type g.711 now these are standards
for surveillance systems so I guess
you'd have to buy like a surveillance
right microphone okay so these options I
don't know I don't ever use on camera
microphones ever right but those are the
options that are there audio output
audio output for the third stream and
second stream input options are line in
or mic and then you've got the volume
controls as well just tabs record
settings I can automatically record at
certain times of the day so if I want
scheduler yeah it does not look like it
has motion sensing but it will allow me
to record based on
time now you notice too you can choose
which stream you want so I can record at
full 1080p to my sd card or I can turn
it down and use less space get more
recordings by using the second stream or
if you're crazy you just want a
thumbnail size thing you can do the
third stream automatically email
yourself with pictures it will actually
take a picture and send it to you and it
has SMTP settings here you can set the
port so that's good safe like you can
actually use encryption so that's good
looks like it'll support pretty much
anything that you want to throw at it so
if you want to set up Gmail to be your
SMTP server that's good this is what I
love is the ftp intervalometer so you
can set your FTP address and username
and password and tell it where you want
to store it and it will automatically
upload a picture from the camera at the
interval that we set in the software ok
ha so full 1080p picture
boom up on a server I love that great
that I should say is perfect not just
for don't think about surveillance for
that but as a webcam yeah take a picture
every tell it take a picture every five
seconds put it on my FTP and then just
link to the latest picture every time
and just have JavaScript or jQuery
refresh the image wouldn't that be cool
all right so system log
there's my log you can see that the RTM
to RTSP connected that's the on deaf
network settings this is where you can
set whether you want DHCP or fixed IP
where you want to get your IP DNS what
ports you want to use RTSP port for the
server and remember the server's
built-in that's brilliant wireless
that's your Wi-Fi Jeff so that's where
you're going to get it right you can set
it up here you can presumably search for
nearby networks but you're gonna know
your network ID doesn't seem to detect
ours but it may be hidden let's see ok
ddns that's cool
so that means you can have like a calm
and use dns settings to automatically
reroute the traffic cool cruise laps
that is for PTZ when you first turn it
on its going to move around through the
settings like the pan tilt zoom it's
going to move
how fast you want it to be whether you
want to send her after the self-check
that's what I meant that's the self
check how many times you wanted to lap
and then close the alarm
while PTZ movement that one I'm not
familiar with I don't know what that is
we can guess close the alarm maybe it
has connections to the DVR or something
like that that one I don't know okay
user settings
those are your users to log into the
interface you're going to want to change
those what you want to do factory reboot
upgrade the firmware and all that kind
of stuff I've never done it on VF is on
by default so I was able to pull it into
Telestream Wirecast no problem
and then you can set these settings as
needed Auto snap the Sasha this is where
we tell it hey we want to take a picture
every 60 seconds and we want to save a
picture to the FTP every second 60
seconds or to the card so I can set that
to to every 10 seconds and I can upload
it to FTP just like that okay and then
that's it that's it so there we go so
that's the interface that comes with it
now we've got brightness controls and
everything else over here so I said that
there's pan tilt zoom I showed you the
pan and tilt that's exciting but where's
the zoom right this web browser
interface I don't see it anywhere right
so what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna use a
program called ONVIF device manager it's
a free download you can install it on
any Windows system now that's just again
this is just one piece of software that
I've I'm using because I'm on Windows
you can use any ONVIF software so you
see that it's already detected the
camera now if I click on PTZ control
it's going to timeout you notice that
there's no picture and that's because I
have not logged in with the cameras
username and password so I need to up
here admin admin is the default login
now when I go to that camera it's going
to login and I can go PTZ control and
I'm actually going to see the camera
itself and there's very little latency
on that version that's pretty cool so
I've got I can move up and down I can
set presets over on the left hand side
here which is great if you want to set
different zones and then ready for it
yep
zoom
look at that zooming in on my shoulder
very nice shoulder by the way thank you
thank you very TV where there you go so
there's our zoom yeah you mentioned
about doing the firmware update one of
the questions we had from the chat room
is how often do they do firmware up -
idea because I've never done it ok and
it's worked out of the box perfectly
fine for me it's operating behind my
firewall so I control whether it has
outside access or not and how it
accesses things
it supports TLS over SMTP so smart TLS
and so alright I don't I don't know how
often they release firmwares because
I've never looked for one but you can
you can search for that but how's that
for 200 bucks that's not bad
amazing Wow Wow folks it slices it dices
it makes lasagna
it's a PTZ camera from cat 5 dot TV / PT
z yes cool there how awesome right now I
want one this is this happens a lot want
everything that we have here I kind of
feel like half the reviews we do or just
to get Sacha to buy it it really mean
it's fun for Dave VR headset sweet
what's Dave doing tonight playing VR
Missy oh yeah yeah you don't say I
definitely know that's exactly what he's
doing that's pretty much where he lives
in the alternate universe wait you've
got your own like cameras and everything
now oh no no need
Sony all right okay I I know it's time
for the it's time here it comes
here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom Intel
effector soft have revealed yet another
Spectre in meltdown vulnerability the
University of Greenwich has been
find 120,000 pounds by the Information
Commissioner social networking giant and
market leaving data broker Facebook is
once again taking heat for playing fast
and loose with its access to personal
information and YouTube is launching a
music streaming service offering both
videos and audio tracks in an attempt to
compete with the likes of Spotify and
Apple music these stories are coming
right up don't go anywhere
Geoff Westin Gemma you're building a
brand new beautiful website what are you
you're a terrible actor
what does where acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay I'm building
a really cool website are you building a
really cool website just because Jeff is
confused doesn't mean you have to be
visit cap five dot TV slash dream host
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
dream host this is the category five dot
TV newsroom covering the week's top tech
stories with a slight linux bias I'm
Sacha Rickman in here the top stories
were following this week on Monday Intel
and Microsoft disclosed a newly found
variant of the spectre and meltdown
security flaws revealing another
vulnerability in chips used in hundreds
of millions of computers and mobile
devices Intel is calling the new strain
variant for while this latest variant
taps into many of the same security
vulnerabilities that were first revealed
in January it uses a different method to
extract sensitive information specter
and meltdown have continued to haunt
companies like Intel arm and AMD which
have produced chips with the flaws from
for everything from computers and
laptops to mobile devices the
vulnerabilities which could allow
attackers to read sensitive confirm a
on your CPU affected hundreds of
millions of chips from the last two
decades while companies like Intel Apple
and Microsoft have issued updates to
patch the flaws the fixes haven't always
worked as intended sometimes causing
computer problems hackers often scour
online for vulnerabilities that will
allow the Macario to tax the wanna cry
ransomware attack for example took
advantage of Windows computers whose
owners never implemented a Microsoft
patch the newly found variant uses
something called speculative store
bypass which could allow your processor
to load sensitive data to potentially
insecure spaces in the u.s. certs
advisory officials said that the new
flaw would enable attackers to read
older memory values on your CPU the
company said that it hasn't actually
seen this vulnerability vulnerability
used by hackers and that it's releasing
a complete fix for the flaws in the
coming weeks Intel's executive vice
president of security Leslie Culbertson
said in a post that Intel has already
made the update available for
manufacturers and software vendors don't
be deceived by marketing talk however it
looks like the patch will indeed affect
performance while Intel says that they
don't expect the patch to affect
computer performance they have
acknowledged that performance on the
company's test systems dropped between
two and eight percent after applying the
patch the fix is designed to be turned
off by default according to Intel and
it'll be up to vendors to enable it it's
kind of scary a little bit when you
think that so many systems are
vulnerable again still yeah always I
thought they'd fix this they I guess
they don't fix these things so it's out
and they sell them with it turned off so
if you're a vendor why would you turn it
on if it's going to affect performance
right it should that's it they want
their complaints to be super fast out
the gate right and then oh well you
might want to enable that feature to
protect yourself against this so that
it's you that's making your computer
80% slower I feel like there's gonna be
these legal disclaimers where hey buy
this computer that's got these amazing
speeds and then the fine print is if you
turn off these volar or fix these
vulnerabilities you'll actually lose 30%
speed capacity years yeah they shouldn't
it's false advertising they shouldn't be
selling an unsafe system they should if
the patch is available there should be
some sort of legal obligation to have it
the default as on so that you're
accepting responsibility if you turn it
off not the other way around right then
how do you market a machine and say hey
this is a slow machine but by making it
insecure you could speed it up yeah get
an 8% that's the new turbo button folks
turn off your protections I remember
when the computers had the little knob
for like hyper-threading I think it was
where you'd like overclocking
overclocking that's what it was where
you had a knob for overclocking yeah I
remember buying a computer chassis that
there was a little knob that I could
turn and I could take my CPU into I
think it's 120 percent over wow I've
never seen it doesnõt now I had the
turbo button on my old old old XT
systems a little you just turn it and I
would I would watch the performance go
up to max about 125 percent Wow so so do
we just have to sit back and wait for
patches or is there anything that we can
do to know whether or not they're so
vulnerable especially we are kind of at
the mercy of the manufacturers I mean
intel has released the patches to the
vendors right but the vendors now have
to create the patches to deploy on the
system so whether that means firmware
updates where you need to actually you
know patch your bios or whether it means
windows updates that break some things
and degrade performance but at least
protect you against this kind of a
threat and Linux is already patched
against it that's yeah but we're at
their mercy like it's not like you can
just you can't scrap a screwdriver and
fix this no it's an on-chip flaw so it's
scary it really is yeah if you let it
scare you I mean if you're like let it
scary me Jeff why should it should scare
you but if you are like if you
being proactive to search at these
patches in these fixes and you're aware
of it you take precautions to the best
extent possible to protect your data I
mean it's just being conscious there's
no need I mean there's if you think
about it everything in in our world
that's internet-based could be used to
compromise your security in some way or
form
nobody is 100% secure so I mean you
could live in fear or you could say you
know what I recognize the fact that I
didn't make this somebody else did and
when there's a human touch there's a
flawed process to it right but the part
that makes me uncomfortable is the part
that they're selling these chips knowing
the patches they're knowing the
protection is there and turning it off
giving the power to the vendors to turn
it on but how different than an auto
manufacturer who knows that there's an
issue with saying if the car will
explode by default but you if you flip
the switch well no but I mean like if
you know that there say like a brake
vulnerability there is from a
probability standpoint and does the auto
manufacturer pay to have this recall and
replace these 15 million parts or do
they just let it go and pay out the
insurance what are you saying it's Intel
should recall Intel processors know but
wouldn't that be neat but I mean at some
point they're gonna go it's just not
worth it I mean you see that with
Windows all the time we're no longer
gonna support this and I think it's I
mean I believe Intel's got a list on
where they don't support they're not
even gonna fix it because it's just they
can't fix it
but it's and and so that raises an
interesting point in that are we going
to come into this place where it's going
to become a big issue and then all of
these old processors and they're not
even old at this point like the modern
processor are going to be not supported
because it's susceptible to that right
does it drive you into purchasing
something new yeah
oh absolutely we're always pushed to buy
something new that's is like y2k all
over again so in this case now the new
processors the next gen processors from
Intel in the next quarter of 2018
they're meant to be patched against a
dynamo if the whole line is going to be
or not
but right now the best thing you can do
Sasha is make sure that your operating
system is up-to-date that doesn't matter
if you're on Mac Windows Linux make sure
you've got the latest version in all the
patches right make sure that your
software is up-to-date things like your
web browser you may not think oh I need
to make sure that Chrome is the latest
version and if you do then it is also
patched against meltdown inspector so
you want to make sure that those things
are patched all of your software is up
to date and boy what a task that's why I
love Linux cuz sudo apt upgrade enter
done problem solved
Linux just a little bit all right
the University of Greenwich has been
fined one hundred and twenty thousand
pounds by the Information Commissioner
roughly 160,000 us for a data breach
that happened 14 years ago define was
for a security breach in which the
personal data of nineteen thousand five
hundred students was placed online the
data included the names addresses dates
of birth phone numbers signatures and in
some cases physical and mental health
problems it was uploaded on to a
microsite for a training conference in
2004 which was then not secured or
closed down the information commissioner
said that Greenwich was the first
University to receive a fine under the
Data Protection Act of 1998 and
described the breach as serious in a
statement the University said that it
would not appeal against the decision it
said that it had carried out an
unprecedented overhaul of its data
protection and security systems since
the discovery of the breach in 2016 and
it had invested in both technology and
staff it has also said the fine would be
reduced to 96 thousand pounds with a
prompt payment discounts they understand
what they did was wrong that's lovely
whoops however what I find interesting
about this is they discovered it in 2016
you said and it was 14 years ago that's
a long data trail yeah like oh yeah who
knows what it's been done with
I think it was just like it was a it was
a block of information for a conference
right I don't think it was excellent 97
students or something like that yeah
well I'm not like so furious for years
of information for sure
I just I wonder really about the fact
that we don't know what information of
ours is out there if a situation like a
university has that like I went to
college I went to university I right so
what of my information is needed
information about my limp
so if say say I say I did have a mental
health issue right theories oh now I'm
picturing a whole new kind of identity
theft
yeah I'm Robbie I just I just worry
about the fact like what is it that we
can do at this point other than what by
identity theft protection and even in
that case yeah really
I think it's you're sure where it is
foolish like I'm laughing about it but
it's not a laughing matter but it is
it's gotten foolish but how much
information like it's it's 2018 so
people are way more security conscious
about their data now than they were five
years ago ten years ago 14 years ago I
mean like I was looking myspace the
other day somebody mentioned somebody
said my speech you were looking at
myspace in 2018 but I'm like is this
like retro gaming to you sort of but
like him on mice I had a myspace account
did you know DJ Robbie F had at myspace
account here's the crazy part I was able
to log into my account
oh my information you remembered your
password believe it or not yes I
remember password i sat last week back
then in time I had a system for
passwords that apparently is stood the
test of time because my
remembered it it's not a super secure
password Jeff space No
one two three but anyway but I was
thinking about that going okay how much
information if we already put on the net
that I can't believe I just called it
the net that's a throwback to as well
but how much information have we already
put out that you didn't think about 15
years ago right but there is information
that you you really wouldn't voluntarily
give for example if there's mental
health issues or physical disabilities
that you didn't want you know disclosed
we're looking at an internet back then
that didn't have encryption and didn't
have this is this is like they would put
it online for the staff to have access
to like an intranet that is accessible
from home right oh it's so Airy but then
someone along the way forgot about it
and here we are 2016 realizing oh 20 hey
that nobody in 2016 is when they
discovered it yeah so somebody like was
like logging into my space in 2016 and
they're like oh what other old things oh
there's this old intranet system and
let's check oh oh right right well
that's funny because like if where we
are right now we're going through an
election for our government and I'm
thinking about like social media is used
all the time to burn candidates and how
much information could be out there from
eons ago they you don't realize it's
like oh I'm gonna run for office it's
like hey did you know 23 years ago you
that's like right like that how far back
are you gonna be able to claw your data
if it's gone oh you can't to a certain
degree I mean all you could do is
protect yourself and be smart moving
forward and hope that the companies that
you've entrusted your data with are not
going to be sharing it with Cambridge
analytical right but in this case then
would it be beneficial to get something
like identity theft insurance
right click identity theft is the big
issue it's more it is an issue but I
don't think it's a big issue I think
it's the identity marketing that's the
big issue today is you re marketed
product I'm not as weird as it sounds
I'm not as worried about my identity
theft as I am about being categorized as
a commodity to be marketed to Who I am
as a person is a marketing item I mean
the fact that Facebook has all those
categories and and people are buying me
they're buying my information so that
they can market to me but all my web
access all of my apps everything that I
do that is on the internet has created a
store so to speak that was Jeff you're
scaring me man you know this is the real
real reason why I haven't done one of
those DNA tests like the 23andme I
really really flawed I know I know but
it's the reason things aren't secure
enough yet and I don't want to do throw
my DNA out there somewhere we're in a
world now that is AI and machine
learning and think about and I don't
know we're not gonna discuss it because
we're we're not getting into conspiracy
theories but if you think about what
could become of this world yep with the
information that's available when
machine learning and AI does not sleep
right exactly what's that we're just
gonna move on there
eagle-eye yeah check that out blow your
mind I'm into having my mind blown
social networking giant and market
leading data broker Facebook is once
again taking heat for play fast and
loose with its access to personal
information oh no I thought we were done
never it's our weekly Facebook story
this time it's the Facebook Android app
that is under the spotlight after folks
notice it it requesting an extraordinary
amount of access privileges specifically
requesting super user access to a device
granting it full control over a handheld
for Android devices the super user
classification would basically grant an
app full access to the device and data
stored on it
researchers who have examined androids
code have suggested it could be due to
the SDKs used by some Neath new features
Facebook has since posted a statement
saying a coding error in one of our
anti-fraud systems caused a small number
of people running the Facebook app and
certain permissions management apps on
rooted android phones to see a request
for additional access permissions we do
not need or want these permissions and
we have already fixed this issue we
apologize for any confusion the
situation is reminiscent however of the
2016 findings of Facebook's app was
getting microphone access for the
placement of ads and comes at a
potentially bad time for Facebook who is
trying to regain trust of its users
after the recent revelation surrounding
Cambridge analytic ah then there done
that yeah it's a security talk right
exactly so it was in probably the list
of things of the service terms and you
just agreed to it and now this is like
super user access like it needs an
access to the super user account which
means it can install things that can
delete things that can change things can
monitor things it can do everything with
your system once you delete the app does
it's still linked then presumably it
would be gone but but it had super user
access it could install things in the
backend right but on some smartphones
like I have an Android and I could not
delete Facebook the app itself you
cannot delete it and disabled but you
cannot delete so if you have granted it
access at any point I admit I am a
person who just presses OK
like I don't read through 27 pages of
the senior posts right so I don't even
have Facebook anymore but at some point
I did accept the terms and conditions I
cannot delete Facebook from my phone see
the app but that brings up a
rate idea is if at any point you can
contact the company and say I no longer
agree to the terms and conditions and
what would that have on them that would
be an interesting legal test to see I no
longer agree to this which means they
can no longer do what they wanted you
silently disappear disagreed with
Facebook's licensing terms
he's been deleted I was reading this
week that I believe it's Apple is
allowing you to download everything that
they have about you hmm
they want to be transparent in light of
Cambridge analytic and we're and that's
exactly it
could you imagine if Facebook's said
we're gonna release all of our
information about you people would just
their minds would explode with all even
just seeing what they do give access to
is mine well I think we did that we did
that yeah yeah yeah but tip of the
iceberg part but that was scary enough
right so just the fact that the fact
that they have even more and that they
have access to everything potentially
they have access to everything on my
phone right even though I with this with
these permission I feel like I'm safe
because I've deleted my facebook but I I
know that we're talking about in the
chatroom but I was thinking about as
you're reading the story have you seen
the movie the circle no watch it okay
and then just replace the circle with
Facebook right okay so I'll never sleep
again yes okay so we we don't have time
for any more stories so that's it that's
the news for this week whoa Madge
Annette that's what happens when we talk
yeah yeah so we're gonna talk will bring
up the YouTube music store next next
week it's not happening just the I mean
it's happening but it's launching its
launching it has not launched will it
happen Canada in the US but yeah we're
gonna bring it up next week maybe maybe
maybe we'll have some early access that
would be kind of would be so super cool
now can you do your extra without
without patella problem thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
and thanks bro aw Nash in our community
of viewers for submitting stories to us
this week slight linux bias thanks time
thank you for watching everybody
she says I'm Robbie have a great week
everybody thank you so much for being
here with us and we will see you next
next week yes good night
