we've got tally aka Mangal Fox 70
joining us from the pixel shadow at mine
test TV and can you introduce yourself
Lua yeah and yeah I'm Noah and I'm a
youtuber and my channel is gaming with
no addition I only have 26 subscribers
but I do use this capper card right here
the elgato 60 so this is pretty neat can
I get a look at this yeah sure so you've
started recording to to this guy yeah I
can't really record on because of my
laptop assist each flow to handle it
mm-hmm
but it's aged so do you plug it like a
Wii into it or something like that no
you see the HDMI in this goes from this
to the console this is a USB he tell you
to use dat to plug into your computer
you of course have to install the
software and then the HDMI code goes
into the TV so this works as this is not
a hard drive this is an actual capture
device that lets you record ya on your
computer from your console issue
basically the best one it's record 1080p
HD feature frames per second my hands
and that yeah and this little board over
here is like a headphone jack so you can
hear from the HDMI converts it to analog
that's cool because HDMI is a digital
signal so this is this is like an inline
capture device so rather than having to
get a big computer that's super powerful
that you can record to that has a bunch
of HD I encourage you at least 5
gigabytes of RAM to a smart runner no 5
5 8 gig boost my brand gigs yeah wow you
got my one help me psyche so if you have
a four gig computer which is having
typical then you don't have enough RAM
usually a lot usually awesome we do
things a little differently on the pixel
shadow which is kind of neat because we
have the computer here right that scale
and we have HDMI output that goes
directly into our broadcast server so
it's a little bit different and maybe
you want to bring up
one of the games what when do you want
to show us first mind test okay so yeah
everybody knows what minecraft is but
people say and you have this question
like what's mine test yeah I played it I
played it yeah so what what's the
difference tally between minecraft and
mine time well they're relatively
similar games neither one of them is a
copy of each other when most people
think that line tested is repulsive to
Minecraft you're actually both inspired
by a game and I forget the name but it
was a voxel sandbox oh yeah cool but
they're both faced off with that and
they're pretty similar by capitalism how
are they different like why why would
you want to buy minecraft when you can
get mind test for free it's basically a
an open-source alternative for Minecraft
has this thing called redstone supposed
to be probably know where people can
create mini games where there's like
timers and ways to make you follow the
rules in mind test there's no such thing
as red so many people can't make mini
games like so does that mean that on
minecraft there's a lot of minigames but
online tests maybe not so much that the
idea you play a lot of mini games online
crafty I do that yeah I mostly play my
servers on there's a server called
hypixel diems did the IPAs and he'll
have excellent men and and my rank you
can get ranks on it I got the best
French MVP plus - no way
- MVP plus players here folks very cool
stuff
what does that mean No look at me
yeah it's a ranking and like it's like
the best rank you can get six week
you're like right up there with the NPD
M no yeah you - great
yeah I drank Joff a dozen and bp+ yeah
yeah he has he has a few followers I
think
ya know it's fun for you I need KPIs
almost 15 knowing subscribers yeah Wow
okay well let's get a look here I'm
gonna just get you online see what's
going on so can you show us a little bit
of game footage what do you think maybe
a local game are you going to actually
go online okay make sure you select a
server make sure you select a server
because you're connecting to an internal
IP address IP or address sobbing our
servers
okay I think that's right everybody's
got mine test TV okay yeah it looks
right so basically in my test there's
some really great creators into rebel
service because there's this mod called
the area's mod which minecraft of an ass
minecraft there's a lot of great really
cuz it doesn't have more pods like how
do you protect your build well in
minecraft in vanilla you just have to
like spectacular lava oh okay but my
minecraft detecting there is protecting
laws but it's not as good as one really
okay so mine tests has got a one-up on
areas that's cool that means that if you
build something so if you build a really
cool structuring you're taking a lot of
time to do it what happens if somebody
then destroys it on you well so you're
connected here you're on
on minecraft you can you didn't call
trust players trust play okay it's a
little bit different so this is my in
test we're looking at so is this what
the world train looks like with mod
usually my minecraft is a game where
it's got lots of blocks and many vials
remind us in the vanilla version of the
game it doesn't really have too many
blocks is the basic blocks you okay back
there is analogy and it's nice for that
you can add mods to customize it to your
liking like in Minecraft it's already
got all these biomes and stuff but in
mind test you can choose what files and
module box you want and of course here
connecting to our server which you can
find out more at mine test TV but having
connected to the server
these are mods that have been
pre-configured by category 5 in order to
make it playable for you so there you go
so should we take a quick boo at
minecraft just having seen mine test now
can't we show what the bills sure
because they'll be interesting to see
you know how do the two voxel games
differ
no what does that look pretty similar to
Minecraft to you oh yeah yeah but there
are some differences yeah like the
graphics and I think texture packs has a
big part to do with that - eh yeah
texture packs fly they like sometimes
they can only change some blocks but a
lot of the time texture packs exchange
like every single to like like change
like all the blocks with Yayoi packs are
like mini texture packs resource packs
I'm only change something okay I'm
thinking of the Lego server you can
actually connect a mind test on TPS Lego
and it looks like everything is built
out of Lego so if you're a lego fan it's
a lot of fun as well so this is this is
spawn very cool
someone's trying to talk but I'm on the
air so basically this is the weird spawn
I mean what oh you can tell it textures
are pretty similar to Minecraft
is big differences in mind yes you can
enable connected glass because in
minecraft glass looks kinda weird
well it's always framed yes that
occasionally if you put two blocks right
next to each other you'll still see the
frame like a hole connected like one big
window mm okay so that's kind of a bonus
looks thanks for anyways it doesn't
matter what texture Packer I'm going to
get happen with reading text Rebecca
research books there are both the other
players have made because wow the area
is making challenges like this and
they've made roads connecting officials
basically this is the creative services
also it's evadne one right around right
now this is me too because it's very
collaborative so you're connected to a
server where you can play with other
players and and you can you can build
things together you can play together
that's pretty neat okay could we take a
quick boo at minecraft and see what that
looks and how it differs so if we just
exit out of that game and see this one
so what do you focus on on your channel
so we have pretty much focus on mine
mind test I know that you've done some
minecraft video yeah I I do like the
multiple gaming begins like that most of
it is minecraft but but there is some
other stuff on there and you've been
teaching other people how to get started
with their own channels I see yeah I had
a study had a Sony gaming channel how to
change your channel name huh how do you
capture card mm so where do you get your
tech tech knowledge where do you get
your inspiration from for learning about
tech cat and gadgets and gizmos and you
obviously have a really firm grasp of
the technologies that you're dealing
with what do you mean well what do you
mean like talking about this like you
understand HDMI inputs and outputs yeah
a lot of kids your age won't won't know
what that means it's just because like I
use consoles and a lot of them have HDMI
ports oh and your folks let you do all
the wiring yourself and yeah yeah let's
remember when I first moved into my new
house I look like I I used to have like
an Xbox 360 Wii U Wii oh well I still
have my wii u mo
and my gamecube gaming has has inspired
you to learn about the technology and
how to make it work
yeah pretty much very cool and I notice
things like you you started by holding a
camera in front of your screen and then
you got video capture software on the
iPhone and then you step things up to
this capture device and everything yeah
maybe they have to and also yeah you
have to install a software yeah yeah
make sense absolutely
R&amp;I your computer are you set and ready
to go show us a little bit about how
minecraft differs here so you're
actually are you connecting to a server
yeah all right we'll jump in and let's
let's get a quick boot that's how I cook
you the server was like 36 players to
36,000 please 36,000 players yeah
what a lovely memory right now so that
definitely is a little different from
mine test because mine test doesn't have
anywhere near that many people connected
all one yeah yeah my cup is more popular
mm-hmm and minecraft came out before my
test pretty sure yeah I think I think
you're right I think you're right thank
you my only sin similar time like you
came out 2010 alter all right minecraft
came out it doesn't Ken okay I'm not
sure when mine test first came out but
it has alot some we been improving okay
looks freaking so pretty much the same
stuffing I made myself good he kept
joined well that's going to be someone
on if I'm luck
I need anything else that we'd like to
share about minecraft vs. mine test
well basically right on a scarlet
officers that would this is a minigame
as you have mini India where you
basically have your own plot and you can
build your own houses people can come in
both to your house you and look okay
you unlock blocks to use in your house
is like like after you play for a while
and we'll give you your bling called
mystery boxes in the server and then
like you open it and you get random
stuff Nick
alright well thank and uh if you have a
four or five star when you don't have a
rank
and open it for a fourth-story you need
up give me at your MVP plus rent yeah
but for like the before I had an MVP
plus I had a VIP plus but yeah I'm in
the street loans way up the four-star
ones can only have VIP and up and and
the five-star one can only have MVP and
up cool well kids I'm a GP plot site I
can use I can go for it yeah guess
there's restaurants all right well
thanks you too for for being on the show
and for showing us a little bit more
about Minecraft and mine cusp X for
sharing about your Delgado well al gato
gaming capture card and my very cool it
works really well yeah great well good
luck with your channel and mangofox 70
aka tally things are going well with
your channel you've been doing a lot of
stop-motion as well as we look at
stop-motion tonight what have you been
doing a little differently from your
brother
you've been doing hyperlapse with your
drawing yeah and you can check those out
as well on her youtube channel which is
a lot of fun and there's a clip for you
just to show you what it looks like
that's pretty neat to be able to use
hyperlapse to actually draw a picture as
well
[Music]
you
[Applause]
