welcome to new every day I'm Lawrence
and this is my co-host our co-host I'm
your co-host this is Jeff with two F's
that's right we talked about that last
week we had Jeff and renata Walton here
Jeff with 1/2 and and renata and what
we're going to be talking about today
it's a continuation of last week where
they became missionaries in Malawi
Africa but this week we want to dive
into what is it that they're doing the
impact that they're having on the
communities and where God is taking them
with some exciting new ventures and
blessings that they're to be able to
change the lives of the children in
Malawi it's gonna be good
absolutely this is new every day with
Jeff Weston and Lawrence Cruz
[Music]
friends we got some people who are
really out there like we're talking out
there in Malawi Africa what do you know
about that I've actually been there well
what do you know yes I have been there
uh-huh
and you should put it on your bucket
list and it's great to have Jeff and
renata Walton with us here again this
week and we last week talked a lot about
their call how what's a missionary to
them why are you doing this and that was
great and exciting worth watching we
were encouraged by the power of prayer
and how people can make a difference we
talked briefly about a lady who went
with them and made all the difference in
the world well they just got adjusted
what a game-changer that was something
that any one of us could do this week
we're gonna be privileged to listen to
Jeff and Renata tell us a little more
about what they're actually doing day to
day week to week month to month rate in
the village of Hope as its called
it's gonna be another great show mm-hmm
so jumping right into it what do you do
now in village of Hope I know last week
you mentioned a lot about about dealing
with you know part of helping kids and
supporting the local system there but
what is it that you do at village of
Hope in Malawi yeah we're we're located
in the capital city of Malawi which is
called the long way and we're working in
as a community they're called Calma
Calma is an inner-city slum where about
50,000 people live in a high-density
low-income
community there and we're right in the
heart of it working out of a local
church there we work with orphan and
vulnerable children by providing
education health care and nutrition
along with discipleship to these kids
and in total we have about two hundred
and twenty children in our programs okay
and we administrate the programs we're
in there with the kids day by day seeing
to their needs we have an awesome staff
there on the ground who really are doing
a lot of the heavy lifting and we're
just privileged to be a part of it okay
now what are no last week Grenada you
mentioned that you're more in an
administrative role but what are your
roles within village of Hope like are
you caretakers are you directors like
what is it that you do specifically in
your role so Jeff's role is the director
which means all of the oversight with
current and future planning for moving
the program forward in terms of local
initiatives and strategic planning and I
am the administrator which involves
everything else basically ya know it's
largely a financial payroll a lot of
Human Resource Management and lots of
different Social Work aspects as well
okay and last week we mentioned how you
know Jeff you were a plumber and so to
go from being a plumber to director of
an organization and a foreign country I
mean yes you had some background
training in school but this is kind of a
foreign entity to you as far as a new
career path how was that for you being
able pick that up like did God just
naturally equip you did you have to
learn things like how was it driving
into a new role like that yeah you know
like anyone entering a new career path
there was a large learning curve and
there are still days where you know I
have to go back to the playbook and
figure out what we do in this sort of
situation
fortunately I had the benefit of joining
a larger organization called villages of
Africa Society and they've been doing
this in Africa for almost 20 years now
also I had the mountain of their
experienced leaned upon their policies
procedures their child protection
policies and and a lot of training as
well you on the ground there some of it
online a lot of one-to-one with some of
the other directors in other countries
so there's a family that just kind of
brought me in and showed me the ropes
please
excellent and how did you kids do with
the transition because I know some of as
young as 2 months old but you had four
of them so how was the transition for
them into this new life in Africa how
did they take it so when we left they
were two months just under two three and
five and so the three younger ones
transitioned very well very easily I
mean a two month old baby here and in
Malawi there's not much difference right
but our oldest son who was five at the
time he's the one I think that has
struggled the most and I would say not
not even a lot but the most of all of
them and so from I still remember the
night it was our last night in Canada
staying with some friends and listening
to him say goodbye to my mother and that
was painful
they were both sobbing and I was texting
my best friend saying what have I done
to pull him away from her they're still
very close but so from time to time he's
the one who will say well I really miss
Canada and depending on how things are
going I'll really engage that and say
well what do you miss and he can't
really think of anything
but he'll always say family I miss my
family and so we've been blessed my mom
has come to Malawi a couple of times and
some other relatives but all in all they
have transitioned very well and when we
came to Canada last time I was expecting
that they wouldn't want to go back to
Malawi yeah just because life here there
are so many exciting entertaining things
that we don't have access to in a place
like Malawi and we were here for about
four weeks and they started asking when
are we going home
wow that's amazing so it's become home
it has yeah and even though we've only
been in Canada for about ten days and
our second child is already saying I'm
ready to go home it's so boring here
[Laughter]
okay all right now as far as you know
you touched on family and from what I
can tell from following your journey
family is a huge component of society in
Malawi everything seems to be circled
around family from the work that you do
with the kids who maybe they don't have
a mother or father anymore and trying to
connect them with extended family how
has that played into your role as
missionaries as far as that family unit
and being able to impact the lives of
the kids that you work with I would say
the the traditional model of orphan care
in Malawi is other family members okay
but poverty has made that so challenging
for them and so village of Hope can
actually undergird the family by taking
on those expenses like education health
care nutrition that costs relatively
little in comparison with a developed
place like Canada but that are so far
out of reach for an average Malawi and
who would make about $2 a day as
average income and when you consider
that they would have to pay school fees
pay to go to the hospital obviously
buying food you know and that's not even
touching the water or electricity or
anything else so village of Hope can
actually support not just one child
that's in the program but they
essentially care for the whole family by
allowed by giving the opportunity for
the children to have enrollment into the
program you know we have those those
day-to-day things that we that are
provided but then sometimes a church
like last Thanksgiving they raised
enough money for every family to have a
bag of maize which is the staple food in
Malawi and it meant it's a it's a
month's worth of food you know and that
costs about $10 that's a whole family
yeah you know so that kind of a thing it
stabilizes the home situation and so
village of Hope can actually partner
with people who are already doing orphan
care and that's the extended families
grandparents aunts uncles older siblings
yeah okay that's amazing can you tell us
a little bit about you have day-to-day
people there was like two groups of
people I think of the children that you
were looking after and one of them was
like everyday and yet some of them I
think were orphaned and you taught me
this definition of what an orphanage an
orphan is can you tell us a little bit
about that we have a we have a couple of
minutes here sure so an orphan would be
a child who has lost either a mother a
father or both so a single orphan is one
that has lost one parent and a double
orphan having lost both parents okay so
you don't run an orphanage per se no no
not at all right okay and yet there are
orphans that you help to provide care
for is that what I'm understanding yeah
that's right our whole program is
focused primarily on orphans but also
vulnerable children
for example we have a child in the
program both of his parents are blind
and they have six children and the
father is going out every day to beg
just to get enough money to buy food so
no he's not an orphan child yeah but a
very vulnerable because of both parents
being blind so yeah yeah I just know I'm
just I'm just amazed that yeah
the care yes how thankful those parents
must be hello oh that's incredible
absolutely and I we have to take a quick
break but I can't wait to get into where
God is taking you because there's been
some exciting things that have recently
happened in the last year or so and and
where God is taking you now and in
particular I'm thinking about your whole
kids Church I want you to know that we
all act from the brake stick around
we're gonna get to that right minute
stick around for more from new every day
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the
category-five TV network these high
quality shirts are manufactured by
teespring a fundraising website and your
purchase will help support the shows we
produce get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5
dot TV slash shirts to support us and
get your official Network shirt today
cap v dot TV slash shirts hi friends
we're back so excited to have
missionaries Jeff and renata Walton with
us before the break we were learning
about a whole new church venture and
it's exciting you can tell us all about
it what it's called and where it's come
from what tell us about this exciting
venture yeah so early in 2016 one of our
team members came to us and really felt
like she had a burden to start a chapel
service for the kids and as a team we
got together and talked about it and we
were right on board with that and the
question was do we open it up just for
village of folk kids or do we just say
throw the doors wide and any kid in the
community can come and worship with us
pray with us and that's well not so
that's where we landed let's just make
this open to anybody you don't have to
be a village of Hope kid you don't have
to be in that camp so to speak in order
to to come okay so I'm hearing you say
that there's this new church that's open
to every kid in Malawi but just a second
here and you mean it wasn't your great
idea or your great idea like maybe
somebody else came up with it is that
what I just heard you say yeah her name
was Mary she's heard her job description
is feeding program workers she serves
the kids food every day make sure
they're well cared for she's also
assisting in our preschool and you God
put it on her heart she's a has a
beautiful heart and and when we heard
her vision for we it resonated
with the whole team that's exciting
there are things that God has put in
your heart and you've wondered is this
just from me no it's not just from you
God is stirring you and you know through
a good relationship with other people in
your church I guarantee you God is
wanting to do something where you can
come and strengthen someone or they can
come and strengthen you but that
fascinates me and that you are happy to
receive it and then I'm I think I'm
learning here that this actually like it
wasn't just a good idea it's actually
happening like it's more than an idea is
that right yeah and we even resisted
calling it a church for a long time you
know we just called it Chapel it was
Chapel Friday nights three o'clock
Friday afternoon sorry three o'clock and
we started with 35 kids okay and those
are the kids in our program that were
coming out and we just tell them hey
tell your friends anyone can come in
here we're just singing songs learning
about Jesus we'll have a snack and then
45 minutes it's finished and they
started coming they started coming it
doubled in size and over the next couple
of months and within six months we had a
hundred kids coming Wow Wow and it
didn't stop there in fact more and more
kids were were coming out by the
following summer we had 350 kids it was
unbelievable and that particular Friday
was really special because we had a
special guest in talking to the kids and
he said to us after the service well it
looks like you guys have planted a
church no we're not we're not church
planters like
this is not a church hey that's not in
the contract and we said you know we
yeah we pray together yeah we sing songs
yes yeah we preach the word but we're
not a church just a bunch of kids having
fun and and it was actually at that
moment we realized that we hadn't
planned a church but but Renata what was
the Lord speaking to you about that yeah
so we purchased a new piece of property
to start building the Center for village
of hope and God had been whispering in
my heart that he would like us to plant
a church and when we became missionaries
that was something I was definitely not
interested in I liked administration I
liked order I liked knowing what's going
to happen and for me church planting
none of that thanks boy and I said
really clearly I don't want to do that
and the Lord as clearly said you're not
going to do it you're going to watch me
do it and so we've just seen this Chapel
which is now a church grow and Jeff said
that it went to 350 well today it's at
an average weekly attendance of 500 500
500 and we actually have to close the
doors at a point because it just gets
too full because the church that we meet
in is completely packed out and the
unique thing about this community
there's about 50,000 people that live
there and 30,000 of those are children
and there is not a sunday-school program
or a kids club or a midweek Bible
adventure for them to go to so this has
really started something in the heart of
koma to disciple children in the name of
Jesus that's amazing had it is fantastic
now you've talked you just touched on
there a little bit that you purchased a
new property so I mean in the few years
that you've been there obviously you
know because of your obedience God has
blessed what you're doing and he's
expanding your territory now and I'm
thinking of you know the prayer of Jabez
yeah
but what is on the horizon for this new
property I know I've seen a photo of it
it's kind of overlooking some water or
something there because it's a beautiful
piece of land so what is it that God's
put on your heart for that property yeah
we're so excited to have property right
there in koma because as we said the
church just can't hold what God is doing
and if you just go down the road and
over a little bridge and up around the
corner you'll find about three acres of
land the village of hope will be
developing over the next few years and
we are thrilled about what God can do
there we're gonna have a primary school
there from grade 1 to 8 we're gonna have
a multi-purpose facility where we're now
gonna plant a second church because the
other one's full the non church planters
are gonna plant a second and yeah we'll
move our offices there we're gonna put a
first aid Center there that will serve
the school and village folk children and
we're going to have a soccer pitch there
for the kids to play and a garden it's
just gonna be a place for further kids
to come and be loved and have their
needs met that's amazing
now we're coming to the end of the show
so we've got just a few minutes there
was something you said Renata in our
last episode you mentioned giving God
your yes I want you to just kind of
bring this all to a circle wrapping up
on what does that mean giving God your
yes because that's what you did yeah
it's true we said yes to being
missionaries but we didn't really know
all that that would entail and any time
you give a yes to Jesus it's a step of
obedience and then he will give you
another opportunity to say yes you know
we we said yes to going to Malawi we
said
yes to planting a church we said yes to
a new piece of property and he is
unfolding a glorious story and the
Christian life is a long obedience in
the same direction right yeah and
anytime you give Jesus your yes he will
then give you another opportunity to say
yes and through all of it he brings
glory to his name and he brings people
to him and he changes lives and it's
just incredible yeah that's awesome
so what is it that God saying to you and
do you need to say yes so as you go
through the next week we want to
encourage you press into God and say is
this something where you need my guess
and I bet you the answer is gonna be yes
because God works on obedience and when
we are faithful to his calling and being
obedient to what he's asked us to do he
will take you to places maybe like
Africa maybe just to your neighbor's
house but he will open doors like you've
never had open before and he will use
you in ways that you would not believe
possible so give God your yes if
anything from the last two weeks
resonates with you I think that would be
the key point is giving God your yes
mm-hmm
now right before we go how can people
find out more about you you've got a
website where can they check you out
yeah you can find us on the web at
www.mayfirm.com and you can go to either
of those websites find out ways to
sponsor a child even to come to Malawi
and volunteer with us we would love that
and just to learn more about the
organization and what is happening in
five different countries in eight
locations that's amazing
I'm so excited yes Jeff and renata thank
you so much for joining us and I know
your time is precious
while you're
in Canada and we really appreciate that
you would take the time to stop by yeah
thank you it's quite frankly I think
it's a pleasure for us this is good and
you want to join us next week because
we're going to be exploring more in
depth the idea of giving God your yes
we're going to take a look at some
scriptures about that and just what
exactly does that mean for your faith
and where can you see God take you see
you next week catch a new episode of new
every day
every Friday morning at new every day TV
we're also on roku Kodi
Plex YouTube Google Play Music podcasts
and news book or if you're in Southern
California tune in every Sunday morning
at 6:30 on kbdb TV channel 33 television
for the high desert
you
