welcome to category 5 technology TV it's
episode number 3 35 for februari 18 2014
so great to have you here my name's
Robbie ferguson and i'm kelsey johnson
kelsey johnson welcome to the show thank
you very much for having me so just know
so coming up in the newsroom the
european court of justice justice says
that websites can link freely to
available to too freely available
continent content without the permission
of the copyright holder steam brings in
more than 530 games till I Knox in its
first year on the platform the anonymous
marketplace silk road to says it has
been hacked resulting in the loss all
its customers bitcoins okay another one
of the back to the futures tech products
is coming to market and just in time too
Marty to travel to 2015 sweet alright to
celebrate Ontario's family day this week
my sons are going to be hosting a very
special tutorial for you they're going
to be showing you a short feature
tonight to teach you a cool way to turn
your handwriting into an actual truetype
font compatible with Windows Linux Mac
so prepare for the cutest thing ever get
ready for it we've also got your viewer
questions to answer to so much time so
little to do wait a minute strike that
flip it reverse it thank you it's gonna
be a great show don't go anywhere this
is category 5 technology TV
starring Sasha tomatoes Hillary rumbles
Kristen wells
your kid
and your host Ravi Ferguson
welcome to Zack tech my name is Zack
this is my brother Liam hi jack on today
so we are gonna learn how to boot on my
hand writing into a fart that's awesome
Jack thanks on episode 102 daddy looked
at the soft I was just a little baby
this time so today I'm going to show you
how to do it it used to be called fought
capture but now it has a new address cat
five dot TV / TTFN check this out all
you have to do with school down you and
press print template get any type here
now all you have to do is print that now
comes the fun part all you have to do is
fill in the blanks this is so easy even
a grown-up could do it that sounds copy
boy oh boy he's distracting
you need said God thanks Lee here's some
real characters I never even seen before
guys it so close to being finished at
the end you just put your name in the
big box sleep well done now you just
hand it to your daddy and feeling like a
roof
it's all scanned ready to go let's make
this font go to the bottom of the page
see this button that says complete turn
click click on that now all you have to
do is cool down and then press scan and
save template school down again and
press upload 10 play our penguin now
just follow the plots fill in the font
name in the copyright and then browse to
upload click upload and you're done now
wait about one minute I I can't take
that one whoa this is amazing it's my
handwriting now download the font save
it to your computer and then you're good
to go it would cost you ten dollars but
keep this in mind some of that money
goes to support category 5 technology TV
thanks for watching zack tech i hope you
learned some cool things i would see you
next time bye
this is category 5 technology TV episode
number 3 35 great to see you thanks to
the boys for putting that together for
us for family day this week lots and
lots of fun hope you enjoyed the show to
tonight I will encourage you to get over
to our mobile website it's mcat fog TV
to scan that code with your QR reader
and that'll bring up our mobile site
with live audio streaming video
streaming on demand video photos which
incidentally we've been adding photos
like crazy to the photo gallery so make
sure you check that out mcat five dot TV
yes in category five TV is a member of
the tech podcast network if it's tech
it's here Scott five TV / tpn and the
International Association of Internet
broadcasters cat5 TV TV / I AIB well
done she got through the internet
broadcasters web URL pretty good for a
beginner first night on ah before we get
talking about Kelsey Jensen and what
brought her here tonight make sure you
check out our category 5 merch store
check out this awesome shirt it's so
cool silkscreened my friend somebody
said did you stick one of the stickers
on it no this is silkscreened look at
that two color silk screen real good
quality shirt that is made in ethical
ways I don't know how else to say it I
don't know either well they didn't know
slave labor involved that's set and I
think that's a really good thing so
check out our shop it is simply shop
category five dot TV if you received a
sticker perhaps an eight-by-ten
photograph of the crew personally
autographed business cards whatever swag
you've picked up from our online merch
store make sure you get in their shop
category five dot TV please post your
review so the people who are checking it
out will know what other people think of
the products that are there so it's a
very good idea Kelsey it's so nice to
have you here thanks for for being with
us tonight Kelsey of course is the
newest member of the category 5 team and
what brings you here what's uh what's
gotten you interested in something like
category 5 well I just I heard
but it from Hillary and it looked like a
really cool thing to do so I decided
well why not it looks like a very fun
thing and I'm got to be part of that
cool have you ever been on TV before no
I've never been on TV before what about
international TV nope nothing worldwide
TV no nothing like that nothing like
that not too scary or anything but guys
let's bring up the viewer location map
oh no cuz we want to see where everybody
is viewing from tonight so go over to
our website category 5 TV click on about
and then viewer location map let's see
where we are all from oh wow there you
go okay that's pretty good all right so
all right here we are over here in
Canada and Ontario let's see has anybody
up here in in in very where are we
there's such a way down here and I can't
even see it so many people around there
okay here we go no there's only a couple
oh they're up there okay yeah there's
there's two of us it's two of us well
one of them is us yes I guess cuz we're
here right now yeah oh yeah we got
people south of us in Toronto nice to
have you here all around there got lots
of us lots in the US loss in the US this
making you nervous oh just a little bit
well back west coast East Coast we got
you covered everywhere easy bc for sure
let's let's go overseas here folks oh my
okay uh Nigeria yeah we got you nice to
see ya watching from Lagos and Cameroon
let's go a little north cut the British
people coming ireland and united kingdom
belgium germany we can't even see i have
to click folks because there's just so
many of us that i can't i can't even see
without actually clicking so that's our
viewer location map that kind of shows
where people are watching from how cool
is that so we love having you all
joining us tonight thanks for joining us
we're gonna encourage you also to
register on our website category 5 t be
nice to see our chat room I see
masterminds pc care man from Ireland as
well good to see ya masterminds
I said that yeah you did John Sam EG
tick-tock yeah hey Rob Gore guest 3722
is also joining us from Ireland Maggie
is from Northern Ireland it's
interesting that a lot of our viewership
is apparently from Ireland tonight and
overseas so nice to see you well what
about Mars what about Mars can't forget
chip we can't forget to mention Mars
yeah we were talking before the show
you're interested in the particular
genre of novel perhaps could it be
science fiction yeah I like science
fiction book are you reading right now
hitchhiker's guide to the galaxy there
you go so fantastic all right uh have
you ever used linux before I have never
used linux before have you heard of it I
have heard of it yes okay any stories to
do with Linux yeah oh my um my friend
somehow accidentally got Linux once she
yeah I'd like to meet the technician who
accidentally put linux on their computer
for them oh look at that just wiped out
windows and put linux on and she liked
it um apparently yeah for like the first
little while she was kind of confused
and like hey what what is this okay so
now we know what to do we need to
actually just install Linux somebody
brings in a computer for any kind of
repair just install linux and show them
where the Start menu is applications let
them go and let them learn learn their
way around and I guess yeah there you go
there's a dead Oh that'll give them a
story as well I go back what kinds of
tech are you into personally I'm a lot
of computer tech I like I like computers
I think they're cool uh cell phones I
like my cell phone um Burt phone
smartphones yes smart android or iOS
Android notice I didn't say windows
mobile cuz I know that's not an option
no my friend uses windows mobile it's
not and does she love it no exactly you
you've done some broadcasting before
behind the scenes what kind of stuff was
involved in that I'm a lot of switcher
boards um audio a bit of audio a bit of
graphics yes working um that's cool so
are you interested than in our Wirecast
digital switcher that's pretty
interesting yeah I've never seen that
button takes the hardware and
virtualize balkan software makes it all
computerized it's pretty brilliant yeah
is very useful um other than that
category 5 is pretty new to you you
mentioned that you know Hillary that's
awesome Hillary of course Hillary Rumble
one of our co-hosts here on the show
interesting connection there because you
and I didn't meet through Hillary now so
that's that's kind of neat that you just
happen to know her and have actually
worked with her yes before so do you
work like to sign as well like yeah I'm
not fluent in sign language I know I
know and I would have like a basic
conversation with someone okay but I
couldn't I'm gonna do like a whole big
social conversation okay so cool yeah
that's Rico what do you find exciting
about category 5 i'm just the
information that it can bring to anyone
it's all over the world and you know
that map as much as it was frightening
it was also really cool like i like
bringing it to people in africa and you
know everywhere is pretty it's pretty
incredible everywhere in the world we're
pretty we got you covered yeah and if
you're not watching from where you are
then you know we do broadcast everywhere
so pretty cool excellent well it's
incredibly nice to have you here kelsey
has posted a bio on our website category
five dot TV so get on over there click
on about and you'll see the team there
and you'll be able to read up a little
bit more about about Kelsey and her
involvement here on the show and of
course our bio pages are growing as well
we've been adding some photo galleries
and and interesting things there so make
sure you check back quite often so all
right well we do have a fair number of
viewer questions tonight and I do want
to try to pay special attention to the
chat room so chat room please do feel
free to send us some questions if you've
got an email for us you can email us
live at category 5 TV and we'll try to
get you on the air in the meantime we'll
jump right into the news because I want
to get you know cover as many questions
this evening as we possibly can so
all right you ready for it yep let's do
it take her away all right so here are
the top stories from the category 5 TV
news room the European Court of Justice
says that websites can link freely to
freely available content without the
permission of the copyright holder the
court's decision came after a dispute
with in Sweden between journalists and a
web company that had posted links on its
site to online news articles a Swedish
Court had asked the EU court to consider
whether it's this broke copyright law
the position would be different for
links at bypass a paywall technology
lawyer Susan Hall said it's a decision
had gone the other way it would it would
have broken the internet it makes sense
right but I wonder where is the fine
line and who creates that line to say
because I think about immediately when I
hear this story I think about the pirate
bay and how they have gone through so
many legal problems because they are
linking to content that is potentially
violin violation of copyrights but all
they're doing is linking to the the
stuff that exists out there they're not
actually hosting it they're not
distributing it they're simply linking
to it so where is that line where the
courts can say no it's okay to link to
stuff as long as you're not hosting it
but then turn around in America and say
the opposite to companies like the
Pirate Bay not that what they're doing
is right or what anyone else is doing is
wrong it's just an interesting thought
process I guess yeah to think so you
know where is that line where do you
think that that line should be get into
our chat room let us know what you think
on that could be a bit of a dangerous
thing for the courts to I think we're
treading on some interesting grounds
right now because these things have
never been discussed in the courts
before these things have never been an
issue before because the technology was
never there so if somebody post
something and I link to it am I
personally responsible for having link
to it yeah dangerous I like so many
thoughts going through my head right now
because I also think about how we
category 5 had to
turn off certain features of our website
that we're allowing people because we
like to build the community and give you
guys access to do whatever you like that
for example we had to close down
indexing of our chat logs right which is
all fine and good but originally we had
hoped that our chat logs could be a part
of our website and they are you can
click on them you can read them that's
pretty cool but we had to remove them
from our Google indexing and all of our
search engine indexing because if
somebody went into the chat room and
posted a link to the Pirate Bay or to
something slightly illegal or possibly
grey area a link to a download file we
would actually get hurt for that I
either Google would pull us from the
search results or we would get fined or
whatever so that's a you know that's a
whole other thing so where is that line
yeah we've got countries where you can
get fired to jail for it too I don't
need that yeah we're posting illegal
things in the chat logs exactly nobody
does that we got to be safe gonna be
safe what did this cute little guy Oh in
at 12 months since its initial stable
release the number of games available
online acts through steam has increased
substantially based on number is listed
by the steam line X store page it may be
may as much as a mammoth nine hundred
percent jumping from a mere 50 titles at
launch two more than 530 today after
spending much of late 2012 in beta the
popular games distribution platform was
formally released online acts line-x
just one year ago on februari 14 2013
that's amazing that's pretty cool i
remember when steam first came to linux
a year ago and it was you know there
weren't a lot of games and people were
complaining people just we just kept
saying just hold off and i think i said
it on the show just hold off you're
gonna see them start to build this up
530 games isn't quite right it's in
credits groundbreaking and so Linux now
is a gaming platform that was one of the
things that was holding people back from
making that switch to linux right you
know well what about games steam 530
games that's
really good brilliant the anonymous
online marketplace Silk Road to has says
it has been hacked resulting in the loss
of all its customers bitcoins ouch
that's not good oh boy an administrator
for the sites that hackers had
manipulated computer code enabling them
to withdraw 2.7 million dollars or 1.6
million euros worth of virtual currency
if follow similar attacks on two
exchanges that trade on bitcoins earlier
in the week silk silk road to is known
for selling drugs and other illegal
items the original Silk Road site was
shut down by the FBI in 2013 but those
behind it say they would start a new
site shortly afterwards Silk Road to
appeared online hmm you know what it
goes without saying that Silk Road in
itself Silk Road to as well very shady
as far as what they're selling and
exchanging bitcoins bitcoins are an
interesting thing because they are
anonymous and you're able to you know
buy and sell bitcoins anonymously and
what what they're selling is you know
whatever that's not the point the point
is is that people are putting their
money into this currency and what's to
stop somebody from up and I mean there's
a lot of there's got to be security
there there has to be a lot of security
but we're hearing more and more about
this maybe it's just the popularity of
it in the growth of it and but to have
all imagine all of your customers money
I'd be storm you'd be pretty steamed
yeah speaking of steam holy cow that's
kind of crazy yeah this is exciting whoo
cool sneakers in the second Back to the
Future movie Marty McFly's favorite
self-lacing high-top shoes were all the
rage when you travel to the far into the
future 2015 back in 2011 nike ma G's
brought the futuristic looks of Marty
McFly to the feet of the sneaker
collectors and movie fans alike but
there was just one problem they were
lacking the key to the future well now
it seems like the aconnick power
says will actually arrive in time for
Marty to travel to 2015 nike designer
Tinker Hatfield confirmed this at a
recent appearance where he said are we
going to see Power laces in 2015 to that
I say yes hmmm awesome would you buy
them um seriously I'm not sure there are
little 80s for sure ass yeah but for
those for the nostalgic movie buff
that's pretty awesome I want to see how
they work yeah cuz in the movie their
way you know I was like better than
velcro and then I want to get some for
my kids because you never hear the end
of it yeah oh yeah we can't do my laces
great due to velcro well the velcro is
fine it's the laces the boots and the
laces are always dragging behind them so
bring this on better than velcro they
can just do it really press yeah maybe I
think it'd be a good idea for Kirby's
John would you guys wear these that's
what I want to know yeah there you go
that's it that's it so you you wrap up
and all right well you can get the full
stories at category five dot TV /
newsroom the category 5 TV news room is
researched by roy w Nash with contribute
tribute ations from bach bike our
community of viewers if you have a news
story you think is worthy of on-air
mentioned please email at newsroom at
category 5 TV for the category 5 TV news
room I'm Kelsey Jensen thanks Kelsey
well done just so you know John says as
long as we send them to him he's gonna
wear them ok good answer good answer
Arthur Dent great to see ya anybody
joining us in the chat room for the
first time tonight anybody there anyone
i'm sure i think i see they got so on i
think it's a mangie new user Sammy g
where you from joining us tonight for
the first time live on the air nice to
see you nice to have everybody doing us
in the chat room we're gonna get to your
questions
and if you have any questions and we
miss you now Kelsey this is her first
night yes and so she's learning the
ropes and there's a lot to take in I
think how is it I'm pretty I'm pretty
organized a yeah it's pretty good you're
pretty good we laid everything out we
got good job but if for some reason
either her or i miss your question just
double click on our names she's Kelsey
Jay I'm Robbie F and just double click
on us in the chat room a will and that
will open a private message and it will
probably get our attention a little
easier emmy gee from the Netherlands the
Netherlands oh great to see you Sammy
gee thanks for joining us tonight Eric
1212 is joining us for the second time
tonight nice to see you where you from
Eric 1212 nice to see Hillary also
joining us in the chat room to say hey
good to see you good to see you alright
let's jump into viewer questions Eric
1212 I want to say shouts out just let
us know where you're from Hey Oh
masterminds eh Sammy G is uh is this
better half that's a good bet that's a
good have to have are you going nice to
see you mm-hmm all right so yeah we'll
get right into it all right thanks for
sending in your questions by the way and
again our email address is live at
category 5 TV alright so our first
question I've got up here is how can i
hook the internet and Wi-Fi on one
computer internet and Wi-Fi you know
it's an interesting question ethernet
ethernet yeah that that's what i was
thinking as I was saying Internet Eric
1212 is joining us in from Guelph
Ontario oh nice to see ya got family
there good to have you here San Diego
California from chechik so this is who
was this asking jay p JP hey nice to see
ya JP I think what's interesting about
the question is you don't really think
about it when it you know Wi-Fi or
ethernet but to connect both the same
time well why would that be a problem
what's kind of interesting here's what
happened
at one point in technology it was
realized that if I'm connected to a
Wi-Fi internet connection with my laptop
computer that's using extra battery life
and then i plug in my ethernet cable it
should be understood by the computer
that now i want it to switch to ethernet
because I no longer need the Wi-Fi
signal but because of your question it
sounds like that's a problem for you
like you need both and that's fine it's
22 internet connections to connections
to various networks you can have one as
a land and one as a one and that's
perfectly fine what happens though is
the the operating system say Windows
didn't have the capability or it was
really tough to figure out how to set it
up windows 7 windows 8 make it a little
easier by setting up the priorities of
your networks but it's still what
happens is is that when you plug in the
ethernet it's going to either stay on
Wi-Fi which would be the default in
Windows or it would it would turn off
Wi-Fi and turn on Ethernet that's you
know the prioritization of Windows 8 for
example so companies like HP and other
laptop manufacturers brought out and
said okay we're going to fix this we're
going to make it so that if you plug in
the ethernet it will turn off your Wi-Fi
that's what you want that's what we want
so they set it up and that's exactly
what it does so you're on Eve Wi-Fi you
plug in ethernet it turns off your
wireless adapter pain in the bum if you
want it to stay on so go into your bios
and you should see some settings there
and it's different per manufacturer and
we don't have specifications about your
laptop but there are settings to in fact
set it to remain on it's a fix that they
put in place so that it would
automatically turn off but you can turn
that off in your bios so that it will
continue to work so good luck report
back to us let us know JP how it goes
hey and there's your history lesson for
today
why tech does this why does it do this
so annoying yes well our next question
is from Andy his daughter is trying to
play a movie from her laptop onto a TV
but there's no sound any tips to get the
right settings or to the root of the
problem hmm ok so the question Andy ok
so we're using a laptop we've got it
connected to the TV so there's one of
two the first thing I'm going to ask is
what kind of connection you're using we
don't we don't know that so if it's
d-sub which is the standard vga i'm
going to bring it up on my screen here
so i can show you what I'm talking about
d-sub here we go so this is a d-sub port
SVGA ok so if that's what you're doing
that carries video only so that is just
a video signal it's meant for an
external monitor it will work with your
TV it will take the signal and put it up
on the big screen but there's no audio
so in that case you need a I guess a is
it an 8 inch phone headphone jack male
to male and you would have to plug it
into the headphone jack of your laptop
this is all going at it old-school plug
it into the headphone jack of the laptop
and then into the line in on your
television we'd assume that you have
that and then it would work because you
have d sub for video SVGA for video and
analog audio going out to the TV
alternatively you put a set of speakers
on your laptop or something and make it
sound better if it's hdmi hdmi typically
carries both audio and video from your
laptop to the television let's look at
what hdmi looks like just so that we can
compare
just quickly here there's an hdmi port
there you go okay so if it's that kind
of port and they're very very tiny
almost the size of a USB then that's
going to carry audio and video but your
laptop may default to the speakers that
are built in and you may have to go into
your audio settings and tell it to send
over HDMI so your playback device would
have to be set that makes sense you
bring up the playback devices by
clicking right click on your speaker
icon down on the bottom right of your
screen down by the clock and go to
playback devices you'll see one of the
playback devices as set as your default
that's your built-in speakers and
there's another device four hdmi that's
to send the audio over your HDMI to the
TV so you need to switch it back and
forth depending on what you want to use
then you need to close your video player
reopen it and it will come up on the TV
with audio and video so so that would be
the two answers based on the two most
common kinds of connectors that you're
going to have on a laptop if that
doesn't help let me know pop us another
email or get us in the chat room live
that would be great thanks for the
question Andy I hope it helps alrighty
so the next question is from al peck
yeah he um he would he put in a question
a couple weeks ago oh yeah and and it
has to be suspected it was a memory leak
but he was right it was possible
formative oh the router software you're
creating the bash like script I think so
okay but I was really what I was really
looking for was how to use / interpret
information displayed from such
utilities as top and he had additional
insight you can provide to publish to
troubleshoot a resource bottleneck is
she was greatly appreciated huh I love
this guy that was a very kind way to say
you was wrong Robbie he wasn't what I
meant which is cool all right I'm gonna
do something that I never ever do here
my man
but it has to be done there you go ok
this is the manual for top and I want
you to do this because I could tell you
all the answers but I want you to figure
this out I'm scrolling down scrolling
down page down page down page down
here's what I want maybe not quite see
because ok there's the fields command
almost there cpu usage yeah see there's
there you go flags GID group mmm and I
the nice value and dr t so this explains
what all of the values means so now we
know the nice value of the task is a
negative nice value meaning higher
priority whereas a positive nice value
means lower priority so this tells us
what ni means in the top application and
you go through because some of them
admittedly are a little bit you know
what a PID we might know some of the
other stuff we may not like shr ok well
what is that whoa it's shared memory
size ok now it makes sense but what does
that mean and of course the manual goes
into really good detail of what that
actually means so I never say I mean I
don't really tend to say read the manual
but in this particular case it's going
to give you a lot of insight into the
application itself top shows us what
applications are using resources on our
computer ok great but again it's kind of
confusing when you see ni virt rests sh
r s what does all that mean that's where
the man pages are going to help I
mentioned it on that particular episode
that i recommend you try h top which you
may need to install with apt-get and i
didn't get into a lot of details you're
right because I maybe maybe I did
misunderstand the question a little bit
you're asking more how to use these
applications top h
versus how to fix the memory leak that
you were experiencing so I didn't really
get into that it's more than just a
colorized beautiful version of top so
let's not get it wrong this is a more
robust as far as I'm concerned in my
opinion a more robust version of top
what is the hotkeys that come with it
going to help set up search filter tree
sort by ah nice nice plus nice- and nice
plus so you can actually increase and
decrease the priority of a task kill a
task or quit so for example i can hit f6
to change my sort order and you'll see
over here now I've got a menu that I can
actually select say I want to select by
niceness how nice or my applications now
I haven't said any niceness on my
applications on this particular computer
its more common to a server or something
where you're doing some encoding or
something but you know sort by user and
and so on and so forth and you can
actually scroll left and right you can
hold in your right you can move around
that this text based interface but I
love that you've got more to it but
again you're stuck with these short
forms that it's really tough to know
what it means unless you've looked it up
so we type man space aight man space top
will tell you h top too but the top one
will give you the list of the particular
you know what those things mean and i
would say you know if you really want to
copy it paste it into an image and print
it out make it look nice whatever and
keep it above your computer so all right
cool well we got a message back from JP
hey JP in Windows I got to disable Wi-Fi
to use wired but in line X turn off one
and use the other so did it not have to
do with your your BIOS feature because
that's a bios option so it's it's
agnostic of what operating system you're
using doesn't matter it's going to take
effect regardless because it actually
disables the Wi-Fi so let me know
all right thank you very much for the
questions folks this is category 5
technology TV our website is down there
triple w category five dot TV my name is
Robbie Ferguson I'm Kelsey Jensen nice
to have you here yeah thanks for sending
your questions folks yep and you can
email us more at live at category five
dot TV keep them coming so our next
question I've just got my dad this one
is from Zubaydah sabotage hey yeah I
just got my first my dad my dad his
first-ever laptop he was about an hour
away in London so it can be a pain to
get to him while when he is computer
questions i'm a linux usually usually
but Manjaro or you you whatever that I
buncha girls I'm jarrow Ubuntu Ubuntu
it's a South African word it means unity
okay for all of mankind kind of thing so
cool add it to your vocabulary all right
but for him I had to install windows 7
and as I know teamviewer works perfectly
for a mount help I really want to move
him to linux but not sure any remote
service is as good as teamviewer i know
you can get teamviewer to run on linux
with with wine but is horrible fudge and
I've been to use and wanted something
native please tell me if you have any
ideas on what I can use ok first off
okay do you want well okay first when
she said zabba da of course immediately
Zebedee zeva done so that's how I think
it now that's how I'm gonna hear your
name awesome you're right and you're
wrong so you're right teamviewer is
awesome you're wrong because teamviewer
also works awesome in Linux Oh seriously
okay do I have it let's see ddd
teamviewer i probably have an older
version there you go is it's easy breezy
oh look there's my username and password
quick of it or change that everybody's
gonna start loading up my computer ah
change password who's connecting their
create a new random password that's live
television so anyway let's see
teamviewer loads up just fine and Linux
yes it uses wine but their installer
does it all seamlessly so you don't have
to go through a lot of Hoops to be
honest with you masterminds in the chat
room reiterating teamviewer works great
does somebody have teamviewer installed
on their linux machine that I from a
linux machine could actually remote into
private message me real quick with your
with your credentials and I'll just
connect in and we'll just show zabba da
that how about that private message me
that sound good oh good thing there's a
little bit of a delay they're actually
trying to connect into my computer I
think over the show take over the show
you send me your credentials there
anybody who's got teamviewer working
because we're like so I'm in Linux I'm
on point Linux which is debian 7 and and
it works fantastically well really does
i use it to connect into all different
systems including Linux in fact I have a
gentleman who I provide support for I
was talking to him on the phone today
he's he must be 87 years old we've
talked about him here on the show before
and I got him switched over to linux and
that was you know a few years ago now
and when we did that one of the things
that we had to consider is how do I
provide support to this guy he lives far
away and how do I continue to help him
out because he can't make the drive to
bury every time he needs help and
teamviewer is the perfect solution it
works great he's running ubuntu linux
i'm running point linux debian based and
it works flawlessly for supporting this
guy now i'm actually i'm actually and
now I'm remoted into masterminds
computer thank you master mine for the
the connection and we're actually seeing
us in a lowered quality rate but you can
see that I can actually take control of
masterminds computer here no problem and
it works flawlessly and I am of course
in Linux
what are you in this you're in chrome
obviously what's your operating system
that you're running their mastermind
he's gonna let us know in the chat room
yep I don't want to click around too
much because we're live but but there
you have it well when he's changing the
view for us here there you go and we've
got an animated background beautiful so
it works fabulously well and I would you
know highly recommend that you check out
teamviewer give it a try it's free for
personal use so you really can't go
wrong it's a support application it has
the ability to create an account and
when you do that so for me for example
if I have teamviewer on certain
computers I can actually create an
account add those computers to my
account I'll add the old logmein style
for example which is no longer free and
then I can just log into my account from
any computer be at linux windows
probably mac i don't know i don't have a
map but platform doesn't really matter
linux is one of them and i can connect
to any of those computers doesn't matter
what platform it's on doesn't matter
where in the world it is i mean
mastermind i just connected into his
system we were watching even though it
degraded the quality of the video
because it's not for watching video it's
for providing tech support halfway
across the world to the netherlands we
were controlling his computer and you
know i created an attack there and it
was instant and everything so the
support aspect of it is fantastic and
and for you to be able to provide
support to them how is it his dad yeah
um is you know it's gonna work just fine
and it's super super easy you just tell
them to open teamviewer give me the the
password because you probably will
already have their username or add them
to your own account and then you can
just take control any time you like how
do you like that you don't even have to
get them to guess Harry nice to see a
thank you so much for providing
credentials masterminds beat you to the
punch and I think that was a fair enough
demonstration so
Oh Eric 1212 is a joker wants to send me
a mac for my birthday well max are
pretty good what are the advantages to
Mac no viruses I don't know good
hardware for the price well you've get
better anything better than windows
movie maker yeah i don't know i think
i've had this discussion where somebody
said to me and this is at work because
we sell computers right and they're
looking they're looking at a seven eight
hundred dollar computer and they say and
this could be you you're having this
thought okay I've got it I've got
windows XP I have no choice I have to
replace my computer because april eight
windows XP is no more so do i buy this
one for 800 bucks or do I just go to a
Mac because I've heard max are good and
the the me I want to laugh out loud now
the professional the professional in me
says no let's give this some thought
here you know let's let's think more Joe
in i'm guessing new hampshire says it's
going to cost you more if you buy a mac
absolutely so here's the fact if you're
looking at an eight-hundred-dollar pc
and a mac yes apples to oranges no pun
intended we need to do apples to apples
okay wait a minute that's confusing but
if I'm going to spend three thousand
dollars on a mac let's compare that to a
three-thousand-dollar pc right now
you're going to realize whoa that is a
crazy good pc that thing is way faster
than that Mac possibly it's got more
memory it's got more hard drive spaces
God SSD this and that and it's the same
money but i'm probably going to get more
for the pc if I'm going to spend that
kind of money so don't think if i'm
going to buy these eight hundred dollar
pc versus a two or three thousand dollar
mac which is better well obviously the
two or three thousand dollar mac is
better than an eight-hundred-dollar pc
because it's cheaper so it's worse
quality you get what you pay for okay
right so give me that two or three
thousand dollar pc
two clinics on it so you no longer have
to deal with viruses malware I get
malware all the time on my linux machine
and I laugh because I just close it it
disappears forever it's gone I never
have to deal with it doesn't infect my
system doesn't take over my computer or
start sending spam email I just close it
and it's gone it's not a bash of Mac
mastermind it's just the truth you got
to be real here right the truth what can
you do with the truth nothing you you
buy a two-thousand-dollar used car
versus a you know $50,000 new car guess
which one is gonna run better it's the
facts right so if you're gonna compare
compare apples to apples apples 2pcs hmm
this is really tough alright so the next
question this person piece pc carb
Carmen Carmen care care man pc care man
pc care man me a moment all right I he
has linux and he was like the hardened
his line acts in the computer security
world he uses s guard but he came across
libera it's helpful help I found it
helpful because it collects unused IPS
and sends them to a fake server in which
their computer gets stuck for a long
time I only used abusive internet
flutters hitting my network maybe you
could cover the hearted tool in lenox
okay what I'm going to suggest if I'm
following you all good here pc care man
we're talking about linux servers
possibly linux work stations that are
internet-connected fact is you need to
have some form of good solid firewall
why is that well i run a web server
obviously category 5 TV is a co-located
web server and that's just an example
so because it's internet connected
because we have a domain because we're
indexed in Google we get hit like crazy
we had a DDoS attack just last month and
it actually took us down and I had to
run across town and do a hard reboot and
you know that that can happen so then we
reassess things and we say okay well
what do we need to do I guarantee you a
good starting point depending on what it
is you're doing like are you hosting if
you're hosting then I would look at
proxying your DNS if you are not hosting
it's just a computer or a server that is
not necessarily hosting websites then I
would look at and I would look at this
anyway CSF lfd software let's bring it
up i'll post links for you anytime I
mention stuff and put the links up on
the on the screen I'll actually post
those links in the show notes and this
is episode number 3 35 so you'll find
those show notes on our website category
5 TV CSF config server firewall Oh
config they've config server so this
pass is not for server it's actually
security config server because that's a
word security and firewall there you go
this script I highly recommend giving it
a go because it is basically an amazing
front end for your IP tables it's going
to make it so that if somebody is
attacking like when we get hit with a
DDoS attack I can't sit there and block
IP addresses because they're coming from
a distributed denial-of-service it's all
over the place and I'm getting hit by
all these IPS and I don't know where
they're coming from or where they're
coming from next CSF and lfd says okay
that IP address is port scanning block
it this one is doing that block it and
you set up these rules and it does a
really really great job of automatically
configuring your IP tables so it's a big
ol bullet list when you look at the site
and you look for a download link and
it's not very intuitive as far as
finding it you scroll down there it is
little tiny tiny blurb that says
download the latest version of CSF can
be found here CSF tgz open her up
and you'll see a folder there you can
extract that to your computer once
you've extracted it and it's on your
computer you'll see there's actually
well there's an install file of SH file
shell script let's see alphabetical
Robbie it'll be in I obviously there it
is so you can run that install Sh or if
you read install dot txt it'll give you
the real quick nitty-gritty and first
line says installation is quite
straightforward it really is and you can
copy and paste those five lines and
you'll be good to go basically it
removes the file if you've already
downloaded it w gets a new for me the
newest version on tars the file goes
into the folder and then runs install Sh
so we can do it also just by extracting
from this folder and running that
installed Sh so once CSF is installed
follow directions on their website
really really simple and out of the box
is going to work fairly well you want to
tweak it a little bit to make sure that
you know works for you for example on my
server one of the things that I did is I
wanted 404s to be monitored by CSF so it
monitors my Apache log so that I know if
somebody because one of the common
attacks that we get on our web servers
that people try to hit scripts on our
site so those scripts don't exist I
don't run joomla I don't run wordpress
on my on my side or anything like that
so if they start hitting those scripts I
want them to generate 404 errors and
then I want to block them based on that
but what happens if Google is indexing
our old website and then Google gets
blocked well then they're going to say
oh your website's down they're going to
not lock us out so we can actually set
up basically ignore list that will allow
certain users such as Google and Bing
indexers and lots and things that we do
want to be able to get in so CSF is very
robust very configurable check it out
that's my blurb that's my endorsement
config server com sounds like a good
place to go really geeky really geeky
but it works well all right and he
messes just saying ref block I am p etc
yeah done
Alex looks pretty good all right Joel
and NH says I don't it aight i have an
XP machine that i need to convert ok you
need to convert so we need to get linux
on there is that what we're talking
about i think so oldest thinking arch
was originally thinking mac pup have you
used linux before pc chairman says
thanks for CSF you're welcome hope that
i hope you like it i'll be loved it free
have you used linux before i guess
that's the real question because if you
came to me and said i'm running windows
XP i need to switch over to linux
because my XP is running out and I don't
want to have to buy a new computer with
Windows 8 what do I do well I might
recommend a different distro for you
because you've never tried Linux because
I want you to have something that's
going to be easy to transition from
windows for example right when i started
using linux back in 1999 the distro that
got me there was called lindos lynn doze
so it was a play on Windows but what was
unique about it is that it really gave a
feel that i was using windows in the
interface the interface was very very
similar to windows XP at the time so I
would recommend something like that for
you because you've used linux before
looks like Joe has used yeah linux in
the chat room so then you might try
something a little more robust and it
really depends on your your tastes and
one of the fun things about linux is
there are so many different flavors and
you've heard it before there are so many
different versions that it's almost a
daunting so you almost just have to dive
in just say to the chat room you know
what do you recommend people are saying
you know try this try that and that's
really a good way to go but i think you
know it's personal preference it really
is i can't tell you what's good for you
but i can tell you what's good for me
it's point linux Zorin OS is another
recommendation tik-tok has made that i
really really love i love Zorin OS it
does not run well on my hardware though
so point linux runs better on my my
hardware Zorin OS may run just fine on
yours and in which case it's really
really good
I do like point Linux that it's direct
Debian seven vase and and they tend to
lean to their still it's stable but they
lean towards some of the testing stuff
so you get some of the bleeding edge
stuff but you don't lose the stability
of a good stable Linux operating system
and there are you know many suggestions
there in the chat room and because
you're in the chat room i'll let you
i'll let them kind of take it rats is
mentioning q400s it's a great new distro
for somebody who's transitioning away
from windows XP into Linux because it
feels a lot like Windows XP but it is
Linux and it is pretty young so you may
need somebody to hold your hand a little
bit to get you through pc care man says
xubuntu which is an ex you bhuntu is
fantastic it's based on a boon to this
is a distribution that is probably one
of the if not the most popular Linux
distribution in the world because they
really get it as far as package
distribution and user support xubuntu is
lighter weight so it's going to run
better than ubuntu on your older
hardware lubuntu is another one that
feels quite a bit like like Windows but
is lighter weight than it wound too so
see what I mean there's a there's so
many different things so many different
flavors distributions and it can be
daunting yes so you know look at
screenshots and say which one is the
prettiest and then get in and and don't
be afraid to ask questions get in here
get into our chat room and ask us
questions because we really encourage
that and we love to receive your
questions and try to help you so any
further questions for us folks we're
just about out of time yep I've got I've
got nothing over here perfect look at
that it's like we planned it I know it's
like this is pre-recorded and we edited
it down the one hour this actually took
four hours to record not really wow
they're just making up linux flavors in
the chat room guys don't confuse the
dude they're just naming off every Linux
that they can think of
I like the Ubuntu base tart me the
Ubuntu based stuff because of that
support platform they've got really good
support there's a really great community
backing up the wound to pc linux OS
that's one that I loved and it's still
around so cool well lots asking if I
like the show it was a great fun I have
lots of fun today can't believe an
hour's gone by i lo lo so quick weave we
do have some new people that are joining
us tonight I've got your names here I
want to give shouts out to VVC 555 I'll
take the next one hi Jim taylorville Jim
taylorville Jim Taylor like he's so
popular they named the ville after him I
know nice way to go Jim whoo nice to
have here also Maggie joining us i also
want to give shout out to our viewers
tonight we see you in Huddersfield UK
Verona Italy nice to see you nanjing
china greencastle us yeah look at it
we're just global tonight porto alegre
in in brazil medford us so nice to have
you joining us tonight christchurch new
zealand Oh timmons and Canada well
awesome and also greetings to I noticed
you in Adler in the Russian Federation
and stood out to me that somebody is
watching tonight from Adler because
incidentally we named our dog Adler yeah
how do you like that right so you're
just watching from the Russian
Federation and my dog is named ather I
which is German for Eagle because we
caught a Djinn eagle lake as you know so
that was that was the meaning behind the
name for us but now it has a double
meaning because I got viewers and Adler
how do you like that well folks next
week it's the Battle of the webcam which
webcam is going to work best with
telestream Wirecast for internet
broadcasting and also you're going to
learn to broadcast on the cheap and keep
the cost down and two
help you do that we are finally giving
away that copy of Telestream Wirecast 5
pro edition that's good I've laid down
the hints we've got a lot of people have
submitted their ballots I've laid down
the hints if you are from a church if
you are from a school a business that
wants to be able to broadcast their
services their assemblies their their
meetings if you are an internal wanna be
YouTube superstar like Kelsey here right
you want a copy of Wirecast it's worth a
thousand bucks so this is your
opportunity an opportunity to get it
absolutely free so all you have to do is
pop me an email live a category 5 TV you
have to put I want Wirecast in the
subject line and you have to be
registered on our website which is free
category 5 TV and in the body of the
email I want to know what is your
registered user name pretty
straightforward next week is the draw
very excited about that happy Heritage
Day to all of our viewers in the Yukon
this week and that super nice to see you
nice to have you here thank you for
being on the show you had fun it wasn't
too it's kind of fast-paced and yeah but
we keep up I guess yep thank you viewers
for being so kind in the chat room and
for submitting your questions tonight
nice to see you and great to see
everybody who's watching on YouTube
mural internet TV Roku all around the
world through whatever platform your
watch
thanks for joining us tonight so I will
see you next week and have a great week
hi see ya we hope you enjoy the show
category 5 TV broadcasts live from
Barrie Ontario Canada every tuesday at
seven pm eastern if you're watching this
on demand or through cable TV check out
the local show times in your area at
category 5 TV and find out when you can
watch live and interact in the community
chat room category 5 is a production of
prodigy digital solutions and is
licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada we'll see you
next time thanks for tuning in
