hello and welcome to new every day my
name is Harry and I'm Jen and today
we're going to talk about missions trips
part 2 so stay tuned
so welcome back to the show and God
technically it's only been seven days
since the last show and so you might be
doing some math in your head and going
to Perry just leave on a mission trip
for 10 days and yet here she is back
again seven days later i time-traveled
which would be so cool so what we did we
pre-recorded the show and so it actually
has been a couple of weeks since Kari is
not on her missions trip to Nicaragua
and so we thought we would take today's
show to ask some questions about how the
trip went and actually touch on a few
more things that we feel are important
to discuss with regards to missions
trips so Carrie jen i'm so glad she's
back please do tell us a little bit
about well I always like to say to good
the bad the ugly so wherever let's start
off with what were some of the really
cool highlights that took place on your
trip to on your missions trip to
Nicaragua okay so one amazing thing was
that we were team physicians nurses
pharmacists different volunteers from
all over Canada and we all came together
about thirteen of us and so we'd never
met each other to me I only knew the
pharmacist and one of the coordinators
and yet we were able to come together
and work together and run a clinic for
ten days so that was really neat you
know people coming together with the
same same goal and just making it happen
we saw about three hundred and thirty
people come with a variety of different
health concerns diabetes high blood
pressure that kind of thing I'm not
really critical but no it was really
good i feel i learned also more about
the Nicaraguan culture and gave me
perspective on just how thankful I am
for the health care that we received
here for us different aspects of our
free country that we are just so blessed
to enjoy one of the thin aground when
people are so beautiful inside and out
just very gracious very kind um and I do
feel like the they're working to make
their country better and yeah they
genuinely were receptive to to having us
come which is really amazing so one of
the things I learned was that the
Nicaraguan government says they ask
their universal health care but will
they only say that because they have
built a clinic in a small town but it's
only a building there's no health care
staff oh there's no medical supplies
there's no medication it is an empty
building but because it there the
government says well we have universal
health care because there it is which
explains then why you took a box of
medication yeah down with you because i
was thinking like can you even get this
across the border yeah like why are you
taking this medication down there is it
because you know it's too expensive but
with what you just said it's not even
available it's an access issue okay yeah
unless you're from of the larger cities
and then you have access at pharmacies
but it's quite expensive so that was
interesting to learn about and get a
better idea I how the cultures are
different and also it was good just to
spend time with some of the people that
I had already no one went down with some
friends right and we were able to have
discussions in the mornings about
different questions about life like
where did we come from what's our
purpose i was really interesting to hear
different people's ideas and one those
questions and these are coming from
people who don't share the same thing so
that was very very interesting so not
everybody that went with you has a
relationship with Jesus Christ right
okay so that puts a whole different spin
on missions trip and so while you might
be going yes as a nurse to share your
skills yeah you also have I want to say
almost like a greater mandate like
you're coming to bring health of your
hands but you also are
to bring health spiritually yeah and yet
you have people on the team that is not
there Mandy yeah and I don't want to UM
to negate the fact that they were coming
because they genuinely wanted to help
and you were bringing their skills so
yay yes nothing but if we just say to
someone you know go keep warm and
well-fed and we don't provide further
their physical needs that's not right in
there right but if we're not providing
the good news about Jesus that has
eternal implications and that speaks to
you know you may be in poverty and yes
we will help with that but you are not
your situation your identity doesn't
come from your country it doesn't come
from your financial status doesn't come
from your occupation it comes from
knowing Christ than if he has purchased
you and that you can be a child of God
that is good news right so I I guess I
struggled with that the fact that are
bringing this medical treatment but
sometimes because not everyone shared
same fate it was in the absence of of
sharing the gospel but we were also part
of an organization where they regularly
have programs where people can come in
and hear about Christ okay so this was
just an adjunct the medical pieces and
adjunct to the programs that are offered
through that ministry so I felt better
about that something interesting I kind
of learned coming back home jen and i
was kind of like oh you know maybe that
wasn't what I thought it would be
because I thought there'd be more and
more opportunities to maybe pray with
people or why did this happen and why
right you know why couldn't there be a
time where we could like be more focused
about sharing crates with people right
and then leg what Christ lives in me the
Holy Spirit's in me where I go yes I
bring light and life and truth so I
can't be dependent on other people to do
that for me you have to make a decision
to actually go and do that right and
trust that God to the holy spirit in you
is going to be
I do witness other people so I was
waiting for other people to stand up and
free set the environment that was
appropriate to share price but no we're
called to go and just do that wherever
we are but it's a twerker well and the
pasta to that it brings to mine is from
Matthew 26 where it says then the king
will say to the people on his right come
my father has given you his blessing
received the kingdom God has prepared
for you since the road was made I was
hungry and you gave me food I was
thirsty and you gave me something to
drink I was alone and away from home and
you invited me into your house I was
without clothes and you gave me
something to wear I was sick and you
cared for me I was in prison and you
visited me then the good people will
answer Lord when did we see you hungry
and give you food or thirsty and give
you something to drink when did we see
you alone and away from home and invite
you into our house when did you when did
we see without clothes and can use
something to wear when did we see you
sick or in prison and care for you then
the king will answer I tell you the
truth anything you did for even the
least of my people here you also did for
me but that whole idea of these people
have needs and even though you might not
be speaking the gospel out like you said
the spirit of the Living God is inside
of you so the mere fact that you are
coming in um and you are ministering to
these needs and it's very clear like
what you have done to the least of these
you've done to me so it I think we can
get frustrated with the I didn't talk
about Jesus mm-hmm or and and yes the
good news is simply that good news so
there is something vocal about it but
when you don't have a chance to use
words yeah is the countenance on your
face kind and welcoming is the way that
you care for someone you know welcoming
when you see someone who has a need you
actually meet the need right okay that
person is thirsty they need to drink of
water you know
yeah I think sometimes we can just get
caught up that it has to be a prescribed
way of the ashen and that's not that's
not right either yeah yeah so yeah we
also talked about um how you need to go
and be because sometimes the only gospel
that people are going to read is going
to be the life that you're going to live
in front of them and we were talking one
morning about that and I had just read
about Zacchaeus and how Jesus was
walking along and saws like he is or
Zacchaeus saw him and Susan Luke and the
keys was short and he was a tax
collector and he ran ahead need climb to
sycamore tree so they could see Jesus
well when Jesus got there then he called
him down said I'm gonna come to her
house I'm gonna eat with you and so the
key has been said or he repented
essentially and turn from what he knew
was wrong he wasn't gonna skim off the
top when he was collecting taxes anymore
he knew the Old Testament cuz he said
you know if I've cheated anybody never
pay for old and that's in the Old
Testament and I just think it's amazing
because Jesus didn't actually say so
gives you're a tax collector and yet to
repent it was his presence the keys have
had heard about him and wanted to see
him mm-hmm and I think well you know
sometimes our job isn't to go and say
well you're in this situation you're in
that situation like turn to Christ
that's true and sometimes we need to say
that people have done that for me in my
life but sometimes we just got to live
it out I guess well when I was in
Cambodia we were through going to the
hills of safa and it was a hard hard
hard road and I wasn't in great shape so
I'm huffing and puffing and I'm really
frustrated this wasn't this part I
hadn't necessarily signed off for right
by and the hype the three-day hike
through the mountains of Sabba and yes
after very little sleep and so our team
leader who was a good friend of mine jim
snyder he's whistling and singing and
really all I wanted to do with Jim at
that point in time
hahaha cheese grater the cheese grater I
wanted to run a cheese grater I know
I've changed my ways anyways and at one
point I'm like Jim really like whistling
like this is not fun and he said Jen
even when we our heart is not in it or
things are really tough as a leader you
need to set the example I was like mmm I
know yes yeah and I was late and this
was a young man like he was younger than
I was in fact I've babysat him he was he
hunger and here he was setting this
example I and that's what it's like the
light that shines through is right like
he wasn't saying well you know as
followers of Jesus were called he was
like no as a leader we actually need to
set the example and I know that he was
getting his strength from the lord and
because we also had people who you know
two weren't in relationship with Jesus
on the trip so he started complaining
then what was that going to say to the
rest of the team and so I really
struggled in that moment to say man
you're right like even though we're in a
mixed team as far as faith in Christ
goes it really is the spirit of the
Living God living in us and coming out
that's going to have to help us make the
most of the opportunities that we find
ourselves in the situations so yeah
that's so true but I take heart in the
verse that says for it is God who works
in you both to will and to act according
to his good purpose so the Holy Spirit
and you can give you the will the desire
to honor him and then the ability to act
another verse says that we have
everything we need for life and
godliness everything we need to reflect
the image of Christ because um we're
being made new every day and there's
another verse that says you know though
the outward man is wasting away the
inward man has been renewed day by day
in the image of our Creator so yay God
anyone's full of that Jen is you were
able to receive that word from gym yeah
and then I
it and move on yeah and that's that's
the grace of God too it's like we don't
have to dwell on what we weren't doing
we just carrying on and yes take another
step cuz it's new every day that's right
yay God yay God and so we also talked a
little bit about um some of it well
we've touched a little bit like not the
highlights yeah the negative things that
happened on our trip and imran them is
when when you go with people who are not
like minded it can be difficult and i
know on my my one trip to cambodia it
was it was difficult because people just
weren't on the same page their hearts
were in it as far as the designer sir
the desire to serve but as far as
talking about Jesus then it just that
was a frustration it was like oh okay
like we're like two totally different
nonsense so how do we actually do this
together yeah I was on one trip and a
patient came in who was actually
suicidal and they just you know
basically told gave her some strategies
for you know coping with stress and and
meditation and like oh man when we're
desperate that's when God wants to meet
us and has give us a life and hope in
Christ and I just felt like there was a
really a dichotomy of um I don't know
what the experience I thought the
experience was versus what it could be
um in that one instance but I mean you
know take that and learn from it yeah
yeah we also kind of discuss that
sometimes when you go on a mission trip
there's other things that might be
unpleasant or if you go to a different
culture or even to someone's home yes
right there might be things that you
have to overcome it for food for example
yes I mean I love
when food I love Central American food
and Caribbean food but pretend you
didn't that'd be hard the warrior person
says eat what set before you yes
actually you were to eat whatever is set
before you and I've had to actually
adopt that verse like just only buddies
you're a pastor so she gets invited to
people's houses all the time for dinner
and sometimes i get to cash in on that
as her like bring her for him yes and
everyone here that I've ever had Mila is
perfectly fine yeah they're all good but
yes I've had to eat whatever is put
before me because out of respect for the
people that are giving it so when we
were in Sherbrooke Quebec and so it was
an African food meal that they were
preparing for us I was like um what is
that and I'm like either you eat it or
you go hungry and you run the risk of
offending them yeah you don't want to do
that and then when we were in Cambodia
um so we did a week in Vietnam first and
I remember them bringing the food and be
like fish with the head still on it
megan says yeah yeah and so I couldn't
figure out why the kids that came with
us why were they always ordering french
fries and spring rolls that's all they
ordered and I figure out because I was
comfort food like they knew what it was
and I really struggled like by the end
of the first week I want to go home I
always thought two more weeks left to go
because I was finding comfort in my food
rather than comfort and the Lord and
that's um it was after that trip and
some other experiences I really that
bull verse of eat whatever is put in
front of you so now when I say the
blessing like your lord thank you for
this food and the hands of a prayer help
me to be truly thankful like how me to
be genuinely thankful for the food that
I'm eating and use it for your honor
glory amen I found that has made the
biggest difference for ya when you're up
to the like it has helped me very rarely
will i sit down now to a meal that i do
not like and i went from very picky
picky picky eater to surrendering that
to the Lord Renly's totally changed
yeah my eating habits that's why I don't
complained about my cooking it's good
cooking it's only twice and we both
agreed on those meals it was like help
me be truly truly thankful and I still
yes um so yeah usually the food is
something we struggle with but also
sometimes that i want to say the
cleanliness sure of places and we say
that because sometimes there are bugs
they're large yes Angeles and
cockroaches and I remember sitting down
to a meal in Vietnam and seeing
cockroaches run across the back of the
chair and I'm like huh and and it can
put you off like if you feel that God
has genuinely ecology somewhere and then
all of a sudden you find yourself
struggling with food bugs and and in in
Cambodia and Vietnam we had squaddies so
we didn't even have a toilet to go on
and I'm thinking um huh I don't even
like I'm quite comfortable with the
toilet quite comfortable and so now to
have to do your business over a squatty
and there may or may not be toilet paper
was it was just totally mind-blowing for
me yeah and I think maybe we'd like to
think that we're not um I don't know mmm
neyo for those listening on a podcast
like snooty you're like oh no we can go
with the flow but when those things food
um cleanliness toilets when they're
taken away from us you've had it deal
with it and that's not something that
God can't help you with I agree I know
when you vote of a people's houses one
of the cool things we did talk about on
the trip was about the character of
Jesus and how people wanted to be around
him and he hung out with people that you
know the religious leaders were like
what are you doing with these sinners
this is crazy prostitute tax collectors
like tax collectors were on the bottom
of the list they were you know some of
its Jewish people who had joined the
Roman occupation and then they
working for them but also skimming off
the top so they're stealing from their
own people and they were really looked
down upon yeah but they were totally
comfortable with Jesus and I think like
wherever he went in whoever's one he was
because he knew he is the salvation of
the world he's bringing the good news
any love them and so I just pray that
god helps me to see people and love them
and see them as they really are in his
eyes and then be comfortable in the
situation because doesn't really matter
yeah and that's one thing that we've
talked about the purpose of missions
trips and we're hoping hopefully in the
weeks to come we'll have someone come in
and and discuss that with us because
it's not always for the people that
you're going sometimes God actually asks
you to go on a missions trip because he
wants to do something in your own heart
he wants to change a mindset he wants to
UM change your heart he wants you to
call call on him rely on him for things
and i would say in my experience in my
mission strips i have been changed yeah
like yes I've gone and helped people but
I have been changed yeah my mind sets
have been changed I I have grown in my
relationship with god and so I guess we
want to challenge you today to say okay
simply ask the Lord what mission field
do you have for me even say this year
mm-hmm you know like because maybe your
mission field is work like God wants you
to pour into the people at work if you
go to school maybe God wants you to pour
into the mission at at school or maybe
it's your neighborhood like maybe he
actually is calling you to your
neighborhood to actually build
relationships with people in your
neighborhood or maybe your mission field
is your church which sounds kind of
weird but maybe God's calling you for a
season to pour into a ministry at church
yeah or maybe he is saying no I want you
to go like our big city is Toronto so
maybe he wants us to go to trial to do
to work with some of the inner-city
people there or maybe he could be
calling you to beyond whether it's
Nicaragua Dominican somewhere in South
America or Africa but to ask the Lord
what mission do you have for me this
year and one of the things that we
talked about it could be sponsoring a
missionary yeah um I have friends that
are in the mission field that aren't
just you know over in Africa but
actually right here intro in Toronto and
yes then this couple they work with
InterVarsity Christian Fellowship and
they are partnering with local high
schools to reach the kids there yeah um
so that might be something that you want
to do if you don't want to go somewhere
yeah um then if you want to invest yeah
in someone else's ability to go another
great opportunity is through sponsoring
a child we both support compassion
canada and the website will appear here
amazing organization i hope to be able
to talk about it maybe on another show
but that's an opportunity where you can
sponsor a child and they support the
local church that's there so it's
actually local people working in
developing areas to help the children
get access to education healthcare they
hear the gospel and they're actually
changing their families lives kids are
learning to read within the projects
then they're coming back and they're
teaching their families to read and then
parents are able to go get jobs it's
amazing so if that's something that you
want to invest in that's an awesome
opportunity and so all this is like okay
god what is it that you want me to do
yeah because it's not that passage from
Matthews like I was hungry and you fed
me I was thirsty and you gave me
something to drink and we recognize that
not everyone can pick up and go um to
Ghana like it's actually you might have
the twenty-five hundred dollars to go to
Ghana and yet they will stand there and
look at you and say why didn't you just
send the 25
dollars and we could have built a church
right for for the same amount and so
that's why it's so important to ask the
Lord what do we do what do you want me
to do what is the mission field that you
have and sometimes you'll say I want you
to go and sometimes is like only one
want you to stay and want you to support
yeah so we really encourage you and
we're gonna we're gonna it's around that
time so we're going to pray and and
that's our prayer for you today that you
would be open to what it is that the
Lord has for you and recognizing that
some of the some of the that time if you
go on a trip will be amazing and in some
things you're going to struggle with but
being aware of the fact that the good
the bad the ugly is going to happen on
the missions trip but are you are you
going to trust in the fact that God has
called you to do that so at the end of
the day it's about him mm-hmm it's about
what he's doing it's about trying people
to him amen all right let's pray yeah
father thank you so much that we were
able to talk about this and things that
you're doing all over the world thank
you so much for bringing me the team
home safely and I just pray for our
viewers and those listening that they
would be inspired to go out and share
with other people the good news of Jesus
Christ and all that you've done for us
Lauren if it if it's to support a
missionary or two maybe sponsor a child
I just pray that people would listen to
you and may your hearts be open to hear
what you have to say thank you for all
that you've done and we pray this in the
name of Jesus amen amen we want to thank
category 5 TV mm-hmm for hosting this
show and you can go to our website new
everyday TV and we also want to thank
eco alkalines they are carbon neutral
battery that powers our cameras and
microphones we just want to say thanks
for that and we hope that you will join
us next week but if you don't join us
next week live maybe you want to turn
into stitcher app yeah it's a online
half and then i only share how apps work
but basically download it on your phone
and it allows you to listen to us
offline like yeah maybe you don't have
time to send forth your computer but you
commute so this is a really cool app
that allows you to download our show and
listen to it wherever you are and so
that's a stitcher app alright have a
great
Oh
you
