this young lady here that's yes having a
good old time on the on the desk her
name is Jen hi Jen
she doesn't speak but she is a robot of
sorts
yes but there's a neat twist to this
particular robot which is called smart
girls and that twist is that it is meant
to introduce young ladies to STEM
education
okay now stem in case you've not heard
of it isn't it's a it's a hot word right
it is but it's an acronym so I first
came across down two years ago and I'm
like what is stem so it is science
technology engineering mathematics okay
so these are the four categories and the
purpose is to get people involved in
those and so you wanted while they're
young in production right yes absolutely
and so if you can get into those four
main areas the sky is the limit for
where you can go in this world and
especially in a technology-based world
you know the T of stem is quite
important
I love STEM education in that I watched
as a young person like when I was just a
little guy I was coding on a vic-20 I
was writing my own basic programs I was
getting into peripherals of my first xt
computer I had it torn apart and I was
installing ad-lib sound cards and I was
upgrading it and changing peripherals
and all this kind of stuff but then we
went through in in the education sector
we went through this whole now computers
exist you don't need to learn how to
build computers we'll just show you how
to operate the software well now 20
years later that education is obsolete
if you learned based on that education
model you probably feel like you know
nothing at this point you know you
missed out because that software's
obsolete so is the education that you
had so stem stem education on the other
hand brings back that passion for
understanding the underlying code that
makes things work
understanding the inner workings of
robots yes things like the Raspberry Pi
and building it yourself getting your
hands in there and and being a part of
the education process I remember it
hands-on grade five
we had Doss class oh yeah yeah
so they actually spent an entire class
teaching us ms-dos and I was like what
is this I have no clue but it was
amazing I absolutely loved it and to
this day I realize how those like a lot
of the commands are fundamental to
everything else that you code in yes and
that's it that like Doss you would have
learned batch fire Wow syntax so you've
learned syntax you've learned how
programs work you've learned to code yes
Lee so even though the dass syntax is no
longer applicable well it's still you
can still write yeah boss pro like batch
files for Windows 10 and things yet that
but really you've learned you've learned
the syntax of PHP that's right and
you've learned the syntax of of Perl and
even go so far as learning the syntax of
like scratch yes that's right just the
work flow yeah if you will I'm excited
because now there's a lot of I guess
attention on stem for girls yes there's
a huge and there's a big reason for that
now it's not that there's not a focus on
this for boys right but there is some
research that has shown that there that
we're really lacking that education for
girls to encourage I guess the best way
to say it would be confidence to
encourage confidence in science
technology engineering and mathematics
so that you know young girls can have
that same level of confidence as young
boys and enter the field and you know
hopefully we're gonna see a shift in in
in kind of the employment sector yep
over the next couple of the next say ten
years or so now smart girls canada.com
is where you can pick one of these up
we're gonna show you how it works Jeff
your daughter Savannah had a blast with
with her smart girls yeah we've spent
hours
playing with her thing churning playing
well but it started off it started with
the believe change absolutely but it
started off with the playful interaction
of it yeah and just figuring it out how
it worked and then I mean I mean I'll
walk you through it kind of what we did
but you start getting into then the
advanced element of and it's not just
you know she's playing with the doll
it's now getting involved with how this
technology works and the advanced
features of it which she picked up
without hesitation which blew me away it
can I ask how old is she she is seven
seven years old yeah so this the Smart
Girls robotic doll if you will is really
targeting like the five six seven eight
kind of age group yeah I'd be up to ten
but it's the perfect age to start like
when I saw the Box I'm going ooh
five I don't know about that because
there's a lot of reading involved
absolutely change my perspective after
about an hour you know working with the
app and with this I'm going oh this is a
non-issue like him no concerns
whatsoever okay so what we're gonna look
at with Smart Girls is a toy that is
kind of secretly teaching young people
STEM education yes so we can have fun
and play at the same time mm-hmm we're
gonna intermix learning and play Jeff
and now Savannah has has given it a try
can you walk us through everything that
we're seeing here on the screen yeah
absolutely so we unfold the the all the
peripherals and all the components out
and what we do this can take a 9-volt
battery but we had a returnable battery
pack that we put into it okay so it's
all hsm yeah so I had Savannah put that
battery pack in it was a little bit
difficult to get it in because it's such
a short wire but once you get it in
everything is good to go and then this
self-balancing siggy just sits there
waiting and so you get the app it's
called sugar coated from sugar girl
and so we've downloaded it to the tablet
it works on Android iPhone all
that kind of stuff and then we go into
the app and so this is the opening
screen that you're seeing here and it
works off Bluetooth connecting from your
device to the the ciggy and the ciggy
being the stand that she's standing
that's correct it's very much like a
Segway yes yeah what percent like a
Segway so that's the robotic aspect of
this toy yes so she's a doll standing on
the robotic aspect can that's right yeah
okay and so you connect to your
character and it has an individual story
that comes with each character and so
you've got a couple options with the app
and this one
Savannah jumped right to it was free
place so she can control it herself
without doing anything and so this is
where it was just playing with it
getting the feel for how it works using
that on-screen joystick to control the
device and I mean it's got a great
balance it's a self balancing device
there are little like sensors in the
front so that you can turn on a setting
where it doesn't bounce into walls okay
if you so choose
which was very very cool and so Savannah
just kind of got the hang of it and how
it works and just playing with it a
little bit and then there's different
options with the app and so you can go
to the next level which is instead of
free play you can draw the path that you
want the city to go we're almost
stepping into steam here which includes
art yes exactly and so now you've just
drawn the squiggly path then you upload
it to the ciggy and it just starts
driving around the path that you've
already cool and right on the screen
there is a legend that shows you this
far on your screen equals 10 centimeters
okay so you know if you're operating
within a meter space on the floor that's
what you've got then you go to the next
advanced level and so there's missions
yeah you can also do a free code
yourself but the missions kind of show
you this story that you have to recreate
with the ciggy in the app and so what
you're seeing here is it's given a
breakdown and then this is where the
coding comes involved in so you see
there's the the map that the city needs
to follow and each of those pieces of
the road you have has a measurement to
it and you program this in and so what
you're seeing with Savannah doing
she is putting the parameters in place
for how the ciggy is to drive so the
yellow there is the repeat so so she's
basically practicing on screen without
actually coding it to the ciggy correct
all right and so she has to put in how
many centimeters and so she has the
choice if it says you need to go 10
centimeters what I had are doing at
first was the repeat of okay we have to
go 10 centimeters the default of this is
1 centimeter so let's put it in for a
repeat 10 times nice so we did it that
way you can also do it as just straight
up 10 centimeters mhm
there's also the arcs to the turns so
that you can have a radius based turn
that's 10 seen me it's 10 centimeters
all the kind of stuff and it's the way
the program is worked with the interface
is that they're interlocking so you'll
see here she's connecting it and then it
connects and once it's connected you can
move your whole code around on the
screen and you don't get very very
similar to scratch Timmy yeah a lot and
so then once you've developed your
course you upload it to the ciggy and it
starts to drive it and you see there on
the screen she gets a yeah you did it
nice because she was just doing a
straightforward and I mean of course
there's the always famous free play
where you can just have fun and mess
around with it but the neat thing about
this app is that savanah within half an
hour was already going through the
various functions of the app and then
going into the coding and she's like
Daddy what I do with this here so I
showed her on the the mission section of
the screen although this is where you
you start telling it what to do okay she
started doing the coding recognizing the
numbers without any issue I mean there's
some manipulation to the numbers where
she's got some things wrong I mean she's
7 so math is started role in turning the
education part right exactly when we're
learning yeah achieving something and I
loved doing it with her because it was
great bonding time for the two of us
that's what I noticed too but at the
same time it was amazing for me to be
able to say to her well let's try this
and what about this and so it's creating
you know this bomb but I'm also teaching
her and guiding her through it and on
the app and I'll show it in a little bit
is once you've done those kind of
graphical based coding
I showed her what the actual code looks
like because there's another thing where
you could see the source code oh nice
and I'm like honey I'm gonna do
something you just did some programming
she's like what and then a short of the
screen she's like I did that I'm like
yeah so if you ever had a computer and
you want to type that on the computer
you could do the same thing very cool uh
and and that because that's so similar
to scratch as far as the visual
appearance and how things flow the
workflow I think you could easily
transcend that to scratch coding
absolutely so yeah 100% perfect right
yeah let's talk a little bit about the
line so smart girls there are four
different dolls that are available and
each one has its own kind of backstory
where yes that yeah in the app in just a
moment it is award-winning as far as the
like the e-learning platform where we're
looking at combining technology and play
and learning all into one kind of device
yeah it was actually it's neat because
this device Smart Girls was featured on
Shark Tank and a hat and it got the the
backing of one of the one of the sharks
is so cool I love it
can we take a real quick look at one of
the missions that you you mentioned
missions yes it that with with Savannah
so I'm just gonna play a real quick
video here the Jeff provided this is
Savannah taking one of her missions yes
now I want to give a quick backstory to
it yeah so she did this while I was out
I left I think I went to go pick up one
of the kids from a social event and when
I came back she said daddy look what I
did so this is after an hour of he's
been playing with it she was doing it
herself kay like nobody helped her and
so I mean there were some issues with
the math that I walk you through fixing
it yeah but she did it herself well I
wasn't there nice and Jana my wife
hadn't played with it yet so she didn't
know how the app worked she had no
involvement in it and Savannah was over
the moon excited seven years old yes
seven years old
yeah within an hour on the app and shoot
what she chose a mission of her own and
programmed it herself okay so dad gets
home pulls out his cell phone and this
is gut okay so Savannah is doing a
mission
she has to find three different bird
locations as the eggs the feathers and
another set of eggs so she spent some
time over the last little bit being
aware of all of these factors so if you
find eggs or feathers you have to pause
for four seconds and so she has now
built her code so you'll see that we
move forward ten centimeters whoops
turn left 90 degrees go for 20
centimeters right 90 degrees forward 50
centimeters and goes down and down and
down you see the pause so there's the
first bird here's the big turn at 270
degrees with ten centimeter radius then
here's the bird feathers at pause four
and then the end is the last bird to
pause for now you can also see the code
which is kind of neat so from the coding
standpoint you see siggy move 110
centimeters turn machine 90 degrees zero
centimeters and it continues to go on
and here's our 270 degree at 10
centimeter radius all right so now that
we have done that we know what the code
looks like we've already we can show it
on the screen if we want to see how it
looks but we've already tested that so
now we're going to drive it on the floor
and see how it plays out so now it's
sending it all right let's go
here's the turn to the right she's now
looking at bird feathers pause for four
seconds then she'll turn around 180 go
forward into the big to 270 degrees
Henry centimeter radius loop the right
turn and to find the feathers at the
right well savanna I think we've done it
pause before she'll turn around 180
forward turn to the right
final bird eggs and the celebratory spin
after a four second pause Savannah good
job that's so cool
oh let's let's talk a little bit about
you know we mentioned at the beginning
of this segment that there is a gap
between men and women or boys and there
was recently a study a survey that was
published by actua could we look at just
a couple of the key points of what came
of that study absolutely we can
so it says fifty percent of boys
surveyed are very or extremely
interested in careers involving coding
or programming and only twenty twenty
seven percent of girls I have the same
level of it so half of the number of
girls versus one in four one in four
girls yeah so keeping in mind that this
is this is science technology
engineering and mathematics so these are
fields and and knowledge bases if you
will if we have that knowledge then
they're as Jeff mentioned it's the sky's
the limit there are so many places that
you can go with that knowledge so we
need to we need to see that shift right
I mean I know that I when I was growing
up wasn't confident in any way and I've
been growing I mean very much a huge
shout out and thank you to you really in
particular in the fact that it it
becomes something that feels like you
can tackle it wanted to explain to you
you know thoroughly right but for the
most of my life it was so daunting the
idea of anything stem it was crazy
now girls are 14% our girls were 14
percentage points more likely than boys
to characterize coding is difficult and
that makes sense to me completely
because even like even now I know a
little bit but I would I would say it's
difficult when I speak even to Dave he
thought he would think oh yeah no that's
completely doable and palatable but I
think part of that I think is just the
way that you've grown up being immersed
in some sort of element of coding is not
the norm in our society when it comes to
to women and girls and so you grow up
with a different skew to it then then
guys do like I think of our boys at home
the idea of Minecraft coding they love
that idea of it right savanah doesn't
care at all right but you know the Smart
Girls app suddenly the boys are going
whoa why can't we do that and they
wanted nothing to do with Minecraft and
savannahs like hey guys I'm coding yeah
you know and so it's just it's putting a
different spin on it and creating a
contextual environment where you go oh I
can get behind that
and it makes all the difference you
Savannah has no interest in coding up
until this and now she's going oh oh
coding can be this yeah coding can be
fun yeah and she's so I mean it change
that perspective so I mean I totally get
it when you say 14% more likely to say
that it's it's difficult so it's like a
paradigm shift so it's not that girls
are incapable by any stretch you know
that the exposure to it has been very
gender biased right it hasn't seemed
relevant right yeah to girls yep so now
we're stats from actual 41% of boys say
that they are somewhat or totally
confident in their coding and
programming abilities and only 28
percent of girls exhibit this level of
confidence exactly you may be huge skew
now this study really shows why a stem
robot specifically designed for girls is
really a great idea so if you'd like to
see the study itself so this is a third
party study from actual
you're doing this that's playing around
on the tablet
we've actually got a link to it go to
cat5 dot TV slash actua and you'll be
able to look at that study for yourself
now Johanna Garcia is the founder of
Canadian classroom and they partnered
with Smart Girls to bring this product
into Canada brand so she actually tells
us and this is a quote STEM jobs in
Canada pay higher than other industries
yet women only represent 23% of the stem
workforce
which is astonishing so this is great
because now girls can you believe it
starts here exactly as kids right and
then all of a sudden the seed is planted
right when I was a child I wanted to be
a nurse why was that well I think
probably because the things I played
with right the things marketed to me
made me want to take care right say I
had that doll yeah who's who's to say I
wouldn't want to build robots right sure
yeah yep rocket ships that's right
anything okay let's get a look at the
app as we kind of move along in our in
our feature here smart girls sure um so
I'm gonna bring this up on the screen
Jeff so Jeff has the app installed on
his tablet yeah and there we go okay so
this is the interface when so when you
first load up the app this is the screen
you see and so you see that this doll in
particular the model the name is Jen and
that's our siggy so you you know when
you turn on the siggy you bring up the
app you're you hit the refresh and it
pops up on the screen and then just over
here on your right yeah on the right and
top corner you've got cheese described
because because you guys you can't see
what he's so you've got the cheese
activity and then you have six options
and so the neat thing is and this isn't
just about having the siggy there is a
story yeah and so you can go to ebooks
and then you will see in iBooks that Jen
has a story and so you go into Jen's
story and this is what comes up so you
learn kind of a the backstory of yeah
the character herself so there's artwork
switch backs go
in there you've got your various
chapters and so you can read about Jen
who she is what she does it's very very
neat and so then it it opens the door
from the stem standpoint of saying hey
there's lots of options out there for
for girls and so you know we saw in the
app that savanah went into the free free
play yeah okay so I let's let's look at
the interface here sir so you wouldn't
kind of drag around and yeah so with the
free play it's just a basic so he's
actually moving Jen right now yeah so I
mean I guess switch to your camera so
now that you've seen the screen you can
see what's actually happening because
I'm a little bit too fast you know this
the sucker I'll move there's different
options so I mean you've got four
backwards buttons you can put you know
you've got this figure eight here all
right let's go back here yeah you know
if switch back to your camera yeah
tablet so you've got the figure eight
down here in the bottom left corner yeah
if you've got a wide enough area okay
push that that's correct I'm not gonna
do that here while she's on the desk but
the same deal you've got the back and
forth on the right you've got the S
shape and so the cig you'll just
continue to drive into a shape you can
also create like hit the record button
and draw your own pattern or forward it
and save it and reload it so you could
make an obstacle course and make it go
through the obstacle course and then
record it and then play it back and do
it again that's correct yeah so that's
the free play then you've got you have
path okay and so in the path set so this
is the one that Zac this is where you
saw Savannah where she just kind of drew
it you know again I'm not gonna do it
here because good idea you know it could
fly all over the table but you see that
there's a legend for the hundred
centimeters so you know that that is
that on your floor that is a meter oh
really
yeah so whatever you're drawing on a
desk yeah yeah exactly so you know
they're just gonna do a few little
circles and you know so you see there's
not much there yeah yeah you're gonna
actually trigger that and then I'm gonna
try and drive on the floor might hit oh
nice you know so like that's how it
works okay
so so very very cool you can erase it
and and and clear it you can continue
working with it you know make it bigger
smaller you could save it as well so
then also this is where we get into I'm
going to bring it over to missions
actually no not gonna be at missions
okay so in missions this is where
there's a story to it where so I mean
level one is hotdog the video that we
just watched was the bird specimen and
so you can see that there's three star
levels there's a video to it oh and it
gives you like a tutorial that's right
leading into the mission yeah that's fun
and so this is where you see on the
screen that you've got the picture of
what do you have to travel and so here
you see you know each of those Road
segments where you've got the blue lines
you see here they're ten centimeters
you've got a on the turqu curve the
curves it's a 90 degree turn radius zero
there's roadblocks you know if you get
to that roundabout it shows you that the
turn is 270 radius of ten so do you have
to code that now so yeah so now you see
the instructions yes and then this is
where you go into the code into the
little way the video we watched this is
what savanna coded so you see move
forward ten centimeters turn left 90
degrees radius zero centimeters move
four twenty centimeters and at any point
good for you savanna yeah and so you've
got on the left side you have these
options for move so you've got you can
set the speed level moving forward the
turning there's an audio/visual where
you put the Hobbit honk the horn to know
you think nice then in the execution
you've got the repeat that was talking
about that a little bit earlier how you
know if say she had to go fifty
centimeters instead of saying just put
in fifty centimeters you could put in
ten centimeters repeat five encourage
her to do math that's right yeah that's
and then you've got the pause that's in
there as well and if at any point you're
uncertain you hit this little question
mark on the bottom and you can go back
to what it is that you're looking at
yeah and so you want to follow that path
to the first bird egg go to the
roundabout to the second the bird
feathers and then three is the bird egg
and then you complete the level and if
you complete it and do it properly then
you're going to be rewarded with a star
and then you go to the next level of
that mission and there's three levels
for each one now and this is what I was
talking about a little bit early
I said to civilian let me show you
something up in the top right corner
here you've got show code this is the
code cool so you can see ciggy move
siggi dot move bracket one like that so
I mean you can actually see the code now
of this entire thing and so if we
encourage them to get in there then all
of a sudden we can transition to Arduino
we get position to other platforms yeah
with the knowledge that we've learned
here yeah it was very very cool and and
it does allow you to try a trial and
error with the show on-screen button no
I'm not gonna do it cause it's gonna
walk you through saw that we saw it
during the video yeah exactly
and that that's um there's the video
again so you've got your you have your
four different levels you know she could
pick up her tools search for plants get
a hot dog find burnt specimens and
that's you know you continue to then
you've got your free code so this is
sugar-coated you you're actually coding
your own program that's correct
all right yes and so you know you get
the startup screen that says hey program
a story a maze whatever okay and this is
where it's free play and you could do
whatever you want I mean there's even
dance buttons where you can have the
ciggy do the cha-cha-cha
you know Zumba laughs is number right
like you can have a whole lot of fun
with this thing coding however you want
then there is also the learn button that
walks you through a training segment so
you've you get into the app and you're
going I don't know what I'm doing how do
I do the coding and you have all these
levels of training from one to ten
starting with just moving forward okay
going up to something more advanced
inside there yeah oh okay so and so it
builds the involvement and the
confidence level so that you've gone
through the ten training levels and
you're like oh this is perfect that is
too and so that's all the app is and I
mean so that's all the app is like
there's just the six functions right but
there's so much to it and Savannah
couldn't I mean it was almost like there
was a you know a textual AED she was
just going around like I want to do this
I wanted this I want because she's so
excited to try the next new thing and
yeah I mean it was I'm gonna get out
like the the building bricks and build
trails and things yeah we clear
our basement family room made this like
20 by 6 foot area and she's like I'm
gonna create an obstacle course and she
had so much fun with it so as a dad
let's look at this from the perspective
of a dad that you've got this for your
daughter she's seven years old
impressions of the device itself as well
made solid it's it's very safe
construction I mean the dolls great you
know trendy clothes all the kind of
stuff I think the only concern I had was
getting the battery pack in it because
the cable was so short but Savannah did
it I had to help her did you help her I
did how he didn't see that yeah I did
help her get the battery in to get it
[Music]
okay to be fair when I built a computer
I had help
exactly it's an issue for me to help her
but she just dad get her hands in you've
got the battery packet so you've you've
got the the extra battery pack so that
you don't have to chew change battery
correct having done that I noticed that
it is now us be chargeable yes so you've
basically converted that so it was maybe
a little challenging for a
seven-year-old to ins genitive yeah
however dad could have put that in
screwed it in and it's there's a USB
port to charge it yep and that again it
can take 9-volt batteries but that makes
it so that you don't have to exactly
recharge it every time yeah you thought
you could do that absolutely and it is
so she turned off I believe she did turn
off so I like hey you picked me out so
yeah I mean and it is self balancing
which I absolutely love because I'm like
I'm gonna get this thing to stand cool
so you kind of hold it there for a
second then you'll hear beep sweet and
then that's it and then it will just
continue to rock back and forth it was
it I love this thing so smart girls I
think it's a great product for stem and
for encouraging young girls to to build
confidence in STEM education as we've
talked about again smart girls
canada.com now now until the end of
April 2018 it's free shipping okay so
smart girls canada.com as you see on
your screen very cool and maybe you
don't like the Jen there's four
different doll op sites and they all
come with a different story so like I
don't want out I want this one you know
and so I mean the whole point at this
point is collect all four I will say as
a girl the story is important like to me
the idea of having something like that
is relatable it's relatable exactly I I
probably wouldn't care at all if that
was just like if it looked a not like a
doll like if it looked like an ugly
little robot like what you're used to
with robots right but that's it though
they've taken it and made it more
approachable for young girls and if this
and if this girl didn't have a story
right if she wasn't going to find plants
you know I would get tired of just oh
okay well now she's just driving in a
square the missions make it oh there's a
quest there's a goal and that is amazing
cool what just from the story level one
things I liked about the Jen storyline
is that she's also a mechanic who loves
nature so this opens the door with
advancing she's like what's a mechanic
right well mechanic works on cars you
know and and she's like well what do
they do I'm like well okay well say well
you can come with me next time I change
my oil and I'll show you how to change
the I'll show you how to change tire and
start with those basic things and then
it's hey let's clean up the camshaft I'm
just gonna sit back and watch while you
do it is not my forte I focused on stem
final thoughts about smart girls first
of all you saw Jeff doing this on his
tablet it does work on smartphones as
well yes so you can install it on your
Android or iOS device it can be a tablet
or a phone smartphone I presume even
like an iPod Touch would be just fine
because it's iOS and Wi-Fi and Bluetooth
so there you have it and finally just
the ruggedness of it
we saw it driving on carpet great at
carpet I've been on great on floors and
I mean Savannah did in the free play
kind of bumped it into a coffee table
bumped it into you know our TV unit held
up it's great nice solid rubber wheels
so it's got it has great traction I go I
I don't think I have a single concern
complaint of the six perfect
so grandparents parents something
definitely check out educators go to
smart girls Canada and calm
[Applause]
