tonight Henry and I are kind of getting
into the maker kit getting a look at it
Henry the first kind of project that i
started working on well I'll just
explain a little bit of backstory okay
the ladies from new everyday use lapel
microphones all right they look like
this ok so the clips on how Jerry yeah
and then it goes into a power pack then
this is like basically phantom power for
the microphone because they require
power ok but the camera only has two
inputs hmm left and right so they're
stuck with two mics so recently been
doing some interviews and it gets really
really tough when they've got three
people on the set they can't they can't
Mike them move again Mike everybody so I
came up with this little super super
simple now I'm I'm a beginner maker so
I'm just learning how to do all this
kind of stuff but I came up with this
plugs into the into the camera sneakier
tinky so let's just a like an eighth
inch three point three point five
millimeter stereo plug yeah and it goes
to this breakaway box I'm going to ask
for quarter-inch input and I've just
used ethernet cable to make it happen so
it's a full connection there you go
that's there you go so you plug that
into the camera and then you've got two
microphones on each side so you just
find you figure out who's got
approximately the same volume of speech
and there you go so that's kind of my
first one of my first build I've done a
couple other we're so proud of you
Robbie I love see I go to say i'll talk
about it yeah you haven't it's amazing
overall a house end of Barry if you
haven't been if you're in the berry area
you've got to check them out it's called
sale that's where you can get kit like
this now you can also get the money
amazon and stuff and then so go through
our affiliate links you'll find what you
need i am just old school and i love
going up and down the aisles and going
oh that would make a good kit oh that
would be a cool people that's where your
imagination gets in oh yeah and then
it's like so then I'm looking you know
even choosing the type of end but I want
for the plot so that's a 90 degree angle
so that it points to the floor mm-hmm
when it plugs into the can't exactly
those kind of things instead of plugging
in that way
oh you know I love that so being able to
walk into a store i don't know if you've
got any stores like that it's like the
old style radio shack which is used to
be able just to pract just bits and bobs
of parts and switches a noticeable thing
Oh totally nerding out right now I know
it's so simple I want you to take you to
do that Robbie have an hour an hour a
well once I had all the stuff oh yeah
when you go to shopping I obviously
spent about seven hours in the store and
way over spent and my wife said if she
looks starts looking at the itemized
receipt and what's this yeah how much
exactly did you spend on that that's
kind of how it goes but that's that's
what it is so one of the ways though
that you can save a lot of money and
Henry is through a kit like what you
were looking at last week okay and the
purpose behind picking up a kit is
really so that because i would go to
sail one of these electronic stores and
i would buy all the pieces that i need
for a particular project yeah you spring
him all in yeah I'm all in and then I
would build the project and then I would
go back and i would buy all the parts
for the next project avail there's
something to be said about just having a
bunch of stuff on hand kind of in bulk
because you get into stuff like
resistors that are super super cheap by
themselves and you don't want to go in
and buy five of them you might as well
get 500 that should buy them in bulk
right yeah this kit I'll get you to move
your coffee so that we can really go to
take that think here it is okay we're
just going to get into it a little bit
heavier this week to show you this is
available at cat5 TV / maker you saw it
last week so we're not going to really
go through the unboxing process but you
see we've got resistors so many many
resistors many many resistors so with
this with this series our maker series
here on category 5 TV one of the things
that we want to do is we want to start
from the basics and work our way to some
more sophisticated things we're going to
get into television repair all Isaac
said you can pick up a flat screen TV on
the side of the road because somebody
that you know it doesn't work anymore
we're going to alert here we're going to
learn here we're going to fix it we're
going to get a free TV how do you like
that we might have to buy a capacitor
for six bucks okay I'll save you that
I'm a new TV for like that wasn't it wow
there's a ton of stuff that you really
need to get started first of all safety
Gulf you might as well steampunk him out
I I got your safety goggles but I feel
like you're safer than I am because I'm
just here safer nerdier all of the above
and it's not a bad thing you're gonna
need things like like resistors so what
do resistors do Henry they resist the
urge hydropower and I really like how
they added different levels resistors
she was in basic saying it's like a tap
right so i think i remember back in high
school and what professor is talking
about electricity and resistors um it's
like you have a full pipe full of water
but you can't handle the entire full
pipe so what do you do you add like a
little resistor in this case for
electronics resistor for water you would
have liked a little funnel or something
so it kind of reduces the voltage yeah
of whatever's passing through the wire
that's as far as I believe that's how I
was raised we're gonna let okay I was
not raised in a home where this kind of
thing was readily available or even
promoted I was the kid who would take
apart the VCR get in a boatload of
trouble for doing it what's a VCR and
I'm just kidding it was better yeah and
and then put it all back together again
and it would work better than it did
before I took it apart because I would
clean the heads and the panhandlers but
today so that would be so this kind of
stuff a lot of it is new to me but I
used to build like patch panels and
things okay audio patch panels and and
recently I've been really getting into
learning to become a maker because I
really want to know how to do this stuff
oh yeah I'm a homeowner now and it
really drives me mad that I don't know
some of the basics of home repair hmm so
then I so then I started learning that
kind of stuff now that I can do
renovations and fix things and do this
or that yeah now i'm like 'look ablenet
i really want to be doing this stuff the
electronic stuff is really my passion
and what I want to learn so oh so that's
why we're going to be getting into this
more hmm so things that you absolutely
need of course resistors we're going to
learn all about resistance tonight with
a very simple demonstration we've got a
couple
relays as well I love relays you cannot
they'll setting so many funds et close
and we're going to learn about those
later on in the series we've got some
some capacitors as well it sound leaves
can be used for repairs if you ever burn
out a capacitor on a motherboard you can
actually fix your motherboard by having
those on hand we've got fuses we've got
multiple different types of capacitors
we've got some some ceramic capacitors
as well we've got some LEDs some
alligator clips more LEDs like it just
goes on and on never ends these guys
which Henry these are called potente on
but potent ayotte potentiometer nice
hooked on phonics worked for me do you
have the potential potentiometer I would
have just called volume knob volume of
novel is calling to us Jeff West and and
and and the crew here at category five
we've been talking about we're going to
start building a mini arcade game system
for ads gonna have so much fun for the
retro pies and actually build that so
we're going to need some of these kinds
of things and the knowledge that were
going to learn the other stuff that
you're going to absolutely need need me
need and this is to get started as a
maker you want to learn how to do
electronics oh yeah the kit just makes
it so easy because it's all there it's
all in one place you don't have to and
it's all in one place and say al but you
don't have to go up and down the aisles
to get what you need to get started so
so I am excited about this so we've got
batteries and loads of them we've got a
9-volt battery we're going to learn
resistance with that today so let's set
that aside we've got some 22 gauge wire
in three different colors so this is
literally just wire that we can use for
soldering stuff together we've got some
battery compartments for so we've got
six volts 1.5 volts and three volts
we've got a breadboard which you showed
last week this is oh it's pretty decent
little bit bored looks sweet and this is
for testing right so this is so that we
can test our circuit build our circuit
and make sure it works before we start
soldering everything together and
realize oh yeah
wrong right but I see a ton of exciting
stuff in here it's great kit and and
even just the box itself is really nice
it's just that it's just nice to be
organized it's just nice to have that
because when I whenever I come home from
a text I always have with everything in
bags and oh yeah I think it's all over
the place but even if you do start to
run out of supplies it comes with a nice
box so energy yes it's I'm sorry like I
I love things that keep you organized
like this is there anything here that we
wouldn't use I really don't think so and
like this no now tears everything like
even like being into like flights and
stuff like use like a lot of these like
switches yeah song grapes which landing
gear up landing gear down is that what
you're going to build an airplane I just
actually already have one oh it's
getting no that's exciting though
alright so we're going to learn a little
bit about resistance tonight beyond our
kit what we need is some tools so i have
all right some of my tool kit here with
me I've got what's called helping hands
this is really really helpful when you
are soldering it's got a little light
that illuminates things it's got a
magnifier okay and see a lot better as
you're working on stuff so you can clip
with these helping hands alligator clips
and hold your project as you are
soldering salsa then I've picked up a
wireless soldering iron aha after seeing
Jeff with a wireless one is that we get
a wireless one because it's so
convenient just had to I'll tell you the
truth the the wireless one I kind of
would like to go with a higher higher
grade like plugged in because batteries
don't last a huge amount of time and
when they die it just starts soldering
poorly it doesn't get up there's no
indication a just starts to happen not
really and you can change the batteries
or you can buy rechargeables and that's
fine but realistically as I get more and
more serious about this to do this
becomes a handy tool to have but it's
not it shouldn't be my only solder well
that's the thing is that when you're at
your desk right like your little
workstation oh dang as well have a hard
yeah you're going to have hardwired
anyways right so depending on your usage
I should I don't this is the one I
bought any so I pick up just a piece of
like what do you call this like scour
Pass is happiness yeah in the dollar
store and I use this when the solder is
hot I can just rub that soldering iron
on the on that and it just cleans it up
really really nice there you go and then
we've got some solder here I've got a
pair of clippers so these Clippers
actually have a 22-gauge oh it's
stripper that's going to make things a
lot easier yeah some good needles what
do you call the or tweezers Weezer's
these are great for holding your project
when you're holding things like
capacitors yeah they get hot as your
soldering I've got a nice little
screwdriver that Kingston provides and
these are great it's good to just have a
good little driver so that's kind of my
kit and then the main thing that you're
going to absolutely need Henry
regardless of what you're doing is a
multimeter you're going to absolutely
need to be able to tell things like have
you got continuity which is the circuit
is complete and there is a flow of
electricity you're going to need to be
able to tell how many volts are running
through something so you don't blow
something up yeah none we probably will
blow things up oh that's going to read
the first yeah getting enough yeah
hopefully speaking of blowing things up
we got an email from our viewer who we
all know is orange man should we take a
quick look at this all right let's take
a look orange man writes dear Robbie and
I presume Henry as well my name is there
assist invisible writings just invisible
Sasha rough so orange man actually
provided a couple of pictures for us so
i'm going to brought good you bring
these up at the same time sorry orange
man says in december i had an old
raspberry pi in my workshop in an old
cardboard box not being used okay i
wanted to make the output run on my TV
display as a way of displaying videos by
connecting an HDMI or VGA vga cable to
the TV my wife is blind and she doesn't
like a lot of wires around makes sense
yep so I designed it to put inside of a
computer chassis along with a power
supply I found a case on amazon amazon
was low profile and
and oh it has a switching power supply
which provides both 5 volt and 12 volt
power that's interesting that he
mentions that yeah we were talking about
building this arcade system for the
retro pie and I said we should get a
uses standard computer power supply and
so that we have five volt and 12 volt
rails 12 volt for the monitor 5 volt for
the pie and any other kind of peripheral
so that's cool ah you know where we are
because you've got your finger on yeah
of course just carrying a navigator here
I'm it arrived on Christmas Eve happy
belated Christmas knife up yes we had we
had post on Christmas Eve that's awesome
so I tested it see the power supply
worked and wanted to know when I'd find
out which wire was the plus 5 volts and
which were 12 volt your multimeter is
going to so tada Thank You multimeter I
tried it twice and it worked ok good but
when I tried it for a third time to
check out a few other things on the
power supply it's just stopped working
and was completely dead well that may
not good yeah orange man goes on to say
sometime back I obtained some 286
computer power supplies which also have
5 volt and 12 volt yeah this was the
same physical size as the one that that
was in there originally and it worked
every time without going banging nice I
got a picture here of the outer chassis
that's kind of the completed box with
the wires sticking out of the back and
orange man sends us a little bit of a
view of what this bad boy looks like on
the inside Henry if you can carry on
with the with the email their excellent
because you know the reading skills son
time back you already said that I wanted
to use the USB output of the pie to
power a USB hub to give me more USB
outputs yeah ok yes that's always useful
the output from the audio socket will be
connected to a small jack and then
connected by a small audio output and I
thought I would do the same as the audio
by plugging a very short HDMI lead into
the HDMI socket on to the pot wait um so
yeah so the socket end of my converters
vga had a hole cut in the box so I
plugged it plugged the vga to a short
cable but there was some issues with the
converter
I let's see what that was it was a very
intermittent and would only works
sometimes okay that's real good yeah so
I abandoned this idea and was stuck with
an HDMI socket I cut a hole in the
chassis asst and glued a jack in place
so i could easily connect an external
hdmi cable okay sweets but had some
trouble so on amazon amazon go through
our web link yeah odds are i cut a hole
in the chassis spawned an hdmi cable
will attend email plug on each end okay
so just and fixed one end to the HDMI
socket on the Raspberry Pi and the other
end goes through a hole and chassis so
the one night i'm guessing he cut with a
grommet so i can plug it into the TV
then the hit took about 20 minutes to
build so likely the hdmi there in the
center of your screen now if you follow
that cable coming out of the hdmi he's
got a kromm it and again going out of
the computer and then we've got all
kinds of great wiring going on here
orange man well done and I see a USB
port on the front there okay we're
almost done yeah this little paragraph
here so he's been interred in to
electronics since he was 10 years old
and now he's 60 so that's a lot of
experience way to go oh you got 50 years
on me yeah so so makin okay was very
easy and enjoyable the network socket
from the Raspberry Pi connects to short
external Jack and the keyboard and mouse
are both wireless which we saves on the
wires right because you wanted to keep a
absolutely yeah space on Mars announced
its on a shelf in our sitting room and I
can operate the keyboard and mouse
without any visible wires from or an
animatic oh dude that is and I love
hearing these stories thanks for sharing
because it really does it's always great
to hear when people use these with such
unique project it's inspiring it is and
at the same time I'm looking at this
orange man and I'm thinking this is a
build that you would never like I
wouldn't have expected to see this from
a raspberry pi no he the motherboard is
basically this credit card motherboard
in the middle there with a bunch of
wires going to it so you been able to
effectively build a computer a
multimedia
Center with this little tiny computer
stuck in the middle just put it in the
center there and it's so great and with
double-sided carpet tape there you go
yeah that's fantastic i love it and
thank you so much for sharing and these
are some of the things that you know i
want to learn like how does all that
come together now I know how to plug
cables in and stuff like that but to
solder from one thing to the next and
and we've looked at the vio headers of
the Raspberry Pi a little bit and you
know I know that you know some of them
are like five volt power no I've
connected a fan to it to keep it cool
and move like that so you can do all
kinds of little things but let's expand
upon yeah let's dive a little bit deeper
let's see what else we can do with that
[Music]
[Applause]
