you
right here we go it's Tuesday February
17 2015 and here are the stories were
covering this week Dutch MPs are
demanding that the government beef up
their online infrastructure after a DDoS
attack took most of the government's
websites down last week a very slick and
professional cyber robbery has been
taking place for the past two years
siphoning roughly a billion dollars from
worldwide bank's president obama wants
tech firms to open up and share more
information with the government in a
collaborative way but they're just not
buying it a california-based company is
stripping the carbon out of the air and
turning it into usable plastic and they
say they can do it cheaper and much more
environmentally friendly than the
current methods and an online security
researcher found a bug in Facebook's
code that would have allowed him to
delete any of your public photos these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere depending on where you're
located in this big old world of ours
you may remember it as either the Sega
Mega Drive or the Sega Genesis and now
more than a quarter of a century after
its original release in Japan it's more
convenient than ever to take these
classic sega games with you my review is
coming right up stick around try it buy
it
I'm Sagittarius and here are the top
stories from the category 5 TV news room
it has been confirmed that a cyberattack
took down most of the Dutch government
websites last Tuesday the attack which
also took down some private sites
highlighted the vulnerability of public
in fridge infrastructure it came as the
u.s. beefed up its defenses and followed
warnings at sites belonging to the
French authorities had been targeted
that GMP's demanded that the government
ensures state sites were capable of
withstanding similar attacks in the
future in a statement the Dutch
government confirmed that it had been
the victim of a distributed
denial-of-service attack or D das in
which servers are flooded with traffic
causing the sites to fail to load so for
the actual government itself to be
exposed such a an attack is it's scary
yeah but some people don't realize
necessarily is that these kinds of
attacks happen all the time our server
gets whacked away so much and we have
grown to the point where our server and
I really you know you gotta knock on
wood him just like you never want to get
cocky about this kind of server
administration but our server is pretty
robust now that I've learned how to
administer a server against a DDoS
attack and hopefully we never have to
deal with one that is beyond our
capabilities but when you're in the
government they come and they are huge
right it's distributed denial of service
itself in the name means there is a
distribution of the attack from multiple
endpoints which means thousands of
computers probably more all attacking
that server all at one time my goodness
scary stuff I'm happy that we're taking
I mean the u.s. is taking precautions
against it actively as well so that's
good the Dutch will get it under control
a new report has revealed that up to 100
banks and financial institutions
worldwide have been attacked in an
unprecedented cyber robbery
computer security firm Kaspersky Lab
estimates that 1 billion dollars has
been stolen in the attacks which it says
started in 2013 and are still ongoing oh
uh hmm a cyber criminal gang with
members from Russia Ukraine and China is
responsible Casper T said that it worked
with the Interpol and Europol on the
investigation it said the attacks had
taken place in 30 countries including
financial firms in Russia u.s. Germany
China Ukraine and Canada kaspersky said
that the gangs method marked a new stage
in cyber robbery where malicious users
steal money directly from the banks and
avoid targeting end users how very
considerate the gang which cos firstly
dubbed carbon ack used computer viruses
to infect company networks with malware
including video surveillance enabling it
to see and record everything that
happened on staff screens in some cases
it was then able to transfer money from
the banks accounts to their own or even
able to tell cash machines to dispense
cash in a predetermined time of day no
yeah can you imagine walking past a big
machine that have been programmed just a
spit cashew village I can't imagine this
Wow yeah but if that happens to your
part of some intricate web of criminal
activity calling it a very slick and
professional cyber robbery cuz Percy
said that on average each bank robbery
took between two and four months with
with up to 10 million dollar stolen each
time that is significant this is the
next generation of ebury yeah being able
to steal that amount of money just like
that I always thought that we always
thought cybercrime would be the one
penny out of each account so nobody
notices and but to be able to pull ten
million dollars yeah I guess it's
there's time celled it takes a couple
months yeah it takes time and effort but
what is money really now I know this is
what is this time thing that we speak up
and what is my universe dollars all it
all money really is a lot of times in
banks I mean do they have actual cash
dollars know they have account
amounts on a computer right they don't
keep the amount of money that they have
in the actual bank itself anymore no so
I mean it's it's crazy to think but yeah
you could have 10 million dollars stolen
from an account if the bank wasn't
watching and these are not the scary
thing is that these are not Bitcoin
banks and things these are actual banks
that you go in and deposit your
paychecks into this is your real the
real deal is the kind of the next this
is but it's been going on for two years
and we're just kind of finding out about
it now yeah we're gonna get back to
stuff in our mattresses with our dollar
bills according to US President Barack
Obama private tech firms should share
more information with government and
each other to tackle cybercrime the
issue has become a White House priority
since a widely publicized hack of Sony
Pictures at the end of 2014 but some key
tech firms are concerned about
government surveillance yeah wait
there's more hey senior Google Yahoo and
Facebook executive turned down
invitations to the White House
cybersecurity summit held at stanford
university relations between the US
government and tech firms has been
strained since electronic surveillance
practices were exposed by former former
National Security Agency contractor
Edward Snowden President Obama is
bringing a message of inclusive
collaboration to beat cyber threats and
a coordinated federal approach
superseding the patchwork of state laws
which might be sensible but the absence
of Silicon Valley's most senior figures
hints at a deep division between it in
Washington they are uneasy about a lying
strongly with an administration
tarnished by Edward Snowden's
revelations the NSA has spied
extensively on their customers mr.
Obama's own intelligence officials now
say cybercrime poses a more pressing
threat to national security than
terrorism well he would say that he
would say that when he wants
people to you know open up and share
more of their information I don't like
to get into the conspiracy theory is
Amanda that kind of stuff but it there
tends to be we're in that time where
everything is digital right and in their
right to be wary of a government that
would admittedly spy on people and steal
basically steal data they wouldn't
admittedly do it that's the problem he
didn't admit it at all not it and really
exactly no of course not but good for
them for standing up for privacy right
but but oh well let's try working
together collaboratively yeah so if
Edward Snowden didn't come forth I
wonder what this conversation would have
looked like right maybe it would be a
different thing maybe everybody would be
at this summit and they would be you
know up happily cooperating right but
would this discussion he'll ever needed
to be necessary had snowed and not come
forward because it would have just
continued they would have just continued
on this on the same path right
interesting it'll be Italy need to see
how this develops definitely this coming
up is the best news story I have read
all week the plastics industry creates
1.8 trillion pounds of carbon emissions
every year but now one company has
figured out a way to take the pollution
and turn it into plastic that you can
hold in your hand located in costa mesa
california new light technologies is
forming plastic out of thin air
literally knew I'd CEO Mark harima said
we could be breathing this right now
he's figured out how to make plastics
out of destructive carbon emissions that
would otherwise heat the atmosphere
rather than with fossil fuels such as
oil most importantly he figured out a
way to do it cheaper it's something he
has been working on for 11 years since
he started with the company he started
the company with his friend Kenton
Kimmel in his parent's garage some of
the smartest people started their
companies in their parents garage true
Bill Gates I think did that here's how
it works carbon emissions are captured
from farms landfills and energy
facilities and are
into a 50-foot tall reactor new lights
plant a bundle of enzymes stripped out
the carbon and oxygen and rearranges
them into a substance they call air
carbon the product is then melted down
and cooled inside tubes and sliced into
little thin plastic pellets that can be
molded into anything harima calls it a
disruptive technology that's going to
change the world new light is selling
its plastics to companies such as
furniture maker ki who uses it to create
chairs there are also air carbon cell
phone cases soap dishes and plastic bags
at a recent Fortune magazine event
michael dell announced his computer or
his company will use new lights air
carbon bags to wrap its computers the
challenge is for new new light to grow
its business enough to disrupt the 380
earth yeah 380 billion dollar us
plastics industry I will say Robbie that
if you could take plastic out of the air
and turn it into a spool of that plastic
that you can use for 3d printers then
you could really do anything like you
can make shoes out of air pollution like
you could deal to any crazy thought is
it not yeah and who who thinks up this
stuff yeah I I just make plastic out of
it air it's an interesting use of magic
ah yes alchemy that he would need to be
able to take something that is typically
pollution bad for the environment turn
it into something that's usable and
reusable yeah how good for our lungs
because really they work is the filter
right we breathe this in and I guess I
must just stay just kind of us well but
I guess it is right based on carbon
dioxide right so yeah right so it's not
like I'm Bree I'm not breathing in
plastic right I'm breathing in the
building blocks that they're using to
create plastic okay I love it well way
to go forward thinking so public photos
on facebook could have been deleted with
just four lines of code says an online
security researcher
maximum Isaiah was playing around with a
graph API the tool which developers used
to make facebook apps testing it on his
own photos Messiah found a way to
manipulate the code so that it deleted
one of his images he explained in a blog
post I got access to delete all of your
facebook photos photos Witcher public or
the photos that at least he could see he
immediately reported the bug to facebook
security team and says they were fast
and identifying this issue and it was a
fixed in place in less than two hours
from the acknowledgement of the report a
Facebook's for spokesperson has since
confirmed the sequence of events and
Mathias posted a screenshot of a
Facebook message saying that he's been
offered twelve thousand five hundred
dollars as a reward from finding the
fault that is great good sleuthing oh I
wish that there I wish I knew this
before they fixed it cuz there was a
couple of pictures i would love to
delete what our viewers are thinking as
i wish that i could get money for
pointing out Robbie's faults i wish that
i could just be smart enough to find
something like yeah there's oversight in
any major company like that yeah right
so that's pre-made something like
Facebook right which I mean yes there's
a like obviously a coding fault of some
sort yes so for me to actually be able
to find that so easily not that it was
easy I'm sure but four lines of code
yeah twelve-thousand dollars nice yeah
for all your tech news is a slight Linux
bias visit the category 5 TV news room
at newsrooms category 5 TV for the
category 5 TV news room I'm Sasha
through made us
