here is the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV news room
audacious cyber criminals have created a
Star Trek themed strain of ransomware
computers can lip-read now ubiquity
devices are vulnerable to take over
attacks with a single click and many
popular Android devices ship with
malware already installed these stories
are coming right up don't go anywhere
now here's another great way you can
support the shows you love from the
category 5 TV network by shopping gear
best that's right Jeff cap 5 TV / gear
best it's an online store for the geek
streak in him or the loved ones well of
course I mean especially your loved ones
right because cap 5db SlashGear best
quite frankly has all of the greatest
tech gifts that you could ever hope for
at rock bottom prices to that cell phone
you betcha cat5 TV / dear beth has a
wide assortment of unlocked android cell
phones and tablets global compute
consumer electronics those like a great
gift absolutely from high-tech watches
to action cameras headphones even
virtual reality headsets cat five dot TV
/ gearbest have you covered they
literally have it all Jeff literally
really it's like a superstore right from
the comfort of your own share at your
computer through the interweb
yeah there's no way they have it all
through it's just a bunch of random
electronic test me what about clothes
yep both men and women fashionable
apparel at rock bottom SuperDuper prices
kinda like this well look at this coat
what do you think it's a slimming mock
leather jacket I love it it's available
for less than thirty dollars plus free
shipping a cat5 DV / gearbest yeah all
right you kind of got me there Wow any
other questions for me Jeff now that the
winter is past flying season do they
have any good deals on say to encompass
oh my goodness well check this out dude
they have everything check out over 500
various drums and not only that they're
available marked down by about thirty
two up to sixty-three percent off the
regular price love it what's website
again while you're going to find
gearbest on our partners pages for any
of your favorite category five TV shows
like new every day category five
technology TV the pixel shadow but of
course if you want to shop absolutely
right now and you want to go straight to
the site all you have to do is visit
cat5 TV / gearbest so that's using tech
five TV / gear back that's right happy
shopping I'm stash of your mannequin
here the top stories for the week of
March 22nd 2017 audacious cyber
criminals have created a Star Trek
themed strain of ransomware hat tip to
bleeping computer which broke the story
on the Kirk malware discovered Thursday
by a vast malware researcher Jacob crew
sec the software disguises itself as the
notorious low orbit orbit ion cannon loi
feed denial of service tool a utility
beloved by anonymous hacktivists back in
the day before everyone realized it
revealed IP addresses of users Kirk is
reckoned to be the first ransomware to
utilize Mineiro rather than Bitcoin as
the ransom payment of choice the malware
decrypter Spock will be supplied to the
victim
once the payment is made but at this
time the ransomware does not look like
it can be decrypted anti-malware firm
reboot reports right now there are no
known victims of the ransomware and
there is no sample of the Decrypter so
information regarding it is limited the
Decrypter is said to be promised once
the ransom is paid but obviously there
are no guarantees and it cannot be
decrypted at present without it for the
first two days crooks are demanding 50
Mineiro or roughly 1000 $72 the fee
doubles every few days is the victims
fail to cave if no payment is made by
the 31st day the decryption key gets
permanently deleted according to the
ransom note so this is one of those just
really sad stories where people are just
again ransomware but instead of Bitcoin
using Mineiro still taking your money
feel silly stealing your stuff making
false promises horrible ok scientists at
Oxford say they've invented an
artificial intelligence system that can
lip-read better than humans the system
which has been trained on thousands of
hours of BBC news programs has been
developed in collaboration with google's
deepmind AI divisions watch attendance
spell as a system has been called can
now watch silent speech and get about
fifty percent of the words correct that
might not sound too impressive but when
the researcher supplied the same cliff
to professional lip readers they got
only about twelve percent of the words
right June son jung I doctor a doctoral
student at Oxford University's
Department of Engineering explained
words like that matt and pat all have
similar mouth shapes its context that
help to systems or indeed a professional
lip reader to understand what word is
being spoken he explains what system
does is to learn things that come
together in this case the mouth shapes
and the characters and what the likely
up can't upcoming characters are a lot
more work needs to be done before the
system is put to practical use but the
charity action on hearing loss is
enthusiastic about using this latest
advance they believe that a leper eating
system could be used to supplement
existing speech-to-text to further
improve accuracy just one of those good
news stories all right security
researchers have gone public with
details of an exploitable flaw in
ubiquitous wireless networking gear
after the manufacturer allegedly failed
to release firmware patches essentially
if you can trick someone using ubiquity
gateway ability great ways or routers to
click on a malicious link or embed the
URL in a web page they visit you can
inject commands into the vulnerable
device the networking kit uses a web
interface to administer it and it has a
0 C CSRF protection this means attackers
can perform actions as logged in users a
hacker can exploit this blender to open
a reverse shell to connect to a ubiquity
router and gain root access yes the
built-in web server runs as root the
researchers claim that once inside the
attacker can then take over the entire
network and you can thank a very
outdated version of PHP included with
the software the virgin a diversion is
found found to be in youth in the
devices in is two point zero point one
from 1997 the whole attack can be
performed via a single get request the
system found the security hole in for
ubiquity devices and believes another 40
or so models are similarly vulnerable
the affected models include but are not
limited to the tough switch ts8 pro
rocket m5 Kiko station m2 HP and nano
station m5 plus various air fiber and
air gateway models Power Beam devices
and light beam boxes in response to the
exploit being revealed ubiquity says
that they have released updates that
resolve the issue for 37 out of the 44
products
did they say they are also very close to
releasing another update for the
remaining seven products mentioned in
the report and will send a newsletter
once they're done so they are working on
it currently all right keeping malware
off of your mobile device should be a
top priority for anyone who purchases a
new smartphone or tablet but what if the
battle against bad actors has been lost
before you even open the box that's
exactly what security firm checkpoint it
says is happening right now and it just
released a report claiming that it
detected malware on 36 different Android
devices being used by multiple large
tech companies the devices on which the
malicious code was detected are thought
to have been compromised at some point
between manufacturing and eventual sale
to the end-user checkpoints mobile
threat prevention team explains in a
blog post the malicious apps were not
part of the official rom supplied by the
vendor adding that the malware must have
been added somewhere along the supply
chain in their investigation the devices
that were shown to have pre installed
malware come from many different
manufacturers they include a galaxy note
2 3 4 5 &amp; 8 asus zenfone 2 LG g4 Nexus 5
and 5 X and show me me for I and read me
for better or worse the malware found to
be installed on the devices is fairly
well-known in mobile security circles
and includes loci a malicious
advertising bought and Flocker which
uses the Tor network to send data back
to its creator while avoiding detection
this is obviously a very serious
situation and it's certainly not the
first time Android devices were found to
have security issues right out of the
box scary stuff alright thanks for
watching the category 5 TV news room
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category 5 TV newsrooms I'm fashion guru
80
[Music]
[Applause]
