[Music]
we hope you enjoyed the show category 5
TV broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every Tuesday at 7:00 p.m.
Eastern if you're watching this on
demand or through cable TV check out the
local show times in your area at
category-five TV
and interact in the community chat room
25 is a production of prodigy digital
solutions and is licensed under Creative
Commons Attribution 2.5
miss petunia okay yes please
okay a couple jumping jacks Eric just
have to switch light without microphones
around here for the Hangout Robbie
Robbie Canada you guys can hear us yeah
check yeah okay understand that we're
gonna get a picture with ne-yo he's
doing anyway I'm going fine as we
finally got warm today yeah actually
right to be riding over here all night
we have oh we had one of those Canadian
fronts come through and it was cold the
last couple days that's probably yeah at
Ed's urk thinks the new I'm too sexy for
my shirt I got a top up this coffee for
Eric a very bad coffee
yeah Malika young levels are low or you
want to it's up on the counter welcome
kulfi
sounds great I think you were correct I
think it's cold
yeah yeah right right
yes David was talking about whiskey and
I said that's okay it's delicious -
coffee no mine is actually copy show to
host guys the after-show party can have
all that there you go there you go hey
Robbie or anyone out there oh yeah in
some motorbike here on my event a
decision and it's a fairly good game
compared to X modem the exporter has
been my addiction for quite a while so I
installed motorbike and I only got to
pay it like 10 times and then they now
they want me to go to their website and
register with their website even though
it ready went to the e bun - by process
on canonical website yeah
hmm the double whammy I'm thinking but
is it is it available in in the
repositories there's a coupon to
Software Center
yeah in the event a repositories
yeah it's that but but even like valve
you know you go and get it from the
Ubuntu repositories and all that really
gives you is another access to the old
software repositories right great the
loader and fires and everything else
here's my cup and they can say huh Eric
just walked into the room guys just so
you know and he said what's this you
guys are talking about repositories
multimedia Center this week and they use
one of these and and it went do my HDMI
output with the current kernel 2.8
kernel and to my big-screen TV and so I
went to ask if I'm feeling lonely homes
they had the updates for it on the
launchpad center oh nice good good
two minutes later I was watching HD HDMI
TV on my big-screen accident and I can
actually get that thing I don't know
what is a good video graphics test it
plays all my eye definition videos that
full frame rate like first-person
shooters I get a hundred frames per
second on that they an 18 watt
like it doesn't exactly what take a
graphics card is it
it's that it intel HD 4000 really yeah I
can show you what I bought I just got it
in from when we express here sorry David
I couldn't I couldn't hear yeah I don't
think that Arthur was able to hear you
either than what I've got because if I I
just test this out let me know if this
works guys surely your ring last year
your video no that's my hobby there you
go
I like him delish oh yes called amateur
I do excellent
so Safari does not open G+ mm-hmm what's
that no your hey you can't open you have
to use Chrome the fuse part there sorry
I interrupted you there no I think I did
that
no it's not a problem I just was quite
impressed with this Intel list there I
don't know what they can do I think it's
22 watts I should look at the specs
that's awesome I mean like it's one of
the few no f systems you can buy in
Canada that's in a little box
mm-hmm and so I thought I'd try it out
in the performance on that what do they
call it the ivory bridge ID bridge or
something is like up till now whenever I
do my mkv files I don't know if a lot of
you guys but alright so we have to it
I live on a farm out here so I didn't
have to download my PDA away from home
and then watch it when I get back home
oh okay yeah I hear you because of our
proof yeah that's why I'm into YouTube
saving to the hard drive and stuff like
that with these commands so I can what
do you do when I'm back at home
documentaries oh yeah yeah oh is that a
problem with Rogers I've heard Rogers
Communications in Canada is a little of
not not up speed yet all over the
country they're actually doing pretty
good okay we get about well let me see
I'm gonna I'll run a speed test right
now good we're on Rogers so now my
upstream has been upstream is typically
horrible in Canada but Rogers is better
than say Bell or any of the DSL
providers for sure okay obviously cuz
they're cable but let's see what I get
for down I'm running this eighty six
point three one megabits per second so
there are times when I get 150 but our
up is trash has a TV show I'm lucky to
get two Meg's I'm supposed to get ten
our plan is supposed to get 10 Meg up
yeah 100 and 150 down
so you can see where they're skewing the
users right well II on my 3G cell phone
access I get five megabits down but only
in the like 50 megabits up and so when
I'm talking you probably get the thanks
I get
oh yeah I can make a bitch down and
around about or make oh right that's and
that's fine for like a you know for home
use or whatever they talk to but thanks
Heather
if if Henry needs any more info just let
them Cheers take care of you thanks
again I'm 15.7 download and upload is
about one and a half yeah that's still
pretty respectable for music yeah I
think so dear cell at the moment
there's a company called Bell here that
is bringing in what they call five which
is basically a mock fiber internet and
it's making its way to bury in it's
supposed to be pretty fast but it's not
I mean it's it's such a they run fiber
to the to the node and then it's copper
to your house so you don't actually get
you don't actually a true fiber you want
to see my this is the first time writers
gave this to me like that like a month
at this cell phone pilot it's called a
six gig super plan because I use it for
my internet here at the farm mm-hmm and
they charge me at sixty dollars for that
and then they give me 200 minutes
calling but this month I went over my
six gigs whoops and so they had at this
new bill called the Flex rate data plan
whatever that is and if you look like
the Flex raise data plan where is it
here
it's I can't find it here I like I went
over my six gigs when they do that
thirty gigabyte ranged Wow oh here it is
yeah so daddy uses is included well it's
kind of interesting I thought because
they like I used my six gigs but I used
45 gigabytes on my cellphone and
actually died this week because I think
I got over hot getting data from the top
and iPhone Rogers and I asked them and
they they reset it at their end but then
it went reboot my cell phone to connect
for their Tower and so they said well is
it lead to everything off of it and do
it fresh and so I deleted myself all the
contacts and everything about my
opponent still then when we connect to
their Tower so I thought the radio was
shot on it or something and then an hour
later I started working again so I might
be getting too much stupid through this
cellphone
I don't know how is 50 gigs a month too
much to get through it a cell phone oh
my cell phone y'all pay I actually
barely used three I'm usually too good a
month or less yeah you're careful well I
have my like five computers connected to
it to my one cell phone oh no holy cow
dude that's okay beef has been this year
oh my that's how what you have to do to
get the connection that's what you have
to do right Arthur
yeah yep Wow
it's like when we went to the cottage
last year Erik shared his internet she
likes to trash my blackberry but I gave
him a mobile hotspot so he could check
his email blackberry sucks except at the
cottage yeah where was that iPhone when
you need well I don't have an iPhone
know what I sing I just have an iPod
right so if I don't have Wi-Fi I can't
do anything
that's why I like now I want to go to
Scotland and take the train just to be
darkened or safari going along sorry
I'll stop so call us from the train
station man next week watch from the
train station
you know I say sin cash
I mean he's these things to the I accept
that once all yeah he's done a few
actually look back on the on the only
house a couple he's done some yeah the
Christmas one as well oh here's was one
that was something that was awesome that
was something bad for my friend
Christina I talked her into coming to do
one one little to no really I have to
get home and sorry you're here the
lights are on the cameras are on so you
don't get a lot of trouble on this show
hey go here sighs just sing again like
even that arrow did Eric did the
introduction you know I wrote something
and said hey Robbie happening in this
rattle yeah and he wouldn't even listen
to it for episode 300 wouldn't listen to
you just did go through the right
channels you don't just slap a song on
my desk you go through my age I had a
guitar in my hands I said anyway no he
he ignored me completely so I
figured you know to heck with him I'm
gonna go to some competing show maybe
I'll go to the Android buffet and write
him a song yeah appreciate that
be good
knowing what you gonna sing about
Android you don't even you use a
blackberry I have a tablet oh that's
true yeah mmm which convinced me to get
one so I got amplitude
yeah I have Lenovo Android Wi-Fi only
wonderful
yeah that's sippy stuff hey my little
Galaxy Tab one of the things I do not
like about the iOS stuff is it so slow
so I couldn't hear you de Oeste for
family so locked oh yeah yeah but if
this thing tells me one more time that I
have 20% battery life I'm gonna scream I
pull it off the charger and it warns me
that I've got 20% battery life I walked
around with it for a whole day and it
still pops up every five minutes 20%
battery life it's like yeah throwing it
I have heard that iOS has really has a
real bad notification system it's gotten
a bit better like since iOS 6 I mean
like it's it's there then it doesn't
work when I go to show it to you so it's
not really all that good hello hello
notification system maybe I have to
unlock it damaged goods
that's the notification screen it's
alright kind of gives you a glance right
no they roll off like I'm cold
you can imagine like Google+ right how
many responses I get when I post the
show and I see 1 2 3 4 5 so I see the
top five of those are the Google+ people
who are attending the show like the
stock ticker at the top right so I don't
do stocks why do I need that I would
want to remove that you can't why not
because it's iOS you can't remove stuff
that you don't want unless you
personally installed it I hate that
there it comes with a bunch of bloatware
that you don't want on it it's only
eight gigs you can't remove it like yeah
well here that sounds like the carcass
of a dead animal sorry you're breaking
up there can you hear me now in the chat
: who evidently does not have a audio
key anyway he's wants to know if you can
have G+ on your iPod he has not had he
wants to connect to us yeah like this is
just an iPod right so there's there's
tonight's show on Google+ and I can
actually go in the Hangout too and I see
you guys hanging out so here's here's
the Hangout right you can see a couple
of you guys in there I see Dave and
somebody without a face your mic is not
treating us well there but so there's
like hangouts so this is now joining the
Hangout I don't know if it's actually
going to show up let's see if it shows
up as another camera source or if I can
do that unless this is the wrong Hangout
but
let's see yeah yeah you can
yeah it's problem II to sign in and
stuff I don't want to go through the
hoops Pettis there's Google+ Oh Robbie
what's that it's just called Google+
yeah it's provided by Google that's why
you can have evidence of sure oh why is
it yeah see the G+ icon there yeah
second row second from the left so that
lets me in it works all right remember
we tried to stream Eric when he was
playing at the the pub at st. Patrick's
Day
oh the Google+ app was trash for that
we're any of you there on my table yeah
what's that
what was that Pyrus rock the the
postcard map is located in a hidden
place and the reason for that Pyrus rock
is that you know while you're looking oh
no we were contacted because the the
issue is is that the postcards have
copyrighted images on them the pictures
so when we started posting the postcards
we're a little ridiculous
so we're technically post and
copyrighted imagery the postcard that
somebody sent us you got it mr. brown
cup you know there you were violating
something with the copyrighted logo I
don't think they complain Robby you can
show my close cargo those rules and yeah
that's true lutely real do you get one
yep not very well but yeah that's cool
the homemade ones are great I see one
from angel de Rodriguez up there as well
and all Joe know who's in Scott Depot
who's which one I use that yeah alright
yeah that's the train station I was
talking about that's the train station
right very cool yeah that's cool so
that's that's a we ugh Android buff a
podcast up there yeah Halliburton what
Google Ontario couple from Ontario
there's a letter from the Member of
Parliament congratulating us on our
fifth anniversary whoa and yeah Bulgaria
one day we'll have like a big event that
you're at Chester Rochester we have a
few from the register all right oh yeah
please do mm-hmm we made the Highlander
Technology a page up in Halliburton -
yeah that's cool
Wow hmm ah good times memory lane
well guys
well kinda thanks I like your shirt yes
mm-hmm
so so what channel station website is
gonna snap up mr. Hadfield and use him
as a spokesperson what do you think
since Eric is moving on to Android
Buffet we've got an opening so hard
shoes to fill yeah no doubt well you
notice that tonight's news was that the
space station was switching to Linux and
you know Chris just touched down
yesterday so obviously he went up there
his Canadian right and he said look guys
get this junk off of here he probably
presented that he had an abyss eating in
his guitar gig bag and into them and
said here give this a try and they're
like wow this is like from space it's so
awesome
and he'd be like exactly well you do
know that the the shuttle had 11 6809
chips running OS 9 so they were running
Linux a long time ago yeah but perhaps
not that's the Dubs wasn't only nice
yeah I guess Linux is an embedded device
operating system versus Linux as user
operating system is a bit of a different
thing because yeah it's been you know
powering robots and Martian
civilizations for years he's there all
with the canon camera like hello was
that a hard time dealing with canon in
Ubuntu or Linux
I actually I shoot with both Canon and
Nikon and I greatly prefer the Nikon
cameras whoa somebody's feeding us back
there
who's doing that that's Ken yep oh I
guess he's got the player up on the
screen so we're feeding back all right
Oh Robbie oh one quick one I heard a
really I had heard a really good joke
all right
people all up all up in arms about the
3d printing of guns yeah yeah I've had a
Canon printer for years owned the Canon
printer for a long time
it's all brother here oh brother
they make new printers yeah Konica
Minolta color lasers yeah we used to
have a Konica which i think is in your
garage now probably yes unless you are
using an atomic desk in the okay no
because I put a new toner cartridge in
it for you yeah Konica Minolta live
forever
yes so yeah they are a die hard
this is funny music studio where I'm
teaching just installed a brother or
something earlier today because they can
and ran out of ink night one is gonna be
cheaper try this laser printer and so
it's 22 and I know but they get you on
the consumables that's how they do it
but I was listening to a thing it's a
great marketing strategy you saw the
actual printer for less than it cost you
to make it but you make it up on the
consumables absolutely yep but that's
because of my eco mindedness I'm not
okay with that no I'm not okay with
and that's why I was raped every time I
go to buy the ink what would you guys
think if I got an ink sponsor on the
show to talk about more economical ink
cartridges and stuff thinking about the
eco-friendly nature of like recycled
correct cartridges and stuff and
shouldn't the price be coming down by
now well if there are companies out
there that can provide good quality
cartridges that work in the main
printers then it's going to drive the
the cost it's gonna drive the
consumables down just like anything
right you know stuff like HP is guarded
so jealously with the copyright thing
because you can't find cheap HP ink well
it's the chips that they have built into
them right - the cartridges right but if
the cartridges were recycled it's still
an HP chip I know with media you know
the Epson you can get mm-hmm they
started putting chips in their
cartridges - oh do they but on the older
ones though that's a it's a it can be a
dangerous game walking in and and buying
clone cartridges and you know you don't
really know if the ink is the right
viscosity things like that so I want to
talk to a company ink for dummies you
guys look them up and talk to them about
getting their cartridges on the show lot
of the show on into your Sawyer's
we all know somebody tell me to go to
bed hook if you want to see the cat oh I
got there too
but the cat very next day where's the
130-135 there
yeah it's 1:35 you guys haven't met my
dog yet hey you wanna meet the dog you
don't want the dogs oh yeah the door
store gonna he can't get through the cat
door Kenny named him antler deliciously
Canadian of me yes his name is adler
because you guys know that our cottage
is in Eagle Lake right so Adler is the
german little but you didn't explain it
yeah wants to know why the dog didn't
get a klingon name we didn't talk about
it but then I thought then neighbors
will think I'm crazy well there were we
suggested Worf but then I said if I was
in the backyard we thought of Captain
Picard
just this doesn't sound it it's a little
on the crazy side
are you done with your number one
hangouts does not deal when three people
are talking at once it just freaks out
maybe I'll single over doing this I
don't think that helped no so what so
what is Eagle and Klingon well let's
find out let's go and do it translate on
Bing Eagle the Bing Translator for as
you said earlier well this is cheap oh
look at that you can actually actually
translate it to Chronos text oh gosh I
didn't demonstrate that bit that my
friends is Eagle Wow and what does that
say
Eagle it's kind of like the same thing
that's lame it doesn't have an
apostrophe how are you supposed to
pronounce that yeah
now it doesn't look like it doesn't look
like the dog is coming down let me go
and get the dog I'll get the dog I'll
get the dog and introduce him before we
go no yours is on the counter though to
take with you you keep your whiskey in
the fridge no no a beautiful toasted
oatmeal stout it's the only way you can
describe it yeah so I believe come here
Adler come here bud
introduce yourself come here sweetheart
you're gonna have to get up yeah there
you go good boy okay yeah okay no no no
he's 11 upstairs please please all right
folks well I got a lot of
post-production to do so I'm gonna get
working get the show up for us for
tomorrow everybody enjoy the show
tonight thank you good good all right
guys thanks for hanging this is a pretty
good turnout tonight so that's good
encouraging yeah that'd be great
very good all right folks have a great
week good seeing y'all all right yeah
see ya
yell bye Eric
fire wait I'll switch cameras so you can
wave
there you go anywhere just stand
anywhere and yeah just like that
it's perfect by David by Robbie
no I just had a question answer that
I've always wanted
