you've heard all about Wirecast on
episode 175 now try your hand at
internet broadcasting with the
incredible live broadcasting suite from
telestream visit catfight TV / Wirecast
and give the free trial version of wire
cast to spin find out how it works on
your system start your own broadcast
record to show to disk and have fun when
you're ready Tala streaming category 5
TV would like to give you a whopping
twenty-five percent off the price to
purchase flyer cast between now in
February 13th and using coupon code cat5
TV during checkout and you'll receive an
automatic twenty five percent discount
on your purchase of any Telestream
product visit cat5 TV / Wirecast today
and remember to use the coupon code cat
by TV Wirecast from Telestream get it
now at cat five TV / Wirecast
what you're about to experience is a
free worldwide interactive broadcast
from Ontario Canada we broadcast live
every tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time
get your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live and category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Robbie
Ferguson welcome to episode number 176
of category 5 technology TV I'm Robbie
Ferguson and I'm Eric kid and I'm
Hillary rumbles looks up at the monitor
no I don't see that oh I don't know if I
want that's me good to see ya yeah beans
herself wow what a night you know it
hasn't even started yet yeah we heard it
and I'm wondering my goodness am I gonna
make it all the way out to the Guthrie
arena and the snowstorm is coming but
it's hard to say well fine yeah that's
what they're calling for too isn't it
you know but terrones gonna get hit so
hard they're gonna call in the army
again I bet Robbie is that your plan
this is good 30 centimeters coming back
nothing like Chicago apparently they're
just getting hammered house brecon wre
que en he's in the chat room it's on
Chicago
yeah or is it chick ago welcome to the
show everybody you'll find us online
category 5 TV we'd love to have you in
the chat room there tonight we've got a
lot going on we have your chance to win
a free copy of Wirecast you saw the
coupon promo off the top there but we
also have a free copy that we're going
to be giving away in one month time so
stick around you're gonna find out how
you can qualify for that and that's very
very cool stuff also tonight we're gonna
be taking a look at how to become a
blogger for free all right wien CNN last
week I was doing something like yeah I
have no idea what I'm still hillary was
here fine once we have a photo ID number
where it was i was saying what a mad
night now i have a very limited window
before each episode of category 5 goes
live and this is a live broadcast from
ontario canada and when we xolo i might
add in the snow belt so people are you
know John's trying to find a parking
spot because all the parking spots are
filled with snow you know that that have
been shoveled there by the by the plows
kind of thing but tonight once again I
don't know if you read the forums a
category 5 TV but do check it out the
viewer forms on the interact menu but we
had another big issue trying to get the
the new HD camera to initialize tonight
spend some time on the phone with with
black magic there the manufacturers of
the HDMI capture device that we use and
it ruled it out and said it's got to be
the cable it's got to be that hdmi cable
that I had to order all the way from New
York dark out so was it the good news
yet so the bad news is is that that that
meant like two hours of lost time
tonight for getting ready for the show
but we're here we're on time and that's
fabulous but the the camera what I ended
up having to do was go out through
analog so we're using the HD camera but
we are not in true HD tonight well I've
already had somebody in the chatroom
tell
good it looks it looks better sure if I
walk anyway but once we replace that
that defective or faulty hdmi cable
you're gonna see that the quality is
going to go even higher so that'll be
that'll be really nice somebody was
suggesting the white balance might be
off but apparently geeks are always a
little pale definitely yeah isn't the
closest thing to sunshine I'm that'll
you're the tough crowd people tough
ocean yeah so Hilary you got some stuff
coming up i'll let you kind of take over
her moma sure it's a my coffee well
coming up in the newsroom guys kindle
books are outselling paperbacks a new
cross bistro package manager could be
coming to linux Microsoft refund
policies could land them in court and
the cost of your internet connection in
Canada is about to go up but some are
fighting so stick around for the latest
news from the category 5 TV news room
hmm thanks oh no problem so I join us in
the chat room category 5 TV we'd love to
get your questions Eric's that kind of
keeping an eye on that you probably got
some email and I think that that you can
take a look at I didn't get us some of
my coffee oh hey take a sip of your
coffee everybody but have a sip of your
coffee Eric no we're not moving on we're
not continuing on though so until you've
had a sip of your coffee and I'll do the
same and I can tell everyone about the
marvelous comments i've been reading on
the website I need my coffee hand to
change cameras oh I just thought well
everyone's to get a coffee break I can
tell you all about the wonderful things
that people are posting on our website
now if you have some feedback for us
some some positive insight we would love
to hear from you can do that by visiting
our website cat5 cat5e well category
five dot TV right you're there that's
true it throws you off because we I'm
telling her before the show we've got a
new hashtag the hashtag on Twitter used
to be category five but people have been
abusing it so we painted the count five
TV that's what I mean so so now she's
all confusing isn't the correct website
yes not the hash
which I was thinking of for Twitter you
can also follow Robbie myself and Eric
on Twitter just saying anyways back to
the website send us a testimonial by
clicking interact and let us know what
you think and speaking of testimonials
here is one right here coming to us from
Jeremy be from Kentucky watch the show
off and on since 2009 when I started
playing with various USB linux distros
mural is one of the media packages that
rivaled itunes while i'm still a pc guy
your show and my netbook with mint
usually show me something cool each time
i watch got another one here from Dino
from San Diego California saying rabia
been watching your show since you showed
how to upgrade to jaunty Jack glue
episode 85 acres a Jackalope Jacqueline
I don't even know what that is but it
sounds really I don't know what a
Jackalope it was on the funniest jaunty
jackalope is is a distribution a version
of ubuntu that came out a while ago but
Jackalope is like a creature I don't
know how you okay I thought it was I saw
the creature no king of amber's yeah
that's right yeah yes sir okay I thought
it was like a mythical creature but then
I I didn't know what it was we can
completely mess with her right now you
can't I don't know Jacqueline's have
this tiny wings four of them actually
four little ones guys stop tell your
lives oh there we go I'm here okay
anyways jaunty jackalope episode 85 I
was amazed that you did that show all by
yourself I was more amazed when Carrie
got back I've had a portable computer
since 1980 and I saw something in my
periphery okay carry on don't even read
that was before the IBM pc i've been
using linux since red hat 5.2 still I
learned a lot from your show you taught
me about virtual box because of your
show i bought a brother ms mfc 6490 CW
and a couple of pogo bugs these are
great devices and work perfect with
linux I would never discovered I
wouldn't
these products had it not been for your
show so keep up the good work from Dino
thanks Dino that's really cool to hear
that you invested in products that we've
suggested on the show and then found
that hey these recommendations that they
made on category 5 are actually great
products so make sure if you do
something like that if you purchase a
product like a pogoplug or or a brother
printer then you saw it here make sure
you tell them that that you saw here
because that that will love to know that
somebody mentioned Guinness one time
when I wasn't bought one right away your
nose least with the product Teresa my
digress what else are you like what else
Oh Rhonda well it's not really question
he's just uh you still have more dong in
hell I do but we can feedback favor
trying to just hop in there it took away
dog all right well I'll just finish up
quickly with our lovely testimonials
this comes to us from Jimmy seagull hey
Robbie and crew I was really surprised
to see my question get aired so quickly
regarding my motherboard recommendations
I got great feedback from the chat room
to bonus to Eric for probably
pronouncing my name I have friends of
20-plus years who still can't get it
right great job I hope I said it right
Jenny I hope so sorry if I didn't got
another one here from Dennis Kelly
Robbie and gang just wanted to write and
say how much you have helped me learn
about Ubuntu and computers in general i
am new to linux only about two years of
playing around and i love it i have
migrated most of my computers to linux
and I'm actually running freenas also
thank you for all your insight and
wonderful help Robbie you are very
patient with people thank you again from
Dennis Hillary come on hurry up and
lastly congratulations use for the
well-done website i can see improvement
in terms of content to your TV program
your program is useful for anna boon to
geek like me to follow up with news and
updates and most importantly seeing you
guys online is interesting as you always
present yourselves with a wide smile
thank you very much keep it up and this
comes to us from invisible mute
thank you for writing thank you for your
comments back to you clowns over there I
don't know what you're doing but back to
you we're just having a right I noticed
that the people are starting to submit
their their viewer testimonials they're
saying that we've got one here Dennis
said Robbie and gang okay Leroy gang and
then and then we had hello Robbie and
crew because people are catching on to
the fact that as soon as they say hey
Robbie and Eric that's the week that
Hilary will write and John Judaism
they're thinking hey what about me how
you doing please submit your
testimonials regarding John's camera
work we would like him to get some
positive effect as hillary was saying
get onto our website category 5 TV and
what you do is you head on over to
interact viewer testimonials and submit
your own and from there you are actually
able to fill in your very own
testimonial to be featured on the show
and if you've got a webcam you can
actually record your video testimonial
and submit that to us as well and I
didn't encourage you to do that because
that's a lot of fun we'd love to see
that and I'd love to see that that'd be
very cool well alright it was so much
work to implement that feature and not a
lot of people have utilized it yet so
hint hint your testimonials don't have
to be text well ok so if you can't type
you can at least video yes ok we're both
well should I read Ron's comment now
there's where we done over there he'll
I'm dad you may have the floor it's all
yours Ron do guy the gay um hi Ravi Eric
and Hillary so yeah there you go well
then sir last week I sent an email
question about not being able to play
videos with em player VLC or mural all I
would get a sound so i ended up
reloading the codex from synaptic all
good now thanks Ron very cool so that
was really a question but that was a
it's good to know how things work out I
remember the question though yeah and I
remember mentioning about reinstalling
Ubuntu restricted extras that was a year
ago that we talked about that I was here
for this so that's that's really good
that that that worked for you so thanks
for letting us know I appreciate that
okay and Gator man has a question and
his OS is mint 10 I have our hitter
running lucid lynx that was a hardware
problem that makes it load extremely
slow what diagnostic software should i
use to pinpoint the problem it's a
64-bit AMD quad core with 6 gigabytes of
ram hmm there you go there are a lot of
different things you can choose from I
think ultimate boot CD is the first
thing that comes to mind yes so chock
full o stuff that's the thing it's a
free disk that you can download the ISO
you can get the the bootable CD that
gives you tools to diagnose issues that
you may be having with your computer
here's a screenshot of version 5 we're
from the menu you select you know
whether you want to check your BIOS your
CPU your harddrive your memory others
peripherals things like that and it's
got just a slew of great tools that are
available for you on the ultimate boot
CD ultimate boot CD com you'll be able
to download that it's a just a vast
array that's been assembled by them of
open source software that you might want
to give that a try
to get started epson knows it
predominantly a command line once you're
in there isn't I did I think it's yeah
it's well know a lot of times it's like
you click on the text based menu and it
will launch the tools that that you've
selected so good example would be like
memtest it's like a menu item and you
hit memtest and it will bring up the
mentat memtest applications so handy
tool no operating system necessary you
can just boot from the CD okay well we
have another one from John crisp hey
time Robbie and Eric well I'm having
quite a problem with synergy plus I
can't get XP client to work it installs
on the win7 box okay says waiting for
client upon starting the client box XP
nothing do I need both machines
connected to my monitor XP is vga and
win seven is DVI that's why i have been
connected now but I have to turn one off
to access them separately totally
confused John and Dallas ok John could
be many different things first thing if
you could leave that open just because
I'm going to refer there's a few
different comments then stop I'll try to
act like more of an adult in the future
okay good good huh so you got windows 7
and windows XP windows 7 has is a little
bit trickier when it comes to networking
and getting your firewall settings
configured it if you want to be using it
as a server so sometimes that can be a
case if you're using the built-in
firewall try disabling the firewall just
as a test so that you can see if it's
the firewall that is causing the problem
so go into your control panel your
firewall settings disable the firewall
entirely and then in it and try to
initialize that connection to synergy
again if it works you know it's the
firewall you know that you need to add
an exception you've just saved yourself
a whole bunch of time it doesn't work
let us know because it might be
something else I presume from the sounds
of it you've got general networking
setup you've got your
static IP addresses configured and
pardon me everything is configured on
pardon me the the host system like the
the one that is being served as a server
for synergy you've got that all set up
so so first thing I will check firewall
and if that's the case add an exception
to your windows firewall for synergy and
you should be good to go let us know
John I hope that you're able to get that
going I know you've been wanting to for
some time with regards to do you need to
connect the monitors and such a way and
stuff you're with synergy it is to
physical computers so imagine if you've
got to computer side by side and each
computer has its own keyboard and mouse
what's energy allows you to do is simply
take that second computer and unplug the
keyboard and mouse and keep working by
using just one keyboard and mouse from
the host but each computer is all motor
exactly so everything else remains the
same so it's just your take away those
doesn't really enter the exactly exactly
there's no having to swap around video
cables or change things like that it's
strictly getting rid of that second
keyboard and mouse to computer side by
side or three or ten however you want to
do it how would you do it if there were
ten especially if you were on a laptop
with a little touch thing because you'd
have to scroll so far that you'd have to
keep picking up your nose off the mouse
pad yeah ran out of table exactly okay
oh my goodness if you have a question
for us here at category 5 join us in the
chat room category five dot TV and
Hillary if we miss anything feel free to
pipe up and say hey chat rooms going
crazy over here and you guys yeah thanks
I appreciate that so she is your
advocate people in the chat room
category five TV or on freenode it is
category five I almost did it there to
almost said cat five gets confusing it
doesn't smell good all right Lewis has a
question hey Louis and also a comment
he's using ok Ubuntu 1010 love the show
love the fact that your show is showing
me how to use ubuntu add linux in
general the question is using my system
as an htpc unit with my flat screen and
the handheld remote to navigate the
mouse if i hit a key the wrong way i get
kicked back to a Doss like cursor with
my brute name and can't get back to the
GUI interface how can I start back up to
the GUI from the doss like prompt thank
you and your family for their support on
helping others thanks sure um Louie well
first of all I'll just say when when
eric says GUI or when I say GUI its
graphical user interface so when someone
says that they're referring to the
getting back to the desktop from just a
black screen sounds to me like it's
possible you're changing TTYL terminals
on the fly and you can see if that's
happening by hitting ctrl alt f1 ctrl
alt f2 and see if that's similar to what
you're seeing in order to get back to
your ex environment that's on ctrl alt
f7 so if you have a keyboard on there
control alt f7 brings you right back to
your your main ex environment using the
TTYL terminals can be extremely handy
because you can be doing tasks in the
background in
in another environment on a different
like on ctrl alt f1 that's like
basically a computer if you will it's a
it's an environment where you can be
running tasks and then go back to
control alt f7 and you're just back at
your desktop doing other stuff and then
swap back and forth so if it's throwing
you over to one of those TTYL terminals
then you may need to just hit ctrl alt
f7 to get back and let us know if that's
the case and if it is then it's you see
if the remote that you have whatever
button it is that you're pushing it must
be hitting that that key sequence so
maybe you could disable that so that it
it doesn't switch to a different TTYL
good luck let us know Lois all right I'd
love to hear from you you should know
see us in there I think it's luis i
believe it is Louise Louis Lewis well
let us know ok bullet think it's more of
a yeah it's hard to say ok so we're back
here too so we do another question how
do we get on pronunciation tonight Eric
we're not even halfway through the show
and you're already I'm surprised I'm
surprised not hello you I asked and
underline the ass that's why we usually
does it could have done that yeah all
right I've made other comments but I've
decided to leave them thank you keep it
kind he gets kind oh yeah thanks guys we
miss you girls next one oh hey there
Jenna this is from j spencer alright
thanks guys great as always and thanks
for the idea just a second what was the
idea we give you an idea we want to know
about this idea i actually switched to
the new rogers and rotor and went up to
extreme and it is not on my end i have
confirmation from the great service at
pogoplug that is a bug with the app
they're using my situation to resolve it
and i will keep you informed they have
been great ok actually you know what you
remember this one yeah this is for me
wasn't well iphone app or something that
right is having some trouble streaming
video too ok
so you switch to rogers and and still
having trouble so but good to know that
pogoplug is on top of it I always found
with pogoplug they're very interactive
with their community and they're
interested in hearing about issues and
working with you to resolve them so
that's good to know and let us know how
that goes I'm glad that they're working
with you so any questions for us I in
the chat room category five dot TV and
email I may have missed a couple on
you'll have to go back through the logs
are sure got a couple of minutes before
the new so this is your chance to get a
question in to us people have been
trying to help me and by people I mean
gadwal how to enlarge the web chats font
because I'm like constantly perma
squinting what are you using over there
tonight I'm using a Mac attack what
macbook dear me don't judge so anyways I
am in the chat room but I'm like
squinting because I can't really see
what I'm doing so you heard it here
people if you use a mac book you will
squint oh yeah science doesn't lie
listen to the guy who's used in the ipod
yeah yeah he's too shy okay it's pretty
cool see he's actually it's bandages
verizon sometimes Robbie plays with
windows he's playing with an apple
product he's not just a one dimensional
linux geek he's more than that i did
find the absolute coolest thing the cool
in wooden labyrinth 3d though you really
have to check this out I
you can just talk amongst yourself from
RIT well I'm sure there's no way that
you could get this john this is this is
definitely the coolest thing as far as
apps go it's a nice spanish guitar you
know what I could do is I could pick it
up and put a little closer to camera
yeah you know you could do that oh it's
it's one of those things but like if you
shake this thing the ball jumps and
stuff and it actually it's too hard to
do here because I'm having to hold it up
and gravity as they haven't
right okay you know what it is you know
what it is it is really the coolest
thing it has the sensation that you're
actually playing one of those wooden
labyrinth games all horrible pretty cool
but you have to hold it flat yeah Here I
am which doesn't really work well for
camera shots you gotta hold it real flat
and you're doing this it's really neat
so it's been suggested that the Hillary
enlarge your safaris font mm-hmm I
possible ctrl + or on the Mac it is a
command oh right is geared outs for the
line my own good job I did it hmm I'm
gonna start making noises and see if
people think they're cool cuz they
always think it's cool when Hillary does
it cuz I am cool there's no getting
around it oh boy oh my god everybody in
the chat room for those of you who
aren't watching live people just having
all these different conversations here
hey God well and Agra moto but not a lot
of questions of coming into the chat
room this is everybody chatting about
this and that with regards to what's
going on behind the scenes so why are
you using a macbook tonight Hillary if i
may ask well because i'm kind of like in
transition between computers kind of
like i have an HP laptop but it's kind
of getting old it's kind of slow not
really running sounds like me the best
way then last last time I was here I
stole my mom's laptop and was using that
this Mac is not mine I borrowed this
from a friend so I've just been
borrowing computers left right and
center so today it's mac and who knows
but it will be next time so what would
it take us if you've got this old HP
that's just really dying on you and it's
not running variable what would it take
for us to be able to put linux on that
um well I suppose you could what if what
if linux could revive it and
up to a point where wow this thing is
faster than it's ever been cuz this
windows vista right um you folks can see
the own you can see she look skeptical i
thought well i know i'm not skeptical i
have an acer we could do an experiment
on that for sure because that's way dead
though the HP oh well you can't put you
can't put linux on my sword a dead
laptop it's gotta be a way that one I
feel like then I would have all three
operating systems I'd have my mac right
here that I'm borrowing I'd have my
windows in the night a blender but you
want Windows Vista to be a part of that
mix I don't know seriously I just words
could be Windows ME it's just difficult
because I'm always finding myself well
it's difficult when you're a student
because you are like you have to train
yourself across like multi operating
systems so like I can do some stuff on
my mac for school but then other stuff
like I have to use mine I have to use
windows which is really complicated so
I'm not particularly brand loyal if you
will however I do need to I think I need
to keep like all three or have all three
because I need to be multi versed in
each operating system and I guess you'll
find that especially when you're working
in media that there are going to be
windows apps that you have to be able to
use unfortunately yeah so that's just
the way the cookie crumbles i suppose
but i'd love to i'd love to check it out
see if we can get a version of linux
that would down a run well on that
system all right do you I what's what's
the ring it in and let us play come on
bring it in for us all right there's a
an interesting linux distribution that
i'm i'm kind of curious about and is
called antics and it's based on me puss
and you can actually check it out at
antics Methos org and this is one that
i'm going to be just kind of playing
around with because it is really really
lightweight for older computers so if
you've got an old computer here's a
chance for you today we're that very
sick so to the rush i I don't see why
not the minimum like the system
requirements to make this thing work are
exceptionally low
because linux is really it's it's a
lightweight operating system it's it's
all the additional stuff that we put on
top of it to make it beautiful and give
it effects and things that that really
make it heavier weight than it is right
but that's something we can look at for
sure gavel says 128 mega RAM is that the
man remembers correctly I'm looking for
system requirements their fur antics and
I don't see it on that site but you can
check it out anyway so we'll be looking
at it over the next little while
annoyance says we could do it out of 386
Wow find me at 386 that's still where
yeah yeah so imagine what that would fly
like on a quad core I had a 286 read in
the teleprompter at the TV station that
now I never had to reboot never had to
do anything until just work until about
December thirty first nineteen ninety
nine then all of a sudden nothing it was
compatible with that rally into the
software hi drew it actually has like a
hundred thousand dollars to replace 286
oh there was a sad day and the short fat
IT guy had not budgeted for it it didn't
go well for me but nothing like a live
TV where you need to have a hundred
thousand dollars worth of hardware just
to be able to know what you're supposed
to say yes exactly I mean when we don't
know what to say next we just talked
about teleprompters if you do all those
cue cards up a little higher yeah I
guess Hillary is all set with the with
the news and she's sitting over there
going okay hand it over to me no I need
I need a person where teleprompter
something cuz I never know when I'm on
like I don't want them to catch me some
crazy over here okay yeah Eric's out
he's caught me down at my periphery I
can see and to the newsroom from the
cattle
I thought TV news room first amazon
announced that Kim the looks were out
selling hardcovers now kindle books have
outpaced paperbacks for every 100
paperback books
I sold this past quarter they sold 115
Kindle books during the same period they
sold three times as many Kindle books as
hardcover books these numbers only
reflect sales in the United States but
it means that ebooks are becoming more
mainstream thanks in part to Amazon's
push with the kindle the amazon kindle
store has more than eight hundred and
ten thousand books of which 670,000 are
999 or less nine dollars and ninety-nine
cents in addition to millions of out of
copyright titles mm-hmm installing
software on Linux has progressively
gotten easier over the years with the
Buddha's application center being called
downright foolproof by Tom holwerda at
OS news.com however there is still the
problem of each distribution relying on
its own front front ends and back ends
members from all the major Linux
distributions have held several talks
and have come up with a solution which
is already being implemented the apps
apps dream team thank the aboon to
software center is the right user
interface and plans are to port and
plans are to ported to package kit a
system designed to make software
installation easier on Linux systems
developers from red hat fedora debian
ubuntu open suse manned reeva and magia
i hope i'm saying that right met
recently to talk about creating the
universal installer and application
store for all these various linux
distributions and time will tell how
this is implemented across the major
linux distros a class-action lawsuit
against Microsoft has been filed in
Italy by a group claiming that it's too
difficult to procure a refund for the
copies of windows com bundled in new pcs
a spokesperson for Microsoft has
responded by saying customers who
purchase a PC from an OEM with Windows
pre-installed and then wish to return
the pc and or the pre-installed software
should consult the OEMs return refund
policies this of course comes across as
a complete cop-out as microsoft works
hard to ensure there's is the only
operating system which comes
pre-installed from these manufacturers
the class-action suit seeks a hearing
and also to nullify the section of
Microsoft's end-user license agreement
that requires users to go to OEMs
instead of Microsoft for refunds which
often proves very difficult even if
possible Canadian opposition parties are
taking a stand against inter net
metering after Industry Minister Tony
Clement signaled he is probing a crtc
decision expected to raise the cost of
using the web the Liberals and New
Democrats are both pledging to overturn
the telecom regulators usage-based
billing ruling which effectively kills
unlimited internet usage plans NDP
digital affairs critic Charlie Angus
said big media companies cable TV Giants
or telecom providers have a conflict of
interest in selling internet access
that's because Canadian consumers are
increasingly turning to web-based TV and
movie offerings such as the video
streaming service Netflix which rapidly
eats up consumers internet usage quotas
in an interview monday mr. Clement
acknowledged the strong reaction to the
CRTC ruling and said he is hearing from
people that they are worried that this
will stifle innovation because the cost
of using the internet services will
quickly become prohibitively high in
Canada you can get the full stories a
category-five TV / newsroom the category
5 TV news room is researched by roy w
nash with contributions from gadget
wisdom guru Becca Ferguson and our
wonderful community of viewers if you
have a new story you think's worthy of
honor mention send us an email at
newsroom at category 5 TV from the
category 5 TV news room I'm Hillary
rumble thanks Hilary what's all the
smirk at the end every time you every
time you do the news because Robbie
write secret messages in my failure
teleprompter teleprompter that I can't
say because then I just sound funny but
they're funny to me so that's why I
psycho come on share just a little bit
with us well ok this one says I'm
Hillary Rumble aka rock and roll
daydreamer it's funny
I like it to throw her just to throw her
it does through throwing in the word
jackal loop example it works yeah we got
the letter from our isp that said by the
way come you know end of the month we're
gonna jack up your pricing based on your
usage hold on tell you the truth we stay
with our isp because it's unlimited
bandwidth so what's to keep us from
finding a different isp that is
competitively priced that has better
service or faster service I should say
because there are you know the fiber
optic options out there you're stuck
with dsl it's unlimited bandwidth if all
you ISPs out there want to send a pitch
hey everybody I you get your quotes out
to us because we we use a lot of
bandwidth but that's a scary thing yeah
I mean for the end you know end user
consumer what is it if you check your
email and you know most people that are
just using the internet for for typical
purposes but when you broadcast a a show
every Tuesday night and then you upload
it and then you upload the RSS feeds and
you up you know just this massive amount
of data being transferred all the time
kind of scary stuff so hopefully they'll
be able to do something about it I think
that would be good this episode of
category 5 TV is brought to you in part
by pogoplug available at pogoplug calm
and plan a clip so you'll find out more
at cat five TV / Calypso so there and
there you have it there you have it this
piece water this is episode 176 176 here
in canada we have lots of problems with
the internet they're bumping up our
prices and I had a customer who said why
is it that the person who registered my
domain for me put their information or
put private information on my
registration as opposed to putting my
personal information I want my name to
be on my domain makes sense
we have a beautiful company here in
Canada that sends out these very
official-looking letters very
official-looking yes looking if you're
in canada and you own a domain and your
name is on it you may have seen these
you may see these it says domain
registry of canada it's got an AP you
could just yeah just kind of zoom in on
that for me just so you can see the logo
it looks very official domain registry
of canada me a go everybody spam their
p.o box let's open this up so this whoa
John extreme close out this is
action-packed here we go hey good one
break it's only like the second week
with a noodle gamer yeah okay so they've
got a return shipping envelope okay that
goes right back looks very official like
I said it looks very governmental this
is the domain registry of Canada and has
the Canadian flag and a very official
looking letter with a bunch of check
boxes that say as a courtesy to domain
name holders we're sending you this
notification of the domain registration
that is due to expire in the next few
months oh ok I own a domain yeah oh they
know all my information it's on here so
check off the box that you want okay oh
wow I can get two years for 70 bucks
what a great deal check that off guess
what happens if you check that off well
you know what I will say if you read the
all the way through they do actually
point out the u.s. permission to take it
from whoever you registered it with
right but nobody reads that and actually
understands it until after the fact i
had a situation with some folks very
dear to me and but i will say I've got
on the phone and I started up late then
I blew a gasket and I got their money
back you'll get there you may get their
money back but will you get the domain
back that's the risk well it is still
actually
you do believe I could be wrong I think
it is actually still registered but it's
just like another company it could be
like Rob news-register any case and i'll
be able these people have to renew and
right stealing all of you know John's
business so what they do is they go on
and they've they've got bots that get
the information about all the people who
register domains in Canada and then they
send out these very official letters and
they look extremely official and allow
you to enter your credit card and sign
it and send it back so watch out for
that as the domain registry of Canada
they have forever being on the watch
list for scams and better business
bureau is not too pleased with them and
things like that so make sure you just
take that and shred it read the darn
thing through and don't even don't even
ok soon as there's no domain knowledge
do you know one of it now that you know
shred that that's all you want to do a
lot of passes that should be illegal but
should be illegal how about really it's
it's a fine line the way of varied in
there that's the tricky thing yes indeed
but they prowl there prowling on people
who don't know any better so if you own
a domain and you're maybe somebody
registered it on your behalf or maybe
you bought it you've gotta calm or is it
and looks like the government agency it
really does it's not a government agency
no sir no but the government has tried
to shut them down a couple times
is it I'm there they're walking that
fine line so somewhere spirit of the
thing is not right but the legality of
it is it still the yeah they haven't
determined if you can actually do much
good hmm this is category 5 technology
TV at triple w category five dot TV we'd
love to have your register on our
website and if you do you're gonna have
a chance to win a copy of Wirecast the
software that we use to broadcast this
show if you'd like to do video
broadcasting on the internet this is
your chance to get a free copy of the
software worth four hundred forty nine
dollars so stick around we're gonna be
talking about that at the end of the
show in the meantime blogging that's
short for web blog you new folks sorry
it really isn't any more though isn't it
just seems to be a lonely lard it's a
where the word the word yeah it's a term
and now yeah so you recently had an
experience with WordPress yeah I
downloaded the software get the install
I mean the big part of figuring out what
to do is you know 12 G's book directory
should I dump everything and in that
instance he really want to install yeah
and because it was actually pretty
pretty darn easy pretty slick and you
know and that was the first time I'd
actually used up the other thing so it
was a very very intuitive once you get
to it wrong with any instructions are
very explicit if you head over to
newsroom category 5 TV you'll see our
newsroom website which looks like any
other news site it's got news stories
it's got a calendar that you can go back
in time with you know when the stories
were it's got topic cloud here as well
so that you can click on a specific
topic and find out more information
about it all these things are powered by
wordpress now in our case and in the
case of Eric's setup as well you've got
a server that you wanted to install it
on and it's it's a server that you
already have and and so on but for the
end user who doesn't have a web hosting
server there's an opportunity for you to
get this software called WordPress
without having to install it if you'd
like to if you have a server and you'd
like to check it out go to wordpress
wordpress org pardon me wordpress Don
that will take you there wordpress.org
will allow you to download the latest
version of WordPress and that will allow
you to install that on your servant as
Eric was saying it's it's really quite
easy to do that and works really well
but you need home you have to have your
own server they do that yeah but for
those of you who don't have that that's
that's who I'm talking to you tonight
we're going to go instead of the dot org
or net we're going to go to
wordpress.com and at wordpress.com
rather than downloading the software and
installing it yourself this is a service
provided by the makers of WordPress that
allows you to simply express yourself
start a blog make sure you have
something to say first also yes it would
don't listen to him okay you can get
started it's okay it's okay it's a few
simple steps to get started with your
blog Hillary's gonna start when called
spilling the beans or something in this
bill in the cool beans going the duck
cool game hi should register that right
quick really quick calm calm okay so
over here wordpress com i'm gonna click
on sign up now and right here my blog
address spilling the cool beans let's do
it one real can't use an epoxy block
user the cool beans though and is it
available it is Oh imagine that villain
the cool beans calm is also available
Hillary you want to pay 17 bucks a year
fantastic it's there if we ever decide
username password we'll just make
something up here
Hillary beans or something sure enter
your email address and then sign up here
we go check your email to complete your
registration and then it's really really
simple to get this thing going it really
really really simple so I'm gonna log
into my email here just to get that
registration email you'll see how
quickly you know even with only a few
minutes left of the show we're able to
get our blog up and running so with a
blog you're going to be able to become
that writer that you've wanted to be
you're going to be able to employees
your candor use your friends of the city
not necessarily it's an opportunity as
well to just use it as a diary use it as
a journal use it as a as a way to
communicate with your family and friends
about what's going on in your life all
right connect it to Twitter and all of a
sudden your tweets are going out as well
it's great okay I've got an email here
already wordpress com activate spilling
the cool beans thank you for signing up
with WordPress talk oh I've credit for
picking that name you can have the
domain of Hillary will let you you can
have it you can pull your own cool beans
I am I'm okay with that all right my
account is now active user name fill in
the cool beans password a whole bunch of
stars okay sorry yeah let's let's log in
for the first time here we go okay i'm
selling nut that's a hard name to who
you know there we go let's see what
happens
waiting and we are in oh yes already in
that amount of time I have a great idea
for our first first blog message
wonderful but here we've already got our
wordpress blog set up and running so now
if anybody goes to spill in the cool
beans wordpress.com you're going to
actually get our spill in the cool beans
blog there's nothing there yet it's just
a hello welcome to wordpress but let's
actually get this thing started and say
okay let's create our first blog entry
now with wordpress there there's so much
that you can do play around with the
settings check out some of the options
that are available in going through the
menu items but right out of the box
you're able to start posting so what
we're going to do is we're going to go
down here we're going to go to posts on
the left-hand side there and then up at
the top you've got add new
so to get started if you post a title
there you go what is it beans beans are
good for the heart no more ye we could
probably leave it there there there's
our title for I like it I don't know no
that should be cool beans being the rain
through the hurt yeah okay they're cool
beans are good for the heart are you I
like that so you can you can post your
ear entry there and it's that simple no
with the regular version when you
download and install yeah you can add a
picture with you oh you can have you can
do all that oh yeah blow the picture
yeah absolutely upload insert that first
button right there add an image and
you're gonna be able to do that if you
like and it'll allow you to pick large
medium small and little boy sizing for
everything it's actually quite too it's
very intuitive easy to very easy to use
so once i'm done ready to publish you
can publish it immediately or you can
schedule it as well in this case I'm
going to publish because that we're
going to pretend is our first blog entry
back it's spilling the cool beans you'll
notice that instantly my blog entry is
already up there's no happen to wait for
web guys that update your website for
you know or whatever else and of course
you can change the the image there you
can change the link to home and you can
change about you can change the little
let's do it the talus oddest thing up in
the corner back at our administrative
panel here we're going to go to
appearance you'll see that we've got our
current theme there but there are tons
of different themes to choose from and
Indians well
that's so you can scroll through and
find one you can do a search you can you
know however you want to do it see if
beans come up in a search Oh
unfortunately they do not oh but it's
just perplexing I'm surprised you can
upload pictures images oh absolutely
yeah but let's let's let's say that this
is the design that we like for Allah all
right always say that's the case we're
going to activate that one all right
if all went well there we go now
spilling the cool beans looks like that
design template that we but we chose of
course not getting too heavy into the
settings of there are myriad settings Oh
with which you on a lil a you can put
things in categories so you can have you
know antidote tags and category i you
can have the whatever kind and all the
different kinds of being all the
different kinds of games so there's a
couple of features that I love to have
installed on my wordpress website or
blog in my case because we're using it
for the newsroom one of the key things
is making sure that twitter gets
notified when updates have been posted
on my blog so let's see what I'm using
there and you've got add to any allows
people to send things that what you can
do is in your plugins section you can
actually go and add a new plugin and
you'll find that they're there are a ton
of different plugins that you can add to
your system for example let's search for
Twitter do a search for that plugin and
you can scroll through and you see the
stars to see how many you know who what
people think of this particular plugin
because there may be two hundred
different types of twitter apps to
install on your WordPress blog couple
luter four and a half yeah and if you
like you know read the description and
if one of them suits you install now and
it's going to actually pop that into
your wordpress blog boom just like that
and no having to figure out how to
install extensions onto your website or
anything like that it's all completely
automated the installation process is
automated but then also as updates are
released you'll see here I've got some
updates just that I've left as an
example you see how plugins says eight
that means that there are eight plugins
that currently are awaiting an update
and I can see that
upgrades available are 8 and I can just
follow through with that update process
and it's going to actually do all that
for me I don't have to do any of the you
know downloading zip files and unzipping
them and installing PHP programs and
doing all that nice and see almost stuff
to do zip that's terrible wordpress.com
if you want to start your own blog free
without having to sign up for hosting
anywhere else or pay for hosting having
to get your own coms or anything you can
just get you know spilling the cool
beans and dot wordpress com or if you
want to brand it yourself and put it on
your own server and set it up completely
yourself it's wordpress.org check that
out and we'll have links in the show
notes for episode number 176 as well
almost at a time everybody go there
spill in the spill in the cool beans
wordpress com pardon me this could be
the latest phenomenon and trend like it
could be a huge thing spill in the cool
beans like everyone could be on it and
like creeping it and lurking it and see
all the awesome things that are posted
this could go viral so to speak and
let's see that password was about eight
asterisks as I recall seeing it on the
screen there so okay yeah you've got a
habit perfect this is your first post
edit or delete it and start blogging you
gotta go okay so you saw a wire cast on
episode number 175 if you haven't caught
that episode make sure you do check it
out Wirecast is a fantastic broadcasting
software for video broadcasting on the
internet it's what we use to switch our
cameras around if we want to do our
lower thirds like this switching over to
the computer screen switching over to
hillary and so on and so forth that's
all powered by wire cast everything like
that it has green screening and and some
really advanced high-end features that
you would see in you know big studio
production suites chroma key and things
so we're going to be giving away one of
those licenses for wire cast over the
next
a few weeks we're going to be taking
some some essays from our viewers and in
order for you to get involved in that
what you need to do is go to category
five dot TV and when you're there if
you're not already registered make sure
you register create a free account on
our website you can do that by just
going to the top here and go and create
an account otherwise make sure you log
in once you're logged in there is a page
under support us that says advertise on
category 5 TV if you go over that page
while you're logged in you're going to
see that somewhere on that page is some
information for you on how to win a copy
of wire cast and again Wirecast is four
hundred and forty nine dollars and its
most basic version and reporting on
Canadian or us that'd be us why doesn't
matter it probably doesn't we're like
either on our beaten them out usually
these days well yes yeah however anyway
or your relevant okay it'll be pretty
early win it it's free 450 buck value
and it's a fantastic piece of software
and certainly if you if you're at all
interested in in doing video
broadcasting on the internet if you
already do it and you want to get into
some you know higher-end software to
make it happen or if you if you can
start at my own cooking show let's think
about your sports team right you do you
do hockey you don't want to be cool huh
you don't want to see me wouldn't it be
cool if we could no it wouldn't like it
could the mystery would be gone and you
say keeps going to play but why doesn't
get any better you know what's going on
here after every show every Tuesday
night I'm gonna be like you don't need
to go yeah not really the team would be
happier getting going sung the water
bottles so again to reiterate log into
the website category five TV register if
you have an argument so but once you're
logged in go to the advertised on
category five team page and find out all
about how you can win a copy of
I are cast but sports teams churches we
mentioned that on the show last week
it's like it's a fantastic opportunity
to broadcast your sermons live and
anything else that you can think of they
were mentioning about using it for
business and can it use to record in
their caste and yeah let's suppose it's
what we use to record yeah oh yeah you
could do it just a recording but it's
designed for live broadcasting know that
bull was wondering so I yes sure he
could you could set up wirecast to just
record to disk that's fine but there are
some fantastic features that are
designed specifically for broadcasting
live to give you an example of where it
could be used to record remember when we
did the Halloween episode and I was
chroma keyed into the onto the bridge of
the Starship Enterprise that was
pre-recorded but it was done using wire
cast so that I could utilize the live
chroma key features I could have done
the chroma key afterwards but then what
if I was sitting in the wrong spot or
what if the angles didn't look right
with wire cast because it was live I
could actually see that I looked like
you know it was working out so boy I
could smell the geek on that show but
actually you know what smell verse was
I'd actually bought the real hockey
equipment that I were and he has a very
small washing machine that means
anything to you so it had been a while
the the we had cockroaches and they're
all dead we should move on yeah okay
Hilary it's been really nice having you
here thanks for making the trip tonight
you I love being here so anytime thank
you I'm here you live here again if the
snow really hits yeah hopefully
snowmageddon round 2 or as I recently
heard via the Twitter machine notorious
b.i.g get it just get it no one cricket
cricket oh man I just hope it's not like
killer snow because I'm just ready for
spring and I may be trapped here forever
we'll see how that goes oh well hey did
she say snowmageddon yeah all right
yeah that one that's kind of that's what
we're in the middle of me pain that's
what they say stay warm I'm gonna have
to do some shuffling in the morning get
up a little extra early to get rid of
all the snow that's coming down that's
something I'm really good at getting up
early thing yeah not really morning
person no not really even a person in
the morning but hey three in the morning
I'm right there for it thanks for being
with us this week on category 5 TV do
check out our website category five dot
TV and who note was something may be
happening at spilling the cool beans
that were dressed up huh not too likely
today to do you know if you want to go
there and check it out I will pretty
neat I will Eric and I can share it
would that be funny blog on yeah what's
going John to and we get Christie and
Cariad just be like a community effort
it's hilarious thanks everybody i hope
you had a great night tonight and I'm
gonna go and order myself a new hdmi
cable from New York why not oh come on
Terry cuz i had to order from the
state's cuz the closest place was
toronto and they couldn't take an
american credit card i use paypal wow I
know I'm capable well there you have it
there you have it B&amp;H is great anyways
in New York so anyways all right I just
want take care we'll see ya
