hi everyone welcome back to new every
day my name is Kari and my name is Jen
and on today's show we're in part three
of shattering loneliness do you realize
that God is everywhere that you are
we'll be right back after this
[Music]
hello new everyday viewers and new every
day
listeners we are so glad that you've
tuned in and Jen you posed a question in
the introduction that God is everywhere
that you are so what do you mean by that
but that's exactly what I mean like God
is everywhere that you are and we've
been in been talking about shattering
loneliness for the last two weeks and
and the first week we set up you know
this concept of loneliness and being
alone and where it comes from and our
desire to be known and last week we we
talked about the first six verses of
Psalm 139 and how God knows everything
about us there's absolutely nothing he
does not know and the image that comes
to mind is where it says you search me
and you know me is of a mother a poor
monkey like with her baby like literally
searching every part and picking out the
bad stuff but searching like she knows
every nook and cranny yeah yeah right
and that's how much God knows us like he
knows every nook cranny thought step let
me sit when we rise like he knows all of
it and so not only does he know all of
who we are so he meets that need for us
to be known he is when I say like God is
everywhere that you are it's because it
goes to his all present nature there is
nowhere in all creation where he is not
like we have this idea that God is
haven't God is in heaven and we are on
earth right which it does say that in
Ecclesiastes it says God is in heaven
and we are on earth so let our words be
few because we don't get the majesty and
wonder of who God is but that sets up I
want to say the nature the holiness of
God but also there's so many passages in
scripture that says but I am with you it
says Joshua 1:9 says have I not
commanded you be strong and courageous
do not be terrified do not be
discouraged for the Lord your God is
with you wherever you go
Isaiah 41:10 says do not fear for I am
with you do not be afraid for I am your
God I will strengthen you and help you I
will hold you with my righteous right
hand and she's a said in Matthew and
surely I am with you to the very end
yes so like throughout scripture God
declares I am with you always
yeah when you go into battle I am there
it says he leads me in paths of
righteousness for his name's sake says
it he prepares a table before me in the
presence of my enemies there's this idea
of even in the quiet times and in the
war times like he's there he is there
present he's not some God who's high and
out there he is a God that is very
present and very near it says but closer
than a brother and so we're gonna look
into this next passage from Psalm 139 to
examine what what we actually mean about
God is all present or the Greek world
would be omnipresent yep that's not
great no but it sounds ominous
on me the Omni part it's Greek it means
all anyways here we go we'll skip the
Greek okay where can I go from your
spirit where can I flee from your
presence if I go up to the heavens you
are there if I make my bed in the depths
you were there if I rise on the wings of
the dawn if I settle on the far side of
the sea even there your hand will guide
me your right hand will hold me fast if
I say surely the darkness will hide me
and the light become night around me
even the darkness will not be dark to
you the night will shine like the day
for darkness is as light to you and so
as we read that passage it touches on
the fact that God is not only here where
we are now but it doesn't matter where
we go yeah he will be there you know
what's interesting Jen if as as we were
reading that where can I go from your
spirit or where can I flee from your
presence and this version says I can
never escape your spirit I can never get
away from your presence and there's a
little commentary in this Bible that
says the Lord's omniscience or
all-knowing and omnipotence being
all-powerful and omnipresence being
everywhere provide comfort to the godly
mmm
because they know their relationship
with the Lord and that Jesus has made us
right with God and we experienced
forgiveness so he is a loving father to
us who welcomes us in but it says
knowing that God is everywhere at once
and knows everything yep imprisons the
hearts of the wicked where can I go it's
just everywhere and so originally when I
was studying this chapter several years
ago I was driving down the highway and I
was speeding and driving not in a way
that I should
and this first cut into my mind really
yes because I was looking I was looking
around just to make sure you know
there's no police radar guns so that I
can make it to where I needed to be on
time
yes I'd done the same thing okay very
good thank you pastor thanks and the
first can't I mind cuz it was like where
can I go from your spirit where can I
flee from your presence it was like the
police the law is everywhere and it
brought fear to my heart hmm
instead of me celebrating and doing the
right thing and knowing that those
things are there to keep me safe and
keep other people safe and bring life
and not right but that yeah that verse
came to mind because of the the
omnipresence of the the law the police
yeah brought fear instead of love
because I was doing what it's wrong it's
not interesting because as I as I read
through this passage so many times
because he's asking this question where
flee from your presence and that says if
I go up to the heavens you are there and
if I make my bed in the depths you were
there but this next part if I rise in
the wings of the dawn and when I am I go
walking in the morning and I was
practicing this verse and I often like
look to the Rising Sun in the east and
go and if I rise on the wings of the
dawn and all I could think about as I
was doing some research was it talked
about the speed of light oh and as fast
as the speed of light goes if we were to
travel at that speed even there God
would be
you can't escape them you cannot escape
it it doesn't matter how fast you are
going like if you were to travel at the
speed of light that says if I was to
rise on the wings of the dawn and settle
on the far side of the sea even there
you can't escape them yeah your hand
would guide me your right hand that's
your hand a favor would hold me fast hmm
which is like he's not gonna let us go
right like as much as we might desire to
get away cuz the question is after we
really like wow he knows us and he
searches us and he is his discernment of
knowing what we're doing the good bad
and ugly is there so we might say is
there anywhere when you get away from us
cuz that like you said the ungodly are
like oh well that's I'm wondering like
okay well what what prompts David to ask
these kinds of questions yes why would
you want to flee from the Spirit of God
unless you weren't in right relationship
with him or had done something wrong now
my commentary here says that he's asking
rhetorical questions like he's just
putting it out there but there is a
measure of great peace knowing that
wherever we go God is and it's like when
the prodigal son in Luke 15 leaves his
father God was still fully aware like
yes it's a parable but even there in the
story the spirit speaks him and actually
like I believe would say to him like if
you were to go home like he plants those
seeds yes like the Spirit is aware
because he it's where can I go from your
presence and we've talked about the
physical nature of the fact that no
matter where we go God is with us but
the spiritual nature the emotional
nature of it is still the same because
it says if I say surely the darkness
will hide me that's not like I need a
nightlight at night mmm sometimes we
think the darkness of our sin hides us
from God well I've done so many things
wrong I've gotten myself into such a
pickle I've made so many bad mistakes
I'm in so many bad relationships there's
no way out hmm so we think well surely
the darkness will hide me in the light
become night around me and and David is
saying even the darkness will be not
will not be dark to you it's like God
has on those like
night glasses and he sees for the
darkness as well as he would see during
the day because it says the night will
shine like the day for darkness is as
light to you and how can the darkness
seem as light unless he is the source of
light to expel the darkness and Jesus is
called the light of the world and just
like that picture so let's think about
that picture Jesus is the light of the
world and those who follow them will
never walk in darkness John 8:12 so
let's think about that as we go to break
Jeff Weston GEMA you're building a brand
new beautiful website what aren't you
okay you're a terrible actor
what does where acting comes into play I
don't know you're supposed to act okay
building a really cool website are you
building a really cool website you need
hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
it's true how much harddrive space do
you have how many email accounts how
many domains can point to it well we've
got an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cat5 dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are gonna get
unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name the roots are your own com
dice to put that amazing website that
you've been working on on there if you
run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine
sign up cat5 dot TV slash DreamHost just
don't put that on the papers on just
don't do it but hey it's a great deal
folks best deal you're gonna find five
dollars and change per month go to cap
five dot TV slash DreamHost
hi and welcome back to new every day we
are so thankful that you're hanging out
with us this morning or afternoon or it
could be in the middle of the night
because we're you know we often talk
about that the fact that this is going
off into Internet world moment really
never sure of who is listening or when
they are listening so welcome back no
matter what time of day you've tuned in
we are glad to share this time with you
and we also want to say a special thanks
to our partners who if you go online to
our website which is new every day TV
you can see so many people so many
companies that have partnered with us to
help make not only new every day
possible but all the shows on category
five network possible as well so we
encourage you to go shopping if you need
to maybe you need to window-shop just go
on our page check out the partners and
see if there's anything there that could
meet any of your shopping needs and we
would be most grateful so yes we ended
off before he went to break with John
8:12 jesus said I am the light of the
world whoever follows me will never walk
in darkness but will have the light of
Life and the light of Life is basically
will have salvation they will be saved
from their sin but also sanctification
they will be given all that they need to
become more like Jesus and I love that
aspect that Jesus said I'm the light of
the world whoever follows me will never
walk in darkness but will have the light
of Life and so when it says for darkness
is as light to you like there's nothing
scary about the dark to Jesus it doesn't
matter how dark our thoughts are it
doesn't matter how dark our heart is it
doesn't matter you know so many times I
have walked in dark places and have just
started reciting scripture really oh
yeah like I came home friends of ours
living around the corner and so I I had
I hung out with him on Sunday evening
and Sunday evening so I left in the
daylight no problem but when I was
coming back it was dark and she actually
turned to me said are you okay in
walking much I'll walk fast but on the
way home I'm like I'm reciting scripture
and I very well might have been like Oh
Lord you have searched me and you know
me you know when I sit in my
isin the Word of God as a lamp yes the
Word of God is a lamp unto our feet and
a light unto our path and so when we
talk about God being an all present God
he is all present physically he's all
present spiritually he is all present
emotionally and he's all present
relationally and I love that image of
God's presence that because you might be
struggling in your marriage right now
and feeling I am so alone yes and even
though you share a bed with someone
every night it feels like they're so
distant from you and yet God is there
he's in he's present in your marriage
and so you can claim some of these
things saying like Lauren it feels like
my marriage is dark right now but you
said the night will shine like that it
like claim that verse for your meza your
marriage claim the presence of God in
your marriage and and be praying that
verse into Lord you have searched me and
you know me you know my heart towards my
husband or my wife would you help me to
love them well so that we will have the
marriage that you have designed for us
yeah I just love the fact that God is
present in in all of our interactions
like he and the thing is he waits he
that goes back to James 4:8 where it
says drawn near to me and I will draw
near to you like he he waits for us to
invite him into the situation so so
often in the morning and I've said this
so many times dear Lord Jesus brings me
the people you want me to deal with
today keep away all distractions and
protect me from the evil and so I invite
him into my day and it's so cool the
number of times God interjects himself
or I become aware now for how present
God is and I find two parts of this I
find it really interesting that that God
puts it on your heart to pray about
something like that and secondly that
you
recognize it when it happens and so do
you feel like it's like Holy Spirit just
kind of goes hey remember you prayed
this this is the answer or like how do
you tell yes
no how do you discern that's what it is
usually well because I pray bring to me
the people when stuff happens I'm sort
of okay Lord like I prayed this morning
that you would bring people to me so I
have to believe that you're gonna you
know help me organize my day so that I
can get done the things that need to get
done and the things that don't need to
get done I don't need to worry about
them because you have presented this
person to me and so I just take peace
and knowing that because I've prayed
that prayer and God is present then my
job then is to listen to the Holy Spirit
and say okay what do you want to do in
this situation
yeah and so what could seem like a real
dark downer like do they not know how
much stuff I have to get done but God
knows your words I haven't seen it
writes your day before it happened yes
please correct at the time so he has
carved out the time so we don't need to
be concerned about the darkness that
happens we don't need to be concerned
that we think that there's no way out
because God is all present like he's
witness and and we talked you know in
Isaiah 40 says do you not know have you
not heard that our God is an everlasting
God and it just it speaks so much truth
let me just Isaiah 40 because most
people know the end those who wait upon
the Lord will renew their strength they
will run and not grow weary they will
walk and not faint against 2831 so but
it says comfort my people Comfort says
the Lord your God it goes on to say do
you not know have you not heard has it
not been told to you from the beginning
have you not understood since the earth
was founded he sits enthroned above the
circle of the earth and its people are
like grasshoppers
he stretches out the heavens like a
canopy and spreads them out like a tent
to lemon he brings princess to knot and
reduces the rulers of this world to
nothing no sooner are they planted no
sooner are they so no sooner do they
take root in the ground and he blows on
them and they with
and the whirlwind sweeps them away like
chaff to whom will you compare me or who
is my equal says the Holy One lift your
eyes and look to the heavens who created
all these he who brings out the starry
hosts one by one and calls them each by
name because of his great power and
mighty strength not one of them is
missing I love it
goes on in 28 do you not know have you
not heard the Lord is an everlasting God
the creator of the ends of the earth he
will not grow tired and weary his
understanding no one can fathom I love
it he is all-knowing he is all-knowing
he is all present if he can march out
the star YZ is a starry sky the stars in
the sky and he knows them by name and
not one of them is missing and how much
more is he aware of our needs
yeah and and I think there's a verse in
Genesis that that says and at this time
people began to call out to the Lord
yes and so there is an identification
that those who knew God knew that he was
there and available for us to call out
to him and one of the things I I so love
about God and the fact that Jesus made a
way for us to come is that I don't have
to wait to go and confess to somebody
yes or I don't have to like wait to get
home and like call and get advice from
somebody necessarily I can stop and I
can call out to the Lord or I can call
out to the Lord and my thoughts and
people from all of the world can be
doing this at the same time so like
those who have just experienced the
flood or the hurricane that just passed
through hurricane Irma
they are calling up to the Lord we can
call out to the Lord in our time of need
because he's there because he is there
and that was Genesis 426 be and at the
time men began to call on the name of
the Lord and so we encourage you to call
on the name of the Lord today to hold on
to that passage where can I go from your
where can go from your presence where
can I flee from your spirit and realize
surrender those areas to the Lord
today those areas that feel dark or
scary and acknowledge that he's the
light yes acknowledge that he is the
light that you need so let's pray
Heavenly Father we thank you so much
that you sent your son Jesus to be the
light of the world and learn the
darkness wants nothing to do with it and
so there might be part there may be some
people that are sitting there watching
us listening to us right now where the
darkness is rising up and saying oh no
you don't want to do that well we come
against that in the name of Jesus right
now and Lord God we call forth your
grace and your mercy your truth and your
love to minister to these people to give
them the courage that they need to
surrender that darkness to you so you
can shine your light on it and so they
will receive everything that they need
to feel your presence your love and to
shatter the loneliness that they've
expand experiencing because darkness
creates loneliness so father we come
against that in the name of Jesus for
our viewers today and lord thank you
that woman your surrender all things to
you and you need to pass we thank you
for James for me in your name we pray
amen
thank you so much for tuning in and
we're gonna continue this conversation
Jen because there's so much more of
Psalm 139 that we want a bit more we
want to explore together so come on back
here same time same place thanks for
tuning us see you later
