welcome to new every day we are right in
the middle of our study on the seven
rolls of the Holy Spirit today we're
talking about fellowship and there's a
Greek word that you're gonna love this
is you every day with Jeff Weston
Alliance cruises
[Music]
welcome the new every day I Jeff oh and
I'm Laurie we got trouble over up I see
thanks I want to remember we are covered
in just seven rolls of the Holy Spirit
I'm the devotional from the YouVersion
Bible app written by Jamie greedy Thank
You Jay Lee Grady fun nominative um yeah
totally loving it from the youversion
app yeah how cool is that so we are four
episodes in now and it's the Holy Spirit
is our uniter and when I first read the
title for this one like this one could
go a thousand different ways I'm very
interested to see how he takes this
devotional and I was pleasantly
surprised in the direction that he took
and absolutely loved it and so I'm
excited about this one today because it
is at the core of what I believe you and
I live for
oh man isn't that the truth yeah easily
you know interestingly enough I felt the
same way
when I saw the title okay I thought
uniter not nothing not the word I use it
right exactly how you doing United it's
like okay oh yeah it's his role he's
uniting people
okay still just not a word that I use
very often but true reading the
devotional it's like okay I'm busted
though yeah I actually live for it yeah
and I think you do too I do and what are
we talking about basically we're talking
about getting along about right the
supernatural grace of God that allows
people to share life together
mm-hmm how about that and I think even
more so than just that because so many
people even without Christ in their life
you can get along they're very
personable but this is at a whole new
level
yeah in a way that I would say
transcends normal human interaction and
you know it he goes into the whole you
know the early church and you know
Aquila Priscilla and Paul and all that
man
I love those stories in Acts and Romans
where you've got the church growing and
all that they're going through in the
relationship that they've got and just
how it all unfolds and all of that is at
the leading of the Holy Spirit and it's
so dynamic and so powerful and the love
that comes through those letters is
incredible like you can I I listen to it
as I Drive to work right and I can feel
the love in the words and how they're
used and it's so so powerful and that's
exactly how the Holy Spirit works as far
as being you know the uniter
you mentioned Aquila you mentioned
Priscilla talking about like the first
church right and the they were once a
group of people who were frightened
right you think yeah Jesus is with them
and now he's taken from them he's been
killed right on the cross that's like he
was murdered that's when he was killed
crucified we said oh I heard it so often
he's crucified no no no he was like he
was beaten so badly you couldn't even
recognize him this is their friend who
they lost you know the girls are at the
they are at the tomb and they're ready
and then there's like what hey the angel
the one you're looking for is not here
right what is going on so there's this
excitement and there's this fear because
the Romans are freaked out that Jesus is
gone and of course his command is wait
wait in Jerusalem wait until the
promised Holy Spirit comes and so they
did mm-hmm
well then I love a phrase you know this
while they waited the Holy Spirit came
baptize them all and I think if ever I
can say it all heaven bro clue
absolutely right
yeah yes so then incredible things
manifested in the lives of the people in
the early church right one of them least
that I've heard for years and years is
that there was this incredible boldness
yes
yeah with Peter being a great example
right excellent example yeah so you know
at one time he's scared denying that
even knows Jesus and then after
Pentecost after you know spirit baptism
he's preaching and 3,000 people get
saved right 3,000 people are lied to the
church in one meeting it's like are you
kidding me right talk about hauling in
the nets right yeah used to be catching
fish and he says I'll make you fishers
of men and now he's catching people yeah
like how amazing so this is some of the
characteristics we see happening but not
just like the preaching of who Christ is
with boldness not just working miracles
like incredible that people just like
you and me work miracles and we talked
about that ourselves after by the grace
of God you know but there was this
incredible supernatural god-breathed
fellowship relationship brother to
brother Sister to Sister
family member to family member and I
think the Greek word as we read it is
called Koinonia yeah what an incredible
result because the Holy Spirit came and
poured out on his people yeah amazing
hey well and when I think of the early
church and I mean the the Bible goes in
and describes what they were like I mean
selling their possessions giving to
those who had me like everyday
fellowshipping having meals together and
I think would that fly today
like could you just say I'm selling it
all and let me take care of you and
there's a part of me that goes I don't
think fly
hmm because we live in a society and
today where so many people are self
centric yeah and it's well you know I'll
help you out but I need to make sure
that I'm okay first and that's a total
deviation from that spiritual uni unity
that the Holy Spirit provides and that's
a true living by faith to sell it all
and say let's all take care of each
other
I mean that's that's huge but that's
what drew people into the church yeah
well that was a change from the norm
okay so I'm in Bible College I'm singing
I'm traveling around from house to house
and I you know I don't even know these
people this is a big deal to me I'm
going like I'm loving it I'm excited but
I'm going to meet perfect strangers not
afraid but it's like wow what's gonna
have these perfect strangers meeting me
is it oh so glad you're here and here's
your room and it's like going into a
five-star and I come out I got all the
fixin's there for this amazing meal and
I'm like it blew me away Jeff how they
literally treated me like family and I
had just met them and I met and the Lord
used that in me as a young man yeah to
say Lawrence this is your family right
and it encouraged me in a way that
actually you can see even all these
years later it three decades later it
has impacted me in a way that that's
profoundly changed Who I am to this very
day and I think maybe that's part of the
reason why I like connecting with people
sure yeah you know absolutely I
experienced the benefits of it right and
yet I'm reading here as you were
referring to the book of Acts in verse
42 the Bible says that the the the
people okay the ones who are baptized in
the Holy Spirit quote continually
devoting themselves to the Apostles
teaching and to fellowship there it is
and to the breaking of bread and to
prayer mm-hmm yeah that Koinonia that
deep-seated Holy Ghost driven or
empowered or led however initiated
Brotherhood right incredible yeah sure
it is
now we're going to take a break in a few
minutes but before we get there you know
on that concept and the whole idea of
how the early church was you know
started in like just unloading
everything for one another when my wife
and I were looking to buy the most
recent house that we're in yeah when we
moved back to town we were coming into
roadblocks with the houses being way too
expensive yeah
and on a single family income we
couldn't afford it and we found this
house that we absolutely loved we walked
in and I remember saying in my wife this
is the house mm-hmm like there's there's
no way it's not the house this it like I
can feel it
and we couldn't get the financing
together for it was just just out of
reach and so we ended up walking away
from the deal and I remember saying to
my wife and she completely agree with me
I want this home to be a home of
ministry of open door where we can
change life where there's freedom for
our kids
friends from school to come in and
experience a united family because
there's a lot of broken families Amon
and I want our doors to be open so that
somebody says oh man I just lost you
know my apartment fell on tough times
over on hey we got a room for you and I
remember saying to her I want to lift
this house up that we don't have that I
believe we should have to God and say we
dedicate this home to you and to
furthering your kingdom to the ministry
if you would just make it happen
mm-hmm and we did we prayed a few days
later our real-estate agent contacts us
and says okay the people who are selling
want to cut a deal and they're willing
to sell it for less than they bought it
for can you make this number work and
the bank goes yep here you go and it's
like okay if that isn't the Holy Spirit
providing and I'm going to last week
getting our guides setting a path for us
and but at the same time building unity
and like we've been in the home now for
three years and we've been able to have
so many people through our door I love
it I'm like yes this is what the Holy
Spirit is about so he puts this longing
in you the Holy Spirit does for Koinonia
as were calling yeah that's and again
not a yute word I use it's a Greek word
I don't speak Greek
so but that fellowship on how would that
deep-seated Holy Ghost initiate a driven
sustained relationship he's birth that
in your heart that you want to bring
that to people and so he supernaturally
arranges you to be able to get a house
how cool is
that's very cool Jeff once again time is
flying by what a great show we're
talking about the Fellowship of the Holy
Spirit and indeed now we got to take a
quick break but we're gonna come back
and we're going to talk about how if you
are looking for that unity the
fellowship and maybe you've got some
disputes in your life what can we do
about that so don't go anywhere
stick around for more for new every day
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the
category-five TV network these high
quality shirts are manufactured by
teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cat5 dot TV
slash shirts
hi friends welcome back we're talking
about the seven roles of the Holy Spirit
with the Holy Spirit as our uniter I'm
reading from the app that we were
referring to says we must return to
Koinonia but you can't download it or
you can't fake it oh listen to this
we'll have to scrap artificial
event-driven programs if we want to have
the relational Christianity of the book
of Acts Wow so you're saying we can't
have relationship through Facebook I've
got so many friends well you seem to be
very good because you're still a fantasy
so I don't know friend you got on there
but it's a lot more than idea anyway
that's good would you be my friend yeah
okay thank you so I'm reading and it
says and we will have to invite the Holy
Spirit to do his work of connecting us
that's what it's about isn't it
connecting us with our brothers with our
sisters in Christ with his super natural
bond I say yes
oh I'm all-in for it 100%
you know I've tasted of it I don't I I
wouldn't be able to make it unless I had
the support of brothers sisters family
like people who really have got my back
I feel like a soldier you know like here
in the you're in the trenches you need
someone that's right - who's gonna have
your back because if you don't like your
chances of dying you go through the roof
right that's right yeah I mean that's
not a joke but the principle is the
exact I think the same is true for me
the chances of me not making it endless
life are a whole lot higher if I'm
navigating life alone but friends I am
so glad to tell you I'm not navigating
my life alone I've got this support dare
I say the Koinonia the fellowship with
loving people that I
truly thank God for Oh for sure and I
think of you know just hearing you say
that like if it wasn't for those around
you you know you might not make it and
when I think about that deepest part in
my spiritual life where it was all
falling apart like I was ready to walk
away from my marriage yeah like I had
kind of been done with the church so to
speak the the religious church yeah you
know I had nobody around me yeah because
I had cut all ties because I was sick of
it and I struggled to keep that
spiritual heartbeat going I mean I had
my relationship with God but it was
nowhere near strong because I didn't
have people around me to pick me up and
saying hey you know what I understand
what you're going through
let's go to the Bible on this one let's
like work through it together
and you know when when Jen and I came to
our church where we're going now
within a few weeks it was like we knew
this is where we need to be the family
feel here is so authentic and so real
and here we are like I don't know 10
years later and I change every person
who walks through the doors I would say
is his family you know it really has
that feel boy and it's a nice feeling in
that assembly oh yeah yeah I'm just
thinking about that student intern that
we had here Shay
yes who is here Oh - Shay now friends if
you're wondering what we're talking
about I think you could say ah I
remember listening to that girl Shay
embodied this Koinonia fellowship
friendship yeah like oh she was
off-the-charts good at it it was
definitely a god-given talent she is
right for sure
first yeah just a character and she
joked he says yeah I can make friends
with a rock it's true the all the rocks
were lining up it's true I mean when she
was done her internship and she went
back home to Alberta I think it was yeah
like there were tears yeah because
people were sad to see her be go because
she was just a natural unifying person
didn't matter who you were what walk you
were from
there was something to connect with and
there's some way that she could
encourage you and get you up and yeah
she was she embodied Koinonia first so a
great example of someone who was willing
to be friendly and just say hi how are
you
mm-hmm and then engage in a friendship
without worry without fear and shared
life with people and in the short time
that she was with us it's true if she
made like people are like man I wish you
weren't leaving and and it's great and
so it can happen still today
and it could very well be that God wants
to use you as that individual who would
reach out to someone like you just said
you were you were in that dark place if
I can call it and he said there was
nobody around you Jeff I was in that
place too and and my perspective on it
was I think the people around me but I
shut them out yeah which is natural I
was hurt didn't want to get hurt again
well who does well sign me up so I can
get hurt you know like you know some
people do that not a good way to live
but you know so you know it's like same
thing hey people you just stay out there
and then what an empty place to be yeah
Jeff maybe someone's there and they are
like you and I were you were you were
talking earlier but what what might they
need to do what would you encourage them
to do is there something you would say
what can you say to us well the first
thing I would say is you need to be led
by the Holy Spirit if you are not being
led by the Holy Spirit you can't have
that true Koinonia because that is one
of the Holy Spirit's roles is to build
that unity to intertwine our lives and
connect and so if you have dispute if
you have broken relationships some some
relationships can't be resolved that
that's just the reality there's been too
much hurt too much damage but it doesn't
mean that you can't find healing it
doesn't mean that you can't find through
supernatural means through the Holy
Spirit the ability to love and defend
spite if
give for letting them off the hook yeah
I mean I I can think of you know a
handful of people who have wronged me to
the point that I would say I never want
to interact with them again right
because their life was so toxic to me
yeah but who I am and being led by the
Holy Spirit I've forgiven them I love
them and if they contacted me and said I
am I'm down and out and I need somebody
yeah I know that I would be there yeah
not that that's my personal choice but
that would be the leading of the Holy
Spirit and a friend of my wife he was
killed in a he was running was hit by
truck a year ago in the States and just
jogging you mean just jogging this 18
year old kid hit him with the truck and
killed him instantly
and his wife not the 18 year old kid but
my wife's friend his wife stood there in
court when this kid was being sentenced
and she said actually outside the
courtroom she went up to him she said I
want you to know I'm a Christian and I
forgive you and I love you and I don't
blame you it's unfortunate happened it
was a mistake and Rob is no longer with
us but I forgive you and she hugged him
and that meant the world to him like him
and his mom were outside in the corner
just bawling because of the grace that
they had been shown that is true
Koinonia Holy Spirit leading right there
what an example mm-hmm that's isn't that
the truth yeah because and look at the
results you described how did that kid
feel his life as a young man yeah his
life is changed because of it oh and the
mom yeah he's breaking her heart for her
son equally impacted by the life of one
person who reaches out with the love of
God because the Spirit of God would
compel her to do it well I remember
think we know was that the devil that we
can the devil you know there does
another thing that I can help me know
like hi
we know God is that you well I'll tell
you what the devil doesn't get us to do
good things that's right really I mean
as simple as that sound that actually
has helped me so many times especially
in my teenage years but you know that's
the Lord but then that wrestle comes in
and Who am I gonna do it she said I'm
gonna do it she did what God would ask
us to do and how do we know that well
that's what he did for us
that's right didn't he yeah so easy to
receive as forgiveness and for me it's
been O'Lord yeah thank you mercy to me
mercy Creek get them Lord right even
though I laugh at it like now I've
changed that no no Lord don't get them
you've been merciful to me lord please
extend your mercy to them as well on
friends that begins here I think it
really does yeah it's a choice those
feelings can follow absolutely and and
they usually do we may not feel it but
we still can do what's right just to say
I'm going to be the Christian that God
has called me to be and that interesting
that we're talking about forgiving and
releasing someone I do think it's very
much related to genuine fellowship they
don't need 100% oh yeah we're your
loving people unconditionally because
they're a human and they're loved by God
therefore I'll love you too
right following his lead that's very
incredible and yet the supernatural
ability for us to be able to do those
things that we otherwise wouldn't be
able to do like Peter there's no way I
don't even know who Christ is gets
empowered by the Holy Spirit can't shut
the guy up 3,000 people also want to be
just like him and then there's this girl
who says lost a loved one says no I
can't not go hug that guy I love
changing destinies incredible gesture
what a show to talk about the the
privilege of the the Holy Spirit who
allows us to have the deepest of
fellowship with people praise God that's
a good one yeah all right so that's for
in we got three more to go
I am looking forward to the next three
episodes I'm loving this
the seven roles
holy spirit if you want to check it out
you version Bible app it's a devotional
from J Lee Grady check it out you can
catch past episodes he reads the past
for devotionals may be kept get the next
three going and know we're coming up and
share your stories with us yes how maybe
he's helped you find that relationship
or or anything else under the Sun we'd
love to hear from you
every Friday morning at new every day TV
we're also on roku cody flex youtube
google play music podcast and news book
or if you're in Southern California tune
in every Sunday morning at 6:30 on kbdb
TV channel 33 television for the high
desert
