what you're a go to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live and category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host or I'll
be Ferguson welcome to episode number
159 of category 5 technology TV it's
just the two of us tonight just the two
of us John is off sick so we're fighting
for camera time and I was just we were
just commenting about how much taller I
love but you know John's not here my
chair is that much shorter well yeah we
plan it that way wait until I get you
out on ice wait until I get you out on
the ice well then you'll look a lot
taller than me because I'll be laying
down you know what's with the shirt well
you know what our Mike are you hitting
the mic with no no I don't think so oh
he's kind of fumbling with the mic there
is being absorbed into the hockey jersey
have lost my little wind sock heavens
well you know the color thing here our
technical guy John who's not here
tonight right right he's probably he's
likely watching from home apparently he
didn't like the fact that i was wearing
black last week so I figured I'll show
him go east we have the elder scam you
have color I left my hockey gloves
outside my sticks in the car I'm ready
to go pretty much ready to play great
playing tonight I am you're a madman
I am how do you do it Oh long days my
long days this from having teenagers
they you know you're kind of used to it
says one needs an outlet what do you do
with that stuff like I said you got
teenagers so welcome to category 5 TV
159 is the episode number tonight and
we've got some fun stuff in store for
you we are going to be set in Eric up
with his first-ever Twitter account and
we're going to be walking you through
how to set that up from front to back
including the GNU image manipulation
program process of creating your very
own avatar so stick around for that also
we've got nanodots to give away tonight
you remember a few weeks ago always
trying to show it to the couch I wasn't
actually I was trying to peek oh you're
trying to look at what what this stuff
is oh definitely what that camera shot
go I thought I ever shot is there yeah
there we go let's get there we go
nanodots we've got something to give
away if you were watching episode number
126 you know all about that look at he's
already playing with this stuff it's
addictive I don't know my love to play
with this Oh totally this looks like I
broke something already don't eat them
can I take them out of the bag you can
take them out of the bag for sure they
look kind of neat they're pretty cool
super super powerful magnets I'm
thinking we should set these on your
hard drive and see how just kind of spin
them around couple times they thought
it'd be fun you can you can show them to
the camera here and I said like this it
is kind of fun oh I broke it you're not
even sure I'm not there every day there
we go you've made some kind of fancy
thing I have oh you know I'm gonna be
playing with these all call through the
show tonight Hey nope doesn't work
through the desk this could be fun so
stick around for your chance to win a
pack of nanodots tonight and we've got
two handful of those give away you've
pretty much talked most ourselves focus
on playing with keisha but what else we
got going on well we've got you've got
some news coming up I'm sorry to
distract you from from your toy filling
the big okay they're kind of fun they
really are so I'm going to scrunch it
into a nice little ball there okay
like that yeah you're such an addled
I'll be like that okay but why don't I
tell them what's coming up in news that
would be that would be the him coming up
in the newsroom at Oregon said the virus
bulletin 2010 conference have voted to
abolish Adobe's PDF standard hmm to help
usher in the future the FAA is now
offering grants for space ports oh I
know you're gonna that's good and you
already have well I start been planning
her start notice base yeah okay I do too
look this because one was not enough hey
maybe I know it better not there's one
for each of us wow you know anyways we
also will be able to get a grant for our
spaceport okay that's fantastic Google
is resorting to old-school tactics to
make the internet faster image
compression the end planet clip so it
was stepping things up for online gamers
with new hovercrafts I love hover crafts
Oh motorboats and a secure in-game voice
chat system I was down in Florida and
actually we ran over an alligator in a
hovercraft what fun it was just the
wildest thing anyway that was that that
was a little safer most random thing
that ever mentioned hovercraft so that
just renowned yeah well anyway you ought
to stick around for the latest news from
category 5 TV get really oughtta
definitely no other alligators no
alligators tonight welcome to everybody
who's joining us in the chat room
category five dot TV so great to see you
if you're watching the show on justin.tv
through through our WMS feed wherever
you are hop on over to our website
category 5 TV and you'll see the live
chat room right on our homepage if
you're here during the live show but
otherwise the the chat room is always
available if you click on the
interactive nu on our website or if
you've got an IRC client you can you can
connect into irc.freenode.net and then
you'll be
to join us in our chat room which is
category 5 i'm going for a hovercraft
ride with job he said he has one he's
taking me up does he really oh boy John
I haven't hung Huynh planet calypso
probably oh I'm guessing so oh god how
we miss ya I haven't seen you in in game
for a while so we're gonna be we're
gonna be taking a look at that another
day for sure indeed it is a few a new
viewers under a strong oh yeah yeah yeah
there's a logic from Hereford hey blah
ok nice to have you here and foxton
Hayes also from the knee thing hey
foxton Hayes and JV SCC from that tejas
USA or maybe it's Texas and whoever
transcribed this head trouble with thee
what do you saying well the copywriter
te doing the copywriting is there a town
called tejas ortega's te Jas hmm there
is maybe in its in Texas oh well we're
all going to that√µs writ Aegis or
somebody should tell me it's great to
have it here ah Texas they act Taeyang
Taeyang tell ya how do you pronounce
that in Spanish Greg is mentioning that
that may be Spanish for Texas okay well
it is it's great to have new viewers
joining us this week please do join our
website category 5 TV it's free service
and you can subscribe there become a
registered viewer and that gives you
some additional bonus features and also
you can follow us on twitter twitter.com
/ robbie Ferguson that's me and that
will be your chance to to get the inside
scoop on what's coming up from category
five this week we had lots of exciting
stuff going on on Twitter as our green
screen arrived and I'm just going to
leave it at that but if you follow us on
Twitter you'd know more
well twitter.com / Robbie Ferguson where
I also posted some video demonstrations
hi saw a little bit of that you did I
did good stuff good stuff I wanted to I
was gonna just wear my green shirt
tonight so I could disappear but that'll
be great yeah I'm thinking that you know
that will teleport or so I'm just like
wear a green shirt need to see a head
floating around whatever works so and
it's all thanks to telus dreams Wirecast
it's a brilliant application make sure
you check it out that's what we use to
broadcast the show but it provides live
green screen chroma key technology so we
can do multi-layered chrome wall we
could have alligators in the back or not
but we could we could but we won't you
might okay so you got some questions
questions from people in the chat room
if you've got any for us make sure you
say Robbie F or Eric Kidd and that will
come to our attention it's pronounced
tejas thank you ok there what would have
been my guess but it is not oh
definitely would have been oh i thought
you said i needed ironing so i wouldn't
show all the wrinkles but the the antics
that happen in the chat room mark are
you poking fun at the the ironing at the
irony yeah I really you know relaxing oh
I'm just I'm just kind of hint in there
that we've got some exciting stuff
coming up not today but season 4 we've
got some really cool things around the
bend whew just kind of let that soak in
for just a minute because those of you
who know what what that's capable of
it's exciting stuff so questions we must
have some questions just right off the
bat well let's go we just had a 10
minute introduction to the show talking
about your hockey jersey and hey and
silliness to see my other show Gators
and things so we really gotta move on
that's as bad as the weather mm-hmm hey
we could do the weather no I saw how
it's done no here we go okay I'm
purposefully slouching just so you know
that's
I see your sake yeah somebody wants
let's see hmmm that's thanks camel oh we
like long as this fine okay well Phillip
greagle hey Phillip is he was thinking
of purchasing his first mass
particularly from Buffalo technology
linkstation mini one terabyte this Nass
is raid 1 and raid 0 compatible i
personally know very little about raid
and I learned what I do know from from
Robbie Ferguson no no from wikipedia i
decided to were one in the same now he
decided it would probably not care for
redundancy so i believe that we'll go
raid 0 okay however here's my question I
understand that raid 0 helps the overall
performance of readwrite access correct
but does raid 0 increase the chances of
disk failure if so by how much on
average would raid 0 decrease the life
of the disks I have this belief only
because of this statement from Wikipedia
any disk failure destroys the array and
the likelihood of failure increases with
more disks in the array at a minimum
catastrophic data loss is twice as
likely compared to single drives without
raid yeah so we carry out this there's
no yeah that's okay he also has another
thought okay what if I initially run
raid 0 and then let's say a few years
down the road I started getting
concerned of the possible failures of
one of the drives would it be possible
to connect another one terabyte your
greater external hard drive using the
USB 2.0 on this nass and change the raid
0 to raid 1 and back up all of the
initial one terabyte of files on the end
asked to the new external thank you
Phillip Austin text you hey fellow Tejas
oh alright big long question I'm going
to try to summarize it sounds like
you're okay you've got a raid controller
raid being an array of multiple hard
drives redundant array of inexpensive
disks I think we can say it like that
that's what yeah
yeah could be wrong I've been wrong
before right but but lay terms it's it's
multiple hard drives connected together
to create one volume or one hard drive
so your computer sees it as one drive so
for a Windows user you would see that as
like your C Drive even though it's three
drives or two drives it still just shows
as one like a c drive on a Linux system
it would show up as a single mount point
so a raid 0 is this is a like a striped
i guess like just a like it stripes from
one drive to the next so you you're
essentially doubling your chance of
failure for every drive that you add for
every drop because if you've got one
drive you've got chance to fail because
the hard drive can fail right if you had
a second drive in a raid 0 you've now
got two hard drives either one of those
drives could fail if drive to now fails
you also lose drive one because it's a
raid 0 and you lose the entire stripe
set if you add through you know if
you've got three drives in a raid 0
gives you more capacity you've got lots
and lots of space it gives you three
times the throughput the speed
essentially not not quite that but then
you have three times the likelihood of a
failure because you've got three hard
drives with in that array if any one of
those drives fails so now you've got a
one in three chance of failure or I
guess more than that however you know
you know what I mean like you've tripled
your chance of failure with three drives
you've doubled it with to the more
drives the more chance of failure with a
rate one on the other hand it's it's two
drives it's a mirror set so you've got
exactly two copies of all of your data
at all times so if one drive fails you
take out the failed drive you put in a
replacement drive it rebuilds the array
and you've got access to your data again
because it copied it from the non failed
drive the only way that you would lose
your data is if both drives failed so
you've effectively cut your chances of
failing your data losing your data in
half of what it would be for a single
drive so it's basically like the
opposite a raid one you're taking if
you've got chances to fail a hard drive
you're
those chances in half with a red one if
you go with a raid 0 you're doubling
you're doubling your chances of losing
your data that said if you're looking
for speed raid 0 is super fast but I
wouldn't I wouldn't depend on it myself
I wouldn't especially with the speed of
disks and the speed of the SATA bus
these days so fast that it's in most
cases not going to be really necessary
but what you'd find is that you can set
up a computer with multiple drives in a
raid 0 to get the speed but don't
actually use that array to store your
data just use that to run your
applications have a mirror of that so
that you can restore it to a new set if
it does fail because of the chances of
failure but you were asking about
setting using a USB 2.0 drive in order
to expand the array and that would be an
absolute no because the as I was saying
the speed of drives these days the speed
of the bus is super fast three gigabits
a second and and beyond that with with
some of the newer SI ta controllers and
things with USB 2.0 you're looking at
only 480 megabits per second so it's
super slow plus it's easy to saturate
that bus so in other words you'd be
copying data over and it would stall and
then you'll be caught and it would
continue and so that would not work as a
as a production drive that would work
for storage only but you wouldn't make
that a part of your operating system
raid set so I think this was brought to
you by the department of redundancy
department the redundancy department
department of redundancy department okay
any other comments in the chat room
about raid 0 vs raid 1 I would always if
the way that I would like the way I run
my system I have a single hard drive in
my computer okay it's a very small hard
drive I think it's a 120 gig hard drive
and all it has on it is my operating
system a couple of applications that i
use but all of the stuff that i work on
all of my files are stored on the server
where I've got redundancy so the server
is my data storage unit
but that's that's so that way if my hard
drive fails I don't actually lose
anything other than my operating system
and maybe the files that I was working
on that week if I didn't move them over
to the server at that point I'm kind of
sad why I don't have a raid in my
blackberry Oh what happened I lost it
what did you do teacher no I did not use
happiness didn't lose the blackberry
lost all the day I just had a vision of
you with a clonezilla CD and a
blackberry and I've dropped them both of
them which one should I throw at the
cement floor exactly well it because I
saw what you did to a CD and that's not
normal so what did you do to your
blackberry I don't really know I've had
it for many years it has in fact
skittered across the floor on many
occasion never been a problem come it
doesn't even come to life now when I
take the battery put it back in oh dear
yeah it didn't get wet it did not get
wet it's just drop and just and it was
only from a chair to the floor this time
now its head tumbles before but yeah but
just the way it hit yeah with the
blackberry does it it doesn't store all
your all your stuff on the sim card
doesn't not much is on the sim card just
your phone number well the phone number
database yeah what else all not even i'm
not even the phone numbers just the
number of my phone is all I'm store oh
just a pretty much more information from
the provider so the actual data like all
your contacts ya know I a bunch of
photos they're on a little memory card
that's fine but ok but mine you take
photos about my address book my calendar
you have gone and he said you have that
I'm gonna probably miss a hockey game
with you yeah do you have access to that
stuff when you plot like plug in a
blackberry through USB when a king live
I can't make yes you can and I yeah I
did have a backup on my laptop which
seemed to have a motherboard problem and
I haven't backed it up in a couple
months I know I know okay but you've got
like a couple month line I guess I'm
just it's almost unheard gonna be a
problem right anyway i'll probably get
over you allude normal i do it the exact
opposite direction I've got like I don't
use
you've seen my cell phone it's just a
little sony ericsson just a flip phone
like just the old style okay because it
still works and i don't i don't really
care i barely use it but for my calendar
i'm on basically like a cloud computing
architecture with zimbra so all of my
stuff is on zimbra collaborative sweet
and then I synchronized to that so so
any of my devices are synchronized to my
calendar which is on a server which is
accessible from any of my devices
through the internet and on the server
it has redundancy plus it's backed up
nightly so it's like a completely
different approach true but if I mean
that you believe my advice I've the
guide yeah I'd never lose access to have
access to everything was on a bed server
so that wasn't problem but you know it's
right haps gadget was student guru
thinks i should consider an android
that's kind of shocked and coming from
Jim I think that kind of cool and I
would love for you to get an android
because like I said I still got the old
sony ericsson so if you need to replace
and get an android bring it in and we'll
we'll see what we can maybe in gadget
wisdom ought to send anyone if viewers
are starting to send in androids then
send me one too well okay there there's
a connector for zimbra collaborative
sweet as I as I think about zimbra that
allows you to synchronize it to your
blackberry to your I'm sure that they've
you know it's not the technology it's me
it's mine it's just willing to take my
love line where you know it's I preach
it people yeah it's worth saving it's
worth backing up hopefully there's
somebody watching right now it's got
their black bear and I think in their
blackberry and they're thinking I
haven't backed this up in a couple
months back it up tonight right now
while you're watching the show hey we
could take a slap shot with that credit
hey I'm not gonna call my blackberry
cruddy but we could take a slap shot
with it on the show something yeah
okay we'll take it to e-waste I bet it
recycled can we do this laptop first
sure forget the green screen I can
advise and people cheering it knowing
okay brilliant no cheering what else we
got well okay that's because we're 20
after we've got that we can fit another
question before the news okay well I'm
trying to rise not here to be able to
zoom in I love it but gem LexA hey hi
Robbie I want to take my winxp partition
and put it on a larger HD hard drive
perhaps I think you talked about that
some time ago you use in clonezilla oh
yeah bring up your broken CD to hit if
you've hit a sore spot here next we're
going to get questions a blackberry back
having some internet problems lately so
I haven't been able to watch the show
live PS Ubuntu 10.04 has not supported
the Radeon 200 series drivers so i will
have to switch my OS or stick with 9.10
what is another good linux OS to try
keep up the good work love the show hmm
got the Radeon 200 you can't get it work
and I that's a shame of course like
what's another good Linux I don't use
ati cards radeon cards I'm straight
nvidia because i love not having that
problem but one that I always liked was
pc linux OS you can get the live CD and
give it a try i'll post a link in the in
the show notes for episode number 158
people tell you you know try fedora
mandriva is trying i think but there's
some there's some concern there about
about the business side of things so but
pulled the chat room on that one what
what other operating systems you could
try that or linux based and maybe some
people here also have okay and jameson
is letting me know that that a TI
is actually a legacy card so that could
be a problem are you interested in
updating your your graphic card then if
it's an legacy means that it's one of
those like really old cards that are not
like that are not supported because not
because linux doesn't support it but
because its soul obsolete that that it
doesn't do the things that Linux is
capable of and people are reiterating
that that's a really old card so and I'm
not familiar with the ati line anymore
but i would say that would be a good
start the first questions there sorry
you had it up on your screen now kind of
looking over your shoulder but you want
the back to do there was first course
Jam Alexa yes I'm there it is there so
it was the extent of our union XP
partition to a larger hard drive yeah
clonezilla I find is really great and
it's free I never actually got to use it
you tried yeah I recommend that when you
burn it to CD that you you don't throw
it at things clonezilla org pardon me
there is okay so you can get the CD you
go to the website oh where did I what
did I click on my mouse is acting kind
of silly there we go okay download and
you'll see that there's there are a
couple of different versions we've got
the stable debian-based and the
alternate is ubuntu based what you want
to know is there's this helpful link
over here that says difference between
alternative one or something like that
so the differences are the debian based
does not contain non-free software the
alternative clonezilla live CD is a boon
to based and it does contain non-free
software so that includes things like
your firmwares and things like that that
are not included on the standard stable
version so I would usually go with the
alt alternative version just because I'm
looking for the most functionality not
necessarily being
free as in open source so clonezilla
lets you make a clone of your hard
drives create images of your hard drives
and if you find that that is not working
for you like that that would be my
starting place always what's I don't
know some people in the chat room can
probably suggest some some alternative
let's see it's at the tip of my tongue
but I haven't used it in a while because
clonezilla works really well rms
sam says Peugeot makes a killer backup
yeah oh the DD command on Linux if you
want to do a direct and that does not
stand for disc destroyer okay let's
direct okay what can know I've got that
name because if you if you're not
careful with your commands it will
overwrite every sector of your drive
whoops yeah whoops but it's that's a
terminal command that's not a clone cell
as well it's kind of like a GUI it's
it's like that it's a menu system at
least it's not a GUI but you know what i
mean it's it's a menu it's not terminal
based
I'm thinking Akron asst truly have a
couple of those commercial do click it
for DD that works works for me Akron
asst true image is it is a good a good
cloning software if you're looking for a
commercial solution and the reason that
that I would say you know it's it's
worth mentioning certainly is one that's
really really good but two is it is
fully GUI so it's Mouse driven it's it's
quite attractive and it does a lot of
stuff it's if I were to if I were going
for a free solution i would go
clonezilla if i were looking for a
commercial solution i would look at the
akron s products and this is available
off of their website at akron escom just
felt just like that and look through the
different products that they have
because they do indeed have a number of
different products that that you might
be interested in if you're looking for
you know like this disk director is a is
a good one as well so they've they've
got some cool products akron esscom not
a sponsor anything just as software that
I that I've used in the past and and do
it's it's nice to work with it's nice to
do network backups of your hard drive
and things like that so there's a couple
of options for you and certainly a few
of them coming in on the chat room as
well therefore you Jam Alexa is that
does that help you out i hope that the
dough's point in the right direction
start with clonezilla that's the free
software to get you going and then from
there take a well there are some more
free solutions being posted in the chat
logs so check out the chat logs for this
episode 159 for anyone who's watching
this half of the fact jam alexis joining
us in the chat room so so that's cool
and just mentioning that that they
downloaded the akron asst trial this
morning and that's that's a great
application so i would stand by that and
it's certainly worth the fifty dollars
that it cost to buy I mean for the end
you can use that as more than just a
one-off copy from one hard drive
the next you can use that to image
incrementally your hard drive so you
create one big image save it to your
network server if you have one save it
to your pogoplug even okay that's a good
option for you and then every night you
have a nightly run that takes just the
files that have changed and backs them
up as well so then if you have a hard
drive crash and you've got akron asst
installed you can install it you know
put in a new hard drive get your
computer back up and running and an
image it back or if you can't get your
computer running or you don't want to
reinstall the operating system just boot
from the akron s boot CD and copy back
off of your pogoplug or off of your
network device and your computers were
right back to where it was cool cool
Craig's asking about what about using
our sink which is kind of a different
tool that's more of a backup solution
and I use that all the time with my
pogoplug I love it and for those of you
who haven't heard of the pogoplug you
can check that out pogoplug com that's a
network attached device that lets me
back up my stuff through the internet it
was a off-site so but 135 really we've
done a lot of stuff you have a pogoplug
so even you can search our website for
it if you if you're interested but our
sink is great for that backing up file
by file incrementally that kind of thing
whereas kind of what Jam Alexis looking
for here is more of a direct disk to
disk image so that it's like a bootable
copy of the entire operating system not
just files so a little bit different as
far as what that is so cool hope that
helps tamil x that's great to see it
here in our chat room category 5 TV and
nice to have everybody joining us
tonight you ready to hit the news I
think we should I think that would be
fantastic can we have some little news
music ya know from a category 5 TV news
at the better spot in twenty ten
conference last week a whopping ninety
seven percent of hold security experts
voted in favor of abolishing and bookies
PDF standard outright security experts
have been keeping an eye on Adobe's
products as of late due to the fact that
many hackers are shifting their focus to
vulnerable products such as PDF and
flash which recently discovered exploits
of Adobe's proprietary formats allowing
malicious users to compromise your PC is
becoming more and more clear the new
portable document format is required one
that puts a much more solid focus on
security in an effort to patch recent
exploits which are raising concern over
the safety of the product adobe released
their latest version of adobe reader
today one week ahead of schedule you
know what I find is interesting is that
with the adobe exploits it's not just
the pc anymore we're seeing more and
more that this is a way that attackers
are able to get into the mac computer as
well well and linux like I mean that's
able to open up some pretty dangerous
doors that's that's just kind of a
scythe on but it's kind of an
interesting fact so I agree with that
let's get rid of PDF there you go well
gone well the FAA or the Federal
Aviation Administration which oversees
and regulates all aspects of civil
aviation in the United States announced
a grant program for projects related to
the development and expansion of
commercial space transportation
infrastructure oh good so I can grow my
spaceship collection you can do that
good the first matching grants managed
by the FAS official of commercial space
transportation transportation I can say
that word include the following projects
New Mexico spaceport Authority for an
automated weather observation system
Alaska aerospace for a rocket motor
storage facility the East Kern Airport
district in Mojave California for an
emergency response vehicle and the
jacksonville airport authority in
florida to develop a spaceport master
plan the funding was made possible by a
new National Space policy unveiled
President Obama that focuses on
public-private partnerships for
commercial space flight over government
operation of space exploration it's cool
we did a news story a while back
actually before you started about a
group of volunteers who were sending up
a spaceship spaceship well a rocket and
and it didn't happen well what happened
I missed us they had they had something
leak Oh as they were about to launch and
so they had to call it off it's probably
a good gonna happen in June now oh but
that reminded me it's like well they
could have used funding to patch that
leak and no there's funding but note and
now the funding is there but it's it's
kind of a little late for them okay but
that's that's the story rather than
simply adding more capacity to the
internet pipeline or adding new and
exciting cash features to your browser
Google is thinking inside the box
labeled 1997 and instead launching a new
file format to decrease the size of
images by about forty percent when
compared to the JPEG format while
maintaining the perceived quality the
new format is called web p and is based
on the vp8 codec which Google open
sourced in May imagine a web site
loading forty percent faster on any
connection or being able to store forty
percent mark photos on your digital
camera how about being able to email
forty percent more images to family and
friends in one email blast oh my
goodness fantastic you think okay these
things are all possible with web p you
don't have my angle oh well you're not
going to talk about family pictures okay
perhaps the most exciting for developers
is the addition of transparency support
because google has plans to add full
support for transparency to web p the
size difference becomes even greater to
give you an idea of the implications at
present web developers have to rely on
the lossless PNG format in order to
include RGB images in their websites
which contain transparency PNG files are
quite large and the entry
of transparency support the web P means
taking a 620 kill a bit image down to
only 43 kilobits ah by its kilobyte
sorry it's a little me there oh okay
that means some websites could load up
to 14 hundred percent faster using web p
that's substantial that that's quick you
do enough web design to know that's
that's quick like taking a ping and
taking it down to 43 kilobytes Wow
fantastic I sometimes create sites that
have lots of things because I love
transparencies and I don't love internet
explorer you know you've made that
apparent sorry yes google has a long
uphill road ahead as they try to turn
web p into a standard that is supported
by web browsers across the board
beginning with a future version of their
Chrome web browser now what about all
the graphics software and stuff they're
gonna ya ghous all across the board
right yeah cameras digital camera can't
just do this overnight no no big deal ah
planet calypso and hovercrafts Oh planet
clip what is that an alligator oh no no
no alligators plan eclipse a massive
multiplayer online game based in the
fictional entropia universe has launched
an update almost as huge as the planet
itself it wasn't long ago that mine dark
the makers of planet calypso introduced
land-based vehicles to the free online
game but thanks to the latest update
players can now get their hands on
hovercraft and motorboats to give them
the chance to explore the planet
stunning scenery like never before fly
safely over mobs of deadly alligators
hunt creatures and get to where you're
going fast in addition to the exciting
update an integrated secure voice chat
system now allows you to speak with your
Calypso friends possibly eliminating the
need for the traditional mumbling sounds
associated with the in-game characters
to top it all off planet clips will also
now features social media and
Gration allowing your Twitter followers
or Facebook friends to know when you've
won an event received a Hall of Fame or
global and more users who would like to
enable social media integration can do
so by logging into the planet calypso
its website download your FREE copy of
this incredible game at cat5 TV /
Calypso you've been told get the full
stories at category five dot TV
newsrooms really hunt category 5 TV news
room is brought to you by roy wa ash
with contributions from gadget wisdom
guru god we got to do the name drops all
the people who helped us out with the
with the stories that converges solution
yeah and our community of viewers
absolutely of which there are many many
characters there i can tell by the chat
room and that when we say the community
of viewers contributes to the newsroom
what you can do is pop us an email at
newsroom at category 5 TV anytime you
come across a story that that you think
is worth mentioning on the on the
newsroom Eric could read that during the
segment during the live show but also it
could make it on to the newsroom podcast
as well a category 5 TV / newsroom
indeed which is audio only and if you
haven't subscribed to that yet you'd
like to get your weekly tech news we
weed out all the boring stuff and give
you nothing but the good stuff Louie
category-five TV / newsroom and if I
record it early enough in the morning I
have this deep news radio voice it works
really well for me maybe I should start
doing those well you've done one that
was fun except hockey's conflicting with
the the reading of the podcast that's
terrible yeah cuz if you've got to go to
hockey after the show god that's when we
record the news read straight so right
now unreal stick around we are going to
be giving away some nanodots in just a
little a little bit if I can get the
camera working where's John when you
need them oh there it is nanodots and if
you'd like to win a set of nanodots you
saw Eric playing with them earlier I
will be playing with them later make
sure you check out episode number 1 156
of category 5 TV
where you'll find out how you can get
your hands on a set of those tonight oh
I turned my mic off thank you my mic is
still on sorry it's very blue right yeah
I was I in your cough candies you want
one I'm actually doing better this one
doing pretty good all right that was our
moment of silence as a yes had a little
bit of blueberry juice it's probably
good for me I want to learn or learn you
you're gonna learn we rose up Larry I
want to learn you how to how to set up a
Twitter account because you know it's
always amazing to me when someone says I
never used Twitter oh I think I set up
an account about I don't know a year ago
but I never done anything with it how
tweeted is no that was bad it was best
terrible it was terrible twitter com
you've heard of it absolutely a lot of
people avoid it because they're not sure
you know what is it what what good is it
what value is it and and what's the
purpose in it and then of course there's
those of us who avoid it just because of
the fact that there are spammers just
like any service you can expect to
receive some spam to some degree but
once you've got a fairly good list of
people that you're following the spam
actually tends to kind of fall into the
mix and there's not a whole lot about it
because twitter does a good job of
kicking out those people that are trying
to spam you but i find you know I follow
about 400 people and so that the amount
of spam that I get within that list of
messages that I receive the interesting
thing about twitter is that you're
limited to 140 characters unless you're
a jamison who who provides me a link to
read more oh hey but essentially you're
limited to 140 characters so it's like a
quick way to find out what's going on
with my friends what's going on 140
characters was enough to kill off Gordon
Lightfoot in a tweet that's true
actually made national news
yeah he was a lot of people have been
through that he was reading it in the
paper what the heck yeah wait a minute
I'm pretty sure I'm allina that's
happened to a lot of people I had bill
cosby's had to deal with that four times
now I gets ridiculous but actually gourd
pointed out though that they started
playing as so much fun the radio a lot
that's brilliant right yeah so a Twitter
you know is a way to get kind of the the
lowdown on what's going on on there are
some really cool integrations ways that
you can use it for me I've got it set up
so that any time that we post a news
article in the newsroom for example if
you're following me you'll actually get
the the first line of that article as a
tweet so you'll know okay well then
there's an interesting tweet about you
know about planet calypso or about
something else that's going on in
technology that week and then you can
follow the link if you like and read the
story or you can find out what's going
on you can find out if you're following
us when we got the green screen for
example you could see the videos that
that came out with that which are not
accessible anywhere else but through
twitter.com / Robbie Ferguson so and
that's just us but I follow a lot of
people like I said and and it's
interesting to be able to keep up with
what's going on and it doesn't have to
be a time commitment either that's the
neat thing about Twitter I think
Facebook is a real time commitment if
you want to keep up with it but that has
been my concern it seems like a
commitment and what you started to
nurturing a group of people that you for
sure yeah that's where I think twitter
also is pretty cool because you're
limited to 140 characters because you
can so easily tweet from even a cell
phone like I have because you can so
easily integrate it into other
applications such as the newsroom so
that those tweets I don't even have to
send those their automatic things like
that can happen okay that's really cool
so twitter com is the the place to check
out and I know that a lot of you are
already on Twitter probably following us
like twitter.com / Robbie Ferguson I'm
probably following you but for those who
have not used Twitter for those of you
who aren't quite familiar with it we
want to walk through and Eric especially
we want to get him signed up so it's a
really well laid out service and it's
not too cluttered so you're just going
to click on
sign up over here I was going to go
through this full name Eric kid yeah all
right there you go what do you want your
name is you want try see if eric kid is
available I think there's a computer guy
who works at Nasr or something it was
that name now let's try to checking
availability that username has already
been taken so not fair what about one no
no I wouldn't like that about each it'd
know it's taken I call Eric robo-baby
cuz it's it's a kid maybe Kid robo-baby
oh it's an inside Wow yeah okay well
what could we go with you have a moniker
that you use I've had sfg quite often no
I'm Matilda's probably taken what is it
sfg you got me on the small chair short
fat guy no you're not liking that ok
this is the joys of such a popular
services you've got to find a name that
works for you but it's not already taken
ok well let's keep hacking this I look
kid cookies just kid buy it so yeah
let's try that that's taken
well what Eric I Whitney there's a lot
of those over there with a que no for
kid are you seriously okay you have your
pom I haven't hotter on the cob okay
well we can go with actually what we've
been fond of slagathor we are like that
what its seriously been taken that's not
fair hmm don't know for those in your
never seen them any other ideas well
this is this what you can think about
both how a star eva days this is how you
there's no way there's no way and then
when we're at it will register ek kaam
or something you had a chance not a
chance okay okay well then we start
getting into stuff like this and then
you start getting into stuff like this
and that's like okay that's available
but do you really want that I'll book
cat5 Eric let's go to be kind of like
that
does that work for you because this is
kind of like this is your identity on
Twitter mm-hmm you want to go with
something that that you're happy with I
should have thought about this before I
got here huh yeah any suggestions for
you sanitize kid no kid Eric hmm I think
you ought to check sfg kid Eric is
available let's do that that's kind of
cool it have in it you can say it like
it's a name kid Eric okay that works
okay password i'm just going to put in
something all my passwords and okay okay
i'm going to put in the just something
and then we're going to change it okay
i'm going to write it down you can
change that so that it's your own
password of course Eric at category 5 TV
all right and I guess we can leave that
checked it looks good terms of service
you got I didn't actually read all that
you did okay because we're about to say
create my account want the inside scoop
you probably don't want Twitter emails
so I'm going to check that box at the
bottom oh can we listen to it I don't do
all here a set of words but then you
have to randomly hit yeah we were
talking about that a few weeks back its
reCAPTCHA that we were taught that way
and it really did have some kind of
random words that neither one of us
could understand the security and I said
but it was fun it was great fun
so that's what we're talking about
see they're putting in some background
noise so it's not easily determined what
the words are but every word you hear
please type oh no you seriously can't
get back this is powered by recaptcha it
is this is going to be a problem folks
okay
when this day maybe that could be one of
them oh thank you recapture all giving
us the words again don't click on the
speakers everybody that was fun are we
having fun yet oh you were Eric they're
a good category 5e create the account
there we go okay so you can follow the
steps to this is going to walk you
through finding your friends things like
that essentially now that you're on
Twitter okay right you can type in here
who are you looking for I look Robby
Robby Ferguson maybe there is there I am
and I'll click on follow and so now
whenever you go to twitter.com you're
going to actually see all the stuff that
I have said so you see it's it's all me
right now because that's the only for
sure it's all about YOU isn't it's all
about me so that's the only person that
you're currently falling the following
but what happens is as you add more and
more people then your Twitter feed
becomes a mix of all different people
okay right so you get like a really good
assortment of people that you're
following you can get into news sources
i follow some technology news sources
that i get tweets when they talk about
technology and things like that so it's
very very cool so now that you've got an
account you're going to need an avatar
you're going to need to be able to set
up an image for your user because right
now you're just going to look like a
little egg you don't necessarily want to
claim so energy is everybody who's on
Twitter right now and now you've already
got three followers if you could follow
kid Eric kigd er I see then you'll have
Eric be following Eric so that's what
your photo looks like right now it's
just
I have a plus sign in a green circle so
what we want to do is we want to
actually create a photo so I'm going to
bring up I've got a photo of you and I'm
going to put this into the GIMP GNU
image manipulation program this is
available on Windows Linux Mac and with
this application we're going to get your
Marquis your square Marquis holding your
left shift key and then our pardon me
first click on the image and hold so I'm
like that right then holding my left
shift key as I'm doing that that's going
to give me a perfect square all right
see because that's what we want for
twitter with twitter you want it because
it's such a small thumbnail you want to
get a pretty close shot of your face ok
so here i am in the GIMP I've got a
square around your face going to
right-click and go image crop to
selection and then that becomes your
avatar so I'm going to save that I've
right clicked and go file save as and
i'll call this Eric jpg and save don't
we do web be well now I just needed a
file right so now I'm going to go into
settings here i am back at twitter com
I've gun settings and I'm going to go
into profile
okay so we want to go right through the
setup so there you are you're a little
egg so we're going to browse for the
photo that we just created on the
desktop called Eric jpg okay fill in
your information if you if you have more
if you want to earn the wire and things
like that and then save sending requests
to twitter com it's just uploading that
file and remember that we've created a
file that's a perfect square because you
don't you don't want it to get skewed
you don't want it to get squished or
stretched okay settings have been saved
its loading the image then there it is
there so that now you've got kind of a
face on Twitter so anytime you tweet
your face is going to be next to it now
to be really simple I'm going to go into
design and we're going to pick a design
that you like so if you want something
like this you just click and it will
actually change your twitter profile to
one of these preset designs and of
course you can customize that down the
road but for now let's go with that
looks good alright and then go to your
profile and we'll be able to see I guess
maybe we need to save or something but
essentially that's all you need to do so
you go to Twitter next time you go to
Twitter I'm going to click on home here
twitter com you've got a chance to
what's happening say what's happening
i'm working the category 5 TV news desk
there we go so your first tweet is
actually me typing but yeah there you go
so now you see that you are actually
participating in very well the list of
messages from Twitter good looking guys
on the you know yeah you gotta hand it
to them twitter.com slash kid Eric with
two DS and of course my own is at
twitter.com slash Robbie Ferguson and
that will get you started on Twitter so
make sure you follow both of us and
we'll have a conversation do I have to
come up with intelligent stuff to say no
absolutely not but you should be really
witty and exciting because people like
witty and exciting because that's really
the best you know that's the pay i
squirted huggy tonight costa well stuff
like chris a young saying twitter is
like a TV with a hundred and ninety
million channels are you watching a
channel that's all commercials i don't
think so talking about basically
unfollowing people who do nothing but
spam and I can understand that and the
tyrrhenian five thousand who says
drinking a coke that's well that's the
opposite end of Twitter where you get
your sitting there I'm sitting on the
porch yeah skagit wisdom says I just got
notified of an update to x marks with ya
what that's like receiving word from the
great beyond really Oh kind of
interesting that you would get that mark
tyson wins the award for the most random
tweet this week on recent tweets
Neanderthals were compassionate and
caring you know what that's funny he
should mention that because i was
listening to CBC radio on the way over
here and they said they may I looked a
little bit rough but they were actually
pretty gentle beings I still wins most
random brilliant not random at all my
tweet this week the repair shop called
to tell me that they can't get the
needed parts to fix our home theater
system planned obsolescence makes me
indignant we started out that way
Twitter can be a lot of fun hey
everybody in the chat room this is
category five dot TV nice to see you and
we have some stuff to give away what do
we got nanodots oh I want to play with
the nanodots I'm gonna put this right
back under that loop oh no I will
pulling out of the bag there you go well
a match spongebob every building nano
ducks that's the bag that comes with it
but you can win this it's a game that
you don't need anything like batteries
for there's a super-powered magnets if
you have small children or animals you
don't want to have them laying around
but certainly lots of fun you enjoying
that em but this is great fun great fun
really fun look Luke just wobble don't
roll them around make sure you check out
episode number 156 for your chance to
win and we're going to draw for a set of
these right now you're seriously just
not giving them away look I have a nice
straight line of glue see that oh where
is it on your kind of your kind of be on
the camera there were Django looked I
just randomly threw them at each other
watch this I'm gonna toss another one
into the mix this British picks it right
up there super super strong they are
incredibly stronger they like rare earth
magnets or what are they yeah i don't
i'm not in a dino no that's right yeah
that's that's the word that's this is
way cool way cool but you can actually
make patterns and things make some cool
stuff with them and they feel kind of
neat to play with it look good I'm
Adrian okay are we doing the drop we are
I see who wins this I named it better be
in there cuz I'm keeping these
good luck everybody we are drawing for
nanodots a nanobot put a dot you can
find out more about nanodots at cat five
dot TV / nanodots illness go my lord d
higgins peter man john peter man ja ja
annids john's congratulations you're
gonna have to challenge me to a shootout
on the hockey rink to get these back oh
hey we got lots to give away so make
sure you get your chance by a nice again
watch that hey nice bracelet let's see
what you got going on he's making
jewelry over here look at the potential
here no I could I could do an earring
maybe no I'm better not so once we get
your nanodots jot you're going to have
to put something together and show us
what you've come up with you can really
do some neat stuff and there are some
instructions that come with it and you
can also get on to youtube and or onto
their website cat5 TV / nanodots and
you'll be able to find out you'll be
able to actually watch some videos as
well we are out of time for tonight
congratulations jot on not done playing
nanodots you can play you can stick
around and play until you need to go to
skip baki great to see everybody will
see you again next week hopefully John
will be feeling better we're thinking of
you man and we'll see you on Tuesday
night seven o'clock make sure you tell
your friends category five dot TV and
look forward to having having some time
but you know what you know what I didn't
tell everybody it's October fifth so 100
kids birthday happy birthday Alexander
Canada on that note have a great week
