welcome to category five technology but
we are and tonight we are going to be
checking out this Raspberry Pi 3 as a
Plex Media Server now last week I set it
up last week we installed it Safa and I
built it and she's here she's just over
across the room way over there we've got
it connected we've got a USB flash drive
plugged into it we're gonna learn how it
works how to use it how to actually
access our media we're gonna learn all
about it we're gonna see it live in
action right here on category 5 tonight
stick around this is category 5
technology TV
[Music]
[Applause]
a live recording is a trusted all 82
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream wire cast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat5 TV slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters
cat5 TV slash ia IB
welcome to the show this is category 5
technology TV we've got a great one
planned for you Jeff you were away last
week lots to two weeks that's right yeah
but last week in particular I'm thinking
of because last week we took a Raspberry
Pi 3 yes and we built a plex server I
was so looking forward to being here but
my family got sick and I had to be home
to take care of them so I loved watching
the episode afterwards episode 459 do
you remember being here
when we first yes set up Plex on a
Raspberry Pi 3 yes it was groundbreaking
cuz the PI 3 had just come out and hey
you can use this as a plex media server
mm-hmm who has room for this do you have
room for this on your network I do yeah
I went home that night and plugged it in
it was amazing and have you been using
it ever since
ever since there you have always on flex
so what has happened though Jeff as I
talked to Sasha about last week Debian
has been updated yes stretches out plex
media server has been updated it's a new
version that's way better than when we
first did it back almost two years ago
and so I created what's called Plex PI
and Plex PI is a free download at Plex
Pi calm and tonight we are in fact going
to look at now last week we showed how
to set it up how to install it this week
we're gonna look at how to use it to us
so we get to see Plex for the first time
ever now we have so much stuff around us
so many things in front of us I've got a
stack of DVDs what I do want you to
observe though I know it's a little bit
difficult right now but over here right
see where my hand is behind my monitor
here is my Raspberry Pi 3 running plex
Pi and I have simply plugged in a USB
flash drive it's just my standard USB
flash drive that I carry in my pocket
it's loaded full of stuff but I put some
videos on it ok ok I put some music on
it as well because I mentioned last week
Sasha that we can put music on our plex
server right so I'm a big fan of UK TV
shows yes TV shows so many years ago oh
yeah yes yep
alright so Kelsey and I as a matter of
fact showed how to copy your DVDs onto
m4v files like to convert your DVDs into
video files accreta
so I've done that so i've got i've got
stella season 5 and season 4 mm-hmm I've
got Trollied I have not heard of that
season 3 you are borrowing this my
friend season 4 okay so these are just
so I just grabbed four seasons of of my
favourite shows here some of my favorite
shows Beck and I really enjoy the UK
comedy and I've got a movie sideways
lots of fun great movie not appropriate
for the kids I've got a Josh Turner CD
okay music you remember these guys I
know they're discontinued now you can't
buy them at Target or anything like that
but that's what they looked like so what
I've done is I've just copied while I've
copied sideways in and I've copied a
couple of episodes
what throwing this there goes one of my
seasons I've got all I did was copy a
couple of episodes of each of these from
the DVD using handbrake so I've got
those on that USB flash drive so that we
can show you how to set up your library
give times alright ready to see how it's
done oh yeah okay so in order to do this
you have to have Plex PI 1.2 want one
port higher not one point one because
during the first week of release so Plex
1.1 came out last week yes and then
during that week Plex Media Server was
updated in such a way that it broke
everything
you imagine we've got thousands of
downloads happening last week right and
so you know the forum becomes abuzz with
people saying I can't access my media on
the USB flash drive so flex one flex PI
1.2 fixes that okay so I've got my
laptop in front of me and you'll notice
what I'm going to do is everything is
going to be done through my web browser
so Kay you can do this by plugging a
keyboard and a mouse into your Plex PI
if you want but you don't have to do
that you can just access it from any of
your devices so the comfort of your desk
and do it that way so I'm gonna jump
over to our laptop here and so I know I
believe I know it's 192.168.0.1 o5 : 30
to 400 slash web and if my IP address
has not changed and it has fantastic
because we had some problems before the
show where we had to restart the router
a couple of times and everything else so
let me just grab the IP address now I
could do that if I had the Plex PI
plugged into an HDMI directly so that I
could see the screen then I could just
go in and type IP Rae and see IP space
a-going headless is how I do it at home
as well yeah because my I mean where
I've got my Raspberry Pi is way off in
another location you might near my
router okay and then I just through the
network access it headless Lee and and
it it's so much easier to do yeah I look
at any computer I can log in and deal
with it so I could be in the living room
on my laptop and I love as well that you
can access it from any device yes my IP
has incremented so it's now 106 is what
money so I just checked the DHCP pool of
my rhetoric I don't know if you knew
this was that you didn't that's case
maybe you don't know this but I have
accessed my Plex PI remotely oh yeah
they got into the but you have a Plex
pass
I now have Plex pass keep in mind that's
a commercial thing so you have to pay
extra for that feature what it was you
can leave thanks you can do that but
Plex PI it's in the in the to-do list
you'll see that there is actually a
feature coming in an upcoming release
that allows you to do
that without having to pay for a plex
pass oh okay well I do it now because I
pay for but it was really nice to be
able because I know how to get in
through the web it was nice to be able
to do that remotely because I was sure
I'm away from work all the time yeah and
my wife called me yeah here in a hotel
and you want to watch well your yeah
watching us but also our Plex went down
and so there was something in the
backend that didn't work with one of the
files yeah so I was able to remotely log
into the act oh perfect
nuts and bolts of it yeah just it from
the home it was amazing I loved it
well so you remember last week's action
I set this up and this is what we saw so
in order to get here all I needed to
know was the IP address of my plex
server which mine had changed to
192.168.0.1 o 6 then he goat colon 3 to
400 that is the port that it is running
on and then slash web and so I'm
actually accessing this through my
Raspberry Pi it then redirects over here
to App plex TV the first time I run it
because it needs me to log in so if you
don't have an account you can create one
so you would just you would continue
however you want to but if you already
have an account you don't have to create
one in my case I already have one so I'm
just going to sign in so then it's gonna
let me in so the very first time that I
I run it this is what I see on my Plex
PI I just make that full screen here so
that we don't have the the bar up at the
top so it tells me that plex media
server is running on a computer where
you put all your media and then Plex
scans your media automatically organizes
it makes a beautiful play your media on
any screen with the plex app got it nice
now this is the first time I've ever
connected to this particular Plex plex
pie instance that is a tongue twister if
I ever did hear one yes plex pie
instance ok so it's asking me do you
want to sign up for a plex pass now this
is where yeah you can do this for mobile
syncing and camera uploads that's cool
that's a cool feature cloud sync all
that kind of stuff there's there is some
great stuff here
remember Plex is absolutely free
yes Plex PI is absolutely free so far
your expense is negligible mm-hmm
flex pass is your way of contributing to
plex media server you know not to flex
pi it's completely now going to Plex yes
how much does it cost you per month oh I
pay for the lifetime exactly exactly so
you get the lifetime you just pay for it
once you're done yeah so then you get
all those features if you are absolutely
opposed to spending any money on this
right now and you just want to do it
you'll notice there is no option to just
go ahead where's the one to do it for
free right
and it's right up here the X the X so
subtle yeah okay so now we're done so
what do we want to call our new server
I'm just gonna call this Plex PI or you
can name it you know Ferguson family
server super happy funtime media allow
me to access my media outside my home
I'm gonna leave that checked but
remember it's not going to work without
a plex pass at this point next now what
it's doing is it's created my profile
yes so remember that the only thing that
I've done differently from last week
other than upgrading to 1.2 is I have
plugged in my USB flashdrive mm-hmm I
did not have to mount it I didn't have
to set up any FS tab entries nothing
like that I just simply plugged it in so
now if I go add library this is my first
step right now there are no videos known
to plex so I need to teach it where my
files are let's start with movies so
these library types are important ok
what I'm doing I'm not telling it I want
to call this movies I'm telling it the
classification of this is a movie or a
TV show or music or my photos or other
videos would be like home movies for
example right and that's important to
recognize that that is the
classification because that is going to
control how Plex will interpret the
content yes if it's a movie it will look
for the ratings it will look for the
description of the movie on the internet
database it'll look for
the artwork and all that stuff and the
description in the movie database yes if
it's a TV show on the other hand it's
gonna look for season 1 episode 1 season
2 episode 1 season 2 episode 2 and 3 and
so on
and then it's going to put it into a
menu system that is appropriate for
television series where you can select
the season select the episode and push
play if it's a home movie it then knows
that because this is other videos it
then knows that it's not going to find
any of that information online right so
it generates a thumbnail based on the
content of the video and simply names it
whatever the file name is so it's
important to assign this correctly so
we're gonna start with movies because
I've ripped sideways so I'm gonna click
on movies and then hit add folders or
next so I'm just gonna click Add folders
and then browse to my media folder and
you'll see what my 128 gigabyte external
flash drive is already detected now that
could be a USB hard drive that could be
that's a great idea like having an
external hard drive so that it's not
being stored on the SD card of your
pie-ya and then that way you can you can
safely shut down your plex Pi unplug
that hard drive load up more videos yep
and then plug it back in turn it on
you're good to go it'll automatically
detect the new stuff in the library so
I'm gonna browse to my 128 gigabyte
Drive and you see like this is a drive
that I use for the show so it's episodes
and everything but then I've also
created a folder called Plex demo files
in that folder I've got a folder called
movies and so I like to keep my files
organized and it helps me when I add it
to Plex you see that it's detected that
there is a video there so I'm gonna
simply add that and so you're adding the
folder not the file that's correct I'm
adding the movies folder on my flash
drive so if I unplug that flash drive it
loses it right it loses access to it but
then I plug it back in and it's back
again right so keep that in mind as well
this Drive needs to be always connected
to this device if you want to be able to
watch these I can click on add library
or I can go advanced and in advanced it
will say you know what do you what other
options do you want to do
you want to show the collection and
other items do you want to use the Plex
Media scanner you can probably just
click on add library and just leave all
these settings as they are but it's
interesting to see what kind of options
are available there I'm going to add
library and it says ok it's scanning
movies it's already matched sideways on
Plex PI see that at the bottom
downloading metadata for sideways it's
doing that all in the background I can
click on add library and keep doing
other things let's add our TV shows and
I can name that something else I could
call this if I wanted to be so organized
I can call it TV shows comedy and I
could have folders that are specifically
organized with comedy so that it's more
organized for me so in this case I'm
just go t v-- shows add folders browse
for media go to my 128 gig drive zip
down to my plex demo files and in there
I'm gonna go TV shows it's recognized
some folders so I could click on a
folder but then I'd only get that one
show I want this top-level TV shows
folder and I'm going to click Add and
then add library now it's scanning watch
what happens at the bottom they're
scanning matching stela UK on Plex PI
and it's gonna start downloading the
metadata for that let's add some music
so I've also ripped this CD that I've
got here the Josh Turner CD so let's
browse for media go on to our drive
again I like to keep things nice and
organized so I don't just have one
folder for everything I've got my music
in a folder called music and then I add
that now it's gonna add some music what
do you want to do you want to create a
premium Plex library or do you want to
just create a normal basic music library
which is what I'm going to do cuz it's
free and what do I want to do include in
the dashboard yep
use embedded tags or would it scan it
from the internet that's fine too and
then you've got last.fm settings you can
stream this to your devices all that
kind of stuff add okay now I've got some
home videos yeah I I just saw yeah as
you were closing there there is a
feature that will log where you are in
the album absolutely now that's all neat
a logging where you are in the videos
where you are in oh yeah I have not that
Christmas time with our Christmas
playlist with thousands of random songs
it's nice that it remembers where you're
at that's a great little feature
absolutely
and our series like if we could you
imagine having to find where you were
yeah other series that's so old-school
I'm gonna call this folder called Home
Videos and we're gonna go add folders
browse for media and you'll notice that
on my drive I've also got a folder
called Home Videos add that oh your
wedding and then add library and would
you like to see a clip of my wedding
because it's importing and when we come
back we're going to see how our Plex pie
looks now that we've imported some of
this media stick around
Jeff Weston Jemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what are you
you're terrible actor
what this where acting comes into play I
don't know you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash DreamHost
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
dream host welcome back to category five
technology TV we are going through Plex
PI yes
so you have added the files to your
library it's done all the metadata
syncing why I assumed so I mean if we
look at our screen here we've added the
libraries yep so I've got movies TV
shows home videos and remember Jeff
these are now these are stored on my USB
flash drive so I'm not wearing down the
SD card of my plex server the Raspberry
Pi because an SD card in a Raspberry Pi
is if you use that for video it's gonna
wear it down real play and it's gonna
crash and then you're gonna wonder why
your plex PI server is not working this
way your media all the playback is
happening there the only thing that the
that the SD card is used for is the
operating system the software and the
library data like the metadata so saving
the image they are twerking things like
that and where you are in your video
playback now right before we went on
break you teased and said do you want to
see my wedding I'll see if it works
I want to see it because I forget how
young you looked oh I had hair I know I
was around then like we work together
then and I'm intrigued to see how I saw
a picture today our old employer posted
a video of their Lobby that has pictures
from back in the day and back in I saw
that 1999-2000 area there's a picture of
you and I and we were kids
yes and I had a full head of hair it was
beautiful did you know do you remember
the time we threw back to an old episode
and you had hair and I just lost it I
had well I had I had clown hair yes I
was bald on the top this was full hair
do you know how far back our technology
interaction goes well when we met you
sent me my very first text message did I
it took me two months to find on my
phone I know you figure out why I could
get a stupid voicemail icon
oh boy I was that was my first cellphone
you sent me a text that day fantastic
yeah beautiful yeah look at that it
worked
yeah well we're and now we're here and
we're building servers that fit
literally in your pocket take that with
you like when I go to my in-laws and I
want to show them all of our new shows
or if I'm going away for a holiday take
it with you plug it into the TV at the
hotel it's got all your stuff on it all
your shows it's amazing it's fantastic
all right let's get into it
okay Plex PI what's next let's find out
all right what do you want to do do you
want to get some Plex apps
we'll get there don't worry about it
we're not gonna do it just now done look
at this oh and we've got some videos at
the bottom there our wedding and
berryhill farms and so we've got
sideways let's see what happens if I
click on it we've got a description
we've got the actors and if we click on
it it's going to actually search through
what push the right buttons and if I
click on the actors it's going to
instantly search through my library and
find other videos with those actors in
it so if I like one of the actors I can
click on it and boom there's a list of
all the videos now I've only imported
one movie so there's not going to be any
Paul Giamatti in there but there you
have it so it shows me the length of it
it shows me see the Rotten Tomatoes
score up here it shows me the that it's
in the drama comedy
category it's got the description and
everything else and I can actually rate
it and I can click here to say how many
stars I give it so how cool is that
alright so if I go on the left hand
panel here now Jeff yes see how easy
this was to set up it's crazy so I've
got TV shows I've got music
I've got movies and remember folks like
this takes up a fair bit more space
these are this is exactly what's on my
plex server right now it takes up a fair
bit more space than this mmm-hmm with a
USB flash drive added to it this is
exactly what's on my plex server right
now and there you go so let's click on
music and see what happens with our Josh
Turner CD so now you see it's playing
down there at the bottom oh look at that
and I think it's playing it's playing
out of my speakers locally right so my
laptop it's playing out of my laptop
speakers because that's where you're
loading it from though right so we tend
to think well if I push play it's gonna
play out of the pie so it needs to be
hooked up to a TV and no it's the device
that you are on so my laptop right now
is what is streaming it to those
speakers if I want to stream it on my
phone with a pair of bluetooth
headphones I can do that and I can be
listening to my music library that way
or if you're like me at home you've got
your Roku yes it's hooked up with the
plex app and you've got plex installed
on that so that's hot so we can list our
music all the time on our TV wonderfully
through sound system it's great all
right so let's take a look at it so if I
actually click on the CD rather than
pressing play yeah it gives me a
tracklist it shows me what all is here
let's see how this that is cool what's
this Josh Turner on tour it even shows
me his tour dates how amazing is that
oh and I've gotta bring up the screen
don't I oh oh that's why that that's ok
boom there we go don't worry folks I'm
just on the Josh Turner CD and it shows
me his tour dates March 4th and today
and today it is at the end of February
it's yes that's cool so it shows me
again
a bit of a description and the song list
everything else and I can click and I
guess I can create playlists based on
this play and it starts playing down at
the bottom here and it's gonna keep
doing it as I navigate like if I have it
playing and then I click on home movies
it's still playing oh ok so keep that in
mind too so here's my home videos and
you'll notice that what it's done is its
created thumbnails based on the videos
themselves so let's click on my wedding
and it is simply called our wedding
right so and it the date of the file is
2013 that's because that's when the file
I guess was created it's not actually
2013 it was 20 2001 when we got married
so if I push play here it's got a little
window down here and I click on that
there you go so when I was singing I was
even singing nice rocking it at my own
wedding oh there I am
this is back before the days of HD
cameras folks yeah so they didn't have
HD back then so that's why I look like a
raccoon you're so young I know right
okay back in home movies again I can
mark things as watch but notice at the
bottom of that video it shows that we've
watched almost halfway right because you
yeah because I pushed play and that's
where I skip to so if I push play now
it's gonna pick up right where I left
off or I'll start from beginning so I
can actually click there and it will
continue right there oh my goodness
you're so yeah I know I was just
adorable
oh let's jump back into TV shows and
let's see how this looks in Stella now
again I only ripped two episodes of each
sees each series because I didn't have
the time to rip the holes discs but
there you go so you can see how it puts
it all together and if I click on it it
even gives me a description of that
episode Wow ok so again I'm in TV shows
I can click on Trollied then it shows me
the season and remember I had season 3
on disk so that's the one that I ripped
two episodes from and if I click on it
now I've got the episodes episode 1
episode 2 if I click on one of the
episodes I can see a description of the
episode that's awesome
how cool and then hit play and instantly
it starts playing now remember here that
it's not playing from the raspberry pi
it's playing on my laptop right and it's
like boom boom boom lickety-split so can
the Plex PI handle HD video I mean this
is this is not quite you know 4k video
throw some 4k video and see how it does
they've done it I've yeah I've got some
at home
yeah in a dozen oh good how many devices
can you have access in the video
simultaneously that's a question that we
get quite a bit uh I'm trying to think
how many I've had all at once
I think you've maxed it out though like
you've seen the buffering or yeah I
think the most I've had is three and is
it a problem no no I don't think so I
mean well we had our daughter watching
some My Little Pony or something like
that I was watching one of my movies up
in my little pony yeah and then my wife
was was watching a show on our other TV
no they were accessing through the
PlayStation it was great cool yeah no
issues that's another thing to mention -
I mean Netflix you have to pay for extra
devices yes I think it starts with like
three and then if you want more than
that you have to fit is it one it's one
it's one now Wow
so you have to pay more to get access to
it on more devices with Plex I don't
think there's a limit no I've never
encountered it essentially I mean the
limitation we have at home is based on
our bandwidth like just how much can I
router handle I mean really your entire
house is all hooked up it's everything
yeah and that's an interesting point too
because the Raspberry Pi 3 has Wi-Fi so
the temptation may be to use Wi-Fi to
run it your plex PI server should be
connected directly to Ethernet yep now
it may not even be your router but it
could be the
Ethernet port of the Raspberry Pi being
that it is only a hundred megabit oh
yeah that's just so that's a limitation
of the Raspberry Pi I don't I don't know
that that's gonna be a problem though no
this is worked for you for years oh yeah
ever since that episode so I mean it's
been two years yeah so and a lot of our
movies that we have that we've ripped
from our blu-ray we're not there ok much
higher quality I'm ripping DVDs so
they're right 480p some of them came in
at 720p I don't know if that was just
the settings I had or legit but I mean
we've got some big files like some of
our movies are like 10 gigs like so
they're mass and they're playing on your
PI they're playing on the PI mil props
and even with the downgrading because
like our TVs only 720 transcoding yes so
like it looks still looks right so
understand that's another feature of
Plex Pi and it's because of Plex Media
Server but your Plex PI server will do
this so you've got your Raspberry Pi you
stick a 4k video on there and you think
well I don't have a 4k TV so this is a
problem it's not because what happens is
is your Plex PI server transcodes it on
the fly so it instantly changes the
resolution of the file and makes it so
that it plays properly on your device
without it happen to change settings now
the other neat thing about that is it
also it changes the format of the file
yes you mentioned Roku yes Roku will not
play for example mp4 files natively
correct you might be able to play an mp4
file on your phone if you imported it
and had it on your internal SD card and
then you open the file it will play but
a Roku will not other devices have their
idiosyncrasies with regards to file
formats the Plex PI will automatically
stream it to any device doesn't matter
what format it is so if it's an MKV if
it's an mp4 avi some of our old family
videos are probably gonna be AV eyes and
things like that so it takes care of all
that for you now
one thing that I really loved about Plex
is it it works like the middleman so to
speak
we used to have all of our like the
movies that we had ripped and all that
we're on
hard drive when we were playing them
through the PlayStation there was an
upgrade to the PlayStation so oh yeah
while ago yeah six years ago maybe why
it would no longer play those videos
because they weren't it wasn't however I
wasn't it didn't have some sort of
signature and so this in an effort to
prevent piracy I would play them okay so
I was like oh so we started looking at
other options we got a Western Digital
and the same thing happened there so
when we went to the Roku we use Plex
because it's running through the app all
of our files now play on the Play
Station because rope or the Plex acts as
the middleman right so it made our
PlayStation accessible isn't it
interesting that this makes your old
PlayStation work again yeah this makes
your current devices future ready
because even if a firmware update
changes things
this will continue to stream to your
device yeah it's it's beautiful I love
it is there anything else that that I
should be showing here Jeff I think this
kind of covers a good little run through
a lot at all how flex works so it's
pretty straightforward
it automatically checks for updates and
does all that we can check out the one
final thing that I'd like to do with our
plex server here is actually get onto
our website category 5 dot TV and scroll
way down to the very very bottom you
know that's where you'll find the button
that says subscribe
and there's Plex so get our Plex plug-in
and when I click on that it takes me to
this page and it gives me some
information about how to do it alright
so we need to download this file ok boom
can I just copy it is there a way to
have you ever installed
have you ever installed a plug-in just
directly in Plex
panels the channels yes I don't install
it I don't think I installed the
category-five channel this way ok all
available plugins
it'll be nice once category 5 is an
official Plex plug-in because they'll be
available for us just by searching in
Plex for now you've got to do it this
way so you would
you would download it extract it we
don't have enough time tonight to go
through it but I'd encourage you to get
over there to our website category 5 TV
click on to to the subscribe
icon at the bottom and then get the Plex
plug-in and it's really really
straightforward so you just need to
download that zip file unzip it rename
the folder move it to your plex media
servers plug-in folder which I can do
again by simply copying it over to my
USB flash drive and just follow the
prompts there launch with the channels
button and boom you're done and done
I'd love to have the time to show you
but it's it's really quite simple yeah
and that is because plex also supports
the channel architecture so you can add
shows like category 5 TV without ever
having to download the shows so it
streams just the episodes that you want
to see and again once that channel is
added to your Plex PI server
it is accessible on all of your devices
yes
so yeah easy peasy nice and simple I
love that program yeah this life changer
it really is I love I love things like
Netflix but having it on my own kind of
server and being able to control the
media
yes is brilliant yep the kids love it
the kids absolutely they do they know
how to use it so well it's like it's
really easy to use too easy folks
you can download the Raspberry Pi image
it's absolutely free cat 5 dot TV no
pardon me plex PI com I forgot we got
the comm how is that Plex Pi calm
download the the image from there and
you'll be able to install that on an SD
card and boot it up and you'll be up and
going with Plex just like you saw
tonight but do watch for version 1.2 or
higher so if you're only seeing one
point one just wait we're just uploading
one point two so it'll be ready this
weekend good times
alright Rickman how are you my friend I
am great she is here no way over yeah
we're on different sets tonight and
we're not using the green screen so we
can't fake it but this is like we're on
multiple cameras and we are in the same
room here
a throwback to what season six five or
small kinds of seasons we have a setups
like this and yeah absolutely
are you are you feeling like you want to
head on over to the newsroom is that is
that kind of where year
I really do after all this waiting I
feel like I could hit the loo quick you
access to actually said that on live TV
you realize you could have done your
intro paused during the commercial to
run to the loo in hindsight you know
just because you only read four things
and then we say we'll be back how this
happens folks ready take it away it's
all you such all right here are the
stories were covering this week in the
category 5 TV newsroom a startup in the
UK is making huge waves by lowering the
cost of robotic prosthesis using 3d
printing technology a California
electronics recycler is fighting to stay
out of jail after he admitted to copying
thousands of windows reinstallation
discs to use with refurbished pcs AI
researchers at Google have developed
algorithms that can assess the risk of
heart attacks by analyzing retinal scans
a clock designed to run for ten thousand
years is under construction these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere whether you shop on ThinkGeek
gearbest B&amp;H Photo Video eBay or
or even if you want a free trial up
audible you'll find the best deals and
support the shows we produce by simply
visiting the shopping sites you already
frequent by using the links on our
website visit category-five TV slash
partners for the full and ever-growing
list and help us create more free
content like this show thank you for
shopping with our partners and thank you
for watching this is the category-five
TV newsroom covering the week's top tech
stories with a slight linux bytes I'm
Sacha Rickman and here the top stories
were following this week
a UK startup is changing the way we see
prosthesis open bionics is working hard
to create affordable 3d printed Bionic
hands that actually work but are about
30 times cheaper than other prosthesis
on the market they operate using sensors
attached to the skin to detect muscle
movements the muscle movements control
the hands and open and close fingers
open bionics teamed up with the National
Health Service in the UK and has been
trialing their Bionic hands with
children as young as eight right now the
NHS spends approximately 75 million
dollars per year on prosthetic services
young children often don't have access
to these devices because they're not
small enough or they're just too
expensive
so for example their parents can't
afford to supply them or the NHS cannot
afford to supply the patient with it the
co-founder of the company says seeing a
young child being able to move fingers
individually for the first time is
really cool open bionics is currently
working on arms that are straight out of
the science fiction universe themes from
Marvel Disney and Star Wars Star Wars
trip franchises are available the goal
is to make kids feel proud of their
prosthesis this changes the image of
prosthesis from a medical device to
Bionic arms inspired by famous
characters currently the arms take
roughly 40 hours of 3d print the
person's limb is scanned with a tablet
then the
design of the prosthetic is then planned
out finally the prosthetic is 3d printed
a royalty-free agreement has been formed
between Disney and open bionics
this means themes designs have even more
potential the company sees a future of
making prostheses fashionable and
accessible to all this is one of those
really great stories especially if you
know somebody who has had either an
amputation or is born with only one limb
and you think to yourself ok now it can
be like it's it can be like a
conversation starter trendsetter oh yeah
my question to you Robby and you might
know the answer to this is if your 3d
printing something like do you 3d print
the electrical components or your 3d
printing rubber what do you do oh I got
you ok so what's really neat about what
they're doing let's see if I can bring
them up I'm just doing a quick search
for open bionics it takes us to open
bionics comm they've got some really
cool stuff there I'm going to show you
this folks like this is the kind of
stuff that sash is talking about can you
imagine as a kid how outstanding that
would be oh my goodness like come on
they've made it cool but what what they
have is you can actually download
blueprints and things like that
to 3d print it yourself Sasha but so
here's the thing so they've got a shop
where you can buy the the components
like this is the tendon line here for
example and you may not know what that
is but you will in just a moment they've
got actuators that you can buy as well
so that you can you can set it all up
they even have gel fingertip grips so
that it gives you a better grip on
things and all the needed screws and
things like that
so the things that you can't 3d print
you can buy directly from open bionics
but as the name suggests being that they
are open they really have made it an
open platform so that you can get a hold
of the 3d printing diagrams and print it
yourself so then you only have to buy
the components that you can't 3d print
is such a neat idea yeah so there's the
muscle sensor for example and the
electrodes that that make it work and
you can if you don't have a 3d printer
you can go ahead and buy a bionic hand
already made and if you look really
really closely I said you'd be able to
tell where those tensors go do you see
in between the finger joints yeah that's
where the tensors are so the the
actuators pull on that string and make
the hand actually operate okay how cool
is that right but I'm making it so that
it looks like Iron Man for example and a
kid that could have that and be like
that it's just totally changes things
and I love that and the thing is the
reason I think a lot of parents in the
past with the the cost with it being so
prohibitive because kids grow and they
change so much but if you can bring the
cost down then as kids grow they can go
through different themes right like I
remember with my sisters when they had
braces they were excited about choosing
their braces colors right yeah you can
actually change what your arm looks like
really as you grow and then you can you
so you can do a Disney theme and then
you can grow into a more adult version
later really like Iron Man can I show
you one more thing Sasha I I need to
show you this a search in Google for
open bionics a de adaa gives you a list
there's the the circuit controller like
the controller itself that they
manufacture and sell looks a lot like an
Arduino to me and all this stuff here so
you can see how they've actually laid
this out so that people can get in there
hey here's how to here's how to print it
yourself here's how to you know you can
get the here's how to insert the
actuators here's how to put it all
together here's how to install like the
instructions are right on their website
this is the future I just didn't blown
away I mean look at how much detail
they've given us here yeah it is Arduino
they're showing you how to install the
Arduino software there
how slick the presentation is like it's
oh yeah it's not clunky in any way like
it's very clean beautiful there's how to
set up the attendance so just unreal
folks and this is what so if you were to
3d print it yourself there you have it
that's what it would look like not quite
as beautiful as the ones that they do
themselves because they probably have
much better 3d printers than a home
person does right but and and it's neat
to Sasha that you can get in to talk to
your local library a lot of libraries
public libraries these days have 3d
printers for public use really you can
download the blueprints for this and
take it to the library to print it wow I
did not know that yeah our library here
in Barrie has a 3d printer what yeah oh
that's cool
so check into it I love when new stories
are this like mind-blowing ly awesome
this is a great one my California
discs to use with refurbished pcs as an
e-waste warrior Erik Lundgren wished to
see discarded computers fixed up and
reused rather than crammed into the
holes in the ground to encourage people
to refurbish and continue using unwanted
LPC's he burned and distributed 28,000
copies of the IT giant's Windows XP and
7 restore disks these disks can be used
to wipe clean a machine storage and
reinstall a fresh copy of Microsoft's
operating system
well US prosecutors weren't impressed by
this caper Lundgren was taken to court
and in May of last year he pleaded
guilty to conspiracy to traffic in
counterfeit goods and criminal copyright
infringement at the time the 33 year-old
Rosetta California resident was
sentenced to 15 months in jail and fined
$50,000 his co-conspirator Robert J wolf
of Boca Raton Florida at the time was 54
and was placed under six months of house
arrest and given four years probation
but the district court granted Lundgren
a stay of sentence allowing him to
challenge the punishment without a trip
to the clink is this fair though the
computers he created the computers he
created the discs for had valid windows
license keys the discs were in one sense
cleaning tools for wiping a machine and
preparing it for reuse rather than
depriving a depriving Microsoft of a
window sale
it was the value of those discs however
that were used as the basis for the 15
month term after all Dell offers its
reinstallation media for free from its
website while Microsoft's typically
chained charges for copies of its
operating system arguing that a copy of
Windows is essentially useless without a
product key and that all of the recycled
machines had their own valid keys
Lundgren's lawyers suggested that what
he did was merely make it easier for the
owners to get something that they
already were entitled to for free Wow so
in my opinion this was not even illegal
this is not worth I don't think that's
worth a charge what do you think okay I
read this story and I tried to wrap my
mind around it because I get what he's
doing I get the copyright laws I'm
inclined to agree with you I don't think
what he was doing was illegal I think
and again I'm not a legal professional
this is just my layman's perspective but
I think he got caught in a loophole I
don't think it was necessarily intended
for this is it a loophole or is that the
courts not understanding legitimacy of
Licensing versus media well that could
yeah that's probably a better way they
don't not understand how it works
because I mean at the end of the day
it's not like he was doing it from a
piracy stamp I mean this stuff is
already it was already accessible was
already available yeah that's such a
gray area though it is
Media itself has the software but you
can't activate it without a valid
license key and the license key is valid
so is it legal is it illegal I think it
technically is illegal I suppose to in a
technical sense I mean I guess I guess
maybe it is but I don't see that it was
done as an illegal act I don't see that
it was done that's not come on you this
was a kindness right this is saving the
environment right other than this these
computers would be trash right so isn't
this like an act of earthly kindness
this was an act of earthly kindness no
but I mean at the end of the day it's
not like it was it wasn't stealing it
was I mean the keys were right there I'm
sure you've got the sticker on the case
I know so had he just refurbished these
computers and sold them without the
media would he have been cool probably
because they're getting him on the media
I I don't know I mean I guess at the end
of the day if a portion of the sale was
converted as you know third party
whatever it checks for the media yeah
that would that have then made it now
legal who knows like it anybody know
comment below here's the only crime that
I see here is that he didn't install
Linux on those computers yes I agree
sustained artificial intelligence
by looking for common patterns in images
of retinal scans and matching them up
with data in the patient's medical
records one algorithm could determine if
someone was a smoker or nonsmoker to an
accuracy of 71% another algorithm that
was focused on the blood vessels in the
eye could tell if somebody had severe
high blood pressure or not a sign
associated with increased chances of
stroke their models can
also predict other factors such as age
gender and the chance of a heart attack
or stroke Lilly pang a product manager
at Google brain explained given the
retinal image of one patient who up to
five years later experienced a major
cardiovascular event such as a heart
attack
and the image of another patient who did
not our algorithm could pick out the
patient who had the cardiovascular event
70% of the time while 70% may not seem
as accurate as you'd want according to
the researchers at the according to the
researchers the level of accuracy is
actually very similar to the more
traditional method of drawing blood to
measure cholesterol levels so this is
really good as far as advancement in
helping to self diagnose things before
you have to take the extra step each
craft reminds me of that remember you
know if you look to the left you're
lying
yeah you know or whatever that was yes
that's right but to think 70% accuracy
that's that's kind of surprising I may
have missed it in the story but how many
times did they run this test like more
than once okay but we don't three or
four well like what quantifies 70%
accuracy was there ten yeah sure seven
of them got right was it ten thousand
tests this is what we don't know Jeff
let's just assume that this was a very
thorough very scientific test right
before before any scientist is gonna
release a paper it's going to be
thoroughly examined thoroughly tested
right so now let's think about all of
the ways that this could either help us
or not
because I'm thinking about retinal scans
of the future when all of a sudden
you're denied access to a country
because you might have a stroke while
you're there okay I already have a fear
of AI looking me in the eye and saying
you are going to die soon okay so I I
have I agree with sash on this one I
think the more we use technology to
automatically assert a health condition
it opens the door to
discrimination and I mean I'm not gonna
get into are you saying that to know
that you are going to have a condition
is to discriminate so no not to know but
to take that information and bar you
from something like imagine you go to
sign up for insurance yeah you know you
want to get health insurance and your
insurance provider comes to you says hey
can you just take a look at this little
box here and we go this by the way we've
determined that even though you've not
been diagnosed you've had X Y Z happen
and now because of that your premiums
are this under like like we're talking
about making assumptions based on an
imperfect system 70% is great but it's
not a perfect system 100% of the time
how did this become that Sasha what do
you think how did this become that
because is this not if I would like to
know if I'm going to come down with this
problem right so this is perfect in the
hands of the user this is really great
in a way my Fitbit tells me my heart
rate and if my heart rate went off the
charts I would think okay something's
wrong with me same with this retinal
scan if all of a sudden it flagged
something I would think okay I need to
get myself to a doctor now that being
said as long as it's in my hands in my
control it's great and once it goes into
the hands of somebody making it
discriminatory judgment against my
health that's where it's an issue I
would like to hear from someone who has
a condition where they are having to
check their cholesterol like that right
you're having to take the brick test on
a recurring basis how much does that
cost you is it is it cost prohibitive in
some cases and would it be better if you
could just go to the local pharmacy look
into a machine and have it report back
your results just by a retina scan yes
see that still freaks me out but see
okay this is regularly telling people
you're gonna die because they go my nose
is running Google what was wrong don't
ever you're gonna die yeah like I have a
headache cancer
don't say and you're not a good idea you
know is gonna scare me like don't ever
do it folks
Google is not a doctor is really like
it's a cool technology you can scan your
retina and they can tell you like they
can tell just by your retina if you're
male or female if you're a smoker or
nonsmoker if you're about to have a
stroke or not or if you're lying if you
look a little to the left
a clock designed to run for 10 millennia
without human intervention is now under
construction the 10,000 year clock is a
project of the long now foundation a
nonprofit organization that wants to
make long-term thinking more common it's
being built on property owned by Amazon
founder Jeff Bezos beneath a mountain in
the middle of the desert in Texas there
is currently no completion date
scheduled for the project
the clocks creator American inventor
Danny Hillis first publicly shared the
concept in an essay for a wired in 1995
in it he describes his vision of a
timepiece that takes once every year
with a century hand that moves just once
every 100 years and a cuckoo that
emergence ever emerges every 1000 years
the clock is designed to capture energy
from changes in temperature to power its
timekeeping apparatus according to the
long now foundation but it will not be
able to store enough energy to display
the time unless visitors wind it with a
hand turned wheel the project has
attracted the support of influential
artists and thinkers in addition to
Bezos whose contribution of 42 million
dollars makes him the largest financial
backer British musician Brian you know a
famous for his ambient compositions has
built a mechanical melody generator that
will produce a different chime sequence
every day for 10,000 years like the
clock hands the chimes will only work if
visitors power the clock the first
prototype of the clock which was
completed back in 1999 is now on display
at the science news
in London according to the long now
foundation visitors will be able to hike
to the site to see the finished product
Wow
that is neat that's cool
so the cuckoo only happens every
thousand years yes
what what's to say it's gonna work and
what's to say anyone is ever going to
remember what it's supposed to do well
right what's this like what a lot of
what's to say right it's art that I had
to search for this Brian Eno because I
was curious about who he was and to
think that he's created and melodium
Milotic mechanism to add to this clock
so that it chimes and stuff that's cool
I was thinking of the guy who did the
the marbles and played music by having
the marbles drop down if I was this guy
I would not do a different tone or
melody for every day of the ten thousand
years because nobody lives that long and
nobody's gonna record it and pass that
down you could just loop it right you
just need a different one for every
light every thousand years it just goes
back to the first song exactly that's a
really long playlist yeah that's so okay
I feel like the obvious question is not
being asked so I'm gonna ask it why
right the other obvious one is 42
million dollars as the biggest financial
backing exactly okay this is a lot of
money for us thing underground well why
do we need this okay hold on have you
ever heard of the Antikythera mechanism
like come on could you imagine ten
thousand years from now finding this
clock and it still works and seeing the
technology from 2018 and how people were
able to come together and manufacture
this thing I have no idea what we're
gonna have in ten thousand thousand
years we're gonna be living on other
planets potentially but like we've the
world is falling apart like this past
week we've had the Arctic is warmer than
parts of
Yaffe's so don't you want a clock to
still be here when there is no
civilization left to read time like what
why the space aliens know that we were
in intelligence why I just explained it
to you it's no no you gave me some
cockamamie idea so the aliens know that
there was an intelligent race here
10,000 years ago we we meet that is why
it's really neat and the fact that
visitors have to wind it to power it
means not only do they have this really
neat thing that somebody is obviously
paying a lot of money for oh yeah yeah
but it means that they'll generate
revenue because they'll be tourists who
want a Shriner yeah here at the toe who
knows like every thousand year starting
one which means the filthy people people
camped out like they do like at the
casino for the slot machines trying to
wait for the cuckoo every thousand not
every thousand years hoping they're
getting one then look if you're Jeff
Bezos because you can yeah because you
can see and that's the most sensible
answer that I have heard there you go
cuz you can but don't try to figure out
art you know I think that's my problem I
don't understand art I really don't just
appreciate I have a very literal mind
and so I like I don't understand Picasso
I you know somebody like puts a pencil
on a table and they go it's expressive I
don't get it no that's a writing tool so
it's a clock it's a clock but that's all
it's just it's not even it's barely art
it's just a clock that moves really slow
for a very long time it's like what is
time right maybe that clock is moving
very fast some beings I think the
problem is he's just making too much
money he doesn't know what to do with it
IRA I will take a little bit of that
money you know what we will build a
Raspberry Pi clock you give us that
forty million dollars can I just as we
as the story comes to a close can I just
put a different spin on it and say
a hope for the future to think that
10,000 years from now
human beings in whatever state that they
happen to be in 10,000 years from now
are going to observe this art piece and
say wow to think so dear in 2018 that
we're looking forward to 10,000 years in
the future and saying we will still
exist we will be prosperous we will rule
the world 10,000 years from now and
someone will observe this and say wow
you know what will be even cooler if in
10,000 years from now in a cave in the
middle of the desert of Texas is
actually under an ocean that would be
neat because the world could change by
then shifting like crazy and we might
still continue shifting but you know I
hope that wherever it is that they put
this thing something happens in like the
first year and it gets like completely
unutilized so I could just laugh and say
why why big thanks to Roy W Nash and our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman Sasha thank you so much this is
category five technology TV welcome to
the show what say ye we pay a little
visit to our biggest fans on YouTube
fans because they take the time to
comment thank you for your comments
Timothy Hill says this is the worst tech
demo I've ever seen
I don't ever leave comments but
everything about this video seems like
BS and which video is this I you know
what Jeff I I'd rather just move along
okay I was feeling really really good
tonight
I was feeling really really good tonight
Jeff Farr had him had to me would like
to share with us guy in the center needs
to chill out
what guy in the center I'm usually in
the center aren't I well tonight you're
not so I am who you talked about I am
I've been called hyperactive and I've
been called worse you know I will say we
did have one of our biggest fans who
made the comment that I'm always saying
nice is I purposefully trying to not say
nice this is that you're making an
effort I'm making biggest names our
biggest fans
fine Jeff I will make an effort to chill
out all right done Pierce says I can see
you peddling snake oil from a covered
wagon sometimes you just want to walk
away what I'm chill I'm cool my baby at
least what I show stuff on a show I have
cool stuff around me that I want to show
you hey check out the Raspberry Pi 3
snake-oil clearly he doesn't understand
that all chill when people purchase
through our partner links we get to show
paid for so sure there is a benefit but
really but it really comes down to I
love to share cool things with my
viewers and that's part of what category
5 has always been about is yes um as I
learn things I'm excited about it I know
I need to chill but I get excited I am
so excited right now about
cryptocurrency I know because I'm
learning all about it and I can't wait
to not be chill and totally go berserk
guy in the middle and show you all that
I've learned and you should are one of
our channels Linux tech show comm on
YouTube hit well over 10,000 subscribers
this month thank you so much for
subscribing along with that we've
received your comments of everyone who
is our biggest fan on YouTube and Alan
Wong in particular wanted to reach out
to us as we hit that 10,000 subscribers
and just let us know if useless channel
useless useless channel no information
given and a waste of time to watch don't
watch it hmm no information okay I thank
you for your subscription because you
know the numbers are great but maybe
it's not for you Johnnie snap caster
says feels like a show from the 90s so
young-looking
we we're in the 90s oh yeah we're
totally hip totally him I feel like I
need like a curly hair afro kind of
thing going on you know just like a 90s
well I'm just probably gonna pull out
like the the sweatpants and like oh
absolutely sure that's that's how we
roll
ah time for a couple of more of our
biggest fans on YouTube horsefly mark oh
I'm sorry I got that everywhere says 20
times the synth notes the sise 20 I
didn't mean to mispronounce I'm sorry 20
times the size of a Raspberry Pi 3 go
home Wow
and I guess that's all the time that we
have Wow
for our biggest fans maybe one more how
about Paul P Jay who says so awesome I
can just pop one in my pocket and bring
it over to a friend's out to play old
games
oh wait bald Thanks
thank you for your comments everybody
our biggest fans on YouTube we
appreciate you very very much we
appreciate everybody who subscribes to
us on YouTube we love that you watch the
show and those of you who really do
appreciate what we do we appreciate you
even more thank you for tuning in I feel
like we have a new challenge we need to
get you a number one Google search for
bald turd well that's all the time that
we have for this week
yes we had all kinds of technical
difficulties off the top of the show
before we came on the air and so you
know I think we we kind of pulled it off
and I hope that you enjoyed the Plex PI
stuff the segment itself and I hope that
you'll check that out get yourself a
Raspberry Pi you can pick them up at cap
five dot TV slash PI I know I'm just
pushing snake oil but I want you to have
one and hey if you're gonna buy it
anyways you may as well do it through
our links and it helps us out as well so
we appreciate that thanks ball turd and
no problem I need one for you I'm nice
guy
Jeff nice guy nice guy let's have a
fantastic week everybody and see you
Sasha
over there newsroom see you buddy
everybody take care now
by
