welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5e weeks
and now let's Kim here's your host one
episode number 204 of category 5
technology TV it's tuesday august the
16th 2011 I'm Robbie Ferguson flesh how
are you yeah it's so good to have you
here you know what even up too busy
working on a camp yeah that's the tan
and some of you were asking why I'm not
wearing my goggles but it's cuz I took
them off so you guys could see my goggle
tan because i wear my liquid oh yeah
right the antenna vicuna yeah i gotcha
gotcha oh yeah i've been up north and
it's just been it's been so much fun
good good no so nice to see ya we also
have a special guest tonight space fish
is joining us right there in well I
think he is he's he's flying around in
space he's come on space fish there he
is oh hey space fish he's shy this is
his first his first television
appearance and so he's a little nervous
that is oh that's a space fish and and
we do not yet have a name for space fish
and so I thought it would be a fun
opportunity for the viewers here's
here's your challenge for this week if
you would like some viewer points
namespace fish hello space fish come
back to us yeah well we'll see if he
comes back I was thinking because space
fish is of course in space
we could call him Bowie where is he I
don't know if Antony needs appropriate
for our shot who is in space oh well
let's see what some of the viewers come
up with shall we there he is so you see
space fish and you know what what he
looks like and and how he reacts to the
the space probe so yeah if you have any
suggestions now don't shout it out in
the chat room see a couple of people of
course instantly it he's a space fish
columns on Luke called him data but
don't shout it in the chat room because
what's gonna happen is there are 300
viewer points up for grabs now the way
this is going to work is like a lot o so
email live at category five dot TV with
your suggestion for space fish's name
and what I mean by it being like the
lotto is that if two people provide the
same name and that just happens to be
the name that's selected then that 300
points is going to be divvied up between
those two winners ok so if so what you
want to do is email your suggestion for
space fish's name and I guess Bowie has
taken buoys I should give you points
just for understanding the reference
buoys in space everybody's gonna Google
that now and they're instantly gonna
know no googling yes that's the thing
these days they you listen to the radio
and you hear that slight pause during
the contest it's like it's trivia and
you hear ya seriously it's like yeah
that's the way it is nowadays though we
can be a lot more conspicuous because
it's like okay I'm ready for trivia
Bowie's in space here it is on Wikipedia
done done and you want you want to call
this and you will win just like that
easy people space fish he apparently
likes the bottom of the tank more than
the oh there is flying through space
give us a name live at category 5 TV for
your chance to win some points tonight
we are answering your viewer questions
Hillary has got your emails up on our
screen she's got the chat room and she
is raring to go now you you haven't you
haven't looked around without your
goggles for a while so it's got to be
like when I take off my glasses I'm
feeling a little like I strain right now
but i think the end of the show i'll be
ok so send your emails anyway there you
go live at category 5 TV in addition to
our viewer questions tonight which you
can get in the chat room you can get
them in by email find out all the ways
to get them to us on our website
category 5 TV what you can do is Oh
beyond that we are going to be learning
how to actually create our own magazine
covers very excited about that us with
our tans I think we should we should
grace the cover of a category 5 magazine
tonight let's let's do it for sure all
right good before we get too into things
I just want to give some big shout out
to our people from around the world now
you might not know this but on our
website there is a section under about
us viewer location map I suggest you all
go there right now because what you'll
see our little little pinpricks
indicating where people are around the
world right now as we speak watching the
show and it's kind of RAD because the
thing with the internet is it brings
people together and we are all together
watching this awesome fab show right now
because of the internet so check it out
and I would just like to give you know a
few shoutouts to the following cities in
no particular order our viewer from
Bordeaux France thanks for watching
that's totally fab that's great we love
you thanks for being here kavala Greece
you are awesome because
new people watch category 5 in Greece
clep stad Norway our fan there we thank
you for watching and we're so glad
you're here and if you're in the chat
room say hey that's me I'm from a club
Stan Norway if you're watching from
Calcutta India hey that's awesome cool
yeah like just everywhere around the
world people are watching so check it
out see just have a little look-see and
maybe just maybe your city or little
town is on our map so it's kind of cool
there are places in the middle of the
ocean that are on that map with a little
pin investigate and it's it's amazing
and it's a it it's so cool to see that
many people watching the show and being
able to kind of watch in real time if
you sit there it'll actually pan around
the map as you said everybody go do it
now but as that happens I think it'll
probably end up slowing things down so
if like when I brought it up on the
screen the Pens weren't showing up
that's because it's live from the server
and it can cause when there's you know
during a live broadcast especially so so
go back during the week okay dude check
it out and that would be fantastic what
do you got coming up in the in the news
Oh Robbie I'm so happy you asked because
coming up in the newsroom google plans
to buy motorola mobility which will have
a huge impact on the smartphone industry
landscape investors are pushing in Tendo
to start making games for the iphone US
military scientists lost contact with an
experimental aircraft that can travel 21
thousand kilometers per hour and
Samsung's Galaxy Tab 10.1 may be
available in europe in spite of a german
ruling against it and lastly Jodie
Foster who played an astronomer in the
movie contact has helped raise the money
to reopen SETI SETI hmm kind of cool so
stick around because these stories are
coming up in under 30 minutes now
remember that they closed down I think
it was a earlier this year before spring
I'm having Mike difficulties here as the
cable slowly slides down my back and I
can feel it and it's pulling my mic up
here we go I think I got a licked hey
everybody if you're joining us for the
first time tonight I'd love to hear from
you in the chat room its category 5 on
freenode and of course if you got the
chat up now just say hey and and where
you're from we'd love to say hello and
let's see I want to hop onto our website
category five dot TV one of the cool
things that you'll find there is that we
actually have viewer awards if we go up
to interact and viewer awards you'll see
that a lot of viewers are starting to to
rake in those awards and it's a it's
really exciting so gadwal was of course
the first person to receive any award
our first award being the honor metal
the honor medal is presented as an
honorary medal to veteran viewers who
have put an effort into being a part of
the category five dot TV community so
these are viewers who are very active in
the forums who participate in the show
on a regular basis who log into the
website on a regular basis all that kind
of stuff can increase your viewer points
people who send in images and things
like that so I want to just give a quick
shout out to to those who who are our
honorary medal recipients up to this
point so up until August sixteenth 2011
and so just want to give greets to GAD
will of course Brian Murray torto shot
as 759 Ras 759 how field great to have
you back joining us after a bit of a
sabbatical there sprint cowboy how feel
being one of our veteran viewers who has
been watching for a long time sprint
cowboy nice to have you here and that
nice to have you as an honor medal
recipient Val pen known and forgive me
if I've said it wrong but Val pinole
nice to have you here Smitty smit
congratulations on your big win of an
honor metal three yes nice to have you
here jawar great to have you joining us
and we really appreciate your faithful
viewership of the show and your
participation in the commune
Jeffster it's it's great having you as a
part of our community and it's it's
great to have you having one an honor
medal already it's fantastic your Raptor
222 with a carrot that's brilliant
fantastic and it's like always a
pleasure to have you joining us as part
of our community and of course last but
absolutely not least pires rock this
world it is always a pleasure to have
you as a part of our community as well
so if you would like to be a recipient
of one of our online medals you can all
you have to do is participate in the
show join the join the the community in
an official capacity by simply
registering on our website it's
absolutely free and it's a chance for
you to not just interact with the
community but just to it's fun it really
is the added value of just signing up
for the free service and and knowing
that when you login hey boom I got
another 10 points and those accumulate
and and you start getting things like
like honor metals and and there are some
more metals that are going to be awarded
that it looks like very soon with some
of the viewers such as Brian Murray who
are right up there with high viewer
points and as well I've mentioned it
before but as more and more viewers get
up there with their viewer points we're
going to be awarding prizes coupons some
really cool stuff some some I call it
value-added stuff that that makes it you
know it's a way of us being able to say
hey thanks for being a part of our
community and awarding those kinds of
things so yeah I'm excited about that so
congratulations everybody who's won so
far those Awards viewer images of the
week and we've got a we've really
quickly got to get into some questions I
know that we've got lots of questions
there but we love images but you know
what it's all about the community
tonight and we love you guys and gals
universal term guys invincible mutant
says that mobile or mobile category 5 TV
works fantastically on the samsung
galaxy
lexi three which of course is powered by
an android operating system and there is
watching the show on on that device
galaxy 3 very cool congratulations to
you invincible mutant i will throw 100
viewer points your way Peter Lewis said
joins us from the UK and he's got
category 5 working on the touchpad to
any stresses Robbie last week I sent in
a question about the touchpad to and his
Roman numerals I I and you kept saying
touchpad 11 so for that sir I am sorry
sorry sometimes I make mistakes it
doesn't happen often but occasion and
when it does it's absolutely pointless
and and it doesn't really matter no I'm
just can't just to prove he's human it's
a two so anyways the touchpad to ever
since last week's show we were talking
about the mobile website mobile dot
category 5 TV is where you want to go
and ever since tapping into that
resource Peter Lewis from the UK says
it's working absolutely perfectly and
here's his proof oh yeah yeah I mean
just in case it's not enough to watch it
on a tablet you can bring it up on a CRT
at the same time and watch the show with
stereo echo the demonstration however
peter i will i'll throw 100 viewer
points your way as well and don't forget
you can win some viewer points by naming
space fish email live at category 5 TV i
love that you just made up a jingle for
space fish oh there's fun where that
though is in space ok I thing said
category 5 technology TV is brought to
you by eko alkaline batteries these
things are fantastic they're better for
the environment than your average
battery because they are eco-friendly
they have absolutely no mercury no
cadmium and lead free and these are
considered landfill safe eco alkalines
calm do check them out and that you can
find out where they're available in your
area right there
of course you can buy them right off of
their website there no more expensive
than your normal batteries Wow and they
actually perform as well or better than
the leading brands hello and they're
eco-friendly why won't you do it why
wouldn't you save the earth and have
longer lasting batteries Eco alkalines
calm your questions oh yeah hop right in
da ok coming to us from Emil wondering
uh hey Robbie and the gang I'm changing
my site from HTML to PHP and CSS after a
few pages I found a few pages needed
another layout so i added ad first i
added ad first ok some extra lines to
the CSS and change the PHP page for that
part now i found that it made the CSS
file very big so i made a copy of the
CSS file and then renamed it ok i change
the header to dot PHP and made also a
copy of that and added the new CSS file
now i have to change some locations in
to CSS files to keep it the same so I
wanted to make it like this the layout
that is for all the pages is the same in
one CSS file and then for each page that
has another layout for text and images
is another CSS file with only that info
in it trying to follow its it's a long a
long email I'll encourage you as you as
you send us email it's a good idea to
kind of think think your thoughts
through send us a summary of the
question of self Emil I'm gonna do my
best sure um through that so he sends us
the link to the site that he's actually
working on and then the site that will
replace the other site alright so maybe
you can I'll bounce my thoughts off of
you as I look I brought up my email just
let me try to just make sure that I
understand and you can let me know if I
if I've got your right and Amelia are
you joining us in the chat room I'd love
to hear from you ok so had an HTML site
just basic flat HTML have upgraded to
the server side so PHP CSS
CSS being like the skinning mechanism so
because you needed another layout on
some of those pages but not all of them
you added more CSS code but then I got
too lengthy and became quite largely
broken it up into several CSS files so
looking at that from an optimization
standpoint breaking up your CSS into
multiple files it's actually going to
take less server resources if you just
keep it in one file unless you're only
going to be feeding that it on specific
pages there's a there's a mechanism
called minification and it just do a
quick Google search minification is the
is the method of taking your CSS your
javascript and compressing it all down
into a single file and that's the whole
point is to get it one file as small as
possible it's minified and it's
distributed through a jeezy compression
to the browser and then the browser
cache is it and it becomes a much faster
site because what happens here is you
get bigger bigger bigger CSS files you
want to make sure that it's getting cash
do you want to make sure that it's
getting loaded by the browser if it's a
new version so you got to be careful
because if it gets too large and you try
to break it up and change it and then it
can get kind of complicated but keep in
mind when the when a CSS file is loaded
by the users browser it's going to cash
by their browser so it's only going to
load that once if it's just the one file
if you break it up into several
different files and then you've got it
on a different CSS file on each page
then every time you click a page it's
going to cash a new CSS file so I hope
that I'm making sense there if it's just
one file it's going to it's going to
catch to the browser and it's going to
be nice nice and zippy and it's going to
save you some bandwidth on your server
okay so moving on in in that so that's
kind of a side thought so you change the
files and made it so that it load the
new CSS files the layout you want it to
change on a per page basis which is fine
CSS probably a good way to do that and
if you're using solely CSS to do that if
CSS is your is your mechanism of doing
that and you're actually using the same
basic 10
flit but the CSS is different than
that's that's good that means you're
you're using CSS the way that it should
be but how you want to switch back and
forth between the two of them is is
really up to you as far as how that
works let's see here I'm going to just
read on in the email here Emil did Emil
end up joining us in the chat room I'm
just been checking in yeah care to be
here okay so I'm doing my best buddy
okay so pop me another email and
summarize if if I don't hit the nail on
the head which is quite probable okay so
you want to add the CSS files to the
header that's the header include of the
PHP very cool then I can by changing
only the PHP in the page which layout i
use for sure okay I think I'm following
yeah okay so what do we do yeah I'm just
gonna I'm just gonna quickly bring up g
at it and I think what you're saying oh
boy where's g at it on this text editor
I've got Zorin OS and they've simplified
everything there we go okay so here's
your PHP file okay so if you specify CSS
file equals this CSS PHP whatever right
ok and then include includes header.php
just for example okay these may not be
your files okay so keeping in mind that
now CSS file is a string that contains
oh and I put dot PHP i meant CSS of
course so CSS file contains just the
file name of the CSS file for this
particular page okay so then you go
about your business and and you know
your code is actually all through here
okay whatever it is so in Hetar dot PHP
now where it says include your your
stylesheet you where it says style dot
CSS
right if it's in HTML what you can do is
now go equals so that's echo okay dollar
sign CSS file and then close the PHP so
now within those quotes where it did say
style that CSS you've now replaced it
with whatever CSS file is keep in mind
if CSS file doesn't exist it's going to
not have a CSS right so you should
always set a default at the top of that
page we're just pretending that this is
your header file header.php say at the
top of that page go if explanation mark
means is not is that dollar sign CSS
file okay two rackets too close because
this one belongs to this one okay dollar
sign CSS file equals my default taught
CSS okay end it with a semicolon to end
this statement so at the very top of a
hetero HP now it says if CSS file has
not been declared because it is not set
okay then set a default which is CSS
file equals my default CSS or it might
be style dot CSS so then that way you're
in fact not having to go through every
single page and specify style that CSS
style that CSS style that CSS notice
that that one is your default and then
use overrides so in the case of page
number two and you want it to be my CSS
file dot CSS you would just specify
dollar sign CSS file as a strength that
would because it's declared it would be
included as your CSS file I hope that
all makes sense and I hope that helps a
meal cool is your question this is
category 5 technology TV and you will
find us online triple w category five
dot TV cool dude yeah alright it's
pressing onward and upward um this is
actually a
little plug little shout out um dear
Robbie and gang hoping you might wish to
give me a plug um who's from that was it
from 0 gadget with some good oh well if
it's from him then I guess we could go
right ahead yeah sorry so yes everyone's
favorite g-dubs jump w GG choke I can't
gwg yeah good book good with anyways um
his latest project android buffet live
we've taken small yet common podcast on
the android mobile alas live with an
audio only broadcast on ustream
broadcasting Monday night to ten PM
eastern eastern time I think anyways we
have the website which is Android buffet
dot-com yeah get over there for sure
check it out there you go gladly plug
this the android buffet podcast now he
makes mention of the ustream link for
the actual live broadcast but what I'll
say guru is put a link up on your main
website yeah and then people can find it
so visit android buffet calm and it's
you'll find it as android buffet on
ustream as well there you go but very
cool i hope that goes well for you man
and looking forward to to seeing an
episode i can't wait to see one of the
recordings unfortunately Monday night
ten o'clock what show are you watching
Robbie at ten o'clock on a monday night
when i get up at six a.m. on a tuesday
and i work through until until you know
i'm still I'm still here and i'll be
here after the show doing the notes and
the files so the long day for me guru i
unfortunately will miss the live
broadcast but will have our revenge you
will watch a pre-recorded version of my
show and I will watch a pre-recorded
version of your show how's that yeah
that's a deal thank you thanks and good
luck with that yeah hope it goes well
and I hope you have fun one of the
tricks I found two doing broadcasting of
this nature is you just keep plowing
through I think the live nature of
category five and
the live nature of what you're doing
guru is going to really push you to
become a better broadcaster and that's
not to say that you're not a great
broadcaster I'm just saying that's it's
a platform for you to now really begin
articulating as your thoughts on the fly
and that's a that's an amazing thing to
be able to to do and that's why found
anyways with category 5 I used to do I
don't know if you guys know this or not
but category 5 actually started in 2005
we didn't actually broadcast our first
live episode until two thousand seven so
for two years we were creating videos
that were going on YouTube and stuff and
you probably won't find them because
they were under a different name there
were screencasts and things like that
but so with those videos it was a little
different so I have that experience of
pre-recording using a script doing that
kind of stuff and real and then the
post-production nightmare I think hope
he will agree with me I mean because
when a boon to UK podcast was starting
up and i suggest you to also check them
out hope you would it would attest that
it was tough because they would sit down
and they would record the whole thing
and you do couple takes of everything
and they need to have to edit it all
down and create the actual audio and it
becomes this massive task when it
becomes live like this there's no
post-production if you don't believe me
watch live and then watch the recording
after the fact it's the same it's the
same thing if I I have to be really
careful I don't burp I'll just be
embarrassing that's the beauty like
television no problem gonna happen you
just don't know and yet i'm drinking
Perrier today it is carbonated you can
see that they can't see that I only
drink Perry a hurry it's on his rider
how do I just came across it in the
store and it's like flavored with fruit
juice whatever it's on your rider I know
the truth like I have a rider yeah all i
want is hello on is coffee yeah can you
pick out the red ones somebody else eat
the red ones i do sloppy seconds hmm
celebrities i tell ya we're the worst
bunch
that's so prideful and arrogant oh
sheesh yeah okay well what else you got
um well it's pretty it's pretty near
time for the news I would say I
understand it's just news time is
everybody ready for the news to work our
way into the news space fish will float
around the tank anytime you're ready
Google's 12.5 billion dollar deal for
motorola mobility business will hand
google substantial businesses that it
was previously flirted with but never
really committed to notably the business
of producing and selling its own
hardware for smartphones and tablets and
then designing and manufacturing of TV
set-top boxes used by cable providers
Google's unexpected bid to buy motorola
mobility intensifies its rivalry with
apple as both companies battle for the
lucrative smartphone market the
acquisition Google's biggest ever marks
a departure for the search company which
has always given its popular Android
software to phone makers but now will be
able to build the devices itself even
more crucial for google the motorola
purchase would give the company a giant
trove of the most coveted commodity in
the tech industry these days patent as
Motorola MOTO the motorola Owens over
17,000 patents relating to wireless
technologies that will expand Google's
patent holdings by more than eight times
wow crazy that is substantial hmm with
nintendo's sales plummeting investors
are urging the company to jump ship and
partner with Apple in an effort to
remain competitive Nintendo which gain
mass popularity in the 80s is staggering
behind the video game industry due to
overwhelming competition from facebook
and apple iphone nintendo president
satoru iwata is being urged by the
brands investors to partner with apple
in order to prevent the multinational
corporation from losing market
share2 new competitors a lot awadhi the
president however said he has no
intention of producing atento games for
any products except its own but with the
underwhelming sales of the Nintendo 3ds
investors are encouraging a Wadi to
reconsider his release strategy which
involves lowering prices of existing
product offerings in order to attempt a
comeback hmm that sounds like dangerous
ground to be on I know like investors
would say hey get out seriously yeah
seriously the US military scientists
have lost contact with an unnamed
hypersonic experimental aircraft on a
second test flight officials have said
the Falcon hypersonic test vehicle to
HTV to successfully separated from its
rocket but lost contact shortly on to
its glide phase space fish what have you
done it is I see it oh boy the plane is
designed to travel at Mach 20 or 20
times the speed of sound the Falcon
project is part of the US Defense
Department's plans to develop a rapid
strike weapons system a hypersonic plane
could potentially enable the US military
to hit targets anywhere in the world in
under an hour wow that's where I shuttle
program has done got us in space
understood the van on the sale of
Samsung's Galaxy Tab 10.1 across Europe
has been temporarily lifted while a
court looks at whether the original
ruling was appropriate the band was
brought in Germany brought up Germany
following a patent dispute with Apple it
accused Samsung of slavishly copying the
design of the time pad but questions
were raised over whether the dussel Dorf
court had the right to instigate an EU
went an eu-wide band all across the
European Union Apple is also facing
accusations that the document that held
to gain the original injunction on sales
of the galaxy tab in Europe appears to
misrepresent the devices similarity to
the iPad
a side-by-side comparison of the two
tablets features a squash pitcher of the
galaxy tab making it look identical in
size and shape the galaxy's Australian
release has been delayed because of a
similar lawsuits example guys supposed
to know how to work with photo
manipulation hey seriously I'm not
saying a word mmm pressing onward
telescopes looking for an
extraterrestrial intelligence should
reopen within a few weeks after donors
replaced income loss in public funding
cuts the search for extraterrestrial
intelligence seti institute how to shut
the 30 million dollar or 18 point three
million dollar path or million-dollar
pounds million pounds the Allen
telescope array in April so that stinks
oh shut down donors include an actress
you may know Jodie Foster who raised
more than two hundred thousand dollars
the 42 radio telescopes in Northern
California search for space potential
signals from alien life-forms hmm space
fish no no no no miss Foster was one of
more than 2,400 people who contributed
to the overall fun to save the Allen
telescope array she played the lead role
as an astronomer looking for evidence of
aliens in the 1997 film contact maybe
you've seen it maybe you haven't any way
you can get these full stories online
our website category 5 DV / newsroom the
category five dot TV news room is
researched by boy w Nash with
contributions from our fabulous
community of viewers if you have an
incredible story you think's worthy of
honor mention send us an email at news
your category 5 TV I know invisible
mutant did and we thank you for that so
from the category five dock TV news room
I'm Hillary Rumble Hillary thank you so
much the category five technology TV
newsroom tonight is brought to you by
pogoplug cat five dot TV / pogoplug and
planet calypso cat five dot TV / Calypso
have you ever wanted to grace the cover
of a magazine um yeah but there you go
of a magazine now you can with the GNU
image manipulation program awesome I
hope that that was vaisya enough Fosbury
based pretty base we're using this new
console today not to get sidetracked but
music pro sent this our way thanks music
pro 10 input to bus mixer it's behringer
it's as nx100 to be and that's what
we're broadcasting through tonight and
that's because all the other craziness
that we've gone through with the issues
with the microphones and all the
swapping of liars and finally we thought
we had a good wire and they they were
weak and it broke the mixer it broke the
mixer our phantom power supply blew out
this is a phantom mike as you know so
anyways so they said okay well here take
this we're gonna get the other one fixed
up and we'll figure it out but so this
is what we're using tonight it's kinda
nice beauty it's kind of nice i think so
i think i will twitpic a picture of what
the what the mixer actually looks like
here we go and for those who maybe don't
know what a twit pic is you should get
on the twitter not twitter just kidding
twitter com people are like the Twitter
the Twitter machine yeah and I hate to
zoom in but there is my twitter handle
so if you would like to follow me on
twitter this picture is just about to go
up and make sure you follow Robbie
Ferguson on Twitter easy that's me now
you'll know what we're talking about and
you're gonna love some of the the
ornament ornamentations here it's pretty
pretty pretty nice I'm thinking about
the Star Trek
start there you go it's up check out
twitter.com / Robbie Ferguson yeah you
don't see that I don't know what I'm
looking at oh yeah viewers will know
viewers will not you'll know when you
know mmm when you follow me on twitter
there you go Katie it'll also go up on
our homepage category five dot TV as
well because we have a twitpic
application on the left-hand side there
alright so i was saying magazine covers
yes my dream come true to be on a
magazine GNU image manipulation program
is a fabulous image editor that is
absolutely free to download to use to
install to share to send to your mom
whatever you want to do it's free for
you ok GI MP dot org or gimp as some may
say by my beer gap well are you talking
about my hair ear perrier at room
temperature green Eminem's um gimp yeah
there it is beauti beautiful go down
ways down the page this is gimp.org
downloads for unix windows mac OS 10
it's free go grab it okay so now that
you've got that installed because that's
literally how long it took let's get it
let's get a picture what we're gonna do
I've got a camera all set up and ready
for us we're gonna get ourselves to to
grace this wonderful magazine called
category 5 g's come true wonderful it's
what you've always wanted it is being on
category 5 was one of my dreams there it
is check that off and now magazine this
red letter day it's a red letter day
okay so let's take a picture that this
is this is gonna grace the cover of
amazing I don't know what to do you
don't know what to do well we're gonna
use have a picture taken here we go
you're kind of blocked by the by the
thing there Murph weekend ok I'll this
practice my face this is like um there
we go photo ok so we've got the nice
backdrop that's gonna do nicely on our
on our magazine cover this is the
category 5 magazine which I hear they're
actually producing in the UK can we get
a copy if you know something about that
pop me an email and let me know what
what the deal is and what what you need
us to do but here will help you out by
creating a cover for you ok so back to
back i think is probably the way to do
this I agree ok big smile yeah mm-hmm
come on camera yea big smile yeah
alright this this is gold guys there we
go oh what the okay well I'll share that
one with you but it won't be it won't be
the one for the magazine cover come on
smile okay okay a true smile for our
wonderful category 5 magazine waiting
yeah okay oh that's not so bad I look
like a bit of a dork this is what you're
gonna run them to this is exactly what
you're gonna run into do you know what
the last me who has space fish in it so
that's good I look started how long do
we here all night yep exactly this is
what the show is all about okay how's
that one it's good is that good for our
cover okay except alright so let's let's
get out of that so we have our photo
after here's our photo link photo
session we are now ready to move on to
the next stage thank you d man 810 who
makes a keen observation that Robbie
looks like a dork wait he said never
looks like a dork oh did he say never
yeah oh no it was a cop that's not true
ok so I'm gonna I'm just gonna grab this
now that I've got that photo taken
perfect
okay let's see what we can do by night
yeah this is gonna be fun so fix that
will be our last picture I think or one
of the last pictures that we took let's
see oh no not now that's definitely not
done I look sad when you're definitely
stunned okay no false know is that the
one okay now with the GIMP we're gonna
right click on the image and go open
with GIMP image editor you're gonna be
able to that in Windows whatever can you
right click on a mac poem actually you
can I figured out how to do that with
with your max key oh you just install a
USB mouse wireless oh not figurative
remoting that I'm not promoting anything
I'm indifferent yeah you've never used a
mac are you talking about onward and
that first okay so this is my big debut
no magazine here we go typesetting and
I'm so excited I am getting her set up
barely handle it knowing it is content
once we get the cover I'll wait is
content what are we gonna write about
well that's up to the guys in the UK Oh
absolute wonder what they write I have
no I write like our tweets are like all
of my fights Joe just a book about our
chase there you go all my one-liners who
knows a magazine cover is generally
gonna be eight and a half inches wide by
11 inches high true right it's a piece
of paper so what we want to do is we
want to crop out this image in such a
way that it's going to work with in that
proportion so I've created a marquee
using the square marquee the rectangular
select tool and you can resize that move
it around and we want it to fit within
the proportions of eight and a half by
11 so I'd say that's pretty close I'm
going to right-click I'm going to go
image crop to selection and I'm going to
go image scale image and let's see how
much this is actually in pixel there in
inches pardon me so 35 38 so now let's
this is for print remember so let's do
300
good dpi pixels per inch or dots per
inch at 300 that's your your your normal
quality for print that's really
generally what you want to be using now
in this case our camera doesn't quite
get us there to 300 DPI the way that I
can see that is that when I set it to
300 it's not eight and a half by 11 so
what I'm going to do is I'm going to
slowly click the down arrow here and I'm
going to bring this down until either
the width reaches eight and a half or
the height reaches 11 and you'll see
this is set to inches okay I'm going
down those are proportional that's what
this guy does and decrease in the
resolution until we get eight there's
eight and a half and now we need to
reach 11 there we go okay so that's
perfect so we've got eight point six
four three by 11 our resolution is 252
and we're going to change our
interpolation to sink its going to just
resize the image we won't notice a
difference because really the image is
the same size a little bit different but
the resolution is ready for print so now
I'm going to switch back to what I've
done is image canvas size ok now we're
not doing image size we're not resizing
the image we're resizing just the size
of the image not actually shrinking it
down or we're only gonna we're going to
crop basically we're going to change the
size of the the canvas ok so I'm going
to unselect this chain link which makes
it so that it's proportional because
then if I change this to 8.5 then my 11
all of a sudden becomes 10 so that's no
good so what I want to do is I want to
unlink that and I want to go 8.5 x 11 ok
and then I hit center so that it's
enters the image within that eight and a
half by 11 I go resize and it's actually
just cropped in those edges ever so
slightly you can see here it's like it's
just a couple of pixels on the edge ok
next up what we're going to need is
you're going to need a logo for your
your magazine in our case we've got a
mate because krista made us a wonderful
logo for
beauty for the show so I'm gonna grab
that off of our trusty network awesome
mm-hmm I'm just going to use the word
mark here so here we go so I'm going to
grab that I'm going to open it with the
GIMP now observe the width of this image
is because it's a very high resolution
at six seven thousand 629 wide ok so
this much wider than our image which is
to 142 so let's actually resize this
logo remember don't ever save over top
of your master what did I say that was
to 142 so this one I want to make it a
little bit less than that so this is
proportional to one to one let's do 30
okay just so it's a little bit smaller
than the actual size remember that it's
sink it's going to give us better
interpolation better quality ok now i
control a to highlight all control C to
put it in my clipboard and then go back
to this canvas control V and now it's
part of that image but I want to right
click and go that's weird how it centers
layer new layer now in our layers pain
we have these two layers one of them is
our background one of them is our word
mark let's select our word mark I'm
going to go to the move layer right here
move tool I'm going to single click
outside of the layer and then use the
shift up arrow to move it up ok and I'm
going to put it right about there ok now
I'm going to turn off that layer so now
it looks like that I'm going to select
my background layer and I'm going to
grab this lasso tool ok we're going to
zoom in on our image i'm not going to do
this using the computer zoom the screen
zoom instead i'm going to actually hit
shift plus i'm zooming weigh in on our
image so that we get right in there
you can see all my acne ok now I'm going
to enable the logo and I see that it
comes down to about here on my head so
I'm going to disable it i'm going to
start just below where the logo begins
and I've single clicked now you see that
Marky it's created a line i'm going to
click click click on the shape of my
head and it's creating a nice marquee
around my head thing that brought this
up as you as you'll see is that we
actually have some desktop wallpaper
available that look similar to a
magazine cover and viewers have been
emailing and saying hey how do we how do
we actually do that can you do a
tutorial so here we go so you see what
I'm doing is I'm click click click so
that I get this nice marquee basically
clicking there click there click there
click there click there let's turn back
on our logo we don't need to go any
further down I'm going to grab this and
go across to Hillary where we're gonna
touch your hair there oh you've got a
straight one right there just so you
know maybe you just fix that one I saw
there ok now I'm not gonna get too
precise with the hair because we don't
need to be that incredibly precise with
it not with those flyaways we don't not
with those little ones yeah you got I
have a few of those two you just
couldn't see them ok see what I'm doing
is I'm kind of going around it and
making some little points and stuff to
make it so that looks like I've traced
around your hair nice okay turn back on
the logo see where it is see I'm still
in the logo okay so keep going keep
going there we go i think we're probably
out of the word mark now outside of our
logo so let's turn it back on yes okay
so now i'm going to go- okay be careful
that you don't click somewhere where
you're going to lose your marquee that
you just created i'm going to go see
where the the word mark is i'm going to
outside of that i'm clicking on that
that that that and then i'm going to
wrap it up at the side of my head now
we've got this perfect marquee that's
going just around our heads okay now
what we're going to do is we're going to
select the pasted layer which is our
logo we're going to right click and
we're going to go add layer mask and the
zoom in a little bit for those of you
who aren't in HD tonight add layer mask
I'm doing this to the word mark layer
our logo okay and it gives you some
options as to how do you want to apply
that layer mask and what we're going to
do is we're going to say selection
because that's what we've done we're
going to go ad and watch what happens
here instantaneously it's created a mask
which is that shape around our logo and
so it looks like that and now if I use
the Select tool to deselect we've got
that look that you see on that machine
code right so you're actually falling
the the words are actually behind our
heads as far as that goes we can
experiment a little bit with the opacity
of that layer you can choose some
different you can maybe screen it or you
know there may be an option that works
better depending on your back background
so what I'm doing is I'm changing the
layer mode depending on the background
that that you have behind you those will
work either better or not so good grain
merge to me looks pretty good because
see what you get is you can actually see
the drapes through the word mark and it
looks a little bit like they're actually
a part of the drapes okay so there's the
first bit of our magazine cover okay
let's switch our logo back to normal I
want it to be pretty vibrant I think
it's even though I think that looks cool
like for a magazine we need it to be
nice and bright so I'm going to sample
the color of our word mark which is that
Doppler tool right there color picker
I'm going to grab that green and now
you'll see that let's see i'm gonna i
have to select my logo layer first click
the green and you'll see that my
foreground color is now that green okay
change which layer I'm working with and
create a black layer I'm going to add
some text what should we say here
actually drag the text area here Robbie
Ferguson and Hilary Rumble describe how
easy it is to create a magazine covers
in the free GNU image manipulation
program there you go you don't have to
use my wording exactly whatever you come
up with increase my font size sink is
over here remember we're working in very
high resolution so I'm going to bring
that way up you see that text is
starting to grow into that image there
there it is okay see that so now we're
going to do what the what they do in the
magazines we're going to wrap around
that we're going to create a new layer
Nessie I've just created a marquee our
marquee is going to be transparent this
is a new layer this transparent but I've
already got a square there I'm going to
fill it with my background color which
as we know is the perfect match for the
green in our logo reorder those two
layers and now I've got that text right
on top of that green area so drag that
down a little bit oh my zoom wants to
Center everything I do there we go use
your arrows to nudge
when you have the move tool selected use
shift nudge to move it really really
quickly and you can see that we're
starting to get a real nice look to our
magazine cover any questions so pardon
me so far in the chat room no it almost
a lot of discussion cool cool all right
now I want to move that down but I don't
I want to move the text at the same time
so what I'm going to do is I'm actually
going to link these layers so I've
clicked on the chain link here the chain
link here so that's my text layer and my
green bar layer and now when i move that
green bar it's actually going to move
the text at the same time so i can put
that wherever I'd like to go okay so we
can do stuff like that no problem now
going to grab a new color it's going to
be white we're going to create new text
will put this down on the table don't
miss this week's episode or let's go
don't miss episode 204 timely c25 his
next piece right no 204 because that's
where we're actually doing the tutorial
so if anyone ever sees this graphic
they'll say hmm I can learn how to do
this because it's right there and learn
how it's done with free tools ok shrink
that font down a little bit there we go
nudge
and there we are what do you think I
love it real quick nitty-gritty you can
you can keep going and you can a lot of
magazine covers are going to have text
all around and they're going to have all
different information about the the
magazine but I think as a as a quick run
through using GNU image manipulation
program that gets you started this is
category 5 technology TV you'll find us
at triple w dot pardon me category five
dot TV maybe i'll let you talk while i
have a drink here cheers yes so please
check out our website you can watch this
episode and past episodes check us out
who are all about it's your first time
thanks for joining us and please please
come back again join us in the chat room
to there's lots of ways to get connected
we got the chat room we got the website
we've got Twitter oh the jealous just
goes on and on and now we have our
magazine cover you want to see one last
trick yeah I do just to really take this
to the next level bring it all just go
home okay real quickly square marquee
and go in how about there okay so i've
got this marquee that is basically the
center area of our image i'm gonna right
click go select feather this is a huge
image so let's feather it about 500
pixels ok because it's proportional
we're feathering out it's it's 20 100
pixels wide so that gives us a nice
feathered edge now right click select
invert so now it's the edge it's a frame
it's that's now selected highlight your
background layer so that's the image
create a new layer layer new layer
transparent select a color and make it
black and i'll go edit fill with your
foreground color which is the black okay
and now we start to see this kind of
effect so we're really coming out of the
page now bring down the opacity of that
layer a little bit we don't want it to
be stark black but now see what this see
this what this is doing this called a
vignette and this has given us that real
professional edge
that real professional touch to that
image and boom beauty okay real quick
free tools absolutely free go download
it gimp.org Windows Mac Linux it's free
you have no excuse sir or madam none
none yeah go get it your kids will love
it it's back to school time they need
free software image manipulation
software because kids love to be on
magazine covers I know I do yep I can
think of just one kid then kid right
here yeah all right that's pretty sweet
Wow I think you should I think you
should tweet that the picture yeah yeah
we'll put it up on our website and on
tour pic for sure after the show you can
download it if you like in high res put
it as your desktop background so you can
look at us all day there you go it'd be
kind of like square bar and if it would
then the next tutorial we're gonna have
to do is how to set your desktop
background not to stretch because we're
both going to be like okay well yeah how
to properly scale an image to create a
desktop back yeah exactly because I'm
envisioning our next screen grabs that
the viewers are going to send in and
that's what it's gonna look like I'm so
embarrassed I'll had a few too many hot
dogs today hey it's been fun having you
here hey thanks for being here yeah
we'll take off yeah it's so great to see
you you're you're back in town and camp
is done for the year so sure I don't
know i'm thinking we should just kind of
push in there that hey maybe you could
come back again very soon yeah fantastic
you heard her everybody so alright yeah
i'll see you guys again this isn't the
last to me you think you can get rid of
me but guess what you can't i'm still
here we can't whether you even when we
got rid of her she promised that she
wouldn't be gotten rid of I know so
tricked ya hahaha although it's way past
May you've stopped in a few times I know
I know we've missed you like crazy good
to have you back yeah thanks for
sticking it out for sure course no long
wait all right gang you have a fantastic
week Krista is going to be co-hosting
next week will be welcome welcoming her
back after her vacation and we'll see
you next Tuesday night I have a lot of
fun and check out our website category 5
TV you're going to find out all about
the new server which is parts are on
order we're very excited about that find
out about a post your comments at
category five dot TV have a fantastic
week see you next week
