hi and welcome to new every day I'm
Carrie and my name is jen and on stage
show we're talking about Jonah to and
what do you do when your slide
you've got mad skills now hone them
learn new skills or improve your
existing ones with online video
tutorials in training from Linda calm
through our special link at cat five dot
TV / Linda learn software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today to help you achieve your
professional goals join today and start
learning will give you this chance to
try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat5 dot TV / linda
okay welcome back to new everyday we're
so glad that you've tuned in again thank
you so much to all of our viewers
whether you're tuning in on from our
website new everyday TV or maybe you're
checking us out on youtube thank you so
much for tuning in we do also appreciate
your comments that you leave us on
Facebook feel free to check us out there
and leave a message for us we'll be sure
to get back to you and your app and the
stitcher app so you can now get our
podcasts on stitcher so you can listen
to us even without a Wi-Fi connection
very cool so Jen yes what do you mean by
slime when I think of slime I think in
this context that we've been talking
about Jonah to is twofold he is inside
the belly of a whale okay or a giant
fish and inside a stomach is slimy slimy
stuff like acids and what does
everything said things yeah so he's
covered literally covered in slime gross
stuff yeah but he's also covered in sin
because he's been running from God so
he's duly signed and so basically what
we want to look at today is we're gonna
read through Jonah to which is his
prayer to the Lord as he's been sitting
there we don't know exactly when he
praised this whether it's day 1 2 or 3
yeah hmm the fact that it it can it well
we could say it was day three and then
because he finally repented realizing
God's not going to kill me okay so he
finally repents day three and God says
okay or it could have been day one and
then um because it is a symbol also of
the New Testament when Jesus went and
was dead for three days and was risen
again so there's a symbolic some
symbolism thank you I was hoping you're
gonna make up a word jen is really good
at making up words I can't even remember
the one you did yesterday but it was
pouring out
came to mine was simple as sim symbology
she's actually really smart simple ology
could be the rest of the right context
right because Jesus died and was buried
in the grave for three days and then
rose again and just in the same way
Jonah essentially gets his life back yes
in this chapter after he prays in the
fish spews him out yes so so why don't
we read the chapter and we'll go from
there so this is chapter 2 i'm reading
it from the new century version page
1100 here we go go ahead while jonah was
inside the whale he prayed to the Lord
his God and said when I was in danger I
called to the Lord and he answered me
well I was about to die so I cried to
you and you heard my voice he threw me
into the sea down down into the deep sea
the water was all around me and your
powerful waves flowed over me I said I
was driven out of your presence but I
hope to see your Holy Temple again the
waters of the sea closed around my
throat the deep sea was all around me
seaweed was wrapped around my head when
I went down to where the mountain of the
sea start the mountains of the sea start
to rise I thought I was locked in this
prison forever but you saved me from the
pit of death My Lord my God when my life
had almost gone I remembered the lord I
pray to you and you heard my prayers in
your holy temple people who worship
useless idols give up their loyalty to
you but I will praise and thank you well
I give sacrifices to you and I will keep
my promises to you salvation comes from
the lord then the lord spoke to the fish
and the fish threw up Jonah onto the dry
land it vomited Jonah onto dry land is
that what your it says my version New
King James Version says that it vomited
him up onto dry land mm-hmm something
interesting here jen is this is like
Jonah's prayer
of repentance he's realizing that God is
God and it's only by His mercy that he's
going to live and get out of there and
he in this version says in verse chapter
2 verse 8 those who regard worthless
idols forsake their own mercy and
mercies capitalized in that he's calling
God mercy but I will sacrifice to you
with the voice of thanksgiving i will
pay what I have vowed salvation is of
the Lord so he knows that he's only
going to be saved by God's hand because
he realizes God spoke to the fish to
swallow him up yes which harkens got a
great new king heart heart word harkins
to win Jesus says I am the way the truth
and the life no man comes to the Father
except by me he's saying the same thing
that Jonah is saying right here
salvation only comes from the lord and
so often so many people think it's about
you know being a good person you know I
you know always lead to god if god is
all loving than always should lead to
him and it's very clear here that Jonah
is saying that salvation comes from the
lord mmm and Jesus echoes at and saying
I am the way so it's very interesting
that Jonah did not um turn to another
god no he returns to the Lord Almighty
right in order to make himself right and
that's you know one of the questions
that I asks about that I asks but I asks
about this text is what makes Jonah
think that he can actually talk to God
even though he's run from him right he
ran away from God he's caused all this
problem trouble trouble take a drink gin
he's caused all this trouble caused all
this trouble for other people yeah he
actually chooses to die right he says
pick me up and throw me in yeah he
didn't he wasn't counting on God to save
him he was not cat so and yet he turns
to God okay something causes him to
believe that God's gonna listen hmm so
what is it what is it that causes Jonah
so Jonah has run run run
yeah abdicated basically says kill them
is it desperation then that makes him
think that God is going to listen to him
because who else is he going to talk to
in the belly of a fish yeah it could be
desperation I'm also wondering and Emmy
get in it we keep alluding to chapter
four but he knows that God is merciful
yeah he calls him mercy right yeah and
the fact that he knows that if he is
truly repentant that God will listen to
him mm-hmm and the thing he does
remember his character yes he does know
who God is and that part in James where
it says come near to me and i will come
near to you like and throat um i believe
it's the book of haute Hosea that says
return to me so I think Jonah is very
aware of the Lord's character and so he
says I'm gonna go back to the Lord
because he does love me hmm he will
receive me because it I think sometimes
people think they've done too much I've
done too much there's no way God could
pause and possibly listen to my prayer
soon and that's where the enemy wants to
come in and cause all sorts of doubts
and any condemnation well this is too
big and that's a lie it's a lie from the
pit actually where it says he save you
from the pit of death there is never a
time when you cannot come to God there
is never a time even if you were covered
in slime and in the belly of a whale
there's never there's still the
opportunity I always think about the
thief on the cross when Jesus was
crucified it was between two thieves and
the one the one criminal was kind of
mocking him and saying if your God get
us down to you know off these crosses
and the other one said to date he said
Lord when you enter into your kingdom
will you remember me
and jesus said when I enter today you'll
be with me in paradise yes and it was he
was welcoming that thief in he you know
he had done what he had deserved to get
on the cross he even said so himself had
that thief deserved to be there he said
but this man Jesus does not deserve to
be here and that was his moment of
repentance of turning and saying when I
believe your God because he's saying I
know you're not from this world that
there's a kingdom outside of here so
will you let me in and even at that last
moment jesus said yes he had no
opportunity to earn his way he had no
opportunity to do any kind of righteous
act except have faith and believe now
you wanted to share a passage from
Psalms yeah what we were talking about
repentance and how sometimes you just
don't have the right words to say and
it's so wonderful in the Old Testament
in the book of psalms King David who
pretty much broke all ten of the Ten
Commandments almost yes yes when you
think about it yeah he provides a prayer
to God in Psalm 51 that I think is a
really great model for us to follow and
you can just pray these words right to
God using scripture and it's actually
called a prayer of repentance and it was
to the chief musician it was a psalm of
David when Nathan the Prophet went to
him after he had gone in and slept with
Bathsheba it was another man's wife
which is why he said he broke pretty
much hate me broke a lot of laws yes but
God had mercy on him and he was
repentant so I encourage you to read
through it verse 1 and 2 says have mercy
upon me O God according to your loving
kindness according to the multitude of
your tender mercies blot out my
transgressions wash me thoroughly from
my iniquity and cleanse me from my sin
verse 3 says for I acknowledge my
transgressions and my sin is always
before me he can't get away from it no
Jonah couldn't get away from it it was
right in front of him yes
against you you only have I sinned and
done this evil in your sight that you
may be found just when you speak and
blameless when you judge and it goes on
to say first ten asking God to reinstate
him create in me a clean heart O God and
renew a steadfast spirit within me do
not cast me away from your presence or
take your Holy Spirit from me restore to
me the joy of your salvation and upon me
and uphold me by your generous spirit
and then it goes on to say what he will
do and about how wonderful God is in His
mercy but it it gives you the words to
say to the Lord and these are the words
from God though it's perfect to speak
his words back to him yes I totally
agree and they'll note that i have
written beside the psalm says the
devil's trick is to magnify our sin we
have no problem remembering our sin and
there's Jonah in the belly of the whale
he sees his sin he knows exactly what
got him there and yet he is crying out
to the only one who can forgive him and
to rescue him and that's um one of the
coolest parts about this story is the
fact that God chooses to rescue Jonah
even though Jonah has totally muffed up
everything yeah like salvation comes
from the lord it's like he declares it I
can only be saved by you and I think
sometimes we need to claim that too yeah
or whatever situation room I think we
need to claim that the only way I can
get out of this Lord is by you is this
declaring to the heavenlies that God
saves yeah and then it says then the
Lord spoke to the fish which I love that
line and the fish threw up or vomited
Jonah onto the dry ground it was just
like God heard Jonah's prayer and spoke
to the fish
spit him out like here's your second
chance but yeah and I God is a God of
second chances yes and thirds and him I
was gonna say my life thirds and fourths
and fifths yay God yeah and that comes
up again and again in the Book of Jonah
God is so merciful hmm he is so merciful
and he loves us so much that they're you
know when we genuinely come back to him
i think i'm just being right of that
passage in Matthew versus how many times
must I forgive right Peter says that to
Jesus how many times like seven not and
Jesus is like no seventy times seven so
an infinite amount of times so no matter
how many times somebody comes to you you
forgive and I believe it was a mark of
how God forgives us mmm his forgiveness
and mercy are without end yep are
without end and it's like because I
think sometimes we can get caught up in
the fact I know I've said it before but
he won't forgive me this time yeah and
that's not true because sometimes we can
get caught up in those habitual sins
right and it just seems like there's no
way out and God still forgives God see
how forgives and it gets me every time
which is why I have a Kleenex in my hand
it's like hits traversée overwhelms me
there there's a song by Big Daddy weave
called redeemed
to be
here ed
you said me
I'll shake
and I learned her time I hear that song
I'm just get all weepy on the inside
because I am redeemed I am redeemed like
it we are redeemed by the blood of Jesus
who sets us free and we call on the name
of the Lord we will be saved and it has
nothing to do with how good we are right
and everything to do with how merciful
loving God is yeah I'm just like yay
there's a person in in Psalms that says
as far as the East is from the west so
far as he removed our transgressions
from us and for strong 19 says if we're
if we confess our sins he is faithful
and just to forgive our sins and cleanse
us from all unrighteousness yes he is
famous and it doesn't matter what pit
we're in yeah does not matter what pit
we find ourselves in a pit is a pit is a
pet is a pit and the Lord reaches down
there is no pity too dirty whether
that's divorce or maybe you've just had
an abortion or maybe you've just left
your wife or maybe you've just had a
fight with your parents or maybe you
just cheated on a test yeah whatever it
is God is able my god can meet all your
needs according to his glorious riches
in christ jesus that isn't just about
provision and looking after that is
about meeting our needs of forgiveness
and grace yeah and so Jonah recognizes
this you recognize it when my life has
almost been gone I remembered the Lord I
remember the Lord so as you said that
criminal on the cross right there's
nothing it's never too late it is never
never never too late people who worship
you but I will praise and thank you
while I give sacrifices to you yeah
after after Jesus rose from the dead he
met with the despite the disciples they
were out fishing and they saw Jesus it
became morning in the fishing all night
and they saw Jesus on the shore
essentially they recognize that it's him
eventually Peter jumps in swims to him
and he made the breakfast and he's
resurrected he's risen and he restores
Peter so when they Eddie this is um John
21 verse 15 so when they had eaten
breakfast jesus said to Simon Peter
Simon son of Jonah interesting not the
same Jonah it is interesting do you love
me more than these he said to him yes
Lord you know that I love you he said to
him feed my lambs and he asks him a
second time and a third time and Peter
denied Jesus three times but Jesus in
His grace reinstates Peter he restores
him restores the relationship and gives
him a job like you're not useless I'm
gonna build my church on you yes and
that is what God is doing here he is
giving Jonah a second chance because he
could have left him in the belly of the
whale and God had every right to leave
him there Jonah had repented at that
point he was at peace with God mm-hmm so
God could have said okay come with me
yeah and that could have been the end of
the story yeah but God God gives him a
second chance mm-hmm so it's not just
about repentance and you're done but
it's about repentance in the second
chance to do what God has called me to
do and now obey and now obey you know
Jen I was just thinking it's also
healthy to be able to confess our sins
to to the Lord we can go right to him we
don't have to go through a priest
anymore when Jesus died on the cross the
veil of the temple separating the part
of the temple where you could be in and
the Holy of Holies where the presence of
God was in the Old Testament in the
temple there was a thick curtain like it
was inches thick when Jesus died on the
cross it's supernatural eat or so that
it was symbolic in that when you came
into the temple you could be in the
presence of God and it says that we are
the Temple of the Holy Spirit and we can
come because of what Christ has done and
and have conversation and a relationship
with God but it is
all these sometimes to confess our sin
to other people and talk about it and I
know that when even when I have said
things to you Jan it's been so
restorative yes so a great resource is
actually focus on the family so focus on
the family CA is the Canadian branch of
it's an originally an American
organization and it is a ministry
focused on restoring of families and
providing hope and they also offer
counseling so if you need to talk to a
counselor and you can't afford it they
actually offer free counseling and you
can call and make an appointment with
them and I took advantage of this
service and it was great I really
benefited from it so if you if you want
to get in touch with them you can go to
their website which will be at the
bottom of the screen and you can
actually get in contact with the
counselor there they might also help get
you in touch with local resources which
is what they did for me so that you can
get connected to a local church or maybe
a local councillor yeah this chapter
reminds us that God is a God of second
chances he provides ways out like
whether you call focus on the family
which is a way out of you know help me
get back let me sort through or whether
he puts you in touch with a friend or
whether he just experienced his holy
spirit lifting that sin off and
receiving his forgiveness in His mercy
yeah God is able to cleanse us of the
slime yeah five cells in and give us a
second chance this is what we're going
to touch on for next week perfect and so
as we bring our our time together to a
close we're just going to ask the Lord
to remind us of his grace and His mercy
that is holy spirit that you would
experience as Holy Spirit drawing near
to you in a loving kind merciful way and
that you would feel that there is a way
out of whatever it is I whatever pit
that you find yourselves in today yeah
there is a way out God is able to save
you so
asian comes the Lord yeah when you turn
to him with repentance and faith yes
yeah shall we pray yes Lord salvation
comes from you and we are people who
need to be saved in so many different
ways so father we ask to the power of
your Holy Spirit that first and foremost
for those who do not know you yet that
you would save them from life without
you that you would restore them it's a
relationship with you and Lord for those
that know you but are struggling with
with sin whether it's habitual or not
lord I ask that they would call upon
your name and receive your mercy today
father we need you thank you for
rescuing us from the pit thank you for
giving us second chances thank you for
your love pray this is the mighty name
of Jesus for the power of the Holy
Spirit amen amen well thanks so much for
tuning in again we want to thank
category 5 for hosting for Rob thank you
to Robbie Ferguson our producer and
director thank you also to eco alkaline
they're the batteries that power cameras
and all the other equipment so you can
check us out on stitcher Facebook or our
website new everyday TV thanks for
tuning it and we'll see you next week
next week it is here's to no slime
slime free week too
you
