[Music]
tonight on category five technology TV
we're going to show you the poor man's
wireless microphone as far as that goes
now as you can see I'm an awful distance
away from the camera a wireless
microphone can cost two three hundred
dollars and you may receive some
interference a little bit of some
strange anomalies in the sound but as
you can hear tonight even though I'm
probably a good couple hundred feet away
from the camera you can hear me just
fine
completely wireless nothing to be seen
and as far as Wireless goes I'm not
actually using a wireless pack but this
is great for conducting interviews if
you need to do something in the field
and you want to be flexible you want to
be able to move around here's an
opportunity to do that so with a
wireless pack costing in and around two
hundred to three hundred dollars what
could this possibly cost sounds great
what if I told you it was five dollars
that's why it's the poor man's
microphone pack and I'm about to show
you as we head back into the studio
exactly how this works you're gonna be
amazed at how simple this is it's almost
like a life hack if you will because it
is just so unbelievably simple and we
see videos that promote you know buying
a zoom recorder and a lapel microphone
and then sticking the zoom in your
pocket and things like that as I
mentioned there in the video just before
the show that I recorded you can buy a
wireless mic pack that will connect to
your camera and it's several hundred
dollars and then you're susceptible to
interference and everything else so a
lot of times what we'll do is we'll
stick a lapel on or we'll use a hidden
microphone and stick a recorder in our
pocket but what is true about 2017 that
was not true five years ago or ten years
ago especially it was 2018 right 2018
that's right what is true what do we all
have in our pocket do we all have a zoom
recorder no what do we have
we've got our smartphones so do you
remember how phonic we had them on the
show just a few weeks ago it is good
yeah so check this out so this this
program here well hey this was Walmart
thanks dear great time yeah I'm on the
air I might want to just kind of like
tell her to like quiet down over here
hey darling mute I hate Facebook like
we're live on the air and this is like
that's what that's what happens amazing
I am so glad she didn't send me some
sweet muffins
do you remember a phonic I do remember
how do we get off track I don't even
know a phonic is an audio tool that we
showed on the show check it out on our
past episodes do a quick search for a
phonic on our website and they actually
have an app let's bring it up on your
screen so that you can see it look at
that okay it's the most simple thing hey
please add recordings sweet okay so we
all have a smart phone in our pocket
with the off phonic app which is
available for free it doubles as a
recorder nice high end one at that now
if you've got the new iPhone sorry
you're out of luck but my Android device
has a headphone jack combination
microphone jack sorry they don't know
okay they're combined into the yeah one
Jack right so depending on what you plug
in is what it does so let's get a quick
overhead view and for under five dollars
and the link is cap five dot TV slash
lapel for less than five dollars you can
pick up this cheap little mic that that
over as you heard on Y there you go as
you heard there in my demo it actually
sounds pretty good so this microphone
simply plugs into our off phonic
recorder which is available for your
device as long as you've got this
microphone input on your device and then
we simply hit record and when we do you
can see that the levels on a phonic are
starting to move as I speak and I can
hit record and there we go it's
recording my audio so this is a trick
that
we've used for years in video production
which is to have a separate audio source
to the video so home home users we tend
to think about the audio needs to come
from the camera res / here tonight our
microphones are not at all connected to
the camera the camera is strictly video
and our microphones go in through an
audio processor into the same computer
so for you if you're producing video you
use this to record your audio and then
you use your video camera to record the
video and then afterwards you simply
sync up the audio and then you end up
with what you saw there in my
demonstration video so sounds fantastic
it's nice and close so we can get this
right on so in my case I had it clipped
on to my shirt here with my coat over
top of it which screens some of the wind
noise and again this microphone is
available for under five dollars that's
crazy
and I do recommend that you check out
the all phonic app check this out it's
nice and simple it's still recording and
as I talk into the microphone it's like
that and as you know from ionic and I
think I just lost connection oh there we
go can it's wirelessly connected
obviously I don't have any wires going
here so there you go so then I hit pause
and then I can hit save recording there
and it'll just save to my my filesystem
and that's what it looks like and then
in order to actually use it I need to
save to file or in my case what I like
to do is I share and when I share I
share it to my Google Drive right and
then I've got access to it from all my
devices and I can bring it up on my
computer and so on and I don't have to
connect anything to my phone so that's
pretty brilliant
so one thing to be aware of this though
is if you do have a large audio file
before you share to your Google Drive or
something you might want to be on Wi-Fi
you might want to be but I mean it's a
WAV file it's audio only it's not HD
video coming off of that so it's not
really big so my demonstration today
including all the shenanigans getting
everything set up was 90 megabytes yes
and that's not that but if somebody's
got say like a one gig plan sure yeah
you want to use Wi-Fi if you've got it
for sure absolutely good point so check
out the a phonic app it's called a
phonic edit it's available in your App
Store for any of your devices check it
out it's a great recorder and it also
incidentally connects to your off onic
account if you've got it set up to do so
and
then you can automatically process the
audio just like you saw but you'll do it
from your phone so all of the levels
will get matched up everything will get
nice and clean for you and then it will
sound absolutely fantastic in our case I
import it into my video editor and then
I run a trough onic anyways so it's
fantastic for less than the price of a
latte we just solved the problem of
being able to walk a hundred meters away
from my camera and still pick up perfect
crystal-clear audio that will later be
dubbed in and edited into to match up
with the video
[Applause]
you
