here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
google has released an AI toolkit for
the Raspberry Pi thanks to new
regulations cell phone unlocking is now
free in Canada a ridiculously dangerous
bug in Mac OS was fixed quickly but
unfortunately comes right back after a
software update and messy Facebook
Messenger is coming to preteens should
parents be concerned these stories are
coming right up don't go anywhere
Jeff Westen Gemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what are you
ok you're terrible actor
what this where acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay are you
building a really cool website are you
building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cat5 dot TV slash
DreamHost to sign up for unlimited web
hosting for your website with unlimited
email accounts MySQL databases the
latest version of PHP WordPress and more
and even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat 5 TV slash DreamHost
this
is the category 5 TV newsroom covering
the week's top tech stories with a
slight linux bias I'm Sacha Rickman and
here the top stories were following this
week Google has announced the aiy vision
kit opening up a new way for
raspberry-pi users to access its AI
tools the kit comprises a low-power
Intel Nvidia s' ma 2450 circuit board
and computer vision software that can be
connected onto an existing Raspberry Pi
computer and camera modules this circuit
board provides the ability to run neural
networks on the device rather than
having to add on an external source for
the process for processing the data or
using a cloud processing system the
software includes access to three neural
network models one to recognize objects
who want to recognize faces and human
facial expressions and a third that can
identify the difference between a human
a cat and a dog Google said it's aiy
vision kit could be used for a whole
range of applications including
identifying plants and the individual
species monitoring where your dog is in
your home seeing when your car left the
driveway and recognizing emotion for
example whether your guests liked your
home decor this is the second product
released in the aiy line by google it's
a iy voice kit was released in May and
enables Raspberry Pi developers to build
a standalone voice recognition system
using Google Assistant users can also
add their own voice recognition and
natural language processing to projects
so that's good I like it
sounds cool now first of all I'm kind of
giggling over here because I I hate to
grammar police my own no you didn't do
anything
but we said we said in the story that it
will recognize humans cats and dogs I
thought immediately of it looking at a
plant and thinking what on earth is that
can you imagine though being able to
create your own artificial intelligence
based on this right so we've got
Raspberry Pi we've got all the you know
technology available at our
at an affordable price but see the one
thing about this story that I'm
struggling with a little bit is the fact
that it's about recognizing emotions
right look in human is this not like a
privacy violation like if somebody comes
over to your house is like hey come on
over for coffee and they come over and
they're like oh I love your walls
suddenly your Raspberry Pi programmed a
liar you know it's now like listening to
your conversation and creating a bit of
a profiles what's good like is that a
violated privacy toolkit yeah not really
is it your phone always listening to you
anyhow yeah couldn't now just to put a
like a medical helpful cool idea use for
technology could it help someone with
Asperger's if that was the case right
okay right truthfully it could help with
a myriad of different health problems in
the fact that now it's watching if you
can watch where your dog is in the house
you can watch where your elderly parents
is in the house if they if they have you
know Alzheimer's and they wander you
know right so but backing up again
remember this is a toolkit so this is
something that we can develop our own
technology based on the toolkit that's
made available so now I can create my
own robot that can kind of you know
interact with me and my kids could you
create a lie detector baby well as well
as could I look you in the eyes and
determine that you're lying they've said
they say what is it if if they look to
the right or something like that yeah
but here's not suddenly I'm having this
like brainwave I feel like there needs
to be a little light bulb graphic above
my head we should like do this as a
project on a show and have the AI just
listen to our shows every week yeah to
start developing as an assistant for
what a greater yeah just to see how it
turns out since from Robbie's emotions
that he would like another coffee or the
next news story right
Wow effective immediately
cellphone unlocking is now free in
Canada prior to this carriers such as
Rogers Telus and Bell could charge you
$50 to unlock your phone that's no
longer the case on top of that devices
must also be sold unlocked as well
mm-hmm so why should you care it's
simple if your device is unlocked you
can take it to any carrier and get
serviced for it which means if your
current carrier isn't meeting your needs
it's too expensive or has horrible
customer service you can go elsewhere
easier on top of that you can switch
phones at will without being forced into
a new plan the change also means that
when you go overseas you can use a local
SIM card at a much lower price rather
than being charged be charged by your
cell phone carrier for expensive roaming
services all of this is great for the
consumer but likely bad news for cell
phone providers as they will now have to
up their game it if they want to retain
customers I love oh yeah right because
for the longest time my wife and I were
subscribers to a certain cell phone
provider and their customer service
suddenly became incredibly crappy so we
went to switch thankfully for my wife
she was at the end of her contract she
just signed for a new one
I just signed the contract six months
earlier so it cost me 50 bucks to get
out and I was like that's a whole other
can of worms when you start looking at
contracts but what here's the thing Jeff
what got you into that contract the new
phone it was the new phone
but see if it was unlocked I wouldn't
need a contract right because I could
just find that phone already unlocked
maybe online or something and then just
go to my carrier and be like hey I would
like to sign up like this potentially
could result in a lot of people not
doing contracts because they already
have an unlocked phone I'll give you an
example of how this benefits someone
like myself okay so I have my phone yes
you do which I unlocked so I bought the
unlock code for this phone because at
that time it was not free it was
commercial and then I unlocked it myself
so I can do that or
go to my service provider and have them
do it and pay them to do it they do it
so that you'll switch to them with a
phone from a competitor yes so in my
case I've unlocked this phone and I buy
pay-as-you-go service because I don't
use my cell phone like at all it's it's
for emergencies and for like if the
alarm goes off kind of thing right so
that's that's just me so I use I use
magicJack at home so I've got like I can
call anywhere in the world for free kind
of thing at least North America so with
I've got like such cheap services six
dollars and twenty five cents a month
and it gives me everything that I need
because I only use Wi-Fi and phone
service so I'm not cheap I'm just frugal
right and and then when I go to the
cottage so this happens you know I go to
the cottage and we want internet service
well my $6 and 25-cent
service does not have internet for me so
what I do is I take the SIM card out and
I go down to the local ISP and I get pay
as you go
internet right okay right that's right
different provider right so then they
sell me that it's $10 for the chip for
the SIM card right I pop it in here now
if I had a dual SIM phone I could just
have it in at all times and just use it
whenever I need it
but then pop it in and I've got LTE
internet mmhmm yeah Dave and I have an
unlocked phone we bring to Jamaica there
you go yes and do you buy SIM card while
you're there some card in Jamaica yeah
and I mean many people do that and now
it'll just be easier we had to pay to
unlock the phone as well but now now
they have two for free which actually
will up everybody's game I think for
customer service now that'll be how you
win customers would it be neat if we
lived in the world where you had to
provide good customer service in order
to get customers I will I will say my
cell phone company which I will not name
but controversially like most people
don't like them and I love them they
give me great service I wouldn't switch
from them even if I had the freedom to
which I don't cuz I'm locked any cell
phone company you're gonna have
who loved it in those who hate it
because they're huge right they're like
here in Canada we've got like Rogers
Bell tell us plus all there's maybe or
you could say firefighters like Rogers
and yeah you know you've got all this
kind of stuff going on but realistically
there are only a couple of major
providers so pretty much I think ballon
Rogers on most of the towers have to pay
rental fees and stuff I'm hoping that in
the end this somehow drops the price of
cellphone plans because of the
competition aspect because they are
unlocked because like I just got a text
today about my cell phone my wife and I
218 bucks for the month I am that's no
overages like yeah you'll have to buy
your phone outright right you might but
that's the way it's gonna work now we
were with a particular provider and we
were with them for a few years and we
weren't generally happy with the service
because at the cottage there was no
signal and this kind of stuff right but
they did have a rewards program
so with that rewards program at the end
of our contract we said okay what are
our options now we have all these reward
points we could buy a new phone with no
new contract so we bought a new lg phone
using our points I think we had to pay
like a $25 service fee for the like just
- they have to charge something kind of
thing like the hook up yeah no I didn't
even get the hook up I just bought the
phone and it would cost me 25 bucks for
the for the $200 phone so I used my
points and I got it and then I bought
the unlock code unlocked it and I put it
on pay as you go that's perfect so
imagine if you could use those points at
a provider who cannot lock that phone
and so you get it unlocked anyways so
now it's just it gives the consumer an
unbelievable amount of freedom that we
can now now we as the users can choose
you know what phone we use where we use
it I can buy a ShowMe phone if I want to
and I can use it on any of my providers
and you know or I can buy the one that
the provider selling if they've got a
promotion now this is it'll be more
competitive now this is a Canadian story
in that this is new to Canada are we
ahead of or behind there
the countries do most countries offer
unlocking for free or discounted price
good question yeah it'll be interesting
to find out comment below the foods just
saying the chat that the rules changed
in Chile in October what about the US
and Australia has this issue with the
the great story so let us know yeah we'd
be interested comment below or if you're
watching live you can even comment on
the on the feed right there in the IRC
Channel what about your country are you
having to pay to unlock your phone and
what kind of freedom does an unlocked
phone give to you now a comment came in
last week Britney Murray was asking
about specifically a route security bug
in Mac and while Jeff and I who said we
were gonna talk about it we're making
good buddy that's right the serious and
surprising route security bug in Mac OS
hi Sierra is back for some users shortly
after Apple declared it fixed the root
bug discovered last week allows anyone
to login or authenticate as a system
administrator on systems running Mac OS
High Sierra in many circumstances all
they need to do is simply type the
username root and leave the password
field blank the bug is so serious that
it drew an uncharacteristically strong
apology from Apple which said it's
customer customers deserve better after
Apple released a patch for the initial
bugs some users quickly discovered that
the security update caused file-sharing
functionality to break apple in turn
released a new version of the security
update that addressed that issue now
within just a few days this initial
wrinkle has been discovered users who
had not installed Mac OS ten point
thirteen point one and thus for running
a prior version of the OS when they
received the security update found that
installing ten point thirteen point one
resurfaced the bug Oh
and for these users the security update
can be installed again in fact it would
be automatically installed at some point
after updating to the new version of the
operating system
however the bug is not fixed in that
case until the user reboots their
computer many users do not reboot their
computer for days or even weeks at a
time and Apple support documentation did
not at first inform users that they
needed to reboot so some people may have
been left vulnerable without realizing
it the documentation has been updated
with the reboot step now what is this
windows I I reboot my computer all the
time system are you running every single
operating system running I run Windows
but it and I ran ok but thank you the
truth of the matter is I always turn my
computer off at the end of the day am I
the only one who does that well I think
Linux users Mac users alike we really
are used to the fact that when we run
updates we do not have to generally
reboot right yeah even if you don't in
that moment don't you at the end of your
usage period like I feel like doesn't it
draw a lot of power just to have your
computer just hanging out no like I've
got a 24 core dual CPU Z on under my
desk and I've got it set to go into a
suspended state when it's not in use and
and when it's in that suspended state it
wakes on land and comes back with the
movement of a mouse so yeah I just never
have to turn off why wouldn't you just
turn it off because then I got to wait
for it to boot and did I mention it is a
24 core dual CPU Z on the post alone
takes a little while yes yeah I don't
know well I I just don't understand I
guess maybe just because it's me and I
turn it off all the time
but oh sure now is Apple responsible
because they yeah let's let's get back
on track as we're focusing on the wrong
thing about rebooting our computers
so tried turning it off and on again
Apple did not tell people to reboot
their computer after so they
acknowledged the fact that there was a
problem they did release a fix they did
not give people the last step are they
now responsible for anybody who had
possibly were they responsible
originally for the very bug that made it
so people could log into their computer
by just typing root with no password
like again is this Microsoft Windows no
it's not you would expect better
security from Mac and I say that a
little tongue-in-cheek and people are
saying oh you why are you knocking
Windows with Windows if you hit
control-alt-delete type in administrator
and hit enter you will now be logged in
as the administrator use right so it's
it's ridiculous see but that's how you
can hack a computer I you know I hear
you ask the question session like is
Apple response well I guess to a certain
degree or maybe from a legal standpoint
the answer is yes but I also feel like
when it comes to computers there should
be a certain level of common sense like
you should always be a wit like it's a
computer it's not like it's a book it's
not like it's a you know a can opener
it's a computer there's a whole whack of
personal information on there you should
be thinking security minded from the
get-go and so things like that I feel
like to really be told --have done an
update you should probably restart your
computer should for most people I mean
less like Wahby said you're on linux
should just be common sense but Mac OS
is a UNIX based OS as well UNIX terrific
yes he was my wife's computer every time
we do an update and because she has a
Mac yeah it says you know it's right
this is a pop-up that says and I don't
know what operating system she's on I
I think it's Snow Leopard or something I
don't know but you know I don't touch
the thing but she was a Mac OS snow cone
she always gets a pop-up that says you
know it's recommended you restart the
computer and she does well right would
she if she didn't get that pop-up
restart the computer I I believe from
again what somehow we're back at
rebooting but I don't think it's the
users fault that Mac OS made it so that
someone can sit down at their computer
login as root without a password of
course this is not really gonna effect
home users right but unless you've got
SSH open but if you are in a corporate
environment a bunch of Mac's or maybe
you're just the graphic designer and
you've been you you sit in front of a
Mac and all of a sudden you know you
come into work on a Monday and it says I
did some updates over the weekend do you
want to reboot you're like no no I gotta
get at work right right and then Joe
Schmoe in the back finds out about this
bug and comes up to your computer and
logs in his route and well but see
here's here's the thing when Sasha was
reading the story initially I thought
this was the workaround with Mac where
you can go to the BIOS
I think it's called BIOS and Mac and
head to the to the terminal and there's
you can bring up a file wipe out a line
in the code and that wipes out the
passwords on your user accounts sure
because I had to do that on my wife's
Mac she we something happened the
password
didn't work and she was locked out and I
spent two hours going how do I get in
this thing yeah fine I looked up and up
on a forum and they're like oh you could
bypass the security this is so much more
serious because this is like this is not
CH routing into an OS and and going
through all those steps where you've
really got to be a pretty savvy user and
you have to do it this is strictly
typing in ro ot enter and now I have the
ability to do anything on that compare
so it's a little bit of a different case
because we think about two different
levels there's a real hacker or a really
good savvy computer user and the script
Kitty who just wants to cause damage and
found a way to be able to get root
access to somebody's Mac right so if you
have this version of the operating
system as a default you know you buy
your Mac you get these gonna say reboot
no no you just be aware like maybe put a
sticky note on your your package that
came with your computer so that if you
ever have to do a factory rear ability
on that specific version of the
operating system don't get caught in the
future that's right or just go to Linux
speaking of super savvy computer users
Facebook Messenger is coming to preteens
strictly speaking only those aged 13 and
over are allowed to you
Facebook but the prevention methods are
trivial meaning more than 20 million
under 13 year olds are thought to be
using the network
so on Monday Facebook launched its first
app tailored for young users
it's a ring-fence network that needs
parental approval before use and will
not the company has promised be used to
feed data for advertising messenger kids
is a simplified lockdown version of the
messaging app that Facebook currently
offers to those over 13 Lauren Cheng
product manager for messenger kids said
parents are increasingly allowing their
children to use tablets and smartphones
but often have questions and concerns
about how their kids use them and which
apps are appropriate if two children
want to be friends on messenger kids
that friendship has to be approved by a
parent for each child once confirmed to
be safe friends can do live video chats
and pictures and texts to each other
there will also be a library of kid
appropriate and specially chosen gifts
frames stickers masks and drawing tools
that lets them decorate content and
express their personalities approved
adults can also contact children through
the app but they will still get their
messages through the normal facebook
Messenger app messenger kids will of
course collect data the child's name the
content of the messages and typical
usage reports for how the app is used
Facebook will share that information
with third parties which must have data
protection policies that comply with
Coppa the Children's Online Privacy
Protection Act in the u.s. Facebook has
promised the data will not be used in
any way to power grown up Facebook
that's important the obvious commercial
benefit to this new app might be to
target ads to parents based on what
their kids are talking about or use what
was discussed in messenger kids to
target ads at target ads at teens as
they graduate into over 13 Facebook
neither of these things will happen
Facebook said that the app doesn't know
specifically how old the children
signing up are so users will not be
prompted to move onto Facebook when they
are old enough if a child does decide to
join full Facebook it will be a brand
new
count with no data carried over from
what was sat on messenger kids as
YouTube found out when videos with
disturbing content found their way onto
YouTube kids trying to make a child safe
space is difficult a minority of people
will always be looking for ways to get
around protections messenger kids is
initially available in the US on iOS and
will later come to other platforms Wow
I don't have kids but I'll tell you this
seems sort of scary territory for one I
want messenger kids because it sounds
like then I'm not gonna have to deal
with all the ads what's to stop me from
signing up do you need parental consent
ah dad well I was thinking as I was even
saying that what if its siblings does it
have to be separate parents that allow
children I think it's got to be just a
password protection or something like
that so again what it's not me from
signing up for you probably you probably
as a parent I'm guessing would have to
like sign some sort of a waiver or you
know scroll past the thing that you
don't actually read then click a box
this is yes I'm the authorized guardian
mmm something like that
but yeah okay so my kids are getting
into messaging apps right and so I have
spent hours upon hours searching
researching messenger apps I'm looking
for something that is going to have as
minimal footprint on my kids as possible
because I don't want them becoming a
marketing gimmick and I mean I was
listening we were talking about podcast
I think it was last week yeah and I
listened and I did listen to one podcast
about a month month and a half ago about
Facebook's tracking algorithms their AI
is so advanced that the creators of the
a I'm for Facebook no longer understand
what it does because it's surpassed the
programming abilities with 57,000
categories like if this is what Facebook
does for the adult version and they're
saying yes we're going to collect all
this information with the kids chat but
don't worry we're not going to use yeah
I've just about said a bad word I don't
believe it I don't believe it there's
like
you you IDs you need user ID so maybe
you don't it doesn't transfer the data
from the kids Facebook passenger to the
adult but are you still gonna recognize
the unique user ID because they're still
gonna be a device recognition to go oh
so we're not tracking it but we also
know that this profile was created on
that phone and that phone now has an
adult count and oh look at that
these two columns intersect I've got the
same name hey guess what we've now gotta
throw in all these categories yeah I
think what's hard too is that we look at
Facebook and they do not give anything
away for free no it's a free service I
data is a currency I I am NOT on board
with this I
I'm sorry Zuckerberg don't trust you as
far as I can throw you I don't buy it my
kids will not use this it's a hard thing
because when we were kids we'd pick up
the phone and we make a call these days
messaging applications FaceTime things
like that are what kids are using to
communicate texting is a big one when we
were kids our parents could hear one
side of the conversation so at least
there was a little bit of a Oh what is
it what are they talking about kind of
like censorship from the parents kind of
thing going on oh you you know you've
got to wrap up the call where nowadays
it's so intimate between the two kids
that you don't really know what's going
on it doesn't mention anything really
about parents being able to monitor that
would be ideal
yeah if there was like sort of you could
gift your child like a segment like a
kid segment of your account in that they
can communicate with their friends and
you oversee and make sure that
everything that's going on is
appropriate right and not scary that
would be okay with me yeah I would be
okay with mom and dad being big brothers
yeah not third parties yeah I don't know
I don't like it okay Sasha yeah you know
how much I don't want your grandma to be
replaced by that Gordon Ramsay robot
kitchen yeah I would rather see your
grandma replaced by the Gordon Ramsay
robot kitchen none of my kids use
Facebook Messenger app I can tell side
of my face yeah I'm sorry about that but
okay here's the one thing that Facebook
didn't talk about
they've got 27 different ad trackers
that are built into various websites so
how is that data going to interact with
the kids messaging app if they're using
it on a phone there was nothing in the
article about that saying we're not
going to use the web ad trackers and how
it's gonna relate to the kids message
travel I think there's too many facets
to this this is a conversation that is
going to go on for a while sorry I'm
just like comment below folks let us
know your thoughts we'd love to hear
them big topic we need all your
questions comments thoughts and concerns
on this we know Jeff's heavy panting
into the microphone you know at least
I've got one support I noticed on the
little chat ticker box the fools like
Jeff's nailed it so I've got one fan no
I agree I agree he's very passionate and
as the producer of the show I am very
thankful once again for our compressors
sorry w national community of viewers
for submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our web
site from the category-five TV newsroom
I'm Sasha Rickman
[Music]
[Applause]
