welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode number 526 so nice to
have you here and we are about to embark
on the installation of the operating
system for Sasha's gaming rig we've been
building this thing over the past nine
weeks really exciting tonight as we fire
it up for Rizzio for the first time
connected so that you can see the screen
and Sasha you are going to take over
that is right you'll be putting that
operating system in there we've got a
gaming operating system that's built
specifically for it all so tonight I'm
gonna be telling you how you can
download the full season 10
the entire season in HD video you wanna
stick around your top 5 of cap 5 you get
it free it's absolutely free download it
and the full season is yours just like
that
well cool here's what's coming up in the
category 5 TV newsroom an airplane
flying nearly half a kilometre in the
air was hit by a drone in Canada it's
easy to hack Subaru door locks using a
Raspberry Pi Windows 10 is under fire by
the Dutch Data Protection Authority
Android ransomware double Locker
encrypts data and changes pins and in
security news wpa2 has been cracked and
you need to hear about this if you use
Wi-Fi stick around the full details are
coming up later in the show
this is category 5 technology TV
[Music]
[Applause]
our live recordings of trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream wire cast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku
cody and other HLS video players for
local show times visit our website
category 5 TV TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 TV slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash ia IV welcome to the show my
name is Robby I'm Sasha
and I'm Jeff nice to have you here want
to say welcome to all of our new viewers
if you're watching on roku or cody or if
you're watching on Plex or through our
website category 5 TV or YouTube or even
on channel 33 in the high desert it's
nice to have you here last week we got
into it a little bit about Star Trek
versus the Orville's
yes and YouTube has blown up really yeah
really enjoying the comments there I'm
surprised that how many people are very
Pro Orval there's something on like me
were very much
Star Trek babies it inspired me to watch
it I've only watched one episode so far
I watched the first episode of the
revell I loved it
the Orval first episode loved it Star
Trek discovery first episode well didn't
necessarily keep you coming back that's
sure not to get back into it again
tonight but that's kind of the
conversation that's happening on our
YouTube channel head on over to Kat v
dot TV slash YouTube or if you want to
get their direct go to youtube.com and
just do a search for category v
technology TV speaking of this show now
we are in season 11 this is our third
episode of the season and that means
season 10 is a wrap and finally I mean
it takes time and it's huge
but the season 10 BitTorrent file is now
nice you can now download the entire
season and this time we've included
extras as well so behind the scenes
yeah so she's go chief was here and she
talked about her stand-up comedy
we've even in the extras included her
stand-up act as well so you can get that
if you go over to torrent dot category
five TV and I know what you're thinking
is anyone thinking it here I'm wondering
if you put in that video of me dancing
uh you'll just have to download it is I
thought that I what I was actually
thinking you might be thinking isn't
BitTorrent illegal not know exactly I
know that you know that's why you know I
knew it was it's it's sometimes what you
do with the files that you put up there
that's illegal ah
all right so category five technology TV
is a show on the category five TV
network and the category five TV network
is full of volunteers who just love to
bring you free family-friendly content
and part of that venture is to make sure
that you can get it as many ways as you
can one of those ways is through
BitTorrent him because we own the
copyrights to the files we have every
right to give it to you absolutely free
so head on over to torrent dot
category-five TV if you're into
BitTorrent you want to watch it
otherwise you can get onto our website
category five dot TV there are other
ways to watch including streaming on
demand off of our website there's a
great search engine there powered by Al
Golia we also have we also have RSS
feeds mm-hmm podcasters we're on podcast
addict we're on iTunes we're basically
anywhere you can aggregate shows we are
there if you want to add us to your
podcast aggregator and can't find it
just head on over to our website
category five dot TV and you'll see the
subscribe button to get the RSS feed and
most podcast aggregators can handle RSS
feeds that's how they get their content
so pretty cool stuff whole boil of the
story is just cat five is everywhere
taking over the world infiltrating your
TV sets you have a smart TV were there
you have a dumb TV stick around we'll be
right back whether you shop on thinkgeek
gearbest B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon
or even if you want a free trial of
audible you'll find the best deals and
support the shows we produce by simply
visiting the shopping sites you already
frequent by using the links on our
website visit category 5 TV slash
partners for the full and ever-growing
list and help us create more free
content like this show thank you for
shopping with our partners and thank you
for watching welcome back this is
category 5 technology TV welcome to the
show nice to have you here please get on
to our website category 5 TV go through
the community forum there say hello send
us your emails really appreciate
receiving the emails and as we get into
part 9 of Sasha
Rickman's sweet gaming rig built in that
Ardi Blair sent an email
widowed Rd playfully Rd Blair first of
all so nice to know that you're still
watching the show you've been around for
a long time and it is great to have you
joining us and thankfully saved the
universe by telling me hey didn't you
forget to install the 12 volt 8 pin
power cable which is the power cable for
the CPU and we did we've kind of were
running out of time last week and along
with that it's like okay put it together
and good or going and we fired it up
without the CPU so had we had HDMI
output going it would have just not
fired up now we had our but there was no
power to the CPU or at least it didn't
have its 12 volts that it that it
covered because it's such a powerful
little system so I put that on there
Thank You Rd Blair for pointing it out I
would have been noticed pretty quickly
but it could have been noticed on the
air would have set us back a little bit
this is real serious like team-build
this is a big thing and if you want to
be a part of the community bill even if
you're seeing this two years from now
it's okay go to cat 5 TV slash CPU 2 0 1
7 that's the year that we're
broadcasting it and it's a really it has
been it's been a community building
the selection of hardware to why we
selected it the pricing budgeting all
that stuff has been thanks to the
community and now as we get into this
tonight we're going to be setting up an
operating system that's recommended by
the community so how cool is that
let's get right into it okay first of
all I did a couple of things like this
power cable that Rd Blair mentioned off
the air just before the show so I
plugged that in the other thing that I
did is I plugged in this beautiful
Kingston HyperX savage harddrive this is
a no this is an SSD I should say to be
absolutely correct yeah so this SSG
Sascha is going to be your data drive so
we've got the MDOT two that you already
installed that is your OS drive right
and then we're gonna set up the SSD
because it's a terabyte drive it's
screaming fast it's beautiful and it is
going to hold all your data so it's got
a lot a lot more space cool
that's like game data your documents
your pictures and somebody said agamotto
was looking at it and saying why are you
going so overkill with things like the
RAM and things like the hard drive the
storage space I can understand the m2
but why are you getting the terabyte SSD
as well because it's pretty expensive
well the fact is we understand I
understand and the community understands
that Sasha's building this for Dave as a
gift her husband Dave and it's a sweet
gaming rig I'll give it that if it was
just a sweet gaming rig the m2 at 256
gigabytes is going to be perfectly fine
now right I understand though that as
your newlywed yeah this is not only your
gaming computer this is also your family
computer exactly this is the everything
this is everything so all of your family
photos and videos especially are going
to take up some space those kinds of
things are going to go on there so we
want to make sure that they're not only
ready for gaming and doing what they
need to do today but that we're ready
future ready we're ready to be able to
use this thing for the next 3-5 years
plus that's the hope so we're gonna get
into it tonight first of all now that
that's installed I've got to go through
kind of the BIOS setup so as I first
fire this thing up are we ready
yes ready are you ready yes okay it's
ready to go fire it up and what do we
find
Oh Republic of gamers beautiful I love
these boards so it's gonna go right into
the BIOS first and foremost and the
first thing I notice is that it's taking
me to the extreme Tweaker which gives me
this XMP feature in XMP of course is
extreme memory profile from a soos and
basically what that does is these
settings are going to allow me to set up
overclocking for you and Dave in such a
way that it's all automatic that's just
one of me that we need lots of cooling
and we have that so as you can see it's
now gonna do all the cores we've it's
detected our 2666 ram from Kingston
that's the fury RAM and everything is
kind of auto that means it's going to
automatically adjust the frequencies of
the RAM the CPU as it needs to in order
to make it as fast as possible so you
see it clocks at 4.2 gigahertz there
4200 megahertz but if I go back to
extreme Tweaker I can see that with the
overclocking it's gonna go up to 4,500
megahertz or 4.5 gigahertz okay so I'm
gonna save that setting so now we are
officially overclocked in the simplest
way possible and so showing me what it's
going to change can't get any simpler
than that and now it just booted a write
back into the BIOS so we need to look at
our boot devices and see that our boot
order is okay first of all so just
scroll down here I love the interface
this this BIOS utility from from
Republic of gamers looks great so I need
to disable see it's detecting the hard
drives the m2 there I'm gonna disable
and then I've got a disabled now let's
move that up I'm going to disable the
SATA drive as well so now I have no
drive selected for boot because we don't
want it to actually boot from that but I
noticed that it's not detected my USB
drive yet so I'm just gonna save that
and unplug that plug it back in let the
BIOS know that hey there's a USB Drive
so let's see what happens here
see if it'll be right up no went right
back in so here we go now I know that it
supports compatibility
ccsm is there oh and now you can see the
data traveller is a boot option so you
can see how that could get frustrating
if you don't know to look for this thing
I need to select that USB Drive as my
boot disk and then save and reboot here
we go
moment of truth overclock disable the
hard drives as boot devices they're
still detected and we've set it up to
boot from the USB and there it is the
familiar you've been to kind of loading
thing at the bottom there that's what
that is Sasha perfect thanks
so the distro that I've got here is
called Ubuntu game pack I was looking
for a gaming Linux distribution and this
is based on 1604 this is the LTS or
long-term support version of a boom -
which means it's supported until 2021 I
think or 2022 needless to say it's gonna
be supported for a good long time and
that means that you're not gonna have to
reinstall your operating system every
six months thank you which is good
that's a yes so then when that LTS cycle
is done we can just simply roll it up to
the next LTS beautiful that's a beauty
so this is Ubuntu Linux it's available
in Ubuntu comm but the particular flavor
that we've chosen is built specifically
for gamers gamers so it's optimized for
gaming it comes pre-installed with play
on Linux Lutra steam steam is something
that we really wanted to know of steam
is twitch on their twitch TV is
available through your browser so okay
so I suppose you could just bring it up
in chrome or chromium okay the area go
what else it's just it's got a ton of
stuff so this one is a spin-off of
Ubuntu and it's available at you a
linux.com
so Sasha that's all that I'm really
allowed to do I kind of want you to take
over and we want to see how quickly we
can do this and I see that it's it's
finished booting we're at this screen to
either try or install Ubuntu so if I
move the mouse over to you right and
we've and we've got a suite Gaming Mouse
and wireless gaming keyboard for them as
well
so are you ready for it cuz this is all
you there you go
I don't know that you're going to need
the keyboard but there it is okay put it
right in front so Sasha is in control
now and she's kind of like doing the I'm
gonna put it right up here so when I
bring it up on the screen Sasha can see
it oh okay TV in front of you there
Sasha so click on install Lubuntu
click it wait for it okay so do we want
to install third-party software for
graphics and Wi-Fi hardware flash link
III and other media absolutely so check
that off so that's gonna install like
your graphics drivers and things like
that well technically I mean it'll all
work so continue now you noticed
download updates while installing is is
not an available option that means that
our internet is not connected to this
particular computer right now so we can
run those updates down the road or a
little bit later it doesn't matter okay
come on now this is running from a USB
flash drive USB flash drives
traditionally are quite you know there's
they're not as slow as CD optical media
but they're a lot slower than once this
is installed on the computer so once
this is on the M - he's gonna be
screaming fast alright so next question
let's see if we can speed this up a
little bit there we go okay so what do
you want to do so yeah we want to erase
the disc do we want to encrypt it I
would say no to that cuz your desktop
computer use LVM absolutely because LVM
is going to allow us we've learned this
on the show before if you're not
familiar with LVM or you want to learn a
little bit more about it
it's it's amazing and it allows you to
run snapshots of your entire hard drive
so that you can do backups on the fly
without having to shut down yeah that is
perf that's one of the advantages so
head on over to our website category 5
dot TV do a quick search for LVM and
you're gonna get all the instructions on
how to do that so we're just gonna turn
that on because if we ever want it it's
a pain in the butt to switch to it so we
should I do this something else now
let's not do something else let's keep
it a you know keep it simple and what
does it want to do ok now up at the top
there we see that it's got a 240 gig
Kingston MDOT - can you click on that
drop down for me Sasha this just so we
can see if it's detected there and it's
also detected the the terabyte SSD so we
want to install this on the MDOT - so
that's the first drive the one that had
automatically selected and that is being
detected as s da so install now okay so
that drive as you can see is about a
quarter of the capacity of the the SSD
so we're gonna use those two together to
get the most blazing speed that we can
possibly get the most reliability it's
gonna go really really well excited yes
can you believe that that we're pretty
much now just okay it's asking do you
are you sure you want to continue
because what is this going to do if you
write to the disks you're going to wipe
out any data that's on there how much is
on there right now
well nothing nothing oh it's a pretty
system that you just built so you're
absolutely good to go but do keep in
mind if you're doing this on a
pre-existing installation you need to
think twice at that point and these are
time zone so New York no highlight
anymore
I just type in Toronto because that's
where we are we're just north of Toronto
about 50 minutes can you marry now you
can do it that way sure Oh what is there
another way well triple click and there
you go Toronto right up at the top Terry
Oh Canada
Oh like yeah you need to click it with
the mouse girl oh well well goodness
gracious this is how we learn
just press backspace once there you know
hey Gunther Anto okay there you go
uh Sascha is amazing with a mouse so
that this whole process to install
Lubuntu is about three minutes it's
gonna take about four hours race
yourself where are we at okay click
continue please you I know okay English
u.s. keyboard that's fine that's what
we're you okay so just couldn't continue
yeah okay go for the board so your name
well I don't know if you want to put the
right leave oh yeah that's true I could
put the Rickman's Rick
and then your computer name call it
Rickman would be fine and then pick a
username so Rickman all lowercase all
lowercase okay and then under choose
password I want you to enter one two
three
that sounds amazingly secure that's very
secure because it's a combination of a
word and some numbers no don't listen to
her listen to me don't do it
okay sorry you need to pick a password
we can you can use password one two
three four today because we can change
it down the road when we're not on the
air people okay let's just do that okay
it's gonna tell you that it is safe fair
that's nice
it's that password one two three yeah
all right everybody you can hack into
their computer no problem now this is
your home computer so you need to think
about this do you want to require your
password in order to turn it on no do
you want to just make it go right to the
day we can just make it go right to it
if this was your laptop I would say
absolutely you need that password I
probably would have opted for encryption
as well yeah but because this is your
desktop computer I mean unless someone
steals it from you but if that happens
it's not the worst thing let's be honest
I might steal this it's a beautiful
system I know this is our new broadcast
it's a pretty sweet rig I can log in
automatically
so it's an option because you're going
like crossover over here in the keyboard
I set it up over here I am NOT inside
here so okay so now it is going through
the installation processing see while
you were taking your sweet time there it
actually continued to install is that a
dinosaur squirrel that's a squirrel that
is definitely a squirrel okay I've never
seen a dinosaur with the tail that thick
and that long I've never seen a dinosaur
you see pictures
I see pictures of dinosaurs on green
screen on different cameras I was so
high-five you right now do the virtual
high five
yes as I bleed into the next frame
alright so that is installing we're
gonna take a really quick break while
that continues when we come back
hopefully everything is gone
smashingly well we're gonna be ready to
boot up into our brand new operating
system ubuntu what is it called gaming
pack game pack you into game pack it is
based on the goofy Linux stick around
were gonna be right back after this
you've got mad skills
now hone them learn new skills or
improve your existing ones with online
video tutorials and training from
lynda.com through our special link at
cat5 dot TV slash Linda learned software
technology creative and business skills
you can use today to help you achieve
your professional goals join today and
start learning we'll give you this
chance to try it absolutely free with
unlimited access to all of the courses
sign up now for free cat 5 dot TV slash
Linda this is category five technology
TV welcome back and tonight we are
digging into the installation of Sasha's
new operating system on her gaming rig
now Jeff you mentioned there's a
question that came in in the chat room
as we were on break there yeah so
Albuquerque turkey was watching and he
wanted to know did he see you turn off
secure boot you did not see me do that
okay what did he see okay did you did he
hear me when I mentioned that it has a
compatibility option so yes by us by
default is going to allow both UEFI and
legacy mode options so your devices are
either/or now in the BIOS you can select
just legacy mode which is probably what
we can do but by default fortunately for
us the default option is there and it
supports legacy or UEFI not not one or
the
so if you have this board you're having
trouble what does it mean what a secure
boot mean
so technically secure boot is still
enabled on this board secure boot UEFI
is like a technology mostly used by
Microsoft Windows that allows them to
make sure that I mean the the pretense
is that viruses can't get into your
bootloader right realistically it keeps
other operating systems from running on
your operating system on your computer
as well in our case we want to install
Linux so we need to be running in legacy
mode it can be installed in you AFI mode
but you can you know it's a much more
complicated so it's still enabled but
we're running with legacy mode as the
default option in the BIOS but check
those out there is there are options
there for the compatibility mode as well
as security settings under the boot menu
on this particular motherboard and this
motherboard sash maybe you can remind us
what it is that that you bought and
people say no you say it wrong it's ASIS
or something like that
years ago when I was building computers
as an OEM manufacturer this is years ago
so this is my first build in many years
I've been working with HP Lenovo and all
that for as long as I can remember so
when I worked with a seuss I talked to
them on the phone right and they called
themselves a Suze so that's that was how
I go right to the source right yes okay
so that's where that comes from okay so
I think that answers your question
Albuquerque Turkey thank you for sending
it in and we're ready to get back into
this I believe hold on before you do
that she's never finished her list or at
least where you could find a list oh
well the well the list is what the list
is on the actual cat five dot TV slash
CPU 2017 right yes yes that's where you
would find it yeah how we picked all
those Hardware pieces of hardware how
much it cost all that kind of stuff
that's awesome you can budget it and do
something similar if you like same
system just use a different password not
one two three yeah you got
one two no its password one two three
exclamation point oh is that it well no
that's not what mine is right now all
right so it is done Sasha all I need you
to do is click on restart Nair where am
i oh click on the mouse once because
it's gone to sleep it's a wireless mouse
don't know save power your wireless
mouse stops working and then you just
click it single click to to make it come
back there we go
we're rebooting now I wonder if this is
going to and don't worry about that
error message that has to do it looks
like a sound card driver okay so that's
not that's not a problem for us right
now we're in a live mode boot scenario
so hopefully that just reboots if not we
can do a hard boot it is running off the
live media oh let's try it okay I'm
gonna eject that you ready sash okay I'm
gonna hit reset blue screen blue screen
of death folks we just installed Windows
accident ok so what's gonna happen is it
going to boot from the hard drive no I
don't think it is I think we're gonna
end up in our BIOS again because we've
never set the bootloader yes that's my
order right so now let's go into and I'm
taking control here for a moment Sasha
into boot and you notice we have no hard
drives enabled but we installed that on
the first drive here
the 240 gig MDOT - ok so let's now save
that so that's let's just selecting it's
not turning on or turning off hard
drives it's just telling your BIOS which
drive do you want to boot from and
Alburquerque turkey for the sake of your
question these are the things that I was
talking about compatibility support
module so you can actually go in there
and you'll see that legacy op ROM is
selected and then there's UEFI and
legacy or UEFI only that's the setting
that you're asking about as far as UEFI
goes but as far as secure boot right
below that
it has defaulted to other OS and then
there's also Windows UEFI mode so even
though I didn't have to do that myself
it is selected before you go anywhere
crazy with that did you see on the right
hand side it has the temperature no it
has hardware monitor CPU temperature
Suite 3 see we can actually go into that
it's neat monitor let's see here
and watch what happens here no our
motherboard is 33 degrees C 36 on the VR
M oh when we show this to Dan can you
show him that oh yeah I feel chair
that's why it's so quiet it has been
spun down to 548 rotations per minute
our chassis fan is at 7:46
it is so quiet folks yeah you can't hear
a beautiful and that's all part of this
cue fan control which you can tweak if
you want to and that basically under
high load when you're gaming and things
are getting hot it starts spinning up
the fans to keep it cooler but already
like if you're gaming everything's up
loud anyway you wouldn't hear if the
computer blasts okay so I think we've
got everything kind of set where we want
it by selecting the boot the hard drive
as the boot drive and to be fair to sash
and I know I poked fun there does seem
to be a bit of interference on the mouse
Thank You Mouse so I hope that you're
not gonna have trouble with that at home
because how far is the mouse going to be
from the computer tower itself it's
wireless right so it's hit or miss if
it's 10 feet 10 feet yeah you're only
about 5 feet right now but I've got
another wireless mouse there plus my
phone plus right there's some shakes in
the way so yeah it's possible that that
post it on an angle does that matter
yeah oh yes oh I'm so pleased
I saw something flash and it said - boom
- this is this looks like a black screen
of death with that came right up now
video drivers are not running yet
because you can see how massive
everything is it looks like low
resolution like a little tablet or phone
screen something that so let's see if it
did actually load and
wouldn't any Nvidia drivers do I don't
see any hint that Nvidia is there so
there are some things and this is not a
tutorial on how to get Linux up and
running we've covered that so many times
before on the show what this is Sasha
has now built a gaming rig we know it's
got a beautiful Nvidia card in there it
is a super powerful video card that we
need to install the propriety
proprietary drivers for in order to get
the best performance so I'll do that for
you
thank you stuff that you don't have to
worry about but know that you've got to
go through those steps you've got it and
she's installed the operating system she
built the computer pretty much herself
from scratch from the parts that geoff
and i unboxed and there it is it's up
and running sash I think that's it what
do you think I love it so I'm gonna by
installing the graphics drivers we're
gonna have better resolution we're gonna
have better performance it's prompting
me that we need a steam user all that
cut stuff or whatever it is in the
background is happening there let's look
at games what does it come with so okay
rich are solitaire so definitely a
gaming rig DOSBox at you later so that
means you can install old DOS games so
that's things like prince of persia
the class yes commander keen commander
yes
Space Quest those things are all gonna
run under DOSBox Lutra siz another kind
of gaming platform so that you can you
can install games into the system and
play them it's an easy way to find a lot
of games that'll run in the system
mahjong mines play on Linux that is cool
play on Linux allows you to install
Windows games oh that's kind of like
wine a little bit it uses wine in the
backend but it has an interface to allow
you to install the games quite simply
it's not with every game to be fair
because Windows games are built for
Windows right let play on Linux has cut
out all the complicated steps to making
Windows games work on Linux and you
don't have to have Microsoft Windows
installed see that's good because this
is our first Linux computer excited
about that yes so can we say a little
bit of a while
neck's well cuz I have a slight Linux
bias it's an alternative for Microsoft
Windows and it's free you don't have to
pay for licenses you don't have to worry
about their spyware software monitoring
you and things like that and any of the
kind of caveats that you have with
Microsoft Windows they don't exist in
Linux it's a free operating system and
it is developed by people like ourselves
who just care about making something
great and distributing it and sharing it
and that's what Linux is it's a it's
something that you can get in on you've
got a there's that slight learning curve
because the interface is maybe a little
bit different but there's a lot of
effort that's been put into making that
learning curve as easy as possible I've
noticed on this version of Linux nasha
that it looks like guntu Matei is what
it what it's running that is the
interface so this is matei not I was
expecting maybe no more possibly unity
but definitely no so nice to see matei I
like the interface a lot steam is the
next one steam we all know and love
steam is something that you sign up for
an account then you can buy games using
all the time at home they install you
tell and tell us about steam then
because I'm not a gamer so how does it
work well so I mean when you've got
steam it's it's all-encompassing as far
as games library we can make purchases
also the games that you download a
criminal chronology chronology of your
library also you you know depending on
whether you really into competing with
other people you can earn badges and
stuff like that there's news features
too with other games it's it's just
really it's a great compressed library
for keeping everything in one spot
that's at a library yeah you can just
find games it's there can install them
buy them and steam is cross-platform
that's correct if you are not interested
in taking this route and installing
Linux that's okay steam is available on
Microsoft Windows in fact if you install
it on Microsoft Windows and later
switched on Linux its cross-compatible
so you're going to just transfer over
that's right alright so that gives us a
good overview I think Sasha way to go
congratulations you've got a Ubuntu game
is what I keep losing the name it's game
game game game pack
pack 16.4 I've got to come up with a
rhyme for game pack no you don't date oh
thanks Asha next week do I tell them now
yes lying the first game on it that's
all I'm gonna tell you at this moment
stick around until after the news I'm
gonna tell you a little bit more details
but if you want to see the sweet game
and rig play games you do not want to
miss episode number 527 all right we're
gonna head over to our beautiful new
newsroom what do you have for us here
are the stories were covering this week
in the category 5 TV newsroom an
airplane flying nearly half a kilometre
in the air was hit by a drone in Canada
it's easy to hack Subaru door locks
using a Raspberry Pi Windows 10 is under
fire by the Dutch Data Protection
Authority Android ransomware double
Locker encrypts data and changes pins
and in security news
wpa2 has been cracked and you need to
hear about this if you use Wi-Fi these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere
Jeff Westen gentlemen you're building a
brand-new beautiful website
are you alright you're terrible actor
what this we're acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay I'm building
a really cool website are you building a
really cool website just because Jeff is
confused doesn't mean you have to be
visit cap five dot TV slash dream host
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
dream host this is the category five TV
newsroom covering the week's top tech
stories with a slight Linux bias
I'm Sacha Rickman and here the top
stories were following this week
Canada's Transport Minister has told
drone operators to stay away from
airports after a remotely piloted craft
bonked a passenger plane during its
final approach to Jean Lesage
International Airport in Quebec City
Minister Marc Garneau hasn't revealed
the model of the drone but we do know
that it hit a plane operated by Sky Jet
Aviation a charter outfit that despite
his name only operates turboprop
aircraft the three types it operates the
king air 100 and 200 plus the Beechcraft
1900 seat 610 and 19 passengers apiece
whichever type was struck it came away
with what Garneau described as minor
damage and landed safely there's also no
news on where the plane where of where
on the plane the drone struck as the
craft landed without incident we can
assume it wasn't chopped up by the
plane's propellers local media suggests
that the plane was struck about 300 or
3000 metres from the runway while at an
altitude of 450 meters all concerned are
therefore reminding Canadian drone
operators of their obligation to fly
below 90 meters and at least five and a
half kilometers away from airports or
face a $25,000 fine authorities hope to
identify the drone pilot to remind them
of those rules in strong language a
drone striking a propeller or being
sucked into a jet engine has the
potential to cause a very serious
incident Wow very scary yeah well I mean
the fact that it left body damage I mean
it wasn't significant but I mean that's
so are there like are there drones that
are smaller that are allowed to fly
closer or is it just all drones across
we're talking this is three 3,000 meters
from the airport which I did the quick
math in my head that's three kilometers
folks yeah and the minimum is five point
five so they're already not only are
they flying well above the height limit
but they're also flying very very close
to an airport yeah so drones can fly
that high up like they absolutely yeah
this wasn't clearly wasn't a teeny drone
or something like that you know we're
talking about no no this is we're
talking yeah big drone to give you just
some perspective there was a guy on
YouTube who recently posted a video
which was promptly taken down of him
flying his phantom two to three point
five kilometres into the air now keep in
mind that regulations say we're only
allowed to fly up to 90 metres in the
air just a little bit over that I think
he went 3,400 Wow where he was at so
because these things have first-person
view you know he might have a screen or
goggles and be able to see what the
drone is seeing and so it is safe from
that perspective it's not like he's
gonna lose sight of it and not be able
to find it right but it's highly illegal
so then the actual law the rule where
you can't fly within like five and a
half kilometers to the airport that
$25,000 fine is that if there's an
incident or is that if you're caught
flying if you're caught flying as a
consumer flyer like if I or Jeanette
where we're flying our drones and we
were caught breaking the rules so these
are rules that are designed to protect
aircraft and
people so it doesn't just have to do
with aircraft or airports if you're
flying too close to a crowd it falls
under the same regulations so define for
that to be caught so nobody gets hurt
nobody's nothing's damaged is up to
three thousand dollars Canadian right so
that's about four dollars for you
American viewers or point zero zero zero
zero Bitcoin it's binary nothing chances
are the twenty five thousand dollars
would be for I guess serious in an
incident where maybe a plane actually
did crash people but like they have to
crash the regulation states that it's up
to twenty five thousand dollars if you
have endangered an aircraft or another
person right I would hope that if
somebody flying a drone that crashed
into a plane that then crashed and
killed people that drone flier I would
hope goes to jail like I would hope that
it's just not twenty five thousand
dollars oh that's like I would really
that's an extreme case it's never
happened as far as I'm aware so so
peopleö people
dodge electronics engineer reckons
Japanese automaker Subaru isn't acting
on a key fob cloning vulnerability he
discovered Tom women ho claims to have
discovered that Subarus electronic keys
don't use a random number the rolling
the rolling code instead merely
increments codes
wimba hope says he's built a cloning
device which is made available on github
and use it for a 2009 Subaru Forester he
believes it would also work on a 2006
Baja Forrester Forester models from 2005
to 2010 Impreza models from 2004 to 2011
the legacy sedans 2005 to 2010 models
and the Outback from 2005 to 2010 his
test rig only cost around twenty-five
dollars using a Raspberry Pi for much of
the functionality because of the key fob
simply increment the rolling code
exchange between the car and the key all
an attacker needs is to be able to be
close enough to capture the code use
when the owner locks the car in
fermenting that code lets the attacker
unlock the vehicle Wow I Drive a subi
what why wouldn't you act on that well
it could be that they don't think it's a
massive vulnerability I mean exactly
like we're talking about some vehicles
was a 2009 yes we're back at this point
I don't think they care I mean like if
it was one of the 2005 they're looking
at going it's been like 13 years because
it's always like you know in 2004 the
2005 would come out so you know it's
been 13 years or some of them most of
those vehicles would be off the road
it's not like it was the newer vehicle
so my guess is from a liability
standpoint the cost factor of patching
it doing a warranty recall switching out
keys because you'd have to replace the
keys or reprogram them plus you'd have
to reprogram the vehicles the cost
probably just wasn't significant enough
or was - so then can you just sell
something like that on github what is
well github is is a coding base so what
what it means when he's posted it on
github is that it's freely available so
anyone who wants to build this thing can
download this the instructions to do it
right and the code to do it late too
much about Subaru not having a statement
from them but knowing that you know as
you know ethical hackers bring out these
kinds of hey we've discovered this
there's a lot of that because people are
trying to get the cash prize for right
hey there are you know ethical hacker
prizes and so there comes a point when
you know companies will certainly say
you know we're not doing any Microsoft
comes to mind recently when it would be
a compromise on Internet Explorer yes
they simply said you know we're not
worrying about the older operating
systems and there was another one in the
kernel itself where they said we're not
going to patch any of them yeah it's too
far into the kernel we're not going to
touch it we don't believe it's such a
security risk as you're making it out to
sound yeah now others may may say
otherwise but I think it's that they may
perceive if this is a may because I
don't know I haven't spoken with them
but they may perceive as a company that
it takes a certain level of knowledge in
order to do this type of compromise and
so they don't feel as vulnerable because
it's like wouldn't happen to me
mentality
there's such a small minority of smart
people in the world there's no problem
of people minority who would create a
key fob hacking device out of a
Raspberry Pi I'm just picturing the
movie Gone in sixty Seconds picturing
Nicolas Cage walking around with a
Raspberry Pi just like picking up Shelby
money just got a whole bunch of super
[Laughter]
okay
the Dutch Data Protection Authority has
concluded that Microsoft Microsoft's
Windows 10 operating system breaches
local privacy law on account of its
collection of telemetry metadata
personal data being harvested by default
by Microsoft can include the URL of
every web site visited if the Windows 10
user is browsing the web with
Microsoft's edge browser and has not
opted out of full telemetry as well as
data about usage of all installed apps
including on their device including
frequency of use how often the apps are
active and the amount of seconds of
usage of a keyboard mouse pen or
touchscreen microsoft says it gathers
and processes Windows 10 users data in
order to fix errors keep devices
up-to-date and secure and improve its
own products and services of course but
if users have not opted out it also uses
data from both a basic and full
telemetry level to show personalized
advertisements in Windows and edge
including all apps for sale in the
Windows Store and also for showing
personalized advertisements in other
apps according to the local DPA there
are more than four million active
devices using Windows 10 home and pro in
the Netherlands after investigating
several versions of the OS including
Windows 10 home and pro the Dutch DPA
said Friday it has identified multiple
breaches of the data protection law
Microsoft has compiled a point-by-point
rebuttal on these points of
disagreements Wow what is 10 but element
telling the truth
what is a lemon tree metadata tree
that's two words Wow yeah and that's it
that's all that's all he's gonna give
you yeah essentially I mean this is
basically information that is gathered
on your Windows 10 system or other
systems as well as now on Windows 7 and
8 and everything else but so they are
tracking your movements this is how they
are able to provide targeted advertising
to you know it's under the veil of
improving the operating system because
they might notice that hey you know
people running this particular processor
having problems opening this application
so let's manipulate something in the
code so it's under the guise of fixing
things helping improve things but it is
really collecting personal information
about your usage spying on you right so
is there ever like so when they say
they're using it to help mm-hmm is that
actually at all the okay like that well
that's just the guise of it's kind of
like prove the user but that's not
that's never the truth like you could
disable it there's always other we know
why Facebook gives you free accounts we
know why you know that's exactly how
this is leading to if there's basic
telemetry and then there is full yeah
which like winning okay would it be
helpful to just do basic or should you
be done at all you can you can opt out
but I think with some of the Windows
updates you got to keep an eye on it
because it'll reactivate itself because
your give as a okay with you know
certain I accept license agreement and
oh that License Agreement also turned
back on full telemetry so the difference
essentially you know the basic telemetry
is the the essentials the bare minimum
that they need in order to kind of keep
track of your system and how you're
using it then full telemetry is
everything like this is something that a
technician could use to actually come in
and diagnose problems on your computer
yeah everything about your computer and
you use it right I'd add a visual you
were saying that of that useless box
like you turn it off it turns itself
back exactly like pretty much yeah in
fact before we move on the windows club
actually posted a very good tutorial for
you to help you so that you can disable
or reduce the amount of telemetry
metadata that is shared with Microsoft
object that can be found on their
website the windows club comm / windows
- ten - telemetry and that's going to
keep you that information go check it
out right crooks have come up with a
strain of Android ransomware that both
encrypts user data and locks victims out
of compromised devices by changing pins
lucas thefn code the malware researcher
at security from ESET who discovered
double/double Locker said its payload
can change the devices pin preventing
the victim from accessing their device
and encrypts the victims data such a
combination has hasn't been seen yet in
the Android ecosystem he goes on to
explain double Locker misuses Android
accessibility services which is a
popular trick among cyber criminals the
nasty is based on a banking Trojan which
means that account compromising
functionality might easily be added the
Android malware spreads in the very same
way as its PC parent as a fake Adobe
Flash Player update that's pushed via
compromised websites once launched the
app requests activation of the malware
accessibility service named Google Play
service after the malware obtains these
accessibility permissions it uses them
to activate device administrator rights
and set itself as the default home
application in both cases without the
users consent double Locker once planted
on a compromised device creates two
reasons for the victim to pay first it
changes the devices pin affected
effectively blocking the victim from
using it second double Locker encrypts
all files from the from the device's
primary storage directory using the AES
encryption algorithm the ransom has been
set at a relatively modest 0.01
Bitcoin which is approximately $54 the
only valuable option to clean an on
rooted device of double Locker
ransomware is via a factory reset a way
around the pin lock on the rooted
devices is possible if not exactly
straightforward encrypted files cannot
be easily recovered Wow very scary
because now it's kind of it really had
told me it's real really real so you've
got to be careful of what you click on
because this is a typical social
engineering tactic of you know you've
installed an app that you think is
legitimate and it has tricked you into
giving access to certain things that
probably shouldn't have given it access
to right it's it is just social
engineering tactics used by malicious
coders and you need to really really be
careful of what you install where you
get it from if you have a rooted device
you need to be mindful the Cydia is
probably going to be distributing things
that are not approved by Google and the
Google Play Store so be very very
careful and if you're not sure what that
means if you're not sure what rooted
device means well it probably doesn't
affect you but you do need to beware
that malicious coders do place things in
the Google Play Store to trick you into
installing an app that sounds great it's
free and it's you know it's got this
this and this but why exactly does this
chat application need access to all of
my files and that's the big tip-off now
it doesn't mean every one of those apps
that asks for access to everything is a
bad app yeah but you usually yeah you
usually seem you know a couple options
for whatever you're looking for and
there's once I go we know it only needs
access to your camera then you've got
others it's everything like permission
for fatigue or something like I just
sometimes don't read you if they've
locked me out of my phone how am I
supposed to pay them well it'll show it
on the screen yeah you've got to pay pay
wall on your phone that says hey it just
comes really oh yeah oh and given the
fact that it's only was a $54 well
that's it it's not like it's hey give us
five million dollars yeah most people
it's fifty four bucks is just not worth
going yeah my kids photos around here
yeah and if they were gonna go to like a
Tech Center to get their phone serviced
there
holds 150 bucks people yeah it's cheaper
than the service I'll just pay it to get
it unlocked right out of time
can we really quickly talk about the WPA
hack that just occurred yes this is
something that happened on Monday so
Sasha researchers have disclosed a
serious weakness in the WPA 2 protocol
that allows attackers within a range of
vulnerable device within a range of
vulnerable device or access points to
intercept passwords emails and other
data presume to be encrypted and in some
cases to inject ransomware or other
malicious content into a website a
client is visiting the proof-of-concept
exploit is called crack short for key
reinstallation attacks the research has
been a closely guarded secret for weeks
ahead of a coordinated disclosure that
was scheduled for 8:00 a.m. Monday East
Coast time a website disclosing the
vulnerability said it affects the core
wpa2 protocol itself and is very
effective against any device including
those running the Android Linux Mac OS
Windows and OpenBSD operating systems
the vulnerabilities are scheduled to be
formally presented in a talk scheduled
for November 1st in Dallas the vast
majority of existing access points
aren't likely to be patched quickly and
some may know but may not be patched at
all ok so that is a scary fact so some
people are thinking what is all this
technobabble
what is wpa2 what is crack what is this
exploit and what does it mean to me if
you have a phone in your pocket that
when you go home it connects to your
home Wi-Fi or you have it set up to
connect to your office Wi-Fi you're
you're vulnerable yes now the scary
thing is you are also vulnerable if you
connect to the local coffee shops Wi-Fi
but here's the fact you have no way of
knowing if the local coffee shop is
clever enough to patch their device
right if they do that's fantastic
how will you ever know I don't feel safe
anymore going to a private to a public
hotspot right simple yeah so what does
it mean when I connect to Wi-Fi usually
that is an encrypted connection I am
connected to their Wi-Fi hotspot in
anything that I do between there between
my device and their hotspot is encrypted
including passwords and things like that
now throw all that away now anyone
sitting in that same coffee shop can
also see those things that you're doing
so it's very serious it is I mean we're
not seeing this in the wild so I should
say it's not something that is actively
being exploited because the ethical
hackers who discovered this revealed it
very ethically yes what that means is is
that they let hardware manufacturers
they let Google they let everyone know
that is in the industry before they
actually announced it publicly that
means the day that they announced it
7:00 a.m. that day mikrotik already had
a patch for all their routers that's the
kind of results that we've seen from
this so now we're starting to see Google
is starting to work on some patches for
their systems we're seeing that a lot of
hardware manufacturers are already
releasing firmware updates but you have
to install them mikrotik is a great
example of a company that does it right
because I can just log into the router
click on update get the latest version
and it's done yep
but if you have a Linksys or something
even dd-wrt things like that you may
need to reflash you may need to download
a driver on your computer a firmware on
your computer put it on a USB stick take
it over to your router do it that way or
maybe through the the LAN you have to do
it otherwise your Wi-Fi is susceptible
you also need to delete all the Wi-Fi
hotspots that you've got on your phone
and only start adding ones that you know
have patched against crack smart thanks
Robbie I'm going home and going to
update my firmware update your firmware
spec those for your phone's your
computers as well if you do an apt
update and then an apt upgrade on Linux
you're gonna get a WPA patch already so
make sure you make that so nems has
already got the patch it's Ottery
automatically rolled out to all of the
names appliances perfect so get it doing
updates or computers folks big thanks to
Ray W Nash in our community of yours for
submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight
it's bias and for more free content be
sure to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman Thank You Sasha they say is
category 5 technology TV and I promised
a little bit ago that we were gonna tell
you a little bit about what's happening
next week yes the gaming rig okay okay
I'm gonna tell you two things first of
all this gaming rig is sweet it's super
fast we can do really high frame rate
that's thing number one and thing number
two what is next week the Halloween
special the Halloween special what is it
oh that's right because Halloween is the
day before - it's the same day every
year Jeff okay but in my mind October
31st how do we amalgamate a sweet
smoking-hot virtual reality video game
computer with our desire to celebrate
the darkest day of the year well at
least a dress up we're gonna dress up as
Starfleet officers from Star Trek The
Next Generation once again oh here on
the show and we're gonna use virtual
reality to place ourselves not only in
the Starship Enterprise NCC 1701 D but
we are going to take you on a virtual
reality tour of the Federation starship
much fun prize don't miss it that's
happening next week on episode number
527 of category 5 technology this week
that's all the time
before to see you next week hey
everybody yeah
