it's Tuesday March 8 2016 and hear the
stories were covering this week Six
Flags guests will wear Samsung gear VR
on roller coasters for virtual reality
experiences and Google's expanding its
right to be forgotten in Europe but it
just means that you'll now need a VPN to
get access to unfiltered search results
and Samsung again is now shipping its 15
terabytes solid state hard drives
microsoft SQL server is coming to Linux
that's right and then they're pirates
are getting more sophisticated her these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere hi I'm Robbie Ferguson and I
love being a vimeo pro member as a web
broadcaster i need an affordable video
hosting platform that this flexible is
me a pro membership lets you upload up
to 20 gigabytes of HD video each and
every week with no additional bandwidth
restrictions that means if you produce a
show that uses even up to 20 gigabytes
of storage your limit resets itself the
following week so you can do another 20
gigabytes and keep doing that week after
week now category 5 with all of our
shows use roughly 10 gigabytes per week
from there vimeo automatically generates
all the files that you need to provision
your RSS feeds roku channel website
media player or even video downloads in
multiple bit rates with no limits on
your bandwidth usage or how many people
can access your files what's best the
price is astonishingly affordable and
for a limited time friends of the
category 5 TV network will receive a
whopping twenty-five percent off the
annual price
have to do is go through our link cap
five dot TV / Vimeo and sign up today
for your twenty five percent discount to
top it off you get 30 days to try it
risk-free if you're not happy with Vimeo
Pro you pay nothing the deal is only for
a very limited time go to cap five dot
TV / Vimeo I'm Jeff busted and here the
top stories from the category 5 TV news
room Disney theme parks have been using
virtual reality to design new rides and
attractions and landmark entertainment
is building a virtual reality theme park
in China but now six flags entertainment
corporation is bringing virtual reality
to actual roller coasters across nine of
its theme parks this month six flags is
partnered with samsung electronics
america to integrate the mobile gear vr
device into virtual reality rides that
were designed to take advantage of every
twist and turn in the roller coaster
track saying some samsung is now the
official technology partner quotations
of six flags and its facebook oculus
technology is powered two new virtual
reality rides this sounds so cool I'm
excited about this Nick DeCarlo vice
president and general manager of
immersive products and virtual reality
at Samsung what an awesome Department
says six flags patrons will experience
gear VR from galaxy s6 edge and newer
devices the senior vice president of
marketing of six plat Six Flags says the
company has been exploring virtual
reality for years but now the technology
exists to deliver the types of
one-of-a-kind experiences it was looking
for by adding virtual reality to the
pre-existing rides theme parks are able
to change experiences from year to year
without constructing new multi-million
dollar rides one ride being launched
puts riders in the copilot seat of
fighter jets battling aliens in
air-to-air combat the ride even allows
riders to fire weapons and alien ships
through new interactive gameplay
technology that takes advantage of gear
vr s video game capabilities okay what I
love about this story is just so stinkin
cool what I I really struggle with
though is I mean it
we ok so in Toronto we've got Canada's
Wonderland and there's a there's a ride
Top Gun if you've ever been on Top Gun
by the time you're done the ride your
brains are scrambled because your head
is doing this all right lungs yeah
you're wearing the gear VR first off how
is that going to affect the technology
or the components within the Samsung
device but second if you're going all
right long is that going to affect how
the video plays is it are you gonna have
to like hold the like there's elements
to it that I'm going what happens if and
what if it falls off your head made
right you're you don't know if you'll be
able to this drowsy and like like yeah
could they augment reality though in the
games like so that you're on a roller
coaster and suddenly a monster comes up
from behind the hill or something and I
don't really adds a freaky new level 2
to the rides I don't know but I'm
excited about this to the point that
would be neat I want to go down to a Six
Flags Park you go just to see so about a
story of my life there's I just want to
go to Six Flags that's right send me to
six months all right when Google was
ordered to start censoring its search
results for users within Europe back in
2014 it meant that anyone who requested
delisted information from any of the
search giant's European sites couldn't
access it there was however one giant
hole in that system anyone visiting
google com got a full list of results
regardless of where they were accessing
the search engine from essentially
rendering the right to be forgotten
ruling a bit pointless so from this week
that set the changes users within Europe
to any of Google search engines will now
be subject to the same set of restricted
results in November last year around 18
months after Google started enacting
removal requests it said that it removed
more than 440,000 links from its search
results now of course users outside of
Europe get the same unedited results so
I mean I guess firing up a VPN and
selecting an appropriate IP address is
still an option if you want to see the
full list of results now for Google to
stop this it would need to put the right
to be forgotten into effect for all of
its sights and all users which doesn't
sound likely anytime soon so whether or
not European residents should
to use a VPN to access on such a search
results is a different question all
together sounds like a whole lot of
legal stuff I don't even want to touch
it I just I don't know maybe it's a good
thing but I hope it doesn't come to
Canada I don't know do to people I don't
know I I guess this is kind of a
personal question do you want to be
forgotten and your search results or not
and it gets like the whole legal
semantics that oh yeah will comply but
only if you live here and are using an
internet connection it's really just ok
we'll we'll block it in this area yeah
and so then it starts to feel like oh
well you're not really blocking it at
all anyways it what happens if
somebody's traveling like then they have
access to stuff that they normally
wouldn't you travel to Florida from the
UK and so you can still get these lines
it's not today's not the right to be
forgotten it's the right to be
restricted removed from Google's results
in Europe right I wonder if to Jen
genuinely fix the issue the root issue
if it would have to be an ISP issue
though I don't know that way could could
be done yeah doesn't matter we got more
news on samsung and that's more
important right about I may have
announce that is now shipping its p.m.
1633 a solid-state drive now that's a
really boring mundane name for dr that's
anything but the PM 1633 a isn't just
the biggest solid-state drive around
it's straight up the biggest drive
around get this it's 15.3 six terabytes
megabytes terabytes a 13.3 six terabytes
solid-state drive that's massive we're
gonna do what you're gonna do with that
data that's a whole lot of retro games
right there let me just tell you oh my
goodness 15 terabytes terabytes not gigs
terabytes that's dangerous Will Robinson
so it it's safe to say that the 15-point
36 terabytes and we're going to enjoy
saying that it Dwarfs any other solid
state drive and surpasses the capacity
of even the very largest magnetic
spinning
now remarkably it packs all the storage
into a conventional 2.5 inch package
I've got it okay the company exciting
the company can help you that's right
they explain how this was done in August
last year now while traditional
integrated circuits weather processors
are flash memory or Ram or anything else
have flat essentially 2d structure this
Drive uses Samsung's three-dimensional
v-nand technology which vertically
stacks forty eight layers of Nan cells
to greatly increase the storage density
now the PM 1633 a is aimed at enterprise
markets and samsung says that the drive
supports 15.3 six terabytes of rights
per day over its five-year life cycle
now if anybody followed quotes from Bill
Gates roughly like the early 90s or late
80s he made a comment that we would
never need more than one terabyte or one
gigabyte it's like all day only 640k
extended memory that's all you need
that's right sorry here we're looking at
roms for the Raspberry Pi that are going
over a gig 00 working I'll talk to you
about that in a couple minutes time okay
I've got to get through the news now
okay Microsoft has revealed that their
new version of SQL server software was
made from Linux and it will be released
in mid-2017 that's right windows and
microsoft you been to Linux the creation
of the software is a significant step
for Microsoft which is traditionally
focused on its core windows operating
system Microsoft's SQL server is one of
the company's core products and the
windows version is used by many
customers to run and manage databases
now Microsoft has about twenty one
percent of the share of the database
software market and it suggests figures
by suggestive figures from an analyst
firm Gartner now Oracle who may provide
mysql is the market leader Microsoft
imagines the release of SQL server for
Linux will help with help them compete
with that company the move also puts
Microsoft into more direct competition
with IBM and sap there are also a lot of
free Linux based database programs of
the release of SQL Server is one among
several steps Microsoft is taken to work
more closely with Linux and its
advocates the data center management
software Microsoft uses for its sewer
service is based on linux and it's also
produced software that helps people
manage linux servers and it's released
an analytics package called our server
that works with several different
versions of linux now the greater
willingness to work with former rivals
has been one of the hallmarks of boss
satya nadella's rain at microsoft mr.
nadella took over as chief executive in
February of 2014 and quite frankly I'm
happy he's working with some of those
other companies because linux just walks
okay so when it comes to the term pirate
and hacker which is interestingly enough
a conversation to have with my son a few
weeks ago he's like daddy what's hacking
I'm like well so I'm gonna explain the
different streets let me show ya that's
right explain the difference for doing
hacking and cracking and I'm like yes
let me educate you so when the dirt when
the terms pirate and hacker are used in
the same sentence usually it's a
reference for someone breaking digital
rights management on software but that's
not the case here a global shipping
company has been victim of piracy of the
seafaring kind are aided by network
intrusion the shipping company
experienced a series of hit-and-run
attacks by pirates who instead of
seeking a ransom from the crew and cargo
went after specific shipping containers
and made off with the high-value cargo
security investigators into the crime
discovered that the shipping company
used a home-grown web-based content
management system to manage bills of
lading for the cargo ships and an
examination of the network traffic to
the CMS revealed a web shell script that
had been uploaded to the server through
a vulnerability in the software the
shell script back door gave attacked her
attackers remote access to the server
allowing the upload and download of
files and in this case specifically the
downloading of bills of lading for the
company ships the attackers had
compromised the number of the system
passwords in the process as well so the
shipping company shut down the server to
fix the vulnerability and then they
block the IP address of the pirate
hacker ending the targeted attacks
piracy bad but this is a pretty cool
story it's ironic it is ironic but when
i first read the story i was like okay
you know what that's that's like a maid
for like internet TV movie right there
will will enact it that's right you may
the pirate I'll be the CMS developer Don
Paris they've gotten in oh just still it
was really interesting to start me not
good but really interesting story so big
thanks this week to Roy w Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us if you found a new story
that you'd like to send email it to
newsroom a category 5 TV for all your
tech news with a slight Linux bias
that's right Microsoft visit the
category 5 TV news room at newsroom
category 5 TV from the category 5 TV
news room I'm Jeff Weston
