welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode number 5:13 for
Wednesday the 19th of July 2017 it's so
nice to have you here tonight it's just
me and Sasha Jeff couldn't be here with
us tonight so you know everything's
going to go wrong so we're going to try
looking at Kody we've got some exciting
things going on with our Kodi channel
things may work things may not but we're
going to take a stab at it for you
tonight we've also got a couple of your
comments questions which we're going to
tackle as well so looking forward to
those stick around till the end of the
show sash has got news for us that's
intriguing stories and lots of them this
week that's true
keep them coming folks thank you very
much for sending them in what do you
gosh here we go here's what's coming up
in the category 5 TV newsroom autonomous
race cars are now a thing a newly
demonstrated 3d printed heart works much
like a real one we have found our
greatest weapon against the coming robot
apocalypse Google is giving glass one
more try Microsoft SQL Server 2017 first
release candidate has landed and yes it
runs on Linux support for Ubuntu 16.2
morrow and in a rather comical social
experiment a UK Wi-Fi provider has
tricked users into agreeing to a
thousand hours of community service
stick around the full details are coming
up later in the show
this is category 5 technology TV our
live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream wire cats and nimble
streamer tune in live every week on roku
Kodi and other HLS video players for a
local Showtime visit category 5 TV
category 5 dot TV is a member of the
tech podcast network if it's tech is
here cap 5 dot TV slash TPN and the
international association of Internet
broadcasters cap 5 dot TV /i eh I
I mean boo boo game show
this is category five technology TV
episode number five thirteen and we've
got a great show planned out for you I'm
Robby Ferguson I am Sasha generator
nice to see you we've got a couple of
your comments questions that have come
in one of the cool things that we have
in operation right now sasha is our
community forum very cool I am excited
about this because we had a forum way
back in the day and it was a lot to
maintain it was hard to keep up with it
and it ended up going by the wayside
when like version six of our website
came out then you know we've been in on
version 7 for a couple years and the
forum was relaunched just recently so
what does it mean you can log into the
viewer community forum and participate
in conversations with other viewers with
myself with other cast members here at
the show you can ask your questions for
the show and we have a feature right now
where you can submit pictures of
yourself watching category-five TV or
share with the community what your setup
looks like and we would love to see
those so if you head on over to our
website category 5 TV click on interact
and you'll see the community forum there
we've got category 5 technology TV there
we've got all of our shows new every
days they're the pixel Shadow we've also
gotten m's which is the Nagios
enterprise monitoring server so that's
the support forum for that as well so
lots of cool things there and do check
out our website category 5 TV it's a
great way to to find out more about our
shows and see the content that we
provide awesome so what do good week I
agree week yeah what is new my weddings
coming up very soon so you're leaving us
and
early early sometime getting married
September 9 all right so I'm flying in
to Newfoundland September 6 oh okay and
hitting the ground running because I'm
getting married in a town where the
population is like 300 really not even
like for haneda popular they all come
and is 300 so
so the only place I can really get
decorations and I have three days to do
it the only place I can get decorations
is like it's a dollar store
kind of sort of okay should I get them
there I think it's in there I can't
really fly it watch my sister who got
married last year fast who I think you
might have met um she's blending me a
bunch of her lightweight decorations in
the area
oh no she's you're going to bring them
with you I'm going to bring them with
you so West doesn't she she's doing her
and her husband I have like a crazy
family of intrepid travelers but her
husband decided they didn't want to live
in Toronto any longer so they put all of
this stuff into storage a couple of
months ago and decided they would do a
road trip all the way around North
America no way so they started in
Toronto they ended up in Whitehorse they
spent some time with Colleen who I know
you Matt yes you spent some time with
Colleen went down the west coast and
across and then their plan is and
hopefully it works out to be in
Newfoundland in time for the wedding
Wow yeah so they're in their travels
that's cool yeah so you're gonna be gone
from us for a couple weeks few episodes
in a row and are we going to be fashion
or made us after that pair go to Sasha
recomment I think gosh a Richmond now
why would you choose to go with Rickman
is this is a famous name so is there any
kind of connection well there is a
connection I'll be marrying a recommend
but Dave also is a relative of Alan
Rickman's which I don't know that
everybody knows that but they're cousins
yeah that's so cool yeah I wish he was
still with I wish you could so I could
have invited him up with it and I could
have been read into the wedding not that
the other like all of the recommends are
totally oh they're totally cool
they're always were equally as awesome
as Alan was but Alan Rickman I mean
people viewers from all around the world
will recognize the name yeah what has he
been in I mean Oh
Harry Potter yeah and Love Actually Love
Actually that was a good one for me so
he wasn't a good guy actors - was one of
those actors where you always recognize
them right you always remain okay I know
that guy yeah yeah
so I'm gonna go to Rickman yeah okay so
it's gonna be Sasha Rickman I'm going to
change my middle name to Alan
just for fun what can you do that now
wait a minute is that in the rule it's
easier to spell - to be honest with you
it's a little bit easier to spell
pronounce I know that we do have some
blooper takes of you even mispronouncing
your own name it's a difficult manger
meet us and then you have to explain how
it's not a skin disease and then you
have to explain understand that France
is the first thing that she had to
explain to Dave when they first started
a my name is germy does not dermatitis
and then you spell it like when I when
people ask how to spell out over the
phone especially it's really different
for me it√≠s so I say dir write me it is
me it is that's the one yeah me it is
and then they get confused on it now you
can be like frickin correct me pound it
out
yeah don't be a fool felt like it sounds
Rickman why wouldn't it change so why
would they change that that's perfect
it's awesome Rick man awesome okay
that's cool
I could be away for a little bit yeah
cool stuff how about you what's new with
me well we've had just a lot of
adventures and this is summer right so
we've got like we got some flight time
comin the kids my two oldest got paper
routes each of them so their first job
so now we're like we're looking at and
and these are you know my son is 9
turning 10 next week and my daughter is
12 just turned in June and so this is
their first job obviously and we're
looking at bank accounts and things like
this direct deposit these days because
that's how it works what a great
opportunity
I heard me got a paper route I loved it
yeah yeah it was a good way for them to
get a kind of like a quote unquote
allowance without it coming coming out
of my dad's pocket you know what I mean
anyway it shows responsibility I get to
learn that kind of stuff and it's
routine and they know that every two
weeks they've got a paycheck coming in
and this is straight delivery there's no
collection correct correct
yeah nine o'clock difficult no these
days it's all digital so they've got
computer software that keeps track of
how many papers were delivered how many
Flyers were delivered and then
just direct deposit into the account to
your step counters on your phone right
yes
are you just going to like throw your
phone along here take this with you
Thank You Sally no I'm not doing that
good today those ash you got me beat I
got like two thousand five hundred fifty
four steps today hey I have hit ten
thousand on occasion I add moves of
friends and family right I've seen that
actually I just I take green shots
whenever it happens just so I can prove
it in case anyone doesn't believe me
I took the stream screenshot of my steps
the other day and I didn't want to move
even for the rest of the day because I
was at 11111 like I made it well I think
I'm sittin all like oh no nothing says
what do you doing why are you being so
lazy just be like check the phone look
yeah I'm an I go and challenges because
I'm I said that right so then I'm like
I'm fiercely a competitor I can't just
let it slide you even have a competitive
toothbrush yeah tells you if you're
brushing I know you're has brushing
steps I get badges that counts for to
get badges but I here's the thing I
choose I don't like it because it
doesn't I do I love my toothbrush okay I
love my toothbrush it's amazing I do not
like the app because the app you have to
activate the app for it to sync it
doesn't just like sync in the background
open it you have to open the end I must
be able to run in the background come on
now toothbrush manufacturers come on get
it right I know I wanted me to actually
live in a world though that you're
sinking you're you're ticked off that
you can't sink your toothbrush to your
phone have to do an extra step when I
weigh myself in the mornings have a
Fitbit scale when I weigh myself my
weight automatically uploads to my phone
how come when I brush my teeth it
doesn't automatically what kind of world
do you live in whatever so connect I'm
super a robot I even have light switches
like you just know well my phone just
can tell where I am in a room I just
translate nice I would love that robot
makin grandmas lasagna hey it's nice to
see the chat room nice to see so many
folks joining us tonight we do have some
fun for you tonight we're going to be
looking at Kody as I mentioned at the
top of the show and we ready to get into
it yes
what's Cody any guesses Cody is your
XBMC no what do you think about Cody
Cody is where you go you log on to Cody
to watch TV shows yeah your clothes I've
heard of it because people talk about
Cody because watching on Cody yeah yeah
exactly so that's one of the set-top
kind of connected boxes but in reality
Cody is a piece of software it's open
source and it is supported by app
developers from all over the world what
it means though is that you can install
it on your computer whatever platform
you have or you can set up for example a
Kodi Raspberry Pi right so now you've
got a connected HDMI output with a
Raspberry Pi 3 get yours a cat 5 dot TV
slash PI you see how I did that nice and
then you install Kodi on that and you've
got a multimedia Center that is
absolutely beautiful I mean the
interface is great and the nice thing
about it is it uses third-party content
so where we've looked at Plex in the
past you need to have a plex media
server mm-hmm
so it's a server component with a
front-end and things like that
Plex is fantastic don't get me wrong but
it's a different whole different
paradigm okay what Kodi is is it taps
into the the content that already exists
in the world okay so for example if you
want to watch twit TV this week in tech
you can install their channel and now
when you open that up boom there's all
their content got it right so you're not
having to download the content put it on
a server and then stream it to your
devices through the interface no it gets
it from their servers right similarly
you can watch category 5 TV network and
all of our shows directly through Kodi
if you install our add-on so we're going
to look at that tonight we're going to
look at first and foremost how to get
Kodi on our system I'm using Debian 9
I've just got a kind of a vanilla
installation that we've installed over
the past couple of weeks and then we're
going to install Kodi we're going to get
it up and running we're going to see
what it looks like how it works and then
we're going to get looking at how you
can get category 5 technology TV on that
device so let's get right into it this
is my desktop so welcome to Debian Linux
pretty straightforward
yours may look a little bit different
and you may use a different package
manager' but I use synaptic package
manager' that's my all-time favorite so
let's get in there and we're going to do
this through the GUI just because Cody
generally is you know a GUI application
that's the whole idea here so that's how
we're going to do it but of course you
can use the terminal as well
but you're going to need the GUI for
Cody so we're going to search for kod
eye and basically you know XDA was it
XBMC actually original was the original
name so if you've heard of that it's
been renamed Cody a long time ago yeah I
know MC it's been that long so I only
know it as Cody Cody comes you know that
this is a new newer version versus say
XBMC ok so Cody is in the repositories
you notice I just searched for kod I and
I can just click to install that this is
how it works on debian and on linux in
general you don't have to find the
download you don't have to get onto the
website you can its Cody dot TV kod ITV
if you're using a different platform if
you're on Mac Windows make sure you head
on over there you can download it and
install it on your computer on Linux I
don't need to do that I can just do a
quick search in my repositories through
my repositories and hit mark for
installation looked like it had a bunch
of other little requirements that we're
going to be installed as well then I can
hit apply and it says hey here's what's
going to be installed all this kind of
stuff cool it's going to get all the
stuff that's required in order to
install Kodi it downloads it through the
internet connection and installs it on
my computer it only has four seconds
remaining Sasha it's so much easier this
way than it is on like Windows and and
such because I know Dave spent she's a
Windows user well no I have Linux you
have Linux because I put it on there but
you never even take this home it just
sits there I use my phone yeah okay you
use your phone that's Linux I don't have
a computer at home your game Dex what do
you got a Samsung what do I feel that's
an LG and Alex yeah so you've got Linux
right go there yeah but Dave Dave
downloaded Kodi at home and it took
forever oh nice already done sighs yeah
it's changes applied it's done it's
ready to go you want to scoot it up and
see how it looks super cool silence bias
a slight Linux bias okay close this
close this and now Linux should say hey
Cody's installed right so if I type Cody
what do I got Cody where do I find it on
the menu on cinnamon let's see sound and
video there it is Cody let's bring it up
beautiful your library is currently
empty how I imagine Cody speaks in order
to populate it with some personal media
enter file section add a media source to
configure it after this source has been
added in index you will be able to
browse your library what's that telling
you you can play your local media as
well so you want to take this and make
it a part of your wedding ceremony you
can add your photos your videos all that
kind of stuff put it together into a
playlist Cody to play it so this allows
you to add local files so that you can
just you know put them in yourself what
do we got we got TV shows music music
videos TV a whole bunch of stuff add-ons
is something that's really really cool
about Cody because add-ons allow us to
add extensions and plugins to Cody that
give us access to content that exists ok
sometimes is so when you hear you know
somebody you hear news stories that Cody
has you know somebody has been arrested
for selling Cody boxes or something
because the add-ons that they're using
allow the distribution of illegal
content so the key thing is to find
legitimate content and add-ons for Cody
but it is you know it's an extension
based application so you can get add-ons
for it that will allow you to gain
access to content hypothetically if
somebody was having problems with their
kodi right now because they were at they
had add-ons that were like pirating
possibly whatever well if they had legal
difficulties with it so what you deal
with something like category 5
technology TV or good the content is
freely available and you're golden if
you download an application or an add-on
that gives you access to illegal content
live streaming from your local cable
channel well it may not be legit ok so
you see that out of the box there's
really nothing to watch so you're going
to be like well what do I do and
course you can add your local content so
that's pretty cool by adding your local
content you're going to be able to watch
your own video files family movies and
things like DVDs that you've ripped to
your computer which is to copy the DVD
to your computer decrypt the files we've
shown you how to do that on the show
here so that's another way so I've
exited there because what I want to show
you so now we've kind of taken a quick
glimpse at a blank interface right it's
a clean slate
cody is installed it's ready to go for
us but what can we actually do with it
well as it is add-on based we can find
add-ons there are official add-ons on
Kodi TV head on over there if you want
to find some search for your favorite
shows search for your favorite networks
online and you'll be able to find a lot
of great content for us if you head over
to our website let's get on to Firefox
here so I'm going to bring up our
website category five dot TV and once
you're there now I haven't quite I'm the
developer behind the website and the
whole infrastructure and everything I
haven't quite found where to put this so
for now at least as we broadcast this
July 19 2017 I have a link that I've
just placed here so that you can gain
access to this I'm going to eventually
find a spot for it on the menu but right
now if you head right to the bottom of
the web page there is a button with the
RSS logo do you see that orange one
there it turns orange when I hover over
it there is also a button over here
under links called subscribe so either
one of those is going to take you to the
same place that's where we want to go
again I'm going to find a spot on our
website that makes it a little more
obvious but I wanted to show you where
it is right now because it's always
going to be there when you're watching
in the future you'll be like wow that's
where they had it at first yeah it's
still there we're going to leave it down
at the bottom so that's why I want to
show you but I'm eventually going to
find a nice spot on the on the menu to
very responsive sites with designed so
that it works on phones or works on
tablets it works on computers and when I
run into when I create too many menu
items is that it becomes too wide faster
splat
so really working on streamlining that
that's neither here nor there as far as
related to the episode but you'll notice
that when you go to the SUBSCRIBE page
we've got rokuko' deep flex we've got
RSS feeds for all of our shows as well
as a consolidated feed which gives you
access to all of our content in a nice
consolidated RSS feed so that means you
can catch an episode of the
category-five TV newsroom you can catch
an episode of category-five technology
TV you can catch an episode of new every
day
you can catch an episode of the pixel
shadow you can catch an episode of the
immersive nature sound as it's now
called used to be nature sounds of
ontario canada but because it turns 360
video right it has been changed to
immersive nature sounds and season two
is coming soon they tell the drone zone
right we have the drone zone in there as
well we've got clips from the category
five technology TV show so all of these
are put in the consolidated feed as well
so cody has access to that through an
add-on so here's how we do it Cody watch
on Cody
download the cody plugin all I have to
do is click on that and it's going to
give me a file so what do I want to do -
I want to open it no I want to save it
all right now that has given me a copy
of that file called plug-in video
category 5 - master dip what a god-awful
name horrible horrible but now you know
right that's good so now I've downloaded
that it's ready to go bring up cody and
once we're in here let's go into
settings and let's see what we've got
here so we've got all these kinds of
things player settings media settings
PVR service setting system settings
profile settings skin settings interface
settings system information event log
file manager Wow
lots to choose from here where am I
going to find my add-on sash I don't
know let's see media settings general
note library no PVR there's not just a
general search a general search that
would be nice interface
skin settings profile settings system
settings what about that file add-on oh
there you go so one thing that I'm
spotting right out the gate here is that
on my debian 9 system the version is the
interface is completely different from
mine - so I'm on a boon - at home Ubuntu
16 point
Oh No 17 point o4 oh and the interface
is completely different so we've got to
kind of do a little digging to get there
but we're going to get there so system
settings on this particular version and
then add-ons let's see what we get
so to get the option to install right
here manage dependency updates show
notifications reset above settings now
this is not what we need expert add-ons
chat room what do you say Sol do or the
foo Garbi where do we find the the
option to install a plug-in here and
add-on that's what we're looking for
file manager finding all your files nice
add-on well I can do that I guess enter
add-on browser ok recently updated offer
there we go that's what you wanted yeah
the interface is very very different
here on Debi and then then what I'm used
to on a goon - but we you know we'll
find it so add-ons enter add-on browser
and then you see install from zip file
so on my Ubuntu system on the other hand
I go into settings and then go add-ons
and I go install from zip file right
this is so they've changed things or
maybe improve slightly I guess sure but
we find what we need so install from zip
file because remember the download link
gave us a zip file so for security
installation of add-ons from unknown
sources is disabled settings show
notifications unknown sources we want to
turn that on because hey category five
TVs github page is technically an
unknown source but that's that's okay in
this particular instance just as
anything
careful what you download what you you
know where you get it
ours obviously is supported by a
category-5 TV so install from zip file
now browse to our download folder which
is in home and then downloads and
there's the file plug-in video category
5 - master and you'll see category 5 TV
instantly was installed so if I go back
no pardon me if I hit escape now I see
cat how are we yeah on my menu system
here so click on that and you'll see
it's going to load up should load up
pretty quick if all went well here we go
for Phi Epsilon
[Music]
what's happened let's see
back TV video Oh sparkly ball says the
gear wheel says standard change to
expert to get the full range of settings
I you know I'm things like that make me
wonder why we ever decided to make
category 5 a live TV show people love
life love life what is you know is this
the same version that you guys see when
you bring up Cody this is completely
different than what I'm used to but it's
not it's not bringing up our channel
list needless to say you might be may be
Jenks hey I think we said something
about it being like a good easy show's
gonna be no I was just show you look we
did things like that add on two separate
words yeah we had now I thought like I
get a little tiny flash there it's not
how it's supposed to be folks see that I
saw the list of tech clips and
everything else so we've got some
community members that are quite
well-versed at at this so the food have
you seen this before
sparkly what about soul boo solos sold
Chaldean a soul boo is here yeah who is
one of our contributors as well so to
click into the cat5 app and you get the
menu we'll see that's the idea yeah hmm
says that they're using a different
theme aka skin from within Cody but you
know what how many times have we had a
show where we've had to come back a week
later and say okay now we're going to
try again let's give it another go I
don't mind that I hate that you know we
lose part of the show I do want to just
say like off-the-record on-the-record
that every single time it's just you and
I doing a show like check that we have
every Rijal time it's just the two of us
there is experiment where she so ever
was when Niels is here was exactly we're
in front of the camera and ever had
worst show ever google it you'll find it
number one it's like you eat it so you
know what we're going to move on but do
it dry out Cody okay folks everything
should work we do have confirmation in
the chatroom
that things are working for other users
maybe it's something to do with my
laptop part of a live broadcast is that
we do everything live in real time so we
can have issues that you may not have at
home you may I haven't seen this on my
systems at home so it could be something
to do with my computer yeah I
particularly love Cody we have it at
home but I don't tried it again but the
next time around I think what we'll do
is we'll we'll demonstrate the
installation separately of everything
else because now there's probably
something that I need to tweak or figure
out what you can do which is a bummer
and sometimes you're going to hit these
kinds of things I think this is where
Linux excels though is that you know
what do you see me do in a situation
like that is immediately I turn to our
chat room right into the forums I turn
to the official wiki and I start getting
support from the communities and I think
Linux excels with that open-source
excels at that because I know that when
we sign off tonight even though we've
had some trouble with this tonight and
I'll throw the laptop across the room
out of anger that's fine later later
we'll wait till after we sign off but
fact is I know that I'm going to be able
to then get in the chat room we're going
to figure it out we're going to get it
up and going and then I'm going to come
back to you another week and we're going
to be able to show you how it works
we can I'm going to come back and report
why why it looks exactly because we want
you to be able to in the future be able
to look back on this and say oh wait I'm
having that same problem it will be
great find the fix you have to find a
fix we will have found the fix for you
that's the idea so in the meantime you
want to head over to the newsroom why
are you looking at your invisible watch
I know I don't have a watch I have a
Fitbit
yeah is it that time it is that time so
if you could do well I certainly can all
right all right here are the stories
were covering this week in the category
five dot TV newsroom autonomous race
cars are now a thing
a newly demonstrated 3d printed heart
works much like a real one we have found
our greatest weapon against becoming
robot apocalypse Google is giving glass
one more try Microsoft SQL Server 2017
first release candidate has landed and
yes it runs on Linux support for Ubuntu
sixteen point ten and tomorrow
and in a rather comical social
these stories are coming right up don't
go anywhere
Jeff Weston yelling you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what are you
no all right you're terrible actor
what that's where acting comes into play
I don't know where our thing you're
supposed to act okay fair enough I don't
under really cool website are you
building a really cool website you need
hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
that's sure how much hard drive space
you have how many email accounts how
many domains can point to it well we've
got an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are going to get
unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name the roof of your own calm
guys to put that amazing website that
you've been working on on there if you
run if you want to build a WordPress
site
five sign up cap five dot TV slash green
hose still fulfill the paper sorry just
don't do it but hey it's a great deal
folks best deal you're going to find
five dollars and change per month go to
cap five dot TV slash DreamHost
I'm Sasha tomatoes and here at the top
stories for the week of July 19th 2017
the sleek low-slung driverless robo race
car was on display in New York City for
the formula e races this weekend but it
was the work house dev bot that took the
track you can recognize that bought by
its bubble-like cockpit where human sits
ready to take the wheel if the
autonomous car needs a literal hand
given formula ease one-day structure
with qualifying sessions early in the
day and the race in the afternoon robo
race is able to take advantage of the
empty track in the middle of the day for
demonstrations of its artificial
intelligence system on wheels dev bot
did a practice round early Saturday
morning then spent an hour taking laps
in front of the crowd in the afternoon
dev bot has an array of sensors plus
advanced GPS for navigating the track
which is not programmed into the cars
computers it reads the track and learns
the route as it goes which means dev bot
drives much more slowly than the formula
e cars the driver took control for a lap
likely to train the AI at speed and then
an in-car camera behind the driver
shoulder was projected onto large
screens around the track so spectators
could see if and when the driver had to
put hands on the wheel the completely
driverless Robo racecar did did take a
lap on its own in Paris
but it was moving more slowly than dev
bought in New York there's no official
word on when Robo race vehicles will be
ready to actually race there was an
optimistic idea that the field of 20
driverless cars would be taking to the
track in the 2017 2018 season but dev
BOTS demonstration on Saturday showed
that a fully autonomous race later this
year is unlikely well there you have it
that's all can you imagine coming down
and watching race cars that are
autonomously I would love that I would a
little meat I would not want to be the
driver like the person like the person
the non driver driver well because then
you would just be startled about how yet
but the other cars like the one that was
on display like this guy here
there's no driver cockpit that I love
that one does not have it plain and
simple inks rattle imagine seeing those
guys go around the track but I mean once
they go around one slope lapped have
learned this to learn the lay of the
land and you know what then we can get
the thrill of seeing the race happen no
risk exactly at least no risk to the
drivers and I would assume that they
would have it safely set up for the
spectators and if autonomous cars can
work in these conditions right with cars
obviously we've been in and out right at
the time you know wait at a subconscious
computer level exactly it could be like
okay we're going by the mayor right now
let's do like the spin like crazy cut
off see exactly well I mean if they can
do things like that it gives me hope for
the future and I know that there's been
some success what it took folks
autonomous race cars give Sasha hope for
the future hope for the future I'm not
mocking you I'm agreeing with you it
works it works really well in the fact
that okay so if you have autonomous
vehicles like this that can weave in and
out of traffic on a racetrack
what is what if you go in the model
right what if you could then have cars
that are supposed to be autonomous cars
on the roads learn how to take evasive
like strategy maneuvers maybe have some
autonomous I don't know ambulances out
there or something that could really
dodge get through traffic to people
faster I like it a lot that you want to
have a race car ambulance but maybe one
once they perfect it absolutely
eventually the science of prosthetics
has been advancing by leaps and bounds
over the last few years and research
into soft robotics has been especially
complimentary the same techniques that
go into making a robot arm that flexes
and turns like a real one can go into
making more complex subtle organs like
the heart as Swiss researchers have
demonstrated one problem with artificial
hearts is that the metal and plastic
mechanisms can be difficult to integrate
with tissue or damage the blood because
of their unnatural movement style a
small team at ETH led by doctoral
students
nickolas course has created what they
say is the first artificial heart that's
entirely soft with its pumping mechanism
achieved by causing the silicone
ventricles to pump very much like a real
heart the heart was created using a 3d
printed method that lets researchers
make a complex inner structure while
still using soft flexible materials as
the structure as the structure the whole
thing is basically one single part so
there's no need to worry about how
different internal mechanisms fit
together this heart is a proof of
concept not built for actual implant a
ssin so the materials they made it from
don't last more than a few thousand
beats which is about a half an hour but
the plan obviously is to have materials
and designs that work for much longer
than that even I think to myself okay so
say you don't get an artificial heart
that would be a long-term situation but
what if you're in a hospital waiting for
a transplant and you only need a month
before or you know you only need two
months right yeah waiting for
transplants yeah interesting right that
it'll bridge the gap because you hear a
lot about people who just like the
transplant just didn't come in time
right they only needed it I'd like a
small amount of time so yeah maybe this
3d printed heart might not last 30 years
like a like a human heart would but it
would last 30 days which isn't nothing
at J's and dialysis but not as much as
an actual heart an organ and yeah that
could work
good job guys patented a security robot
in Washington DC suffered a watery
demise after falling into a fountain by
an office building the stricken robot
made by nightscope was spotted by
pedestrians whose photos of the
aftermath quickly went viral on social
media for some the incident seemed to
sum up the state of 21st century
technology we were promised flying cars
instead we got suicidal robots wrote one
worker from the building on Twitter
Peter singer author of wired for war a
book about military robotics commented
our our best defense against the
Robopocalypse it is not the first
accident involving night scopes
patrolling robots which are equipped
with various instruments including face
recognition systems high-definition
video capture infrared and ultrasonic
sensors last year a 16 month old toddler
was run over by one of the autonomous
devices in Silicon Valley shopping in a
Silicon Valley shopping center
don't worry his injuries were not
serious and earlier this year a
Californian man was arrested after
attacking a nightscope robot that man
who was drunk at the time the incident
said later he simply wanted to test the
machine according to nightscope that's
something how much work just would do
yeah totally disgusted it time in you
know
poke it expulsion product can you see me
now push it yeah that is that testing
the machine I understand that but it was
16 month old baby situations yeah bad
stories and it sure and I've been minute
Jerry yeah lucky the you know fortunate
for the parents and for the child today
okay and there could have been a real
injury it's a Sur 300 pounds yeah so you
know that would hurt running over your
foot right exactly so it's obviously
needs some bugs worked out I still and
in support of the Robocop's yeah there
we go
they're cute they look like r2d2 damn I
love them I think that how great would
it be if you had it like if you had a
simple toy right I'm not make you sad
does anyone else feel sad I feel sad if
you but if you had something simple that
needed to be done right like it's so
great to have a robot to be able to do
it simple not walking over stairs have
you ever seen the Doctor Who episode
though where the robots have the smiley
emojis and the angry emojis you don't
want to get one with an angry emoji no
no so you know maybe they should stop
writing them it's funny because I
actually really do like I suffered you
know the uncanny valley that whole
phenomena yes I actually suffer pretty
bad like I don't like the ratable
we are man's freaked me out because they
look like people having seizure you're
not going to get that from one of these
in floating yes yeah she sees me like
they make me kinda look like a human
thank thank goodness they're adorable
yeah yeah okay Google is reviving a
failed glass project
the smart headset designed to augment
everyone's vision as a product for
businesses the internet giant said it is
designing and upgraded an upgraded
version of the glass headset released in
2013 that will have a better battery
life and be more comfortable to wear the
revamped headset will be called glass
Enterprise Edition and is designed for
use in industries such as manufacturing
and healthcare google says it can
augment your users vision with
hands-free information as they work well
the company publicly ditched smart
eyewear stopping sales and deleting the
glass social media accounts Google had
quietly kept it alive for the past two
years Google has spent this time working
with dozens of partners to create
customized software for certain
industries and businesses it has tested
the new product in the US with firms
including DHL doctors at dignity health
and agricultural machinery manufacturer
AGCO the firms reported the tool had
helped improve efficiency and reduce the
time and reduce the time taken for
administrative tax tasks you know that
realistically though all the people are
going to do with Google glass
yeah
people are going to do it that's always
that's it whoa
no okay no here's what I want I want
Google glass I wanted in my life I work
as you know in a very busy chiropractic
clinic I see people coming and going all
those times are we doing it on Google
glass to know the names of the people
that are walking in in case I'm Robbie
I'm sorry were you saying something
yeah okay um in case that there's
somebody that I don't exactly
immediately recognize and know the name
of right I want them to say like that
would because this is Fred then I can
hey Fred how's it going reminds me of I
don't want you to know better
yak me remember the episode yeah it's
true with the weather like you know on
their phones and I know everything about
you just by looking at the phone that
was a good episode that was a creepy
awesome epithet I sort of want Google
glass I don't want it to be very obvious
that I'm wearing it I don't want I mean
I guess Google glass wants you to be
advertiser tired enough but I want to
just like connect to one side of my
glasses hmm Microsoft's long gentle
embrace of Linux continues with the
first release candidate of SQL Server
2017 Microsoft said the early release
would land in the middle of this year
arguably since this is only the RC
one-level release Microsoft's SQL Server
on Linux is running late there is not
much detail on what's in the box
with with this tech nap blog posts only
saying SQL Server 2017 support for Linux
includes the same high availability
solutions on Linux as Windows as Windows
Server including always-on availability
groups integrated with Linux native
clustering solutions like pacemaker
there's also Active Directory
authentication so the main joined
Windows or Linux client or Linux client
can use their domain credentials to sign
in to SQL Server
as Microsoft discussed last December
when the first public preview landed
getting SQL Server on to Linux needed an
abstraction layer which the company has
dubbed drawbridge drawbridge provides a
host extension running as Linux
application this initializes SQL pal
which offers the windows calls needed to
launch SQL Server it's not only about
Linux the other goodies in the release
candidate include analytics in either R
or Python graph data processing for
discovering complex and many-to-many
relationships and an adaptive query
processing to the auto-tune to auto-tune
the database TLS support is also built
into the release to encrypt data between
the SQL server and clients are you and a
boon to user if you're using a boon to
sixteen points ten yackety-yak it hits
end-of-life tomorrow July 3rd July 20th
released on October 13th 2016 a boon to
sixteen point ten is a short-term
release with a nine month support cycle
that support period is about to end this
means that no further maintenance
updates critical security upgrades or
updated packages will be released by
Ubuntu developers and no official
support will be given third-party
developers who distribute software via
ppas or other repositories often end
support for AOL release two releases -
although the software itself will
continue to work it's highly recommended
that you upgrade to a supported version
of Ubuntu such as a current short-term
release of boon to 17.04 or the current
LTS release ubuntu point or a boon to
sixteen point oh four LTS to ensure you
continue getting security updates and
critical fixes the supported upgrade
path from a bloom to sixteen point 10 is
to a boon to sixteen or seventeen point
zero for a one to 17.04 continues to be
actively supported with security updates
and select high impact bug fixes and
will continue to receive them until
february of next year
unwitting customers in the United
Kingdom who didn't read the terms and
conditions for use of a public Wi-Fi
hotspot agreed to perform 1,000 hours of
community service including unplugging
sewers and scraping gum off of the
street
the gag was conceived by Wi-Fi provider
purple the company inserted the clause
into its terms and conditions the
technically legally binding agreement
consumers approve in exchange for free
and use of Internet there are so few
virtually few had actually read the
terms the company said it did so to call
attention to the fact that consumers are
regularly agreeing to terms that they
might not actually like including
granting access to private information
and data about their web browsing habits
other community service tasks agreed to
by the users included providing hugs to
stray cats and dogs and painting snail
shells to brighten up their existence
the agreement also promised a prize to
anyone who actually became aware of the
prizes existence after reading the terms
and conditions yet after two weeks only
one person came forward to claim the
prize this isn't the first time a stunt
like this has been pulled in 2014
cybersecurity firm f-secure ran a
similar experiment in London London
operating a Wi-Fi hotspot that anyone
could use in exchange for their
firstborn child yep the so called Harrod
clause was clearly stated in the terms
and conditions and six people still
signed up though it's not clear how many
of them simply disliked their eldest
children Wow
I will tell you I don't always read my
terms and conditions it's true so yeah
so sick and tired of it it turns out I
frequently use this free Wi-Fi that's
really close to my work and after today
reading this story I thought maybe I
should read those terms and conditions
it's kind of twofold though isn't it
because when I connect to a public Wi-Fi
mmm-hmm I'm not doing anything no I'm
not doing anything private ever when
you're on a public please don't don't do
it I mean people go to a halt
and they use the free Wi-Fi and then
they realized that their accounts of all
been hacked yeah don't your online
banking on free Wi-Fi don't but that's
that's common sense but when I go I
don't like it needs in the email address
well I just make something up like I'm
not going to use I know I'm it's bad
practice right yeah but actually I know
that they're spying on you exactly I
know that there's fine music - like
wiring for modify like I do it to like
do nothing else on my phone I go when I
go to KFC I use the free Wi-Fi I enter
support at KFC CA as my email address oh
that's awesome and then I bring up their
website and I bring up the coupon and I
save myself three dollars on my purchase
just like that for the wind that's how
we do it big thanks this week - sparkly
balls Roy W Nash Garbi the Albuquerque
turkey and our community of yours for
submitting to recess this week thanks
for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our web
site from the category-five TV newsroom
I'm Sasha Doritos as the Coney Channel
working for all y'all be interested to
know I also saw you said that it was
working perfectly for them so that's
good
we released one point 1.0 today but it
is a brand new place which the developer
guy should probably test it before good
live on the air well yes you know timing
folks timing is crazy you know how busy
we are
I produced nine episodes last week I
think that's great
today is Wednesday and I have already
produced four episodes this week of
various shows for category 5 mm-hmm plus
all the other stuff going on Plus
spending time with my family plus did I
mention I'm a volunteer and so Sasha
because everybody else yeah like so for
you a very full time volunteering for me
I mean I will admit I just I'm lucky in
that I just kind of waltz on in here I
like on in here with a hot bike ride
by Condon here one really warming up
there today good day for you to bike
home though because last week you got
rained on oh my okay I know not
everybody here lives in Ontario or close
to Barry and understand how badly it
rained last Wednesday
it was torrential it was so bad I
thought it was fine you left and then
the sky opened up and then like it was
like a lake fell so if I jump in a lake
I would have been drier than I was when
I got home I was biking home I got about
halfway there the sky opened up it
started raining it was raining so hard I
was just opening my mouth and getting
full like full muscles your water like
it was in it was not real life it was
crazy it was so much water that when I
got home and I opened my backpack and
everything obviously was drenched
I didn't realize for a couple of days
but my wallet was so wet that it was in
the backpack not that anybody carries
checks anymore but I was carrying checks
in my wallet that were completely no
demolish like my all of the paper
products in on my person were yeah I
have cards and stuff that I would be
dead I have nothing free coffee yeah
I've got nothing paper left that was my
paste our money here in Canada is made
of a plastic a champ yeah they used to
be paper and I would have been in
trouble then time hmm well hey welcome
to the show this is category 5
technology TV and thank you so much for
joining us tonight
now I know and Sasha knows that things
haven't gone absolutely perfectly with
our demonstration tonight but I hope
you've made it this far we've got a
couple of can we hit some viewer
comments questions anything at all that
has come in later on today go to our
website category five dot TV click on
contact us you can submit your viewer
questions there or go to our forum by
clicking on interact all right we have
Rockaway CCW sorry saw our episode about
Linux desktop environments and says if
you install multiple desktops you will
end up with multiple file browsers text
editors terminals calculators clipboards
calendars and other utilities that are a
part of a
II definitely I would just put it out
there you might also break Cody yeah you
could you have a wonder about it L may
have some weird stuff going on that's
probably it actually appropriate also in
mostly E's you can click on the clock
and see a pop-up calendar thank you I
need a calendar hey all of the time yeah
we were talking about a calendar well
what do we got so if I click on the
clock there's a calendar pretty simple
perfect
well it's theirs now I know that you
know there's the date well you need it
right when you're trying to figure out
the date yeah love you
you need a calendar girl like three
weeks from now but what does that
doesn't have like scheduling now the one
that I found that was it came with it
yeah it's got full scheduling and G Cal
support so that's pretty sweet good to
sync up thanks sure what should I say a
touch on the desktop environment common
I guess oh maybe a yeah yeah we kind of
alluded to that because it was brought
up in the chat room where if you install
a whole bunch of different desktop
environments you're going to get a whole
bunch of cruft
I discovered that today as well because
I was messing with installation of new
fonts and Here I am in cinnamon and it
was trying to launch the KDE font
installer I wouldn't work on cinnamon
and there were all kinds of problems so
yeah you could probably have those kind
of troubles with sorry would you then
just want to only ever have one desktop
environment yeah I would expect
eventually yeah but for our experiment
for our intents and purposes it's to try
everything let's figure out which one we
want then go back wipe out our systems
start from scratch and say I chose
cinnamon that's the one I want right but
my question to you would then be if
you're trying everything are you getting
a really accurate depiction of anything
because they're all pretty darned
accurate okay although you may have some
trouble like we did have some trouble
setting up HDMI output on gnome which I
know was because of some issues with
conflicts and things like that no
probably won't happen home ok sounds
going nope right right
those kinds of things want to be an
issue but but for us for the most part
it would be the sake of the
demonstration I think it works pretty
well okay perfect
random if you have no idea what we're
talking about get onto our website
category five dot TV click on search and
type in desktop environment with a very
cool episode this one sure when Tess
says the biggest are given your OC
mirror oh sorry
no not senior senior senior senior not
with na at the end that's just that's
just me breathing Senor wences says the
biggest arguments are rescaling your
images is to save bandwidth for your
visitor to save bandwidth for your
visitor improving your download page
rendering time especially if you're
talking about mobile whenever I visit a
site where the page renders and then I
see one image coming in super slowly I
think to myself what an idiot maybe some
of the web dev may be the jerk who put a
7 Meg JPEG on you what an idiot
maybe not the most charitable hahaha but
it's what I think so please PLEASE is
bold
so please scale your big images to the
smallest size that still works for your
particular use case ok that make sense
you're going at old school my friend
this is in reference a guarantee you to
the question that came in regarding
WordPress yes ok with the picture size
things yeah yeah so with the picture
short things whatever she's even got the
dance moves when she says it it's in the
order when's this here's the thing we
were talking about WordPress so with
WordPress if you have the most ginormous
most high res image and upload it to
WordPress WordPress then takes that and
scaled it to the correct sizes for web
access so for the responsive design for
all that kind of stuff if you go on to
now my website category 5 TV is not
WordPress ok
however well you know what a good
example would be bald nerd calm
let's go there if I head to my blog bald
nerd calm you're going to see that
sometimes I post pictures what if we go
to the NEMS page because I know there's
pictures there okay so on the nems page
if we scroll down we're going to find a
photo gallery so first of all let's
remember here Senor wences than anyone
else who's wondering about this this is
a wordpress site i uploaded the very
most large file that i could find right
okay because we want the highest res so
if i right-click on this particular
image and view image
well it's only 150 by 150 how's that
possible okay if i then go back and i
click on it it brings up a lightbox and
it's going to show me that image and a
high res so if i view that image which I
can only do by right-clicking on it and
go open link in a new tab
there's the screenshot and the
screenshot is 1600 by 900 so that
screenshot is probably you know that's
probably native resolution to my laptop
so but the fact is is that when you
upload something to WordPress it does
scale itself down to the various sizes
that are required for your website so
you saw the 150 by 150 I never created
that word pressed it so you it's a
different thing when you run your own
website right so and by that I mean it's
not a WordPress or Joomla or something
else that automatically does these
things so if I had a website where I was
creating the HTML I was creating the
images then I have to now put the
thought into creating those images right
scale so that's where when you go to
category 5 TV for example this is not a
CMS that's publicly available this is
something that I have developed from the
ground up and it is specifically and
where I'm just noticing that our
internet just went down for a moment
we're on LTE internet so that may be why
we're having some trouble tonight as
well with category 5 TV you look at the
images and you'll notice that we have
our thumbnails or 854 pixels wide right
that's all you know because I have
created the system I set that
so it creates those so if I was to
create a website and I had too large of
an image then yes it's going to be a
long time to download on a slower
connection you're going to be brutal I
need to personally optimize those
because I am not using WordPress I'm not
using something that automatically
rescales them if you are though in the
context of this question then it does it
automatically that said may I yes
there's a plug-in and our Internet's
backup there's a plug-in that I use on
some sites that really really helps so
because we're in the context of
WordPress if you actually you know if we
go to the WordPress site and look for
the for the plug-in so we go
wordpress.org slash plugins and that's
the plug-in repository slash and I know
where it is resize - image - after -
upload and you can just do a search in
the plug-in repository for resize image
after upload this plug-in will take it
one step further and it will rescale all
the images very very nicely this is a
free plug-in that short pixel is brought
out and what it does is it you specify
okay what are the maximum image
dimensions and it will rescale them
using that as a maximum so it's
beautiful because what it does is it
rescales your master file oh where
WordPress will leave the master file the
same size and then scale down to the
different various sizes for different
responsiveness and display types this
will actually resize the master file and
it does a really nice job of doing it so
you don't notice any loss eNOS so check
that out as well and that's another way
to do it so WordPress automates it doing
it yourself you're right you need to do
it yourself with something like GIMP
something like MOG Rifai which is part
of image magic any any of those kind of
tools will help you to scale them if
you're doing it yourself very cool
thank for the comments questions get
yours in category 5 TV click on contact
us and again you can visit the forum now
you can assign that task into there I
know I meant to doing this week
me Asha you can actually go into the
forum and say I really wish Sasha would
join the forum and say hello and I'll
bet you that will be her first reply
that's right it will be hello I need to
I need to do it you know the truth of
the matter is not a lack of intent it's
like a lack of hope I just I might fall
something I knew I was going to yeah I
was going to do it here's what happened
think I told about 10,000 people that I
thought I was going to just join the
forum you know whatever and I sit on my
couch at the end of my day and I sit
down and I opened my phone and there's
something I was going to do maybe was
check Facebook and I'm not that I'm lost
forever you're done I'm watching like
exactly videos of puppies dancing and
stuff so okay here's the thing
next week I will I will update you on
how I joined the forum and how much I
love it
I'm writing this down okay happening SAS
is joining the farm I am so sorry
I do a lot I do a lot of wanting to do
things I do a lot of imagining I am
sending you an email every single day I
am bugging you on Facebook because I
know that's all you're doing and here's
the thing - okay so I'm scrolling
through Facebook and there are these
like videos that are running but I'm
trying to be quiet about it
so I'm not even doing anything
constructive because what I'm doing is
I'm watching videos with no sound
imagining what the sound might be and
then stopping halfway through because an
ad is starting soon so then I just like
you know continual things I watch like
the first one quarter of a whole bunch
of videos with no sound so you're
wasting my life
we still I light have halfway through
and I should just be on the forum see
the thing is if I did that and I could
be doing something with my time instead
of talking to the viewers yeah instead
of just checking out there's some good
recipes 1/4 of the way through the last
fifty nine thirty seconds or less as a
I've seen those cakes I couldn't do that
I know that you guys understand I know
that some of you heard like me can't be
alone
folks it's been nice having you here
Sasha pleasure having you here as always
and I'm looking forward to next week we
will talk to you then we're going to get
this little Cody thing straight now
thanks for sticking with us right to the
end see you next Wednesday night tonight
have a great week
you
