okay so PJ sent us a great email and in
it here's a quick little excerpt I
really need to thank you for the RSS
feeds you may remember in the UK some of
us still have a 10 gigabyte download cap
a month including early hours of the
morning midnight till eight on my
package I can get reminders via
aggregator aggregator aggregator but to
download I'd have to scroll down to the
enclosure link right click and save as
sure I can work out a cron skipped
script to do or such to do it I wish we
could get snow like you showed for a
couple weeks ago here in England here
less than an inch causes traffic chaos
and claims for snow days yeah we see
that here too yeah well sometimes but
then other times it snows like crazy we
don't get snow days no diculous you go
at night mover yeah move to Canada and
hang out with that they go or come visit
now the snow melted so you know we had
that great big deep snow yeah and then
suddenly it was gone three days later I
know I know there's nothing now it's
snowing again excuse no but there was
nothing on the ground without it on the
ground yeah does that happen knock on
wood mean for like seven days in a row
oh that's right that's what did it and
the warm weather too so okay well what
is PJ talking about well if you head on
over to our website category five dot TV
check out our website there and if you
go down to the bottom of the website
you'll see our RSS feeds right there or
you'll see subscribe but either those
buttons are going to take it at the same
place he can get us on roku cody plex
and then we've got our RSS feeds check
that out help so what PJ is talking
about is hey thanks for this because
here's category 5 technology TV right
you can get high quality HD video you
can get SD video or audio only so if
you're traveling on the bus you want to
just listen with a pair of headphones or
whatever if you like the sultry sounds
in my position you want to wear a pair
of headphones while you sleep you can do
that it's just like that so I so what
you do is with this RSS feed you can
click on it and it will open it but you
can now add
RSS feed to a aggregator like aggregator
but this this all this bunch of texts
are basically all of our shows so last
week's episode is part of this text feed
so there's how lidar technology helped
discover the lost city of the monkey got
right good luck and and it is yeah so
this has all the information that
aggregator or your RSS feed aggregator
is is going to use sorry I didn't
realize that was a little bit cut off
but there there you have it that's the
full full size so it looks like a bunch
of jumbled texts in your browser but
using something like on your phone
whether you're on iOS or Android you can
install what's called podcast addict go
to our website go to that page on your
phone once you've already installed
podcast attic click on any of those
links and it will actually add it to
podcast addict and then it will
automatically sync the show as it as it
goes so so PJ being that he has it's
like how we want to do our laundry here
during off-peak hours because it's
cheaper so it's cheaper for them to
download the show after hours and then
watch them during primetime right so you
can set up your aggregator to download
the show automatically and then you can
watch it without using any bandwidth
how's that is awesome so very cool
thanks for the email and glad that the
RSS feeds are helping you out do check
out our website category-five TV go to
the subscribe link see what we have
there I'm always trying to improve it
always trying to add things I really
love the consolidated feed I think
that's a really neat feature so if you
actually go high quality video under
consolidated feed it takes the data from
all of our shows and it takes a second
to load on my screen because of the fact
that hey it's a lot of episodes so this
takes category-five technology TV still
loading there goes I oh it came up on my
screen anyway it's not coming up on
there I think it killed my my Wi-Fi oh
no sir but it it has category 5 tech TV
it has new every day it has our Clips it
has the pixel shadow all built into one
feed so that you don't have to subscribe
to a bunch of individual ones if you
like all of our content
that's want me to do it aroganji
[Music]
[Applause]
