hi everyone and welcome to new every day
my name is Kari and my name is Jen and
on today's show we're gonna talk about
the prison break that happens in Acts
chapter 12 stay tuned we'll be right
back this is new every day with Jen
Wagner and Gary Webb
[Music]
hi everyone thank you for tuning back in
to new everyday we're so glad that you
have tuned in to another week if this is
your first time joining us welcome we
are making our way through the book of
Acts we've taken some breaks here and
there to talk about other things to
interview some other people and now
we're back in chapter 12 so we usually
just read the scripture we talk about it
we insert random stories and to kind of
take you along for the ride to learn
with us and talk about life and one of
the reasons we do this is because
scripture is alive and active and so
often you can just ask the question well
not really getting much from my
scripture reading well one of the ways
of getting to increase your intake I
guess it would be read the scripture and
talk about it with someone and so this
is an opportunity where we just sit down
and we're like this is what I read like
yeah what what do you think this means
and how does it apply because God
promised that he would meet with us
through the scriptures and so yeah we
have been working through the book of
Acts because it is the church in action
and so we're going to this morning or
whenever you're watching we are
currently recording it's a beautiful day
and the sky is blue and which doesn't
really happen a whole lot in the
wintertime and in northern Canada it's
breezy we're not really northern Canada
just know I don't like so so beginning
I'm reading from the JB Phillips Version
this morning
and he is a con English or British
commentator I believe where he's from
the UK and this is how it begins it was
at this time that King Herod laid
violent hands on some of the church
members James John's brother was he
executed with the sword and when he
found this action pleased the Jews he
went on to arrest Peter as well it was
during the days of unleavened bread that
he actually made the arrest he put Peter
in prison with no less than four squads
of soldiers to guard him intending to
bring him out to the people after the
Passover so Peter
was closely guarded in the prison while
a church prayed to God earnestly on his
behalf and as we read this first passage
this morning the first thing and that's
one of the things when you're reading
like what is it that catches your eye
that's one of the very first things that
you do is you pray and you're like Lord
as I read your scripture today would you
speak to me because if you're a follower
of Christ then you have been promised
according to 1st Corinthians that the
Spirit of the Living God is alive in you
and you can know the mind of Christ so
you can say Lord what is it that you
want me to know today as I read your
word and sometimes that that is how he
speaks through Scripture is like it'll
seem like one verse seems to be
highlighted yes or jump in you and maybe
that's where you need to stop and and
like ruminate on that a little bit like
what does this actually mean some people
like to write it out maybe you might
have a journal that you like to write
down or maybe you like to highlight it
in the Bible but that physical action
also helps to imprint the memory of the
actual verse in your mind mm-hmm and
then the Holy Spirit can bring that to
your mind later in application in your
life yeah and what's interesting is he
says what's as I read that first passage
to think well two things laid violent
hands and some of the church members but
secondly I what stood out to me was
during the days of unleavened bread and
I was like what is unleavened bread like
as a as a pastor I've read the Bible and
I've said those words but I've never
really thought why is that important and
so I went to a commentary I just and and
how you do that you can literally type
in feast of unleavened bread and what
comes up and I was like wow that's an
okay so um any ideas what the feast of
unleavened bread is do you well I have
an idea okay what is it I think that it
was post Passover so Passover is in
Exodus yep right Exodus like 12
so when Moses
was bringing the people of Israel out of
Egypt mm-hmm God sent the plagues to to
kind of encourage or force Pharaoh to
let the people go out of Egypt mm-hmm
and then the final plague was that of
the Angel of Death right so the the
people in Passover had to take a lamb
and they slaughtered the lamb and they
took the blood of the lamb and they put
it on their doorposts and if the
Israelites had put the blood on the
doorposts then when the Angel of Death
was coming to kill the firstborn then it
would see the blood on the doorpost and
pass over that family who was in the
house yeah and didn't matter if it was
just whoever was in the house doesn't
matter if you were every Israelite or
not if you were in the house and the
blood was there the Angel of Death
passed over you yeah so that was
Passover the feast of unleavened bread
was after Passover yes when they were to
get rid of all the yeast because they
were leaving Egypt and they had to pack
up real super fast so the bread wasn't
allowed to rise so they didn't put yeast
in the bread yeah right because they
were just gonna throw the flour and
water and whatever you'll see make bread
with I've never made bread myself I
purchase it they would throw it on their
backs and then I tail it out of Egypt
right so there was no yeast in there but
later on that was used as a symbol that
maybe you can explain okay she did a
really good job Thanks and so I was
doing some research on this yeast and I
didn't know this until this past summer
yeast naturally occurs in the air like
wheat or any sort of the store and we
get the little package we rip it open we
pour it in for all you bakers who have
made Brendan you're like these girls are
nuts you I have made bread and you do go
to the store and it needs to be fresh
yeast but what I didn't know is like in
olden times like probably in these times
they didn't go to the store because
there wasn't quite the same anyways they
would make their bread and they would
put it out because yeast naturally
occurs in the air
and they would actually go and it says
they would go to grape leaves and they
would take the yeast because it
naturally occurs in the air and pull it
off and they would put it in huh
yeah isn't that fascinating hanging
grape leaves like shake off they would
go and collect it off because it
naturally occurs in the air and so they
could go and collect yeast which was
another reason why they weren't to put
yeast in it because that would take time
like when the time was called to go they
needed to go you're blowing my mom I
know isn't that fascinating
look like a yeast harvester like it's
like a baleen whale like collecting
plankton from here maybe like that's
weird I know so but that's why you could
if we wanted to make bread we would put
it out and we would let the natural
yeast get into the bread and that's
where the kneading would come in as it
falls on the bread yeah and that way and
so if they wanted to increase the amount
of yeast they would actually go and
collect it off of leaves and water I'm
like yes because it naturally crows in
the air which is why I no need to think
hard about this okay isn't it
fascinating and this is why when you
read the scripture and that's why we're
spending so much time on this this
morning because you're like I thought we
were talking about prison we're getting
there but when something stands out to
you in Scripture
you need to go and say Jesus why is this
standing out to me yeah so you know as I
did the research what's interesting is
the feast of unleavened bread they were
to go and sweep the entire house free
because yeast is a sign of sin and the
all pervasiveness of sin and so weird we
are to actively clean out our house so
that there is no yeast well we are to
actively clean out our our lives because
of the sin that is so pervasive and the
fact that they had to continually do
this means like okay well I prayed the
prayer I'm done
sin free not gonna send any more and
it's like no you have to actively it
says we are to press on we are to work
towards thanks like there's some work in
the actual like where are areas that sin
is so easily
coming in like into my thoughts and
whatnot and are my actions in and I was
like so we're talking New Testament
we're talking like still in the New
Testament because Paul says continue to
practice the feasts because they point
towards Christ right which is just and
we normally in in most Protestants
churches we don't because we see them as
Jewish feasts and yet there's something
like all of the peat all the feasts
point towards Jesus and and who he is
but just it's like because some people
would say well no you just throw out the
Old Testament there's no meaning it
doesn't talk about Jesus and it's like
no it points to Jesus like real even if
you go back to Genesis 3 where original
sin comes in and even there it says you
know Satan will nip at his heel but the
one who is coming will you know trounce
on his head he'll stop on his head and
that's a foretaste of Jesus coming and
so the Old Testament is full of pointers
towards Christ and that's why it's so
important that you don't just read the
New Testament you read the old in
combination so you can see where it
connects to Christ and so you know as I
read through that at once again that one
word feast of unleavened bread I was
like I need to check that out and what
is the meaning and and you know so I
take that into my own heart and I'm like
okay Lord
I don't want yeast I don't want sin
creeping into my life cuz it's so
pervasive like it is the second glance
you're walking down the street and
you're like whoa he's hot or what she's
cute like you know and it's the second
glance right it's that pervasive it's
seeing a picture when you're sitting on
the subway and go wow you know like it's
sin is so pervasive that we have to take
an active stance right and sweeping it
out of our lives and I was like okay how
do i how do I live out that feast of
unleavened bread in my life like it
occurs in Scripture the Passover and
then the feast and then there was
another celebration yeah but it's like I
through the power of the Holy Spirit I
want Jesus
to help me clean out the yeast sin in my
life because I don't want I don't want
it sneaking in I don't want it becoming
pervasive so what's interesting about
like the nature of yeast is that it only
takes a small amount and then it
pervades the whole loaf and causes that
reaction what's kind of interesting is
that this feast came after Passover and
I was just thinking about how you know
we try not to do what is wrong and
sometimes people get so caught up in
striving and biting their lip and I'm
just trying not to sin all day but after
passover came that's like when the like
the judgment of god passed over the
people and the blood of christ you know
in in john when Jesus was approaching
John the Baptist I don't want to say and
so as she's looking that up we take a
break
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
PNH photo/video ebay or amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching hey and
welcome back everyone thanks for staying
with us in Acts chapter 12 and thank you
to all of our partners who make this
show possible go to our website new
every day TV click on our partners tab
and see all the organizations and
businesses making this show possible if
you would like to make a donation to
help us continue to do this then we
certainly invite you to do that and
there's opportunities on our partners
page to do that so thank you I know we
just wanted to jump right back in here
cuz it's like okay yeah what do you have
there in John okay so we were talking
about Passover right yeah man we haven't
even got to the prison break there's
been so much in this like initial verses
in Chapter 12
so when Passover happened the lamb was
slaughtered the blood covered the
doorpost of the people in Israel if you
go back and read this in Exodus and that
caused the Angel of Death the Passover
the judgment of God passed over in the
New Testament in the book the Gospel of
John John chapter 1 verse 29 this is
talking about John the Baptist so Jesus
is coming he's gonna start his ministry
and says the next day John saw Jesus
coming toward him and said behold the
lamb of God who takes away the sin of
the world yeah and he is our Passover
lamb who was slaughtered and now his
blood covers us yes because the Bible
also says without the shedding of blood
there's no forgiveness of sins
yes and so his his blood covers us we
are forgiven when we accept Christ we
are adapt his forgiveness yes and he has
full salvation both salvation and then
he
enables us to not sin and says like the
love of Christ compels us I know what he
did for me
I don't want and he I don't want any
part of that sin I don't want any of
that yeast to sneak in and like right
permeate all of me right cuz now I'm set
apart for Christ because of what he's
done and I love him and I just find this
very interesting at the unleavened bread
the sweeping out the cleaning house
comes after the Passover that Christ has
come he has forgiven us and he is able
to do the work in us yea not about
striving it's about submitting to Christ
right oh yes totally it's not like I
have to get rid of the sin of my life
it's through the power of Jesus yeah
would you would you break the
strongholds would you show me where sin
is coming in because as soon as it's
striving then pride and comes in and
works comes in but it says we are to
join hands with Christ right and it's
like salvation is fully covered with the
blood but it's like it's the I want to
say the full abundant life comes through
the process of sanctification because
you have been saved you are being saved
and you will fully be saved when we see
Jesus face-to-face it's this yes and yes
it's the whole gamut because we struggle
with sin so we can't say oh I've
accepted Christ I'm done I'm never gonna
sin again well that's not true because
we're both no we both know Jesus and yet
we come I'm so sorry I can't like would
you please forgive me because I have
sinned against Kerry and through the
power of Jesus he reveals the sin and my
need for him right I can't work hard to
change my heart it's Jesus working in me
I have to give him permission to do that
and so it is it's it's that we have all
week we don't need more Jesus we need
less of ourselves right so we have
everything that we need for life and
godliness Paul is very clear about that
yeah we have everything we need
like our fridge is full of food but we
can still starve even though we have
food that's a good point like we have
lots of food in the house that's a but
until we actually
open the fridge and do something with it
it's of no use to us right so like we've
paid for the food yeah but as you know
it's just sitting there on the counter
waiting for us to use it and that's why
you know the feast of alum bread comes
after the Passover so it's not on us to
clean out the sin right first and then
the Passover lamb yeah you don't
have to get out no no I receive Christ
no they said pack everybody into your
house first Passover lamb comes and now
with the blood of Jesus over you let's
work towards full sanctification like
the two butts we're joining hands
together it's nothing that we do on our
own because as soon as it's about works
then there's no Jesus and it's not like
look and see what Jesus is doing in me
it's well look and see what I've been
doing right and that's the difference so
when we we look at this
Herod really is look and see what I am
doing to make the Jews a peaceful nation
because at the end of this chapter which
will eventually get to God calls Herod
on his selfish sinfulness they look at
me and see what I have done whereas the
blood of the Lamb which sounds solar
because it's the mystery of Jesus
because of the Passover lamb we see
change in ourselves because of what he
does in us it's not about what we do we
have to appropriate it for ourselves to
say it's Jesus working in me
and so here's Herod say laying violent
hands on the members of the church and
he says this action please the Jews so
he went on to arrest Peter as well and
he put so many guards around because I
you just didn't want him to get away
like four legions for four sets of
guards which would be 4 times 4 that's
16 guards yeah it's 16 people to watch
one guy yeah and so Peter was closely
guarded while the church prayed to God
earnestly on his behalf do you know
what's funny is like Herod knew like
okay I already killed one of them off
but then arrested Peter so why did he
that he needed the for like the sixteen
guards it's very interesting there was a
piece in the back of his mind said
there's something powerful going on and
I'm gonna use all my might to try and
stop it
and after that we see this miraculous
prison break so we're gonna come back
next week and talk about that and we
hope that you'll you'll come back and
hear it as well so Jen do you want to
just pray for us well sure we oh dear
Lord Jesus here we are wanting to talk
about a prison break and we find
ourselves talking about your son and
what he's done in our lives and so Lord
we need the power of Jesus in our lives
at work in us your power at work in us
and so Lord we thank you for this time
that we could spend together wow you're
just so good and so I ask that you'd be
with our viewers to this week and Lord
that they would I want to say sit with
your scripture and allow you to speak to
them and maybe it isn't just a word that
catches their eye and then they go and
they ask you about it and do some
research and then they are moved to draw
closer to you so Lord we commit them to
you we thank you for your goodness and
your love and your name amen amen
thank you so much for watching and we'll
see you next week thanks cheerio yes
ma'am
catch a new episode of new every day
every Friday morning at new every day
dot TV
we're also on Kody Roku flex YouTube and
Facebook or if you're in Southern
California tune in every Sunday morning
at 6:30 Pacific on channel 33 television
for the high desert
