the following program is made possible
by the friends and partners of God quest
ministries
Eric joven here along with Paul Taylor
with your creation today is it possible
that atheists don't know anything at all
that's what we're talking about today on
the creation today show from pensacola
florida and on the creation today show
today we're going to be talking about
our recent visit to the reason rally in
DC talking about how you approach an
unbeliever with the gospel will also be
giving you a great tool for finding
about creation ministers around the
country that's right and we'll be
discussing fuzzy words those things are
so cute i love those cute little fuzzy
words if you have questions this is your
show set of into questions at creation
today o RG remember we believe the Bible
is literally true and scientifically
accurate
member
welcome to season two of the creation
today's show Paul can you believe we did
it it's it's been a long haul but this
is the second year we've been able to do
this show I can't believe it's lasted so
long well you know we've had a lot of
response to millions of letters when we
all use of letters well thousands of
letters of thousands of letters salomon
okay hundreds of letters hundreds of
letters have come in about the show took
several lesson okay we've gotten sick
well actually I've got a letter here oh
that's the one from my mind she
does love the show but it did come
flooding in oh it did yeah yeah we
definitely had a good time speech over
the past year and I'm looking forward to
several guests already lined up for
season two really excited about that
amazing wake up people like JC guts yes
man what an incredible brilliant mind
talking about the god of the universe i
love it i love what he's done and also
our old friend John McCauley John McKay
is gonna be joining us in later episodes
so we invite you to tune in once a week
as we continue to teach you about
creation today what's going on right
here right now well coming up in this
show we do have a lot of good stuff for
you lots and lots of great stuff but we
got a brand new segment an occasional
segment because people have been asking
that they want some answers to questions
all right let's do they wanted a
question there was a test to see whether
how much your brain is working on the
subject of creation well the Bible says
be ready always so so see if we are
ready always so here's a new segment
called rapid response where we are gonna
test every provins knowledge of creation
matters and see whether you can answer
questions atheists already this is for
you we have two minutes for you to
answer as many questions as you can ever
please please your name please Eric
joven your occupation evangelist and
yours chosen specialist subjects oh god
oh oh that's not the questions so were
your time I felt like I did good on this
okay time starts now did God use the Big
Bang to create
the universe no he did not use the Big
Bang it's interesting the Big Bang says
the one came from nothing and God says
the world came from nothing so they both
have the same starting point croatian
says one came from nothing so they got
the same starting point however the Big
Bang idea says that nobody did it
obviously creation to say God dinner
good I'll that to creation accounts in
Genesis none of you with this one common
misunderstanding there's not sue
creation accounts Genesis chapter 1
gives the overview Genesis chapter 2
goes back and reviews what happened on
day six specifically of creation so on
in chapter one God makes all the animals
and then makes man in chapter 2 he makes
man and then makes one of each kind of
animal to bring them to Adam to see what
do we call that's great how did a 600
year old man build a wooden boat for
millions of animals the question is
flawed there probably were not millions
of animals there's a new study called
Barrowman ology tracing land blowing
animals back to the original kinds
there's probably only about eight
thousand different kinds of animals
originally not millions and we know from
God's Word as our Authority that Noah
did it with his three sons so they built
the ark brilliant good enough for this
one this is a hard one but he can get
his wife Cain had to marry a sister hmm
so that was their only choice there was
no genetic load no deform chromosomes
Cain had to marry his sister after that
it got the cousins and things like that
today if you marry any closer to cousin
you get a redneck but oh well this
little rude sorry Rhett response good
only Tony allowed to happen now about my
job white lady occasion we love you guys
and Adam and Tennessee a vote in grit
nuts a Norfolk why do you believe it why
you believe in Genesis instead of in
science
then again mrs. misunderstood question
we believe in BO Genesis and science all
the science that we see today actually
supports in God's Word says you got to
be smarter per cone called the six days
in Genesis now does that just simply
goes through the science and the six
days of Genesis so there they go
perfectly together they're not they're
not in conflict at all and one another
question here when you're trying to
think about evolution how can all these
scientists all be wrong how can all I
like the way JC hurt said it when we
were talking to him a couple weeks ago
he said do all scientists believe that
the Bible is the infallible inspired
Word of God another done well how could
they all be wrong just because a lot of
people believe something doesn't make it
right they used to think that bad that
you were sick because you had bad blood
all the scientists used to think that
big rocks fall faster the Little Rock's
just because all the scientists believe
some doesn't necessarily make it true
and that's what we're after is true and
it starts with the foundation of God's
work on one your final question mr.
Hoban isn't creation divisive oh uh oh
its creation divisive no it's not if
you're interested in the truth but those
that don't want the truth I guess it
would be divisive because the truth
pushes people away sometimes to go back
into the darkness you know the Bible
says if you remain in the light if
you'll stay sitting in the light you're
your eyes literally just you get to know
the truth and that truth is what will
set you free that phrase comes from that
that starting point is if you stay in
the light if you'll remain in the light
then you'll be my staples then you'll
know the truth on the truth will set you
free so no creation nearly is a divisive
when it comes to if you want to know the
truth but if you don't want to stand on
God's Word as your authority of course
there's gonna be a conflict there well
it's very impressive you know we sign
answer questions on this show and you've
managed to answer eight questions very
very rapidly indeed so beard we did all
last season no I guess we answered a lot
of questions last season oh man well
that is fun okay you're gonna get
grilled next time then okay
and see how you think off the cuff here
see if I can think fast on the feet you
know we do have a lot of questions like
these that come in that are really
common questions a great resource for
you by the way a great resource is the
answers book there's a series of three
books that have a total of how many
answers almost 100 it's almost a hundred
i think there's actually 99 answers
together in those three books they were
going to write another book but that's
another story the the whole did you get
that one another story nevermind the the
answers book series goes through common
questions and objections to the Bible
just like these that really do have
great answers if you're if you're
willing to look for that's right it's
well worth getting that and of course
that if you've got youngsters around
then you want to get some information
about creation and that's probably the
best product there to get is the
creation kids club wow I'm telling you
brand new resource creation kids called
gear for ages four to nine years old and
it's just fantastic book one is out and
we're looking forward to more books
coming out that really is going to be a
great i sadly the young lady who was
written that Amy Webb Amy Webb and we've
we've spoken to her interviewed her for
the show and we'll be playing that
interview at some point soon I'm looking
you guys are really going to enjoy
hearing from her yeah it's really really
cool hey also if you're in the Pensacola
area we've actually started the Croatian
kids club locally where we get together
every couple months and we actually have
activities and go out and do things with
science in the Bible and it's a lot of
fun the kids really enjoy and you know
if you wanted to find out more
information than you need to come along
to one of our events yes particular you
need to come along to the proof of God
conference in october i can't stress
this one enough guys it really is going
to be phenomenal I mean just absolutely
phenomenal we've got several incredible
speakers including Paul Taylor that's
right Aaron Paul Taylor's going to be
there Carl Kirby from reason for Hope
ministry is going to be there Mark Spitz
from the way of the master is going to
be there and sites in Bergen cake for
proof they got is this org it's gonna be
phenomena that that's what hangout is
wrong
for another and you know if you want to
earn conference much nearer to where you
live then get your church to get on to
us because we're very happy to travel
and to come and talk to your church and
put on a conference or an event near you
they really are life-changing and that's
all point of these not just to talk
about the creation but to get to the
Creator well hey stay tuned coming up
we've got some clips from the reason
rally the largest gathering of ABS the
second to giving us in the history of
the world we were there interviewing
them you can find out what they had to
say join Eric koban and Paul tater from
creation today org along with Carl Kirby
of reason for hope ministries mark
Spence of the way of the master in
sienten brooding Kate of fruit that God
exists org for the proof of God
conference in orlando florida for more
information visit proof conference com
that's proof conference com or call toll
free 1 877 479 3466 thanks for tuning in
to the creation today show where we
bring you Christian apologetics to
defend your faith using the word of God
we counted a privilege to partner with
the category 5 TV network they provide
the platform bandwidth and
infrastructure needed to bring you this
show please carefully consider how you
can support them and their endeavor to
offer quality family-friendly
broadcasting to viewers like you all
around the world visit category 5 TV to
help and thanks so much for your
continued support that address again is
category five dot TV
welcome back you're watching the
creation today show with me Paul Taylor
and with Abbott Hovind having a good
time this season 2 we've got a lot of
great stuff coming up for you guys the
reason rally was an incredible
experience largest gathering of secular
atheists and humanists in the history of
the world they had some 10 some say as
many as 20,000 they were expecting
30,000 but the rain kind of drought some
of them out and so incredible time their
incredible time I got to be honest fall
I think I would rather go to a rally
like that and minister almost would
rather go there than any Church in
America well a lot of them when when you
see that clips love them were very
honest about what the yes and they show
they reveal the truth of what they
believe and that's exactly what we want
to get to so we'll discuss that point
yeah but coming next we got to talk
about fuzzy words because this is
something that a friend of ours Mike
basanti right Mike riddle yes my widdle
from the creation training initiative
the creation training initiative is the
presence of that and he taught about
fuzzy words and fuzzy words are really
when you get articles popular scientific
articles or even TV programs but
particularly written articles in
newspapers magazines journals and so on
websites and they use various phrases
which might like to call fuzzy words and
their phrases that really mean
practically nothing at all it's when
they've got nothing that they've got
there and to say on the scientific
subject and we've got a really great
example of that that as we were putting
this program together one very
interesting example came up a news
report from some scientists in Britain
and you know this we come from Britain
upon the Newton boys have been all over
the place we've had news reports on fox
news on their website and cut several
british news agencies have picked it up
as well and we've chosen one from the
england's Daily Telegraph magazine you
can find this online Daily Telegraph com
big apartment telegraph co uk you can
find it there and well just let me read
the headlines to you from wanna believe
these scientists from the john moores
university in liverpool
I've been doing some research on the
telegraph's headline which is one of the
more polite one says dinosaurs passing
wind may have caused climate change wow
that that would be a bad way to go can
we just be honest that would be a really
bad way to go now you know it always
amazes me when people publish articles
in any case that talk about research on
the subject of dinosaurs and their
behavior I mean how can they possibly
know for example in one part in the
article it actually says that these
scientists their study began when they
began to wonder about Mesozoic methane
while investigating sauropod ecology now
how do you investigate sauropod ecology
no kidding let's study what the
environment was like when the sauropods
were here when you believe they died in
65 million years ago are you kidding me
I mean obviously there are certain
things you can do you can look at what
fossils were found with the course or to
some expenses of certain things you can
say ass as many rows creation as well as
well you can't really study the ecology
of the place the implication is it's to
do with their behavior so let's just
talk about these fuzzy word I like what
you did here and this is what I want you
guys to see he's actually gone through
and you got to learn how to do this when
you're looking at the science of arc
article he's gone through and you've
highlighted in yellow all the fuzzy
words the underlined the real science
and this is this is fascinating and
you'll see this on the screen but I'm
just holding this piece of paper that so
you can see some of the yellow marks I
have highlights it phrases which are
fuzzy words and yellow so that you can
see the bits that they don't really know
for example title that yet huge plant
eating dinosaurs may have produced
enough greenhouse gas by breaking wind
to alter the Earth's climate the
research suggests how do you even write
that without laughs that's amazing like
huge cows the mighty sauropods would
have generated there's a funny word
phrase would have when people say
something would have it means they don't
know it that's right they're saying
you're loading speculating within that
story now this article is full of that
just look again at this piece of paper
and you can see I've colored it I've
covered it with loads of colored marks
and when you've done that you find that
there is practically no signs in the art
no on some site and you've underlined
that in boy right thing and there's some
real signs for instance here's a
sentence that says methane is a more
potent greenhouse gas than carbon
dioxide with a stronger ability to trap
heat now very true that that is of
course true here's another one the
figure that they've calculated for how
much methane they thought these
dinosaurs produced is comparable to
total natural and man-made methane
emissions today before the start of the
Industrial Age about 150 years ago
methane emissions were around 181
million tons per year now that's true
but that's it that's really all there is
in a huge article if you use that little
bit of science to try to drum up all
this stuff about evolution really that
the whole motive here is to try to push
the millions of years to try to push
dinosaurs going extinct millions of
years ago and yet possible cause of that
don't be afraid of these sort of
articles oh yeah the message the way we
read scientific articles from news
magazines all the time that are just
like this aren't guess you really do not
need to be a scientist to understand how
silly some of these articles are all you
need is a yellow marker pen go through
highline the fuzzy words and understand
that there's not a whole lot of real
science in a lot of these articles
unfortunately it's a lot of guesswork
well coming up I've got the reason rally
for you so we're going to take a break
right now and then we're going to come
back and talk about the reason rally I
want to show you some clips of what
atheists really admitting
right to our cameras while we were there
we'll do that right after this
you
creation today's show with myself
arachova along with Paul Taylor we've
been talking about fuzzy words talking
about how to spot those in scientific
articles I can't wait to get to this
reason rally footage because we had a
great time up there at the reason rally
in washington DC now Paul I got to tell
you going to this rally I felt a couple
different emotions when we walked up on
the rally I was thinking wow how can so
many people be blaspheming and cursing
the God that I love they're cursing the
name of Christ my Savior so I almost
wanted to get angry at them and then I
thought well at the same time if it
wasn't but the grace of God saving me I
would be in their shoes so my heart
really went out to these guys that are
cursing God's name and blaspheming God's
name really was tough it's incredible
isn't time we're gonna we're gonna see
some some footage off of your time there
what was the big sort of overriding
thought that came through the interviews
well we had a there was a bunch of
people there there were a bunch of
people there that were proclaiming the
gospel and preaching and things like
that I really wanted to use the limited
time that we had there since it was just
one day event I wanted to interview
people and find out okay do atheists
actually know anything because it's our
position that if you don't start with
the God of the Bible you don't actually
know anything at all because without God
we can't actually have knowledge without
the one who knows everything telling us
something then we don't know anything
and the Atheist readily admitted that
they don't know anything they don't know
anything so why are they have take a
look at these clips and you will see
from this montage just a couple of the
interviews we did at the recent reason
rally in washington DC so we do have
such a thing as absolute truth
we have a truth in reality that we
humans struggle to discern is it
possible that you don't know anything it
is possible I could known absolutely
nothing does reality exists seems to be
a fairly persistent illusion is it
possible that everything you think you
know is wrong and you could not know
anything okay it's possible it's
possible that I could be wrong about
everything I know a lot of dr. two plus
two equals four new bus tree is five I
could go on forever doing this all right
so we do have knowledge is it possible
that our knowledge could be wrong of
course could you be wrong about
everything you think you know what about
everything now okay what you know for
certain time
in order to know something else we have
to be a goner so no one you know ever
anything absolutely i would say that we
can know some things to a certain degree
but can you know anything for certain uh
it's hard to say if you say you could be
wrong I could be but I could be well we
know everything that we know we know
within a measure of sweet certain nobody
knows anything
are you sure of that yeah I'm sure then
allison is impossible it's possible
you're saying that you could be wrong
and you don't know that for certain
that's what science is all about no I
said it's possible that I could know
nothing I said it's possible then
everything I know could be wrong but I
didn't say I didn't know anything and I
didn't say that everything I know is
wrong what I said was is as possible
because observations can be inaccurate
is that true yes you just said you don't
deal with things that you were false and
you said that's true ok- slip of the
tongue I just want to point out that the
atheist is the one who thinks the earth
could be flat and the Christian says it
can't be 40 site that's what you just
said well yeah but okay that's what i
wanted to point out could you be wrong
about everything you think you know it's
conceivable the universe doesn't exist
there we go absolutely amazing we don't
know anything at all and they really did
that you see the Christian physician
really is that without God you can't
know anything if you don't start with
the one who knows everything revealing
true to you then you don't know anything
and that's the problem what's the very
very telling is that you you've got them
to say you know I that we don't know
anything and then you ask them are you
sure about that is untrue and they said
yes that's not enough and we don't know
anything and that is that is the problem
is the inconsistency with the Atheist
worldview the Atheist worldview says I
could be wrong about everything because
hey that's what science is all about is
always improving and a never taking
anything to say that we know this now
and the reason they do that is because
science has a long history of being
wrong about things right so why are we
gonna take modern-day science and put it
above the authority of God's Word the
one who knows everything has revealed
something to us yeah it's ridiculous
it's very interesting and you know quite
often Christians they can be guilty of
talking about this probable God that
they believe in what we're seeing
from this is the importance of
understanding that the Atheist position
is completely illogical there is
actually no way that they've got any
reason for laws of logic all laws of
science that's right now my heart really
does go out so I kind of laugh at the
absurdity here of these two views but my
heart really goes out to them because
the Bible teaches in second 7225 that
until they repent they are never going
to see the truth and we want them to
repent we want God to grant them
repentance so that they can see the
truth okay I got another interview clip
I want to show you yeah I got to
interview a gentleman named Aaron raw
who is famous for his rants against
Christianity and against creationist in
general so this next clip is an
interview I did with a portion of an
interview i did with Aaron raw enjoy
this and we'll talk about it can we be
absolutely certain of things can we be
absolutely certain of things within the
confines of whether or not there's what
no one level of argument if whether we
can prove that reality itself existing
isn't just an illusion if we establish
that regardless whether reality is an
illusion or whether it's really real
what we perceive it to be within the
confines of that the laws that apply
even if this is a video game we are so
subject to those laws within that we can
be sure
of certain things absolutely yes so we
can't have absolute certainty within
this reality I want to say I want to be
hesitant on that because absolute in
charge of something else if implies a
whole different meaning so in science
for example everything is tentative
that's why it doesn't matter how solidly
anything is proved germs gravity
everything we call it theory and theory
is a study it's a body of knowledge that
encompasses facts and laws and explains
them in a framework that makes sense of
it Wow here you have an eight is saying
we can be absolutely sure within this
reality and you say are you sure of that
knee goes well not absolutely yeah it
going to be hesitancy about that as if
things and Sons can only be held
tentatively right you know is can that
be held tentatively yeah I mean do we
hold the things that can be held
tentatively is that tentative I mean are
we sure of that or not the problem is
that worldview is inconsistent that
worldview is it illogical it does not
make sense and that really is the whole
the whole problem I want you'll notice
then is of course that's when you when
they attempt to try and make any
argument any stepwise arguments despite
themselves they have to have some ground
to stand on and of course the ground
that they choose to stand on will be
concepts of truth and falsehood which
they won't admit it but they are bait
they are taken from a godly world
examples actually exist without
presupposing the exists so God why do
they reject the God of the Bible I want
to submit to you it is not because of
their intellect it is because of their
emotions they don't want to believe in
God I went on to ask aaron a question I
said hey if I could prove God to you
would you worship him here was his
answer if I could prove to your
satisfaction that got the God of the
Bible exists would you worship Him
no as if I believed that God exists and
I believed that it was the Bible God
that existed I would not worship it
because it is a criminal thing now if a
better God existed then the one in the
Bible I still wouldn't worship it but at
least it would be worthy of respect Wow
well you can add your voice to the
conversation that's going on about the
recent reason rally in washington DC by
going to our youtube channel youtube.com
and search creation today channel and
you can check that out and add your
voice of the conversation well I'm
really excited about all the creation
things that are going on in the world
today specifically we get a lot of
things happening in North America and
we've even got a website that we want to
give you to help that out yes that have
a look at the website visit creation.com
that's visit creation.com and it's as a
marvelous tool so that you can find out
a number of Christian ministers around
the country places that might be near
you or be talking on issues that you
want to know about if you're planning a
vacation for this summer check out visit
creation.com and go visit one of these
creation hot spots around around the
country there really are a lot more than
people think of course we know how to
museum there's way more there's a lot
more stuff that people can go and visit
and then put your money to support other
Christian organizations that are trying
to proclaim proclaim the truth of the
gospel through the creation message
absolutely right Wow well that is our
show for the first season first episode
of season two we want to thank you guys
so much for joining us we got a lot more
questions and answers coming up in
future episodes of creation today yes
and if you have questions and don't
forget to send them to questions asked
creation today o RG or visit our
Facebook page facebook.com forward slash
creation today twitter at creation today
that's right thank you guys so much for
joining us god bless
this program is available on DVD by
visiting creation store RG or by calling
877 479 3466 to order this episode use
the item number displayed on your screen
