welcome to category five technology TV
today we are gonna be looking at making
Libre Office the free Microsoft Office
alternative look feel and function quite
a bit more like it's commercial
counterpart very cool
stick around our live recordings are
trusted only to solid-state drives by
Kingston technology revive your computer
with improved performance and
reliability over traditional hard drives
with Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams
live with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat5 TV slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters
cat5 TV slash iai be welcome to the show
this is episode number 577 and the start
of category 5 technology TV season 12
yes oh we're here yeah after all these
years you've still kept us around thanks
for welcoming us into your home I'm
Robby Ferguson hi I'm Sasha Rickman and
it's so nice to have you here I'm
looking back over 11 years of category 5
TV yeah you believe this thing started
in the basement of my home I had a
computer business at the time right and
really wanted to be able to give free
technical support to users from all
around the world but really it started
as a local thing here in Barrie Ontario
people would call me up and say I really
want help with this this and this well
that I want to do I want free help right
I know sounds crazy right but I think
there is a place for that I think
there's a place I've always had this
mindset that I really want to help
people so I really want to help that
person who's calling up my business and
saying I really want free help it sounds
crazy but I want to help you right so in
order to make it possible Sasha for me
to be able to do that
I started category 5 TV and it started
in 2004 as a matter of fact
you're doing the math and saying well
that doesn't add up to 11 years but
that's because back then there was no
such thing as live internet TV mm-hmm
back then it started with people asking
questions and I would create a video
tutorial and then I would put it online
so that back then then the next person
who asks the same question I can say
here's a link to the video that I
created to help you with that
oh that's how it all started so smart
then in 2007 okay
so YouTube started up in 2005 a year
after we did and it was low resolution
there was no such thing as HD video back
then and so with YouTube kind of gaining
some momentum we decided hey I'm gonna
start broadcasting start uploading my
videos to YouTube again there was no
live video on YouTube back then now that
you're used to YouTube having live video
it didn't exist back then so we used
services like Ustream TV and Justin dot
TV when it was when it came out and and
other third-party services before the
days of YouTube before YouTube was huge
there were other services we used real
media way back in the day like real
player no it was re-al and this was a
way yeah well it's kind of about as
ancient back in the day before there was
like html5 video streaming online you
had to find a way to be able to stream
your video on your website and that's
where real media came in like this is
how old this thing is so category 5 has
gone through several iterations of
itself moved out of the house and moved
into studio D here and studio D meaning
yeah we had studio a studio B studio C
and then studio D here we are 11 years
later in studio D still since season 8
and going strong and having a lot of fun
doing it so in season 8 we moved here we
kicked off here that's right yeah ok
yeah the good old days in I like it all
it blends together in my mind this was
like the beginning I'm gonna shy would
say you've been here since approximately
what the fifth anniversary
where'd you go here this is a newspaper
clipping I found a baby picture baby
picture
where's you I am wait about it there you
are it's better yeah yeah well that's
words there you're on the left and then
next to you I'm gonna come around that
looks like Kerry to me okay so then
we've got ya Carrie web Jodi Crangle is
the voice that you hear at the top of
the show
this is category 5 TV wonderful image
voice then we've got krysta wells
Hillary and Eric and then myself at the
front there that was wasn't that your
first time okay so I don't remember my
first time on category 5 it turns out I
thought that my first time it was a week
before like two weeks before that day
yeah I don't remember the actual first
time I was on the show which is crazy
even when I watch videos they don't even
stick I do it's like I was so stressed
at it oh yeah my defense mechanism is
repressing I guess there you go anyway I
remember the live show the one that we
did like in front of a live big well
that was this our fifth anniversary
celebration hey so the newspaper came
and did an article about it but that was
that was live in front of an audience in
an auditorium hi Jess do you remember
that how many years ago was this how
come you didn't put the date on this
okay but in the fifth year and this is
now this is so that was our fifth
anniversary so this is our 12th
anniversary technically while 11th
anniversary I gasps but 12th season
seven years ago right yeah that sounds
about right
six years oh it's six years technically
holy I guess probably date wise but
there you go I mean so the show has been
around for a long time we're always
looking to make it better and better but
we we offer this absolutely free and
that's a very unique business model I
must say people say now as I was
interviewed for an article and they said
what is the biggest challenge that you
faced as an Internet broadcaster and I
said here's a great idea do something
that costs a lot of money and give it
away for free
that's the biggest challenge that we
faced and yet here we are starting
season 12 going strong getting better
and better every single week I like to
think and our community is growing we
appreciate everyone who's joining us
here tonight as we broadcast live and if
you're watching at home after the fact
we appreciate you tuning in as well and
we appreciate everyone who's been
involved over the years with
category-five TV we certainly love you
all
absolutely Sasha what has the show meant
to you my wife will say what keeps Sasha
coming back like why is she why is she
there week after week okay so it's the
community right do you think that's
largely what it is the the amazing
community that we've established exactly
I mean you all know I I couldn't run
this show like I teased it it's the
Sasha show but I mean as far as the
actual ins and outs of the the
production of the show and the content
of the show I am usually a 3 out of 10
as far as participation in that regard
but I'm here because of all of the just
the love like I love what you do I love
that you're helping people I appreciate
so much the the viewers the chatroom is
a huge thing for me I have a look that
we're on this cord now it really but
there's something a little bit magical
about like it's Who I am as a person I
can't give this right I can't give what
you give I can't but it's that's my
mentality to write like I don't want to
make money off of doing something that I
think that everybody should just be able
as a hat like it's community it's it's
like wow like Ubuntu like the many parts
make the hole she doesn't know how true
that is we're going to being a South
African word that means the spirit of
community all right so and I think
that's really what we've established
here at category-five and if you've been
watching for some time you really know
that our motivation is a little
different than the traditional
broadcaster in that we are here
generally to help you and to build this
thing in
something that is a really great
platform for for helping our viewers
with tech issues and and also to teach
you new things as we find some really
cool things in tech that we want to be
able to demonstrate as well there are so
many really cool new things intact
always every single week and this week
we're going to be we're gonna be looking
at some of those as we would do right in
our first episode of season 12 so thank
you very much to everyone who's been
watching thank you for those of you who
have become patrons that means a lot
it's just a way that you can support us
by throwing a dollar our way per month
and that that helps to be able to for us
to be able to provide this absolutely
free and so that we can continue to grow
and go strong so we appreciate you very
very much for being a part of the show
we do have to take a really quick break
but when we come back we're going to
look at how we can make the free
LibreOffice suite it's an alternative to
Microsoft Office but it's absolutely
free it's our thing it costs you nothing
we're gonna look at how we can make it
look and behave much more like Microsoft
Office curve stick around
[Music]
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cat5 dot TV
slash shirts
welcome back this is category five
technology TV now tonight we're gonna be
looking at libreoffice it's a free
alternative to Microsoft Office values
that I've used it and reason to work yes
I use it for work I have it on my laptop
here oh yes yes I love it I was free
it's free I love free I love it I don't
love everything about like the
translation between hmm programs it's
like it's so close to Microsoft Office
yet there are so many distinctions that
make it obvious that it's not Microsoft
Office exactly so when you're in writer
LibreOffice writer which is very much a
word clone yeah there's so much about it
that is like it's not word things are
not where I expect them to be any
guesses why that would be because it's
free sure and that's that's what
everyone that's the right answer that
everyone will give right off the bat
it's the free alternative so I got to
live with the fact that it's different
right and that's true to some degree but
let me just put some clarity to that
statement okay if I was a and as amazing
of a developer as the open document
foundation and was able to create
something that was an exact one-to-one
clone of Microsoft Office right how do
you as a lawyer think Microsoft is going
to react to that yes right clear yes so
there is a purposeful distinction
between Libre Office and Microsoft
Office okay because if it's too close if
it's too similar
now we're potentially infringing into a
space that could lead to legal
ramifications
finally added some like static and some
friction and a little bit yes yeah okay
just enough but it's up to us users and
part of the whole open aspect of Linux
and free software and open source
software it's it's up to us to be able
to control the way that we are able to
interact with our computers and our
software that's part of the beauty of
Libre and open source software right so
with that in mind what's to stop me the
user from adding a few little
enhancements if you will to take my
LibreOffice which is not infringing on
Microsoft's design at all and make mine
feel and look and operate not exactly
like we're not talking a one-to-one it
is a different product but let's see
what we can do to make it a little more
familiar to us yes so I'm gonna hop over
to my laptop here and I've got a boon to
Linux up on my screen and indeed this is
running in Microsoft Windows on hyper-v
as we've learned over the past two weeks
on category 5 technology TV so I'm going
to log in here I couldn't tell you why
I'm seeing an Ubuntu login screen as
opposed to but hey there it is all right
so I'm gonna bring up a writer okay and
you're gonna see that hey this really
does look fairly similar it does like
even the keyboard shortcut sort of very
similar yeah I mean I'm not a big
keyboard shortcut person who in word but
hello and if I control a control B
control you yeah control I I mean I can
do those kinds of things
great that's helpful right but what can
I do to make this look a little more and
behave a little more like Microsoft
Office so I'm just gonna close out of
that we're gonna bring up our Firefox
browser here that comes with Ubuntu now
do keep in mind here Sasha and community
I'm doing this on Ubuntu because we do
have a Linux bias and I want you to see
that hey this works great on Linux but
you can install LibreOffice on window
and Mac as well I have it at my office I
run on Windows but I have your windows
10 yeah so you've installed LibreOffice
because it's a free version of an office
suite that is compatible with Word
documents and Excel spreadsheets and
things you can save in those formats you
can open those formats so it really is a
one-to-one replacement in that regard
exactly but a lot cheaper right being
like being percent cheaper yes
a hundred percent no matter what price
you find this is cheaper so let's get
over here and where I want to go is X
now we're gonna do a couple of different
steps here I should just say we're going
to set up our LibreOffice writer in
particular to behave more like Microsoft
Word so it's not just interface I'm
starting with autocorrect and the
dictionary because that's really
important out-of-the-box it drives users
nuts because they say my dictionary
doesn't work on LibreOffice I do a spell
check and it just says everything's fine
and I know there's some typos there I
feel like this feature is all about me
because it's all for you Zack alright so
let's jump over and let's see what we
need to do so I'm going to actually head
over to extensions dot libreoffice.org
and notice that libreoffice.org is in
fact where you would download
LibreOffice from so just leave off the
extensions and you'll be able to
download the free software as well we're
working with version 6 point something
so it's important to note that you have
to be on version 6 in order to do all
that we're doing here today ok so if
your distro or if your operating system
has version 5 which is still great you
want to upgrade to version 6 which came
out in February and now we're October so
it's it's been around a while so you
should have it by now so what's great +1
just keep in mind you need to have
version 6 or higher
ok so I'm going to do a search here for
English dictionary and you can do a
search for a dictionary that's relevant
to you to your language there are many
I'm going to click on English
dictionaries here and within this page
I'm just going to scroll down a little
ways here and you can see that there is
a file that ends in dot
XT and that's what I want to download so
I'm gonna save that file to my computer
and that puts it in my downloads folder
so if I go into show all downloads you
can see there's my dictionary file so
now I'm going to open LibreOffice writer
and I'm going to go tools extension
manager and I'm going to click on add
from there I'm going to browse to my
downloads and then I see the dictionary
for English double click on that and it
is now installed English spelling and
hyphenation dictionary on LibreOffice
writer and that includes Australia
Canadian British American and South
African English ok so now I can close
that restart LibreOffice and now as I
type it's going to see the spelling
errors oh and if I hit f7 it's going to
actually look it up in the dictionary
there and give me suggestions that I can
use any questions so far I'm gonna do
this alright we're good yes alright so
far you've explained it in a way that I
can actually make it happen
fantastic so that takes us that gives us
the dictionary that's all there is to it
but because it doesn't come with it out
of the box it's tough because hey when I
hit f7 or when I click on spellcheck it
doesn't do anything right yeah I know I
spell some words wrong look I know I
didn't write this entire paper with a 0
it's 10,000 words all right so there you
go there's your dictionary that's all
done and done next step does have to do
with the look of LibreOffice so it's
really important for me I want to make
this look and feel a lot more like
Microsoft Word and similarly Microsoft
Excel and so on and so forth the whole
suite is there with LibreOffice so it's
twofold first thing that we're going to
do is look at the icon set now if you
install libreoffice 6.1 it comes with
something called Koli Brae and that is
an icon set that has been basically
manufactured to look like Microsoft
Office icons but not infringe on there
right yeah and not cause any legal
issues no Stefan but there's a different
one now I don't have 6.1 let's look at
what version of LibreOffice came with a
boon to here 6.0 point three point two
so I purposefully kept myself held back
at 6.0 because I want to show you a way
to get those or at least similar icons
on a slightly older version 6.0 without
having to upgrade or anything like that
but again you've got to have 6.0 so what
I'm gonna do I'm gonna jump over to my
web browser again I'm gonna close out of
libreoffice here and we're gonna go cat
v dot TV slash Libre libr e office icons
that's where we want to go and the
reason I want to take you here this is
gonna take us over to deviantART and
this is the office 2013 theme that's
just loading here and this theme was
created a while back back in 2015 and
it's built specifically to look very
similar to office 2013 the reason that I
want to show this to you is because it
will work with libreoffice all the way
back to 5.1 okay but Robby you said we
need six point something that's because
of the third step that we're going to be
taking tonight this icon set will
improve the look of your libreoffice
writer' in excel calc and all those
applications even if you have an older
version 5.0 X right but we want 6.0 yeah
for the next step so for this one it's
going to work with anything and we've
got 6.0 so we're golden
on 6.0 I can just download the extension
on older versions 5 point X you're gonna
have to follow these instructions here
because I'm on 6.0 I can just download
the extension and here we go it's taking
me over to the author's onedrive I'm
gonna click download and again it's just
gonna now I don't want to open it I want
to save it that's gonna throw it into my
downloads as well there it is office
2013 theme 1.1 oxt so notice the
it ends in dot oxt so open libreoffice
we're gonna go back into our extension
manager tools extension manager and
we're gonna add again and we're gonna go
into our downloads and we're gonna grab
that office 2013 theme open and now that
one's installed so now I can close that
and restart there we go
nothing's changed why has nothing
changed now next step tools options view
and you're gonna see now there's a new
icon style called office 2013 if we
click on that and now I want to change
my icon size to I probably want to go
large no notebook bar icon size in 6
point X make that large and then hit OK
and watch what happens boom looks
beautiful right
yes icon theme looks a lot better so now
the final step and this is why we need
version 6 or higher is what do we know
about Microsoft Office and the way that
it operates on our computers now as far
as the interface goes they've done away
with kind of like the file menu and the
Tools menu end and instead everything
works in tabs mm-hmm ok so that's where
this notebook bar which is a reasonably
new feature I mean February of this year
that's where this comes in and you'll
notice if you go view toolbar layout
you've got default single tool bar and
side bar none of those are what we want
so what we need to do is go tools
options now we want to go into advanced
and in advanced you see an option that
says enable experimental features maybe
unstable which being translated is turn
on the features that we don't want
Microsoft to see out of the box right I
didn't say it did I say it oh my
microphone was on oh oh okay so hit OK
now restart and then here we go now are
you ready yes view toolbar layout what
do you notice
Oh single toolbar sidebar
notebook buyer that's what we want in
three two one
ladies and gentlemen yeah the closest
thing that you're ever gonna find right
now in 2018 third quarter to Microsoft
Office for free if you will I mean I say
Microsoft Office this is an alternative
it's not a clone it's not a this is an
alternative to Microsoft Office because
we want something that we're familiar
enough with that we can use it on our
work computers and we don't get stuck
trying to find things you're gonna find
that the layouts are much much simpler
you're gonna be able to find the things
that you need like paragraph spacing and
things like that all everything just
makes more sense now if you're stuck and
if you or if you want to revert or if
you want to change things notice that
there is a menu option over here to turn
on the menu bar now watch the top of my
screen as soon as I hit that now I've
got my regular menus back file edit view
so I can always revert back if I want to
okay but then I can click on that
hamburger menu and turnoff menu bar when
I'm done and it goes back to that
Microsoft Office style layout would that
improve the communication kind of
between the two if I'm trying to open
something that was created in Microsoft
Office well with LibreOffice six the
inter inter communication ability
between the the file formats has been
greatly improved oh it's always been
really good but what that means is that
if somebody in your office is using
Microsoft Word legitimately that is true
they can send you a docx file or docx
and you can open it you can make changes
to it you can save it and then you can
send it back to them and it will look
great now where it may fall short is if
you start formatting things with fancy
fonts or things like that that your
computer has that their computer does
not because remember with a Word
document it's it doesn't include the
fatigue the font files in there so they
have to install the same fonts that you
okay I'm going to
throw you a quick scenario yes so
Microsoft Excel ok calc on LibreOffice
writer creating a spreadsheet that my
computer in calc would love to print but
when I open it it's like this big on the
page is that because I just don't have
the rights you know what I'd probably
have to see that sample Oh cuz it could
be so many different things darn I
thought it was just like you know would
it be nice if it was just yeah you
should be able just to open it try it
with the new with the newer version
exactly right LibreOffice cookies maybe
it's just gonna work bingo bango just
like that when I do talk about fonts
this is the one thing that you will
encounter not so much with Excel because
typically you don't stylize it like you
do with words when I do talk about fonts
if you're on Linux yeah there is a way
for you to quickly and we've looked at
this on the show before but to quickly
get the Microsoft fonts like Times New
Roman this is important for you if
you're expected to be using Times New
Roman I'm just gonna go into terminal ok
and I'm gonna go sudo su cuz I'm on a
boon to enter my password and apt update
this is only for Linux so everything
else that I've done is it transcends
Windows Linux whatever but if you have
Linux you probably want those microsoft
fonts apt install and I think it's MS
ttf - MS core fonts let's see if that's
right no I'm gonna do a quick search for
you TTFN MS core fonts let's see what
what filename it is
TTFN - MS core fonts installer that's
what I messed so - installer say yes and
what that's gonna do is it's going to
give you Times New Roman Arial all that
kind of stuff hit tab enter do you
accept the end-user License Agreement
yes and here we go I'm going to now I'm
just going to show you quickly so here's
hi there and I'm gonna highlight that
and let's see here
let's look for Ariel for example notice
there's no Ariel no okay I'm gonna close
libreoffice writer'
don't save now that's finished so now
when I reopen LibreOffice writer it now
has access to any new fonts that were
installed on the system hello
highlight that now let's grab our fonts
here what do you notice real yeah and
things like comic sans ms but also a
mean Times New Roman is a popular one
for education let's see if it's here
there you go
Times New Roman see so really quick
things that you can do to make Libre
Office the free office alternative
behave and feel pretty much I mean a lot
closer to Microsoft Office it's not a
one to one folks but it takes that to
the next level for you so that you can
feel a little more comfortable with it
when you're using LibreOffice the free
alternative to Microsoft Office on your
computer give it a chance give it a try
it's libreoffice.org and follow the
steps that we've shown you here tonight
to make it feel a little more like
you're used to
super thank you and if it's not working
for you right then by all means go out
and buy office exactly you know what I
mean
give it a try try to get comfortable
with it see if you can use it for a
couple of weeks and see how it works for
ya
do these steps make it feel good if
you've possibly saved yourself a fair
bit of money yeah you know what go out
and price out yeah go to your pricing
first I'm happy with this even if there
are a couple of little quirks that are
not quite exact yeah we've got to take a
really quick break when we come back
folks we're gonna be looking at
shoutcast they've gone commercial how
can we listen to live internet radio for
free don't go anywhere
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
PNH photo/video ebay or amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching all right I
love internet radio because it's quite
often commercial-free it's quite often
free to listen yes and these days it's
really high quality like it's like
listening to CD quality music so it
actually sounds better in a lot of cases
than FM radio ok yes and I can tune in
for many of my devices so that means I
can listen on my phone and wear my
bluetooth headphones and listen around
the house whatever I want to do I use
shoutcast like crazy okay but show caste
it has gone through so many iterations
of the company and has been bought out
so many times and has changed hands and
you know I I was using show cash way
back in the early days of when app and
null soft and null soft encoders and and
the original shoutcast software those
were the good old days back when
emoticons were a thing it turns out yeah
but recently shell cast which is a
feature that we use quite a bit to
listen to music online has gone
commercial so when you go to the website
it's now all about okay it's all about
the broadcaster try it for free for 7
days it's all the commercial stuff plans
and pricing yeah yeah you gotta pay
you're gonna pay you're gonna pay
now you're gonna find that the original
directory still exists Sasha it's still
there
we just can't get turned off by the fact
that when we land on their website it's
all about the monetary end of things now
right now there is a link on their menu
to listen and that's gonna take you
there but I want to show you what we're
gonna do to get around this new homepage
is simply go to the old URL which is
directory dot show cast dot-com
directory dot shoutcast comm and hit
enter and that takes a boom right back
into the old interface just like we
remember it and you can tune into any
live radio station from around the world
that is broadcasting through their
platform so give me a John Ross Asha
coffeehouse
like are you talking like coffee house
like are you talking like like folk
you're thinking more like in the rock or
something like that or or coffee house
would be like Otis Redding and and the
the great oldies it's like that yeah yes
none of these things are John Rah's
indie rock yes
okay so let's click on rock mm-hmm and
then scroll down and see what they have
so they do not have indie rock there's
like British Invasion okay classic rock
garage rock glam and it's pretty well
organized and usually we're gonna find
stuff that we want now there's seasonal
and holiday which is great for like
Christmas music Halloween's coming and
we like to actually put on the you know
the Monster Mash and all that kind of
stuff is playing on these radio stations
for Halloween so it's brilliant the kids
love it but let's so you can dig through
these it's classical I'm sure where
you'd find some of these things that
you're mentioning like the acoustic blue
that's close I listen to yeah classic
we'll say let's say you want some
Baroque right so you click on classical
and then Baroque and look at all of
these stations that are available
are you in the Baroque John rrah okay
Vivaldi Odo's Baroque music one from one
dot F M and you can click on that and
hit play and you'll be listening to that
radio station right just like that huh
so directory dot shoutcast com is how
you get there now we have to head over
to the newsroom that we do are we having
fun tonight we are yes and your new
newsroom shots here you go here we are
here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom the
US federal government has just
authorized its snap to shoot down any
drone they consider a threat Google Plus
is shutting down after it was revealed
that Google covered up a data exposing
bug default passwords such as admin and
password will be illegal for electronics
firms to use in California from 2020 and
Hyperloop transportation Technologies
Inc unveiled its first full-scale
passenger capsule offering the world a
peek at the future of travel these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere this is the category 5 TV
newsroom covering the week stopped
Linux bias Jeff Westen Jemma you're
building a brand-new beautiful website
what aren't you you're terrible actor
what the swear acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay are you
building a really cool website are you
building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cat5 dot TV slash
dream host to sign up for unlimited web
hosting for your website with unlimited
email accounts MySQL databases the
latest version of PHP WordPress and more
and even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat 5 TV slash dream host
I'm satiric mannan here the top stories
were following this week the US federal
government has just authorized its staff
to shoot down any drone they consider a
threat the provision was added to the
routine reauthorization act for the
Federal Aviation Authority the FAA the
watchdog that deals with America's skies
and has invited the ire of civil
liberties groups who are unhappy at the
blanket nature of the shoot-down
authorization under the proposed laws
preventing emerging threats section a
new part has been added that allows a
wide range of federal departments to
disable disrupt or seize control of any
drone that is thought to pose a credible
threat to the safety or security of a
covered facility or assets the key thing
here is a wide range of departments not
just the military the Act lists a range
of increasingly harsh measures that can
be taken against an unauthorized drone
ending with use of reasonable force if
necessary to disable damage or destroy
the unmanned aircraft system or unmanned
aircraft the provision is of course
entirely understandable the increase in
the use of and sale of advanced drones
does pose a potential threat to
government facilities after all it
doesn't take long for somebody to think
that it was a good idea to mount a gun
on a drone
it's not clear what limits and
oversights would work best
certainly a requirement to get a warrant
is unlikely to work given the fact that
drones can appear at any time and
unexpectedly but limiting the grounds
for witcha drone can be disrupted or
destroyed would be one starting point or
granting protections to legitimate drone
usage as it stands as soon as the
president signs the bail your flying
machine can be taken down by a huge
number of federal government employees
and there will be pretty much no
recourse that's what gets me is what do
I do if they shoot down my drone
thinking that it's malicious just
because I'm flying around right I mean
how do you know right okay so I can
understand a facility like a government
facility okay yeah don't fly your drone
up to the door of the White House that
makes sense super common sense sure
right but what about like we live close
to a base a military base and they do
I don't excursions they're probably not
called it exercises we'll say in the
community like they come out and they
fly around and they do things right so
say I'm just locally in a field and they
fly they drive by and now I my drone is
in their space but they've they've
encroached on me I haven't acted on them
they could shoot me down sure they could
I mean they could if we didn't live in
Canada where this law is not the thing
you're right but yeah yeah so this is
the thing that's the problem so it seems
a little bit too blanket shoot down the
drones I'm sure and you know that's
exactly where it goes right right oh
yeah well it's and I I thought
immediately of two scenarios first
scenario is when some guy thought it was
a good idea to be a citizen journalist
and fly his drones over the the
wildfires and firefighters started
spraying it with the hose Oh to shoot it
down and and it was news at the time and
yeah it's probably a good idea that if
you're gonna shoot drone footage with
your drone that you stay the heck out of
the way of the fire department that's
true
battle-ax blaze right right so be crazy
yeah there are times when I think yeah
your your you're not being smart here
but that drones are a tough thing
because how do you regulate something
that is so freely available in the
consumer market right that I can learn
to fly on a twenty dollar drone and then
buy a $500 drone and should be flying a
big heavy thing that could kill someone
if it hit them yes you know it's an
interesting technology because it feels
like it's drones are faster than the law
right now sure right yeah scrambling to
catch a same thing shoot it down okay
except that it seems like in this news
story anybody can in anybody in the
federal government can shoot down a
drone yeah pretty much
and c128 he makes a good point that the
folks in regards to the flying over the
the wildfires we're flying in a no-fly
zone so maybe that's what it comes down
to is hey if you're flying in a no-fly
zone if you're flying too close to an
airport yeah you know what you're gonna
get shot down right because I would much
rather your drone get shot down yeah
take out a passenger aircraft right so
as long as there's clear signage I mean
there's clear signage for things like no
smoking and there's or no parking where
do you put a sign no ash put aside when
you're entering the area okay right put
a spot put it somewhere kilometre out
saying you're about to enter so that
when you're driving into the spot where
you're going to start launching your
drone you know okay right you're you're
again thinking of the military base
where as you're approaching it it's like
watch out for landmines don't hike in
these woods but think about a drone that
can fly six kilometers out right how am
I going to see those signs if I don't
know so have maybe an app can augment
a'dreea would have to be a part of the
drones I just feel it's unfair to have
it can be so because that that brings me
to the I said that there were two
scenarios that I was thinking of in the
second scenario being our very own Henry
Bailey Brown right who flies
commercially as a professional drone
pilot
and so when he flies he's filming videos
for his clients so I know that he would
stay away from no-fly zones yes but in
this particular scenario
I mean you fly over some military
personnel's backyard when they're having
a barbecue they have every right to
shoot you down and these drones can fly
miles from where the where the
controller is it's tricky it is well I
mean you think about even I'm just like
as you're saying that I'm thinking even
like say that there's a scenario in a
city like there's a standoff of some
sort right and a news company goes and
flies their drones over and there's
police say on the ground do they now
have the right to just shoot that drone
down if they don't want they do if they
have and once this is signed yes
considering they have to be able to say
yeah we thought it was a credible threat
a threat to whom at that point well
anyone right today
they say the buildings or whatever you
know the building's being the people
within the building this is a little
dodgy I wish I guess we're here yeah
he'd have his opinions to share and a
great service they feel like it's a
little tricky yeah and I think it's one
of those it falls back on how do you
teach people to be wise with their
decision making like the person who
mounted a gun on a drone right was not
thinking about the repercussions
they were just thinking hey here this is
cool I live in America I got a rifle I
can connect it to my drone and right and
used it for target practice not for
anything more but they probably put it
on YouTube but they did and they got
sparks ideas for the malicious
individual right one step further you
probably 3d printed that gun massage
yeah the thing is you can't you can't
just sweepingly throw a law on all drone
users when most drone users are good
law-abiding citizens that perhaps are in
the air besides something that they
didn't even
right like yeah what are your thoughts I
mean are you a drone pilot who is going
to be affected by this new law once it
comes into effect we'd love to hear from
you comment on our website or below if
you're watching on YouTube that would be
wonderful
definitely follow up on that Google+ is
shutting down after it was revealed that
Google Google covered up Google covered
up a data exposing bug a security bug
allowed third-party developers to access
Google+ user profile data since 2015
until Google discovered and patched it
in March but decided not to inform the
world when a user gave permission to an
app for a foreign app to access their
public profile data the bug also let
those developers pull theirs and their
friends non-public profile fields indeed
four hundred ninety six thousand nine
hundred and fifty one users full names
email addresses birth dates gender
profile photos places lived occupation
and relationship status were potentially
exposed though Google says it has no
evidence that the data was misused by
the four hundred and thirty-eight apps
that could have had access according to
an internal memo the company decided
against informing the public because it
would lead to us coming into the
spotlight alongside or even instead of
Facebook despite having stayed under the
radar throughout the Cambridge analytic
a scandal
now Google+ which was already a ghost
town largely abandoned or never
inhabited by users has become a massive
liability for the company the news comes
from a damning Wall Street Journal
report Google+ will cease all its
consumer services while winding down
over the next ten months with an
opportunity for users to export their
data while Google refocuses on making G+
an enterprise product Google also will
change its account permission system for
giving third party apps access to your
data such that you have to confirm each
type of access individually rather than
all at once
Gmail add-ons will be limited to those
directly enhancing email functionality
including email clients backup CRM mail
merge and productivity
tools since the bug and subsequent
security holes started in 2015 and was
discovered in March before Europe's gdpr
went into effect in May Google will
likely be spared a 2% of global annual
revenue fined for failing to disclose
the issue within 72 hours the company
could still face a class-action lawsuit
and public backlash I'll say I love that
their defense was well we covered it up
because you know we didn't want to like
take spotlight away oh yeah we want to
take it away from Facebook what Facebook
was doing was wrong and Irish with you
Lester wrong oh my goodness I have a
question okay so hi wow you're one of
the three people three people the only
reason I actually know still that I have
Google+ or had Google+ is because I
tried to delete a birthday that is like
somebody I went to school with like five
thousand years ago and I'm like why is
their birthday still showing up on every
calendar oh my mom's birthday without
checking yeah so that's why I villain so
I clicked on it and I was like your
friends on Google+ like she was on my
Google+ sir oh I didn't think I had
Google+ rows I don't have it on my
current phone because I am cool like
that and thought it's not on my phone I
probably don't have it probably don't
installed it on my phone turns out I've
had it this whole time now what it
sounds like you didn't really use it no
so the shutdown is not going to affect
you okay
I mean you're gonna lose access to the
thing that you just installed that you
just are like whoa look at that I have
this yeah big deal to you right yeah but
what happens to the user that has been
using Google+ we joke I mean you know
Google+ had some people had some had
some failure and was it it has been
winding down for more than just now as
far as Google's concerned right but for
those of you who have been using Google+
or maybe at a time posted a lot of great
information on Google+ what is gonna
happen to all your data right like maybe
you posted blog entries or things that
are really
special to your whatever pictures and
things like that I dress well everyone
has access to that now well let's take a
quick look at how we can in fact recover
okay
our file so before Google+ shuts down
wouldn't you love to be able to back up
your stuff yeah can we take the time to
do that so I know I'm encroaching into
your show now yeah but let's take a look
so let's jump back over to category five
TV here and jump onto my laptop and if I
go to my account google.com so you're
not gonna find this feature in Google
Plus you need to actually go to my
account google.com and then if you click
on control your content you'll see right
on the first screen create archive and
when we click on that we can choose
which archives we want to create so just
scroll down scroll down scroll down
there's a lot of stuff that Google has
on me oh all right where are you plus
plus plus google plus plus I don't know
where they couple it but this is where
you're gonna grab all your information
from yeah so I imagine that it's G sweet
know Google help Google my business
Google Play Music Google Play Store
they've got everything else but I had to
download it special did yeah yeah I
thought I would find it right in here
and I hadn't looked before as you can
tell posts on Google that sounds
promising
but check check through the list and see
if you can find it maybe you're gonna
find it a little better than I how's
that that's good thank you
well so I'm not really concerned I did
post on Google+ there for a while I had
like four people and in one circle yeah
like I I feel like we tried to launch
category 5 on Google+ when I first came
out yeah it just wasn't a big turnout I
think there might be one of my four
people actually nice I think so very
cool
you would my brother and
like alright well let them know you're
gonna have to find me on discord now
default passwords such as admin and
firms to use in California from 2020 the
state has passed a law that sets higher
security standards for net connected
devices made or sold in the region it
demands that each gadget be given a
unique password when it is made before
now easy to guess passwords have helped
some cyberattacks spread more quickly
and cause more harm the information
privacy connected devices bill demands
that electronics manufacturers equipped
their products with reasonable security
features this can mean a unique password
or a start up procedure that forces
users to generate their own code when
using the gadget for the first time the
bill also allows customers who suffer
harm when a company ignores the law to
sue for damages many recent cyber
attacks have taken advantage of the
default and easy to guess passwords on
the devices found in millions of homes
and offices in late 2016
Twitter Spotify and reddit where among
sites taken offline by an attack that
took advantage of poor passwords on lots
of net connected gadgets including
webcams and other so-called smart home
hardware an attack by malware known as
VPN filter is currently targeting home
routers and is believed to have infected
more than 500,000 devices
yikes yeah yeah super yikes except that
I feel like criminals will get smarter
like okay so there's a small group of
people who use admin or password or
password one two three like there's got
to be just a small group right or like
one one one one
I see what you're thinking yeah right
but most people change their passwords I
would think all right so you're you're
taking it you're thinking along the
perspective of the consumer yes who when
I sign up for Twitter I'm using a good
strong password because I know I don't
want my account to be compromised right
now the isp the local internet service
provider yes calls me up and says we've
got a promotion going on we're gonna
increase the speed of your internet
we're gonna install a new modem for you
it's gonna make your internet five times
faster would you like it
yes yes it would and then when the
person shows up and installs it for you
yeah they just do it they just do it
yeah do you at any point say okay how do
I change my password no I don't right
okay that modem that modem is your this
is a very good example because this is
like VPN filter wax away at these things
right so I as a user would never use
something stupid like password as my
password but an astronomical amount of
these devices are created with the
username admin and the password password
right
think about your router or your modem
and you get online and you say and you
type in the the type of device that you
have io type wrt54g so that's a Linksys
router okay and I'm just going to jump
over to this to show you so I'm going to
do a quick search for wrt54g default
password I'm just using that as an
example for all versions of the Linksys
wrt54g router the default password is
admin mm-hmm okay so if I have that
device my password out of the box is
admin admin so if I have now installed
that device and this is an older device
and I'm just using it as an example
because it's the quick one that came to
mind but your ISP comes in with the new
modem and has a stupid default password
on there and if anyone does a search for
the device you model number they'll find
the default password on Google try it
with your devices what's the default
password and so we connect that Internet
connected connection and never think
about the fact that it has a built-in
interface that allows the internet
service provider to log in to the router
but it also allows anyone on the
internet2 also login to that router if
they know the password but it's a
default dumb password like admin or
password exactly I get it because I but
yeah I changed my passwords for things
that ice for things yeah things that you
know and see and see but a remote on
your router your Wi-Fi you get a modem
that has built-in Wi-Fi and they tell
you what the password is for your Wi-Fi
that's true that has recently happened
Wow okay alright so keep that in mind
right so now California companies can be
sued if they don't follow the law that's
where it differs from your original
thought process of the consumer choosing
administered so this is now saying okay
if they're gonna manufacture a hundred
thousand new modems that the ISPs are
gonna come and install every single one
of those devices has to have its own
unique password now it's still you know
it's still knowledge of the person who
installed it it's on the sticker or
whatever anyone who sees the sticker on
the back of the modem can get it great
way to get access to Wi-Fi at places
where you don't have access to Wi-Fi is
to find their modem and look at the
sticker on the back because it's
probably the default password right but
the at least they're gonna say it can't
be the it can't be the same on a hundred
thousand it has to be unique that's
where this difference actually because
California is a pretty big producer of
trend it's just the start it's just one
state so let's set an example ripple
effect yeah it's good but is this also a
little bit of a wake up call for us to
say hey okay my modem that my internet
service provider installed my router I I
think I know the password but have I
personally set that password to
something strong is my Wi-Fi a password
that I have personally set right is
there a second Wi-Fi in my router
because sometimes the rivers that they
install will have something as a Wi-Fi
SSID and then something - 5g right right
so you can use the 5g as well well that
one has a default password as well
have you set those up maybe it's time to
just think that through just do a little
self audit do a little self audit on
your stuff at home yeah or at work and
because what if somebody gets in through
that basic password which they can just
do a search on the internet for any ddw
any wrt54g router find one hack it now
they have access to your entire network
they can access your files in your
network they can access your printers
they can access they can install
ransomware which will encrypt your files
they can access remote desktop and be
able to bring up your computer screen
install crypto miners they can turn on
your webcam and spy on you on the laptop
that's sitting on your bed stand like
these kinds of things are real and they
actually happen and it starts with those
passwords being left as default on the
entry points to your home Wow
thank you you're welcome Hyperloop
transportation Technologies Inc and
veiled its first full-scale passenger
capsule offering the world a peek at the
future of travel the capsule 105 feet or
32 meters long and weighing five tons
was shown in Spain and will be moved
toulouse france for an additional
assembly before it's used on on one of
the first commercial tracks the
california-based start-up known as
Hyperloop tt said in a statement a
statement names the quintero one the the
product is made almost entirely out of
composite material Hyperloop is a
technology that gained popularity after
Elon Musk touted it in 2013 prompting
several companies to join the race to
build a high-speed transportation system
it in vision envisions moving passengers
in capsules at speeds of more than 750
miles or 1,200 kilometers per hour
through low pressure tubes in order to
reduce friction the technology will be
able to propel trains faster than
existing methods such as the Magli which
uses a levitation technology to lift the
train cars of
both attract to eliminate surface drag
the Los Angeles area is emerging as a
Hyperloop Center home to competitors
arrival and virgin Hyperloop one Musk's
boring company also has a base there
musk who also runs Tesla Inc and spice
Exploration Technologies Corporation
first unveiled his idea for a Hyperloop
a tube-based system to move people from
Los Angeles to San Francisco in half an
hour in a 57 page white paper in 2013
because he was disappointed with
California's plans for a high-speed rail
system in July Hyperloop TT set up a
joint venture to build a test system in
a mountainous Southwest Province in
China billionaire Richard Branson's
Virgin Hyperloop one held discussions in
India aiming to offer passengers in the
futuristic technology fares that are
cheaper than local Airlines in February
Branson signed a preliminary agreement
in Mumbai for a broad Hyperloop
framework and mu mooted a Mumbai Pune
system that would shrink travel time to
25 minutes and save about three hours
it's actually happening Hyperloop for
passengers is an awesome idea in my mind
I thought Hyperloop was going to be like
cargo only I don't know why I like but I
really want Hyperloop in Canada because
Canada is vast at those kinds of speeds
do you need a deflector dish that's what
I want to know like how strong would the
g-force truly be at 1,200 kilometers an
hour that's brutal
knots they have to have something to
counteract yeah that just like brace
yourselves folks yeah brace yourselves
you're gonna be like in that do you
remember the fair rides where you stick
to the walls yeah the UFO and stuff like
that yeah where it spins around and you
can like get yourself kind of in a weird
position and you stick forever on that
whoa yes yeah that's right I'll if you
like I just I think for myself like it
takes it's a five-hour flight to the
west coast from here let alone
getting through customs get through the
airport everything else yeah I love the
idea of Hyperloop I feel like Elon Musk
now has some free time on his hands so
it maybe he'll just be spending some
more time doing hyper loops that I am so
lost on the logistics of how this could
even be possible here in Canada like how
would it be possible with the great
Canadian Shield and everything else like
you're boring through Rock and I think
of the original Total Recall and how on
Mars they're digging through with these
boring machines and it's like that's all
I can picture don't don't think it will
can't happen
we did a railroad in Canada somebody
laid actual train tracks at some point
across all of Canada before there were
there was any other mode of
transportation right we can do a
Hyperloop especially now that we have
the technologies we technologies there
yeah
these billionaire folks backing it it's
a skywriter 64 se and that's the speed
of sound is that for real legit like it
does make me think of the car Concorde
aircraft and the way that you know
people are like flying in this thing and
it's like this past the speed of sound
yeah an amazing it's experience my mind
is melting a little bit because I never
thought Hyperloop would ever be Mach 1
people I never thought I thought like
it's like put your parcels in here order
something from Amazon we'll throw it in
the Hyperloop like I just pictured it
would be there you go and it sounds like
something Amazon would would do for sure
but now it's people would you ride in a
Hyperloop not I mean the chatroom is
going crazy yeah not the first time I
wouldn't be the first volunteer but
maybe after it's been running for five
years but can you imagine like North
America is huge could you imagine
getting from here to Florida how could
that even be possible though like we
need to focus on transporter technology
at this point because I just can't see
how could they build the infrastructure
for that with all the buildings and
stuff and how do you bore under Los
Angeles I just don't understand how
that's even policy
could you just I don't can you live in
the ocean I feel like that's easier
might be easier to lay a tube in the
ocean and draw the water out somehow I
feel like that my limited knowledge
about Hyperloop can you get inside a
Hyperloop above the ground does it have
to be in the board in the in the boring
in the boring earth in the border I I
don't there are many questions I love it
a lot yeah I want to see where it goes
yeah even if they're short journeys even
if they're shorter journeys just to get
you from A to B through a busy commute
exactly if we had a Hyperloop Jeff could
be here right now exactly from Hamilton
to Barry in three seconds before one
miss Ong big thanks to Roy W Nash Garvey
and our community of viewers for
submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching a category-5 TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with
ass white Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category-five TV newsroom I'm
Sacha Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson
thanks for joining us this week yeah
that's been a lot of fun yeah yeah
hope you had fun this week yeah season
12 is underway with one episode under
our belt yeah that was episode number
577 thanks for being here
we will see you again next week take
care everybody
[Applause]
