[Music]
hi and thanks for tuning in to the
endpoint security dot CA podcast from
positive e solutions I'm Robbie Ferguson
and through the course of this podcast
combined with our blog we want to
provide you with a free resource to be
able to educate yourself and your staff
about the cybersecurity issues that are
affecting your company in 2019
now last year 2018 certainly had its
share of high profile data breaches
sadly they've become a part of our
everyday life according to the breach
level index an organization that
collects breach statistics nearly
thirteen point five billion data records
have been lost or stolen since 2013 now
that's more than six million each day
and are you ready for this
four thousand two hundred and seventy
eight data records lost or stolen every
single minute but this is something no
organization or individual should have
to simply accept as normal
think about how panicked you would feel
if you discovered that your wallet or
your purse was missing everything that
defines you as a person is in there and
canceling and replacing all of those
items would be a nightmare when there's
an e.coli scare in a product say for
example romaine lettuce everybody
immediately removes all of the romaine
lettuce from the store shelves instantly
the reaction is swift decisive and
widespread by contrast there seems to be
a bubble of complacency that is settled
over the whole data breach concept
breaches aren't treated with the same
seriousness and they really deserve to
be it's either the consumer or the
corporate decision makers it doesn't
matter who to understand the whys and
how's of this I'm joined by Lissa Myers
a senior security researcher at ESET
Alissa thanks for joining me Lissa
breaches seem to be pretty much
commonplace now has your research
pointed to any common cause well there
are a lot of different causes but
depending on whose data you're looking
at generally between 60 and 80 percent
of data
are the pinpoint to cause is login
credential loss so either they can't was
hacked or fished or something along
those lines where someone has stolen
username and password login credentials
generally are kind of just a simple
place of getting in depending on how the
network is connected like thinking back
to the target breach is a really good
example you have an HVAC vendor so
they're you know heating and cooling and
they access the target databases just to
do their heating and cooling thing and
the way that their network was set up as
well as targets network they were able
to get from point A which is the HVAC
vendor to point B which was the
point-of-sale machines at Target Ryan
heads so you know people have this
expectation that it's actually hard to
get from you know one point to another
within a network but the way that a lot
of organizations set their networks up
it really isn't that hard for them to go
from point A being a password to point B
being the place where everyone stores
their credit cards right so we're
generally speaking about the credentials
of the internal corporate network not
like necessarily online websites or
anything like that but at the actual
login credentials to my computer to the
internal data basing the servers those
kinds of things yeah I mean when you
think about all the things that your
passwords allow you to access I mean yes
your email is part of it and that does
have value to sure criminals yeah but
there's also login credentials to
networks there's login credentials to
databases and all sorts of different
things
yeah I even think about the way things
like ransomware spreads and you know if
you were to be able to log into my
computer well I have the credentials
that allow me personally to access
network shares for example so now here's
an entry point for ransomware just as an
example
lissa are people becoming complacent or
should I say are they as complacent as
they seem
with politicians and in so many
countries really pushing for to be tough
on crime
why are these breeches so short-lived in
the news cycle well I think part of that
is just that the world we live in right
now is so full of just dramatic news
that everything gets pushed quickly but
also there's a real lack of
understanding of what security entails
and what people can actually do and
that's kind of my main message to people
is that people security can feel kind of
hopeless and overwhelming but that is
really not the truth at all there's
something that each and every single one
of us can do to improve our own security
and companies in particular there's a
lot more that they should be doing to
improve security so that the mainstream
media that is maybe not educated in
cybersecurity and so it just kind of
drops off or is it the consumer you know
driving for okay we want the next thing
we want the we want to know more about
the next big exploit I think it's a lack
of education kind of from one end to
another like consumers don't necessarily
understand how much risk they're being
put at yeah and the media doesn't
necessarily understand the extent that
it's a problem and legislators don't
understand and you know and companies
who are protecting our data don't
necessarily understand I'm from an
economical standpoint what about
corollary costs like for example let's
say insurers who are taking a second
look at the mega breaches that have
occurred like Marriott is this gonna
trickle down into other areas of the
economy yeah absolutely I mean the the
whole idea with risk assessment is that
there you know except avoid mitigating
transfer and insurance is meant to
transfer that risk and insurers are kind
of realizing you know how much they've
been off here and it's huge it's
absolutely huge even when there's a
fairly significant cost that's quoted
upfront that doesn't necessarily hold
true over time like over time they
realize oh this is actually gonna cost
considerably more and so insurers are
either moving towards ensuring smaller
businesses where the risk is not as much
them particularly or they're changing
the policies to where there is a lot
more onus on the organization's to prove
that they're securing themselves
properly but that is the part that I see
is being beneficial is that you know
it's not good to just kick the ball down
the road you need to ensure that people
are actually protecting themselves in
order to get the insurance so you can't
just transfer the whole risk to somebody
else because that costs everybody and
you know that again with the target
breach if you look back at the cost that
banks incurred because I don't know if
you remembered but like everybody got a
brand-new credit card after the target
and Home Depot breaches because like a
huge percentage of the population had
their payment card details compromised
and that was a massive massive cost that
was shouldered by the banks rather than
the the organization that got breached
yeah it's funny that I've never even
considered the cost that would have been
incurred by that yeah and it's not just
big banks I mean obviously credit unions
and little small local banks we're also
affected so it's you know big
organization small organizations that
cost gets filtered out to the entire
economy essentially sure so with you
know the costs involved considered we're
gonna I would imagine we're going to see
the entire you know what is being
exploited how is this at data being used
that whole landscape evolving over the
next ten eleven months as you look into
2019 do you foresee more breaches or
bigger ones even or different types of
breaches the short answer is yes the
long answer is we're already seeing a
lot of payment cards are a fairly short
shelf but they have a fairly short shelf
life things like medical ID or insurance
or you know things like that were Social
Security in the US and most company
countries have their own version of
something like that
yeah like social numbers here yeah
those are all pretty well permanent like
those are not something that you can
easily cut off and start with a new
number and so that's much more valuable
to criminals because that has such a
long shelf life that's basically sticks
with you for the rest of your life right
so it's the onus is now on you and me to
check our information for basically the
rest of our lives because if that
information is lost then we need to
continue to check make sure that you
know credit card accounts are not being
made in our name or you know drugs
ordered for us or in our names basically
yeah so we're kind of we're kind of
leaning toward the the consumer end of
you know how how does this affect me as
an individual so along that vein Alyssa
what can the average person do to
protect themselves against in particular
the the repercussions and the ongoing
issues that come from a data breach
especially considering that they
themselves may not even know that their
data has been exploited yeah I it's the
point we're at right now we have to be a
little bit more reactive there's not a
as much as I would hope to do
proactively in the u.s. I recommend
people get credit freezes as a proactive
measure but that isn't available in all
countries Canada being one of them
and so it it'd be you know it's
important for us to check our credit
report and check our medical statements
and check our credit card report
statements and make sure that there
isn't funky stuff happening there that's
what we're seeing is what's expected and
responding quickly if we do see
something that's strange
I wonder if that has in fact become a
more difficult challenge for individuals
because we're so connected now and
everything is on the smartphone apps and
you know are we as meticulous with our
with our credit card statements for
example these days I don't really have a
sense of that of how people are about it
in just general life but you know the
the good part about so much being online
is that you know on my credit card
report I can now set up an alert so it
will email me anytime there is any sort
of charge and I've actually had an
experience where there was a fraud that
came through and I was able to call
before the charge even officially hit my
count and say hey this is not me
shut that account down yeah and start
over I really like that idea
you imagine that's something you set up
with your credit card company yeah
exactly
there's a lot of different things you
can do that with like if your doctor has
some availability to get a list of
charges on your account yeah
online you can do that just immediately
well that's the that's the positive end
of the evolution of how our data is
interconnected these days
Melissa I realize this is a loaded
question but what sort of shelf life are
we looking at you mentioned that this
could impact like if our data was
breached it could impact me for the rest
of my life so how long after a data
breach occurs could I let's say nothing
has happened with the data and I feel
like maybe there's it hasn't been
exploited is there ever a point in my
life where I can feel safe as much as I
am loathe to use the word safe I would
say that the way things are right now me
personally I continue to look forever
like even if there hasn't been a breach
recently of anything that I was involved
with I continue to look because there's
like you said you don't necessarily know
like the organization that is but
breached may not find out or not
completely understand that they've been
breached for years right and so it's
better just to be very vigilant about
checking make sure that all all the
things look as they should
okay well thank you on that ominous note
let's let's circle back to so away from
the consumer here let's let's get back
into business and look at the IT
security specialists like what kind of
advice would you give to the IT
Department about protecting their
companies not only from a data breach
that they may themselves have conducted
against their company but also being
unwittingly complicit in in someone
else's data breach there are actually a
lot of things that that you can do one
is as we mentioned the passwords
password credentials make sure that you
have multi-factor authentication and
most of us have had some experience with
that at this point where you get sent a
one-time code to your email or to a
dongle creates it or it's an app that
creates a one-time code that gives
another layer of protection against
login credential theft and is the part
of the the difficulty with that in the
early stages was a lot of people felt
like that was just too much effort but a
we see that there's a huge return on
investment in terms of decreasing the
risk but B the way that those two factor
authentication things are set up now it
is much less of a hurdle for people so
it's a much more seamless another thing
that I would suggest is make sure that
you're doing risk assessments on an
ongoing basis this isn't something you
should do like once every year or once
every god forbid five years do it's
ongoing
like every time there's a new machine in
your network every time there's a you
know new database or something you need
to make sure that those are accounted
for in your risk assessment and the
third thing that I would suggest is
network segmentation so the target reach
we have external vendor and giant
retailer there should have been a number
of places where they could have
segmented the network such that that
sort of transfer was not possible they
should have had the sensitive area of
the network with being the point-of-sale
machines completely separate from the
outside world
even you know if there are trusted
external vendors well that's a lot of
great information listen
you so much it seems to be an endless
fight and it's great to have experts
such as yourself keeping watch thanks
for joining me today is my pleasure
here at endpoint security dot CA we're
obviously very concerned for the safety
and security of our customers their
businesses and their data but as our
chat here shows the concern can't end
there it's the data and activities of
other people to those who somehow
someway get connected to our customers
through legitimate means as well as
through the breaches and the hacks that
you hear about here we have a blog that
follows on from this conversation you
can find it at endpoint security dot CA
and as always our close relationship
with the experts at ESET means we've got
your back so thanks again to our guests
Alisa Myers for joining me today and
thank you for listening
be sure to check out the next chapter in
our ongoing series on cyber security for
Canadian business at endpoint security
dot CA take care I'm Robbie Ferguson
stay safe
