welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode number 549 and tonight
now this is a Raspberry Pi three model
be this on the other hand is it
raspberry pi 3 model b+ we're gonna be
showing that we're gonna be getting it
out of the box because we time travel a
little bit here tonight because we don't
believe in continuity so what do you got
coming up well I know that we're gonna
have a good old conversation about
Facebook thinking about maybe drop I am
deleting my face what about you stick
around we'll be talking all about it
this is category 5 technology TV
[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
Technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players and for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if its tech is here cat
5 TV slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash ia IB hi Sasha
hi Robbie hi you nice to have you here
we've got a jam-packed exciting show for
you this week before we get into it
first of all category 5 TV t-shirts and
sweatshirts are still available awesome
oh yeah it's a limited time offering
from teespring
head on over to cat 5 dot TV slash
shirts and you'll be able to not only
get your hands on a limited edition
category-five shirt but also you'll be
supporting the shows that we produce
here at category 5 TV network so you've
got I have I've got a couple of five
that I have the sweatshirt and I haven't
like I have a t-shirt these are from our
run like four years yes I know I should
probably get more shirts but but but
they're still in shape they're great
well-made they're good quality they
don't fade they don't crack I know
something to be said about that they're
not like iron ons these are like silk
screen shirts they're really really good
quality like the sweatshirt they're the
sweater is really warm
I've got other sweatshirts that are just
like a little thin and not very
comfortable but this is one that you
definitely want to get your hands I have
one of those ridiculous family photos
where it's like me in the center Jimmy
was initially named liked it on Facebook
it wasn't intentional it's just it was a
family barbecue it's just really
comfortable hoodie so I wore it and then
we got this family shot and I'm in the
center so it actually looks like it's an
ad this is like our behind the scenes
team or something
my parents yeah and if you would like to
send us a picture of you yourself or
whoever it is that you buy one of these
shirts for wearing the shirt then we
will post it on the air you'll see it
live on the show it's your your 10
seconds of fame yeah and we will be very
appreciative as well we will absolutely
be appreciative now we also have for you
some more debt Effect 2 VR copies nice
Oh VR is getting huge huge oh no I have
so fun questions later about VR but okay
so in order to win your copy you just
need to email us so email at to contest
at category 5 TV and let us know how
you're watching so be it the cable TV
station you're watching on roku youtube
facebook however you're watching let us
know tell us who you are maybe your
alias and your name i don't know and
we'll send you a game if you have any
questions comments thoughts concerns
it's virtual really amazing it's crazy
you you've got to have like a headset
and everything to to play this thing you
are in it and it's a steam distribution
so we just send you the Steam coupon and
you download it and install it on your
computer and it's dream a give you
nightmares world back up day yes that's
the Saturday can you believe it's here
upon us already March 31st every year is
the year that we geeks celebrate your
need to back up perhaps there should be
like backup day a month but world backup
day one thank you personally should have
backup day once a week maybe but
definitely a day to remind you it's like
you've got to change the batteries in
your fire detector your smoke alarms
right exactly site detector you do that
when you the clock goes forward and back
right right yes I also flip the mattress
of my like in my bedroom there you go
you do that so you change the alarm
batteries we flip the mattress
I've got a pillow top so
stocke I'll rotate it how's that okay
yeah here that's good perfect and and
we're also going to make sure our
backups are working exactly don't just
backup twice a year but make sure twice
a year that your back is working I moved
everything off of my laptop onto a USB
flash drive that is my backup and that
is very common now some of you or say oh
are you focusing on me here because I'm
you know that I did that I know a lot of
folks who have done that okay so it's
our responsibility to educate you as to
what a real backup is okay so a couple
of things that we need to think about
how you're backing up how often you're
backing up how many copies of your files
exist what's going to happen if say the
worst happens your house burns down
right and all your computers are
destroyed what's going to happen here
data and what is going to be lost or
also here's something that a lot of
people don't think about Sasha mm-hmm
what is the process going to be like if
I ever have to restore from my backup
good question and there is a very good
question because a lot even companies
will have exceptional backup systems in
place and then not have the security to
protect them against ransomware then
ransomware hits and they're down for
weeks right and thousands upon thousands
of dollars in IT hours and so we've got
to take that approach okay so first of
all how are you backing up can I ask you
personally can I ask you can it be a
rhetorical question is it weird that I
don't I assumed that okay okay so where
where is your data that's maybe that's
the first question here's the thing okay
this is going to sound hoarse is not a
good start this is not a good sir okay I
know the importance of I know the
importance of backing up but I also know
who I am and how I survive in this world
isn't generally on your intelligence and
capability am i backing up okay so every
week I'm gonna say sash I have you
backed up this week where is your data
think about that where are where are the
things that mean the most to you I have
first night things I think I google
google
we're Google now is it your phone my
phone does a backup thing it does a
backup thing let's go to the last
question which is how owner√≠s is it to
get the files back should you have a
crash just these are some of these are
rhetorical questions just so that it
makes you think I where is your data it
is on my undies computer okay yes and on
my phone the same data some of the same
data some of okay not I don't okay so he
backs up he backs up some very important
files this is he's better at this than I
am sure okay but he backs up to an
external hard drive but it's also still
in the apartment okay so that takes us
to what if there was a fire where is
your data right it is in the same place
location as the original house now if we
were in the apartment at the time of the
fire then but but say say we were at
least the external hard drive is easy to
get right but but we are we probably
weren't there because definitely not it
that fire was not our fault so we were
not there
no after setting the fire you ran that's
right yeah we couldn't take anything I
would never burn my place so this is a
question that you have to ask yourself
and and that is a horrible scenario that
we we do not hope on any of you but it's
a good reality check for us to say okay
where would my data be if this happened
if the worst happened what's my option
it's more about it's not where should
your data be or what you know what
services should I subscribe to or what
software should I use it's more let's
get into the mindset of understanding
how a backup actually works so a backup
is never a backup unless there are
multiple copies of the files that mean
something to you so if for example
you've taken a bunch of photos and
videos with your phone all your family
pictures and everything are on your
phone and then you transfer them on to
your laptop because you want to back
them up right but then they're on your
laptop and not your phone that's not a
backup it's not bad answer okay if
they're on your computer and then you
transfer them to a neck
sternal harddrive and now they're only
on the external hard drive that's not a
backup similarly if you do have two
copies you've got one on the laptop and
one on your external hard drive but the
external hard drive is plugged into that
laptop 24/7 and sitting on the desk next
to it also not a back not a backup
I can answer I know what is not a backup
yeah more times than not people move
things off of their computers to free
space you'll buy an external hard drive
or something you'll transfer all the
files on to it never thinking that this
is now they'll own copy and it's a drive
that could easily be tripped over it
could easily be dropped and if it has
spinning if it's a spinning drive like a
terabyte or 2 terabyte or 3 terabyte
drive is gonna be a spinning drive it's
not a solid-state drive so when you move
it you can feel that centrifugal force
as you move it have you ever had that
feeling where if you pick up a moving
hard-on hard drive it's moving mm-hmm so
that's a spinning hard drive and if that
ever got bumped while it's spinning if
it ever got dropped while it's spinning
you are going to be hard pressed to get
the data off of that drive because it's
moving at 7200 rotations per minute and
there's a little teeny-weeny needle
that's floating on an air cushion just
above the platter
right okay and there are actually
several of these little needles and they
use magnetic sensors in order to read
and write the data from the hard drive
plug and if they touch if they so much
as just touch that drive 7200 rotations
per minute think about that how fast
that is if it just touches it's not
going to just touch and then pop back
and keep going hunky-dory no right it's
gonna edge a big circle right into the
platter surface of that hard drive
making I picture this like somebody
walking with like two full cups of
coffee right and trying not to spill
those coffees like that's hard enough
right you know time okay this is your
data so fake so we have to have multiple
copies I'd recommend that you always
have an off-site copy
now if off-site like through the
internet is not an option for you
because that can be pricey you've got to
have storage and you've got to have the
bandwidth in order to do it you can
simply go get a consumer hard drive get
an external hard drive copy the files to
that hard drive
and put it in a safety deposit box or
take it to work and put it in your desk
drawer and do that every single week or
month depending on how much information
you want to lose should the worst ever
happen always have at least two copies
maybe three of everything that matters
to you buy two of those drives and then
you can just swap them back and forth
and take one off-site and leave the
other one at home that's what you need
to do okay mm-hmm any other quick
questions for me as we move on all right
if I want to hit that was the next week
you're gonna say I backed up everything
that I have I feel like yeah yes another
common just a commonplace thing USB
flash drives plugged into a computer
moving the files onto it they get broken
somebody trips over the computer drops
the laptop and breaks the USB port and
that happens more often than you want to
think so definitely you know just make
sure there are multiple copies okay that
is key I want to hear from you I want
you to comment below let us know how
you're backing up what is your solution
to this problem and what would happen if
where your data is was to burn down
right that's what we want to ask
ourselves that's what we want to know
and if this just quick little chat has
helped you to realize that hey maybe
I've got to do something different about
my backups and you actually take action
please comment below comment on our
website comment on our youtube channel
let us know what what it is that you've
put into action and how you're backing
up and if you have any questions or need
advice just let us know I'll probably do
what you're doing there you go fair
enough fair enough two weeks ago we
looked at the fact that the Raspberry Pi
3 B+ has come out and the Raspberry Pi
B+ is a step up from the original
Raspberry Pi 3 so they've improved the
performance they've improved the the
Wi-Fi they've improved the ethernet
they've generally improved the board but
what they didn't tell us developers is
that it also requires some real software
enhancements so
what I've spent the last three days so
Monday was the first email that came in
because of course everybody went out and
bought a Raspberry Pi 3 B+ right as soon
as they were available on Amazon why
wouldn't you and why wouldn't you and so
Monday the first email comes in saying I
can't get names Linux to boot on my
Raspberry Pi 3 B+ so I got on Amazon and
ordered mine which arrived today finally
here but the past three nights have been
late nights of coding patching upgrading
updating names Linux and Plex PI so both
NEMS Linux and Plex PI are now
compatible with the Raspberry Pi 3 model
b+ so four Plex PI you need to download
and install Plex PI 1.3 for NEMS Linux
it is NEMS linux 1.3.1 that is what you
need okay
incidentally now I mentioned that the
Raspberry Pi 3 B+ arrived today yes so
later on in the show we're gonna
actually unbox it for you we're gonna
take a quick look at how things have
changed on the board I've got a
Raspberry Pi 3 model B here as well so
that we can see side-by-side comparison
and we're gonna show you that coming up
later in the show so don't go anywhere
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cap five
dot TV slash shirts welcome back this is
category five technology TV episode
number 549 and we mentioned before the
break we're going to be looking at the
Raspberry Pi 3 model b+ I'm excited to
get into that finally open it up and get
in and check it out but before we do
that of course something has been huge
in the news over the past week yeah week
and a half yes
face book face ladies and gentlemen book
face and of course you've all heard
about what has happened with Facebook
and and the concerns that have been
brought up I know you're trying to we've
multitask we're doing chat room where
we're chatting on the air and everything
but Facebook and everything that has
happened with Cambridge analytic and
really realization that our information
is not at all private right exactly so I
don't know a lot about the details
really in truth I do know that Facebook
has said that or we found out that
Facebook has another company that has
taken our data and is storing it not
quite Facebook but let's so let's look
back at ok 2014 the API which is the
application programming interface that
allows apps to communicate with the
Facebook back-end the data allowed apps
to gain an astronomical amount of
information about
the users account but here's the problem
if I added the malicious app to my
facebook profile and authorized it to go
ahead it not only gave them access to my
profile but it also gave them access to
all of my friends right profiles and
we're not talking just the public stuff
we're talking the private stuff okay so
call it a glitch in the matrix or
whatever you want to call it but so of
course Cambridge analytic a built a
system to take advantage of that and
leech all of this confidential
information which many are saying is
against the you know it's probably had
some kind of Terms of Use at the time
but certainly against moral code right
but the fact is that the backend was
there and developed by Facebook and
provided for them it's like okay here
say to my seven-year-old here's a bucket
full of candy don't eat any and they
leave the room exactly yeah
so big news personally is that not just
because of this but for a lot of reasons
I am breaking up with Facebook what okay
so this is scary this takes me to my
next comment yeah delete Facebook is the
the movement that's happening on Twitter
right right hashtag delete Facebook and
I have to ask myself and I have to ask
the community at large
why well okay so here's why for me and
it's not about it's actually this has
brought it back up for me but the
problem I feel like Facebook to me is a
bit too much of an addiction like I get
up in the morning right exactly exactly
but it's it's I guess it's conditioned
me to the point where if I go to check
my banking or go to check something else
I'm actually like clicking the Facebook
icon by default so like everything is is
that and I feel consumed by it I feel
like I'm checking it too often I feel
like I'm really close to the people I'm
closest with anyway right and the extra
people I feel as though even though I
love them there's a lot of emotions that
happen because I'm checking my facebook
feed and I need not know about some of
the things okay it's hard to explain
really except that I don't need that
newsfeed
all of the time I don't want to feel
like I'm in this weird toxic
relationship with Mark Zuckerberg I just
it's strange part of it is that that
your newsfeed is conditioned by the
algorithms yeah in order to manipulate
your emotions what to want it as much as
I that's kind of tails but looking at
heads the biggest thing that has arisen
over the past couple of weeks is the
fact that your data is not confidential
now we've you know people who have used
Facebook and we've had this discussion
in the past people who have used
Facebook think that they are the
customer of Facebook and they're not the
customer of Facebook are the data
collection agencies that collect and
aggregate data that use that data for
advertising purposes and to be able to
promote their services and whatever else
they want to promote same elections and
we're not the customer we are the
currency we are our data our privacy our
private information that we have chosen
to post on Facebook is the transaction
that is what is their product right so
every time I post a picture every time I
post a message every time I like
something or click on an ad or click on
a message I am basically giving them
more data about me so now they can take
that data aggregate it using AI and
machine learning and say okay this
person likes these things and these are
the things that we are going to market
to you and we're gonna sell this person
so I'm gonna sell so Facebook is going
to sell Robi Ferguson to raspberry-pi
say not that they utilize the surface
but services that I would click on and I
would appreciate right so they that's
what they do right make sense so I I go
back to my question why we know that we
are not the customer we are the product
because we're using this service as a
free service and we all read the Terms
and Conditions right no we all scroll
the bottom I can let that one sink in
and and so because we are the product
we have to be responsible about what we
post what we do on that system because
we are being watched and we are being
recorded how much everything everything
you think your private chats are private
no okay okay so we might be worried
about messenger if I'm worried sure this
book the absolute Willis Inc company
right right and the and is how much do
you pay for messenger nothing right so
what is the product me you are the
product so there you know people say
there is nothing free in this world and
I beg to differ there are free things in
this world and there are you know you
can subscribe to our RSS feed and
download category-five TV and watch us
offline and by doing that you are not
seeing the advertisements that are
monitoring you're seeing those
advertisements you're not clicking on
links that are associated with our show
but at the same time then our bottom
line starts to hurt because we do not
have the enough revenue to keep doing
the things that we do for free so that's
where people support us on patreon and
people donate to the show and and kind
of offset that for us and and I think a
lot of people are responsible that way
where they say you know I've blocked the
ads on your website I download the RSS
feed as opposed to watching on YouTube
which monetizes and so I also give every
month through patreon and that offsets
it right right so that's a
responsibility that so we do have to
realize that there are responsibilities
as consumers that if we're going to use
those truly free services that we do
need to be responsible but with Facebook
as the the product mm-hmm how can we
tell what is being sold any idea like
how could you tell I don't know I unless
they told me but they're not going to
know right right so let's head on over
I'm going to show you a little trick
here Sascha and world so we're gonna
head to facebook.com slash settings okay
just as easy as that face
book.com slash settings and from here
there are a couple of things that you
can do of course the big one that people
are trying out these days is delete my
account so or deactivate my account I
should say clever wording Sasha
so we'll get to this okay deactivating
your account does not actually delete
your data does not actually remove you
from Facebook at all
oh it just turns off your access to
yourself and yeah but everything's still
there okay okay so but on that same page
just below is download a copy of your
facebook data oh okay
and when you click on that it asks you
to click forward to to compile that data
into a zip file and then you receive an
email with the download link and that
allows you to now open up a bit of a
repository style collection of private
information that is available on
Facebook so when I did that now I'm not
gonna click on everything because there
is some seriously private information
here contact info and and all that kind
of stuff but all my posts my videos even
if they were privately sent my friends
and I'm just going to change screens
here just for a second just to make sure
that they're not yeah it's just a list
of all my friends names and and of
course with the old API the apps had
access to all of these as well okay
is that friends and their birthdays your
friends and when you became friends when
we became friends okay yeah unless you
were born in 2014 probably somewhere
should we check do a quick search for
Sacha Rickman so we've actually been
friends on Bookface 12 August 23rd 2012
there you are so there's a huge amount
of information there let's go in I've
got private messages so you your
facebook Messenger the private messages
that are available and I'm purposefully
hiding my screen when certain things are
absolute
private Sasha can see this yeah and
attest to it I'll do a quick search for
Sasha and I've got conversations between
you and Bailey
I've got conversations with you me and
Carrie I've got conversations with you
me Kelsey and Adam these are these were
private conversations remember Sasha and
Adam Hillary Christa Sasha Lee and two
others Wow and so these are my private
conversations that in messenger I
thought hey these are these are private
and it's as easy as that to to see
that's hopes events that I've been
invited to that I've gone to all that
kind of information security information
applications let's let's look at add
topics so this is what the AI thinks
about me I am interested in nature huh
in alkalinity oh now I never click like
on a bee no no it just it has figured
out that hey I like nature and
alkalinity it says you like sarcasm
I like sarcasm so they know hey we're
gonna market to these people the Gregory
Brothers scholarship I don't know music
videos Lindsey Stirling this is crazy
stuff you should know stuff you should
know with Josh and Chuck the podcast so
these are not pages that I've liked
these are bits of information that
Facebook whose back-end has figured out
that our to attribute to me as a person
farm science software engineering music
visual effects rodents rodents nice so
all of these things and then I've got
add history all of the ads that I've
clicked on oh and it shows me what I've
clicked on and when I clicked on it what
I was doing and then here's this is
crazy something a little scary
advertisers with your contact info
and I've got a list here of advertisers
who I have no clue who they are
but they know you they have my contact
info they've got my personal information
that I thought was absolutely private
that's not ok 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
13 14 15 16 they may as well be
Cambridge analytic I right there just
third parties that I have no idea who
they are
best table top games crowdfunding videos
obviously I clicked on a video or
something
yeah and that somehow gave them
authority to have my personal contact
information I am creeped okay so go to
facebook.com slash settings to see what
kind of what kind of things are being
shared about you and to whom and what
information has been collected would it
even be worthwhile for me to check that
about me if I'm going to delete my face
yes and do it because then it's a backup
oh okay so that's so the pictures are
totally viewable if I do that zip file
like you can job because that's the
thing about face your pictures and the
comments that have been attributed to
them okay because that's the thing I
don't want to lose my pictures and I
just want to lose like the sentiments
right like a lot of my memories in the
past eight years are on Facebook but I
also don't have somebody say to me well
you know I've lost all my photos because
I didn't backup how can I get all my
photos from Facebook because I post a
lot of photos on Facebook well here's an
answer so it is a good feature that they
allow you to do this to download all of
your files including videos and pictures
and everything else but it's also a wake
up call for you to realize hey what is
Facebook holding about me how are they
aggregating it how are they determining
to market me to the customer and
and what kind of information is there
that could be accessed by these
advertisers now you said I can't deal
eat my Ken okay but it's it's tricky
okay so if we wanted to now I go back to
why why do you want to do this when you
know that you are the product okay
because nobody can really say oh I
didn't know that Facebook had
information about me oh I didn't know
that they shared this with third parties
yeah you kind of did I don't think that
that's really a valid excuse whatsoever
I think that's not my reason yeah but if
that so just backing up to why and and
making that decision so deactivating
your account is under managed account
edit and you'll see deactivate your
account okay and you can click on that
and it asks you for your password in
order to do that and then it says oh but
Shelley's gonna miss you and Beckham my
wife is going to miss me because she
only ever sees me on Facebook right I
don't I Jen from new every day is gonna
miss me I'll message her about that
would you miss me if I left Facebook so
here's something
why do you this is a required field why
are you going to leave Facebook this is
temporary I'll be back my account was
hacked I don't feel safe on Facebook so
these are all valid points right right
but when you click on them watch what
happens I have a privacy concern that's
let's say that's my thing oh well wait a
second please remember that you can
always control your information learn
more let us know blah blah blah
give feedback right so they've set it up
as a way to mark it back to you and say
oh wait wait wait wait wait don't leave
here's how you can change the thing that
you have problems with that you're
concerned with which makes sense from a
business marketing standpoint but so
that feels shady but it's also it's also
a way for you to find how to get your
settings right if you can't find those
privacy settings pretend you're gonna
deactivate your account and say I have a
privacy concern it'll take you right
there if you go on there and you say
well let's see my account was hacked oh
well you can secure your account here
right well then click there and all
Sutton now you've secured your account
with two-factor authentication and
everything else what if you actually
wanted to delete your account now
remembering deactivating your account
allows it to be reactivated your stuff
is never removed it's always there it's
still available it's still accessible
the reason why I don't want to do that
is because I don't want to be tempted to
come back for me it's an addiction
okay so backup everything right so I
want to delete but I also want to have
messenger we'll talk about that first of
all to delete your account you click on
quick help and then you click on to
dudududududu let's see here homepage
timeline they they make it obscure oh it
is very obscure Help Center up at the
top right
see how obscure that is now here there's
no mention of deleting your account but
delete account how do i permanently
delete my account so again they give you
some information download a copy of your
info blah blah blah and then if you
would like your account permanently
deleted with no option of recovery log
into your account and let us know so
when I click that it says ok blah blah
blah delete my account you can follow
the prompts and you will presumably
delete your account but remember once
posted to the internet nothing has ever
deleted nothing is ever gone you cannot
be guaranteed that it is gone because
anyone such as these advertising
companies that have access to my data on
Facebook somehow mm-hmm I need to look
at that and address that they have a
copy of my data ok so remember that yeah
you actually asked about messenger yeah
if you delete your Facebook account you
can still use messenger ok now remember
it is still a Facebook product right a
Facebook software you are the product I
use it as a tool so I'm not I'm not as
addicted to message again with messenger
you just have to remember that your
conversations though private are not
private right they are being recorded
and they are being stored on Facebook
servers
I'm okay with that in that I have very
benign conversations on Facebook yeah or
on messenger but I don't realistically I
don't want see and this is the thing I
don't want to lose all content all
contact with the people who are
important to me on Facebook I just don't
want Facebook but if I have messenger
people can still have conversations with
me like I can still be we have a group
group chat I can still be part of the
group chat if I don't have Facebook
right now with messenger if you do not
have a Facebook account you're gonna
need phone numbers it's going to operate
using phone numbers and you're going to
sign in using your phone number if you
deactivate your Facebook account and log
into messenger with your Facebook user
and password it will reactivate your
facebook account I don't have to delete
it I've never deleted my account so I
don't know what would happen if I try to
log into Messenger using my username and
password or whether I'd still have
access to my friends list they say you
don't I have seen posts that say you
would still have access to your friends
in that chat but most definitely as
Facebook advertisers you can use
messenger exclusive of Facebook and log
in using your phone number okay and it
will allow you to then connect with
other people using their phone numbers
because what's my other option if I
don't have messenger I just use email is
that you know we're like Google Hangouts
I don't know yeah I suppose you could
use hangouts and IRC and discord and any
number of apps and people would say
what's happened yeah I need to have
those people that are on my messenger be
okay with transferring themselves over
that's it right but I just I don't like
how infiltrated it is now like Facebook
is part of me and I don't love it you
have to set boundaries for yourself for
sure because it is it can be an
addictive platform because they've built
it to be that that's what they that's
how they've created it they you'll be
scrolling your phone and suddenly it'll
jump to the top do you think that's an
accident as frustrating as that is No
right I don't I don't you may never not
have ever thought about that kind of
stuff but so my account will remain
mm-hmm Sasha wants to delete her account
what is your opinion now of Facebook and
if you are going to delete facebook
hashtag delete Facebook
why that's my question why what's your
reason behind wanting to delete facebook
I have to stay on Facebook because I
administer our Facebook pages on that
Tesla I can't I'm not going to delete
our Facebook pages we're too small for
that they're huge
yeah we're too small we need to be able
to communicate with our community if I
was casual with Facebook I would be okay
with keeping it it's just that it's
become a thing for me and I don't like
that I won't quit coffee coffee people
always giving for me but I don't need
new addictions so Facebook's I I was a
lead joiner to Facebook I only joined
eight years ago like I was a later
because it felt weird to begin with and
then I got on it and would you be better
to deactivate your account and if some
people do this where they just step away
from Facebook for a month and just see
how you fare not because I would
encourage an addiction but because you
may find that it's today's communication
in a lot of ways it's also how it's how
I communicate with a lot of folks and
keep up with my family and what they're
up to because we're not all connected in
you know physical you know getting
together all the time right and it's how
I update other people about us it's how
I let people know what my kids are up to
I know but I do it anonymously to some
degree you know like when I post you'll
notice if you follow my personal
facebook that everything is very generic
yeah I don't I don't do a lot of barely
see kids names and stuff it's like my
kids I know I don't do it like I don't
do a lot of oversharing I don't post
anything that I wouldn't be okay with
sharing with the world it's just the it
just feels weird now
to me feels weird now okay so that's
that's one you know why I'm staying why
are you leaving or staying and comment
below let us know we've got to take a
really quick break when we come back
we've got the Raspberry Pi 3 model B
plus we're gonna be unboxing take a
quick look at stick around whether you
shop on think geek gearbest B&amp;H Photo
Video eBay or Amazon or even if you want
a free trial of audible you'll find the
best deals and support the shows we
produce by simply visiting the shopping
sites you already frequent by using the
links on our website visit category 5 TV
slash partners for the full and
ever-growing list and help us create
more free content like this show thank
you for shopping with our partners and
thank you for watching all right folks
this is category 5 technology TV welcome
back we are gonna take a quick look at
the Raspberry Pi 3 B+ ladies and
gentlemen I've got it right here on the
desk this is it it arrived today from
Kanna ket which is ordered from Amazon
and get these a cat5 dot TV / hai and
everything looks just like it normally
would with a Raspberry Pi 3 but let's
get in you were saying you love I unbox
unboxing why do you love unboxing so
much why does everyone love unboxing so
much oh this is taped on
okay so we've got heatsink skin on the
outside of the package so Kanak it has
included a heatsink for the CPU and the
tow probe and there is the box
it's like the world's tiniest computer
folks you can use this as a home theater
PC I'm going to brutalize this box
normally I've opened them nice and
cleanly so that I can put them on
display too excited there it is there is
the Raspberry Pi 3 model B+
so we just paused to fix the audio the
processor has better heat dissipation
which means we're gonna be able to
overclock this get a little more speed
even though it is clocked already at 1.4
we're gonna be able to potentially
overclock this board the Raspberry Pi 3
was a little disappointing in that
regard now it's also got improved Wi-Fi
the Wi-Fi has been has been improved
exponentially it's now b/g/n AC and it's
2.4 gigahertz or 5 gigahertz which means
we presumably should be able to get
better speed off of the Wi-Fi and better
connectivity I'm really hoping that
we're gonna see the less packet loss if
you bought a Raspberry Pi 3 model be the
first Raspberry Pi 3 you'll notice that
it does have some slowness issues on the
Wi-Fi and and so you know if you're
watching YouTube you've got to turn down
the quality settings and this kind of
thing yeah well that's the hope I mean
it's gonna be faster and better Wi-Fi
and it's got a better antenna as well
much ly improved Ethernet is also
improved it is a Gigabit Ethernet is
what they boast but unfortunately it's
connected via the USB 2 and because of
that even though it is Gigabit Ethernet
it actually is only gonna give you about
300 megabits per second which is very
disappointing I'll say but at the same
time even though it's disappointing
because they're advertising and
marketing it as a Gigabit Ethernet it's
still 297 percent better speeds than the
Raspberry Pi 3 which is one step down
and this is about the same price right
so it's still a lot faster but it
doesn't come anywhere close to the xu4
from Odroid for example
so beyond that the form factor has not
changed whatsoever
everything looks exactly the same the
processor as I mentioned is faster about
19% faster the memory is also 20% faster
so we're gonna get a pretty good
performance boost off of this board
altogether and surprisingly and maybe
this is because of the better heat
dissipation on the CPU but it is
actually going to run on about 4 percent
cooler than then a Raspberry Pi 3
perfect but he uses more power Oh
mm-hmm and quite a bit more like 38
percent now these use very little power
anyways but a 38 percent power usage
increase is kind of substantial
especially if you've got a bunch of
these running so let's compare real
quick what these look like now in the
bag there's also a power supply the B+
requires 2.5 amp as opposed to two point
four which is what you want on your
Raspberry Pi 3 so your Raspberry Pi 3
power supply may not work with the
Raspberry Pi 3 B+ because it's 0.1 amps
too low now I'm just ripping apart my
case here I do like these cases because
they're easy to pull apart easy to get
the PI out let's see I I say that I'm in
the struggle
there we go so there's the PI 3 and the
PI 3 B+ model B plus so they're pretty
much identical as far as form factor
goes they really are I mean they are
identical that way and the B+ so here's
the B+ I'll put this right back in the
case that I just took the B out of and
should have absolutely no trouble
putting this in the same case they're
they're exactly the same as far as
that's perfect yeah so you're not gonna
have to mess around with that so there
you have it that's just a quick unboxing
and quick look at the Raspberry Pi 3
model b+ I am excited about some of the
you know the speed increase especially
the RAM being faster because the RAM on
the raspberry
has been notoriously slow Ethernet is
faster although disappointingly slow for
gigabit but we'll see over the course of
the next little while as we do some
benchmarks how it's actually going to
perform in real-world environments we
shall see have you got your Raspberry Pi
3 model b+ comment below let us know how
you're diggin it so far and how it's
running your stuff especially if you've
already used things on Raspberry Pi 3
I'd love to know if if it works better
on the Raspberry Pi 3 + are you ready to
head over to the newsroom and am here
are the stories were covering this week
in the category 5 TV newsroom SpaceX and
Tesla have deleted their Facebook pages
Intel has announced it's discontinuing
the Intel graphics update tool for Linux
watch what you what you say when using
Microsoft products the new company the
company's new service agreement says
that it can punish you for using
offensive language a gtx 1070 is the
recommended card for VR with the new HTC
vive pro these stories are coming right
up don't go anywhere
Jeff Westen Gemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website
are you okay you're terrible actor what
this where acting comes into play I
don't know you're supposed to act okay
are you building a really cool website
just because Jeff is confused doesn't
mean you have to be visit cap five dot
TV slash DreamHost to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash DreamHost this
is the category 5 TV newsroom covering
the week's top tech stories with a
slight linux bias I'm Sacha Rickman and
here are the top stories were following
this week SpaceX and Tesla have deleted
their Facebook pages SpaceX and Tesla
CEO Elon Musk has deleted the company's
Facebook pages joining some now former
Facebook users in their protests of the
social media Giants corporate behavior
the move comes a week after revelations
that Cambridge analytic aah a British
data firm that contracted with the
Donald Trump presidential campaign
retained private data from 50 million
Facebook users despite claiming to have
deleted it new reports on Cambridge
analytic aah has spurred massive public
outcry from users and politicians with
even CEO mark zuckerberg calling it a
breach of trust at least two lawsuits
have been filed as a result according to
the comments from Zuckerberg this new
hashtag delete Facebook campaign does
not appear to have any substantive
impact on the platform's bottom line he
told the New York Times I don't think
we've seen a meaningful number of people
act on that but you know it's not good
well you know Mark Zuckerberg you know I
don't know really
how not good it is to be honest I mean I
like for private data that analytic I
collected is it just my stuff or is it
public post and private things and we're
going back to the original Facebook API
1.0 and with that API companies like
Cambridge analytical were able to
aggregate not only your personal posts
and your personal data your contact
information your your likes your
dislikes your private conversations your
your public conversations your photos
your videos everything but also if I
installed the app that was using their
software right on my profile mm-hmm and
gave that check box which was literally
just a approve to install back with
version 1.0 so
remember back then 2014 it didn't list
all the things that it was going to do
and it didn't allow you to opt out of
giving them my personal information and
my home phone number and all this didn't
let you opt out of those things it was
just I want to install an app I have to
accept so they would sell you know
presumably you know let's get my
software into a game and that game now
gets installed on all these people's
Facebook platform profiles and they've
authorized me to install because they
want that game right say that's the
example here's the thing with that
version of the API from Facebook they
not only had access to my profile as I
mentioned but also the profiles and
personal private confidential data
private data of all of my friends they
don't have to authorize it because I
authorized it I've by associating my
proxy given permission that they can now
access my friends profiles as well
that's not okay not okay and so that
there was an uproar back then in you
know 2015 2016 and the and version 2.0
came out and they said you know we've
heard your uproar we've heard your cry
for more privacy settings and so we've
launched version 2.0 of the API and
deprecated 1.0 okay little too late the
data was already collected we already
aggregated and they didn't tell us that
and then if you read the fine print yes
it was there well yeah who does that
exactly how many people have read the
full Terms of Use every time it changes
so Mark Zuckerberg thinks that it's bad
it's like well it's like totally not
good it's like not good
you didn't say bad but it's like yeah
yeah but still I support anybody that
would want it to leave their Facebook
because of this yes in I can understand
that but who uses Facebook and doesn't
already understand that their data is
the the product that is being sold
we're not the customers of Facebook we
are the product of Facebook true as
users
so that data so it's really my
responsibility as a Facebook user to
only post things that I don't mind third
parties having access to but you know
what it's not even my things like to be
honest with you it's the fact that I
like if if I agree to something I create
havoc for my friends when they forward
rice so that's a key like that's
absolutely you know I don't like that
because there are people who do their
best to be private and then my friend
and here's some willy-nilly approver
right but here's the other side to that
so thinking back you know now things are
firmer now and they're gonna get even
firmer now that this has come to light
like they're really oh we've got to
change things but back then companies
would create profiles that look like
your friends right they grabbed so
they'd find a picture of your husband
right and maybe that's a little too
close to home but and they would friend
you on facebook right they find you know
your church directory and get all the
pictures and and create a directory of
okay now that okay here are some
connections right or company websites
and get connections and then friend you
so now I friended you you are friends
with all the legitimate people and now
through this exploit in the API because
I'm your friend now I authorized
pol√≠tica to access my friends right
because you friended me you have
vicariously and completely unknowingly
released all of yours and your friends
data how dirty is that yeah Oh creepy
mm-hmm intel has announced it is
discontinuing the Intel graphics update
tool for Linux but it may not be what
you think the tool which was known as
Intel graphics installer for Linux for a
while was created in 2013 to give Linux
users a reliable way to upgrade their
latest stable firmware driver and other
components for Intel graphics chips
owners of
your Intel Hardware often had to use the
tool in order to get the most from their
GPU when using Linux Ubuntu and fedora
we're the officially supported distros
the tool targeted but users of related
distributions including Linux Mint have
made use of it too at a glance headlines
like that make it sound as if Intel is
pulling support for Linux when in fact
it's quite the opposite now Intel's open
source technology group says the tool is
obsolete so why are they deprecating the
software that makes its it easy to
upgrade to the drivers well it's all
thanks to faster inclusion of newer
Intel graphics that support the graph
Intel's graphic support that is directly
within modern Linux distribution
repositories there isn't a need for a
new release because of boon 217 point 10
and Fedora 27 both include support for
the latest Intel graphics out of the box
and it appears as though both distros
will be keeping pace with the stack
going forward so with no real purpose
the update tool is simply being retired
awesome yeah well it shows the power of
a repository in that now if it's already
pre set up on your distro write Linux so
you don't have to install the drivers
manually if you will but as the new
versions come out they're gonna
automatically update as well right so
it's just being phased out it's just
it's not needed anymore that's great but
isn't it funny how the headlines will
say oh well Intel is pulling support for
Linux drivers right it's weird that's
the headline and let's look between the
lines here it's no longer needed folks
Linux has gotten to the point where we
don't need to figure out how to install
our drivers it just does it for us
happen I love that when I fire up a
Linux computer for the first time mm-hmm
and I connect my Wi-Fi it says oh you've
got a wireless printer would you like to
add it yep
done would you like to print a test page
yep done didn't have to install anything
didn't have to touch anything right just
said yes no it's just yeah install my
printer
sure yeah I want my graphics drivers
yeah make it happen
get er done Linux is amazing and
incidentally when it does update I can
choose when to update right and I don't
have to reboot that's a huge thing
updating without needing to reboot is
pointing any fingers windows users
that's a big deal it's a time saver it
really is when you can control when the
updates happen and you don't have to be
offline for five hours while it happens
right if it's like an anniversary update
yeah what could I be referring to well
Oh Microsoft watch would you say while
using Microsoft products the company's
new Service Agreement says that it can
punish you for using offensive language
this will apply to microsoft services
such as xbox live Skype onedrive and
others in a document summarizing the
upcoming changes which goes into effect
May 1st
Microsoft says in the Kodokan Conduct
section we've clarified that the use of
offensive language and fraudulent
activity is prohibited punishments can
include account suspensions and
microsoft booting you off of its
products this the software giant also
warns when you went investigating
alleged violations of these terms
Microsoft reserves the right to review
your content in order to resolve the
issue in other words the company can
search through your accounts for any
evidence of the violations so far
Microsoft hasn't publicly commented over
concerns that policy might be too
heavy-handed a ban on offensive language
will probably have the biggest impact
impact on Xbox Live where the gamers are
known to troll each other Microsoft
doesn't define what offensive language
is according to the new policy however
the company's code of conduct is
designed to prohibit a whole range of
problematic activities including spam
transmitting malware online harassment
child's exploitation and anything
illegal the company's most severe
punishments are probably reserved for
the worst offenders speaking of
companies are kind of
monitoring your data getting right on in
there have you ever used Cortana and now
they want to ban swearing so it's a
product feature they don't even say what
it is that offensive language is now I'm
not saying that I am an offensive
language user strongly by any means okay
but if you're a Windows user or a
Cortana user you're probably an
offensive language user okay okay so we
talked about updates there can they just
change what offensive language is if
they want to see your stuff oh I suppose
right they already have access to your
stuff right but if they want to just
make it a legal door to get through
where they just they already have a
leader oh windows 1000 right you
accepted the terms of it right at the
terms and condition terms and conditions
which say clearly that they are allowed
to see all those things everything that
you are doing yeah uh-huh a key pretty
sure we covered that before yeah we did
it's gross I've obviously blocked it out
because it's disgusting anyway my wife
and I is sometimes I mean and I think a
lot of folks have probably checked out
some of the VR videos and and you know
it's a lot of fun when you see like some
of the crazy stuff that goes on in
virtual chats and stuff and people post
them on YouTube and it's probably not
always kid-friendly and it's not always
appropriate but you know it's good for a
laugh sometimes when it's not overly
offensive so you know are these kinds of
things going to be bad an issue I don't
know I it's hard to say because I think
that they are just gonna outline it
clear as day so that nobody can rebuttal
it and then implement it implement that
power in event that something needs to
be addressed like like who we we know
what's happened on YouTube lately and
and things that need to be addressed and
white right exam these kinds of things
we have the power to combat and then
let's see what happens exactly so I mean
there's some really good things that you
can really like this tool would be good
to stop things like cyber bullying it
would be good I guess you know child
explore exploitation and and things like
that but I just feel like it's so vague
and just like yeah that's my that's what
I'm wondering is it on purpose so that
we've blanketed this rule that's so
vague but so firm mm-hmm that we now
have the power to look through all your
stuff if we suspect that you have been
doing these things so then it comes into
well what if they're suspecting things
like terrorism plans or something like
that or an attack of some sort
you know kids talking in their VR chat
about you know I'm gonna do this or that
too so and so and so now all of a sudden
Microsoft has the power to boot you off
of all of its products and of course
they already have the power to report it
to the authorities that's part of
Windows 10 as well right so it's
actually very powerful but when you
think about it cuz so many people it's
so hard to fathom - right like I've been
bad and now I have no Microsoft Access
talked about Big Brother this is mama
okay
you've been swearing on Xbox Live you're
banned for a week right and that's the
thing is that a lifelong ban is it a is
it a conditional ban how do you unban
yourself after using offensive language
do you apologize how do you apologize
what you just switch to Linux it is hard
to get her yeah it's hard to get yeah
because Linux lets you swear it's hard
to get your head around because of the
fact that we're so conditioned by our
human thinking in that we think about
Microsoft monitoring what we say and do
and think in terms of humans
monitoring what we say and do but we
have to realize now we have AI and
machine learning these are new things
that we've not encountered in the past
so suddenly these there's so much more
that can be done in such a small amount
of time right and connections that can
be made exactly
forgive technology but the teleprompter
that we use has just gone dead so sasha
is going to be looking at our laptop
computer for the next and final story
because VR is so demanding hardware
makers have issued recommended or VR
ready guidelines to help customers
understand what kind of hardware they
need for a good VR experience for the
most part the VR industry's biggest
players have agreed on the key parts of
that recommended hardware with the
introduction of the new vive Pro HTC is
now suggesting more powerful gtx 1070 as
it's recommended spec for the vive pro
differing from gtx 1060 suggested for
use with other major headsets
among other improvements the vive pro
brings a screen with 78% more pixels
than the original vive fourteen point
forty by sixteen hundred versus 1080 by
twelve hundred per eye which means that
for the same scene a GPU powering the
vive pro will need to do a non-trivial
amount of extra work to draw all the
pixels at the 90 frames per second
target frame rates dropping below that
target can cause visual artifacts and
discomfort while HTC's official vive pro
page had initially listed the same
recommended GPU as the original vive the
gtx 1060 for use with the vive pro today
the company updated the page to
recommend and videos gtx 1070 quadrille
p 5000 or AMD's Radeon Vega 56 HEC tells
Road to VR that the change was based on
invidious testing while the GTX 970 or
equivalent is now part of the
recommended spec a new mini minimum spec
is listed which
includes the GTX 1060 additionally the
vive pros minimum spec differs from the
original vibes recommended spec by
requiring a USB 3.0 port instead of a
2.0 and dropping HDMI connectivity now
requiring DisplayPort 1.2 or newer the
vive pro minimum spec also no longer
lists windows 7 instead now showing
Windows 8.1 or Windows 10 it's not yet
clear if that means that the vive pro
simply won't work with Windows 10 or if
HTC just advises against m7o Windows 7
sorry correct pardon while steam vrs new
Auto resolution function it means that
steamvr content should automatically
adapt to the vive pros increased
rendering demand and allowed the GPU to
maintain framerate it may come at the
expense of reducing the rendering
resolution when the headset is used in
conjunction with a GTX 1060 class GPU
the move from GTX 1060 to 1070 as the
headset recommended spec isn't a small
change for consumers as current prices
on the 1070 which is currently 625
dollars u.s. are roughly twice as
expensive as the 1060 at three hundred
and twenty-five dollars this change
could be the start of a trend of
fragmentation among the VR ready and
recommended VR specs which has been
relatively consistent among leading VR
companies to date though we do hope that
HTC and others will take steps to avoid
customer confusion just goes to show how
Bitcoin mining and Manero mining and
turtle coin mining has affected every
market exactly and if you're not
catching my connection there you just
mentioned that the 1070 cards are six
hundred and some odd dollars plus USD
now you built a cat 5 TB CPU 2017 you
built a beautiful gaming rig with a 1070
overclocked card with eight gigs onboard
right
just in time and it was like 549 Ken
median right Canadian so because people
are buying up all these cards because
they're using them to mine
cryptocurrency the price is going up and
up and up they're becoming more rare
they're hard to get I had a good price
just in time I got that card yes yeah
and I am envious because I want to add
it to my mining rig right us so I'm okay
obviously for my VR headset like I am oh
yes right get one exactly but the thing
is it's confusing right is there a way
that consumers would like how do they
know between recommended and okay well
not like recommended versus minimum
right would be kind of the key point so
when you're looking at minimum system
requirements to do something you have to
imagine that the manufacturer says it'll
work it's not gonna be optimal okay
recommend it means it's gonna be awesome
right right so if you've got a ten sixty
and they're saying that's the minimum
yes it will work you don't have to rush
out and buy a ten seventy right away but
you should know they're probably not
gonna get the right frame rate so it's
not gonna be quite as good as it would
be on a 1080 on a ten seventy or ten
eighty right right so it's just you
always feel and I feel like this with
smart phones and that this is happening
now with this as well is there next
going to be something like should I
already be just chomping at the bit for
the next thing we don't get your headset
first right because right now the
brand-new vive pro is compatible your
system is at with a 1070 GTX is like the
ideal system right this VR and it's the
best virtual reality experience that you
can get right now right so you don't
have to upgrade anything is ready I just
get the headset you just get the headset
now if you wait another two years
obviously your hardware is going to
become the minimum
so yeah just point okay so if you buy it
at the same level than it just ages at
the same level like you're not gonna be
yeah yeah ish yeah okay I got I have to
get myself a headset now you just got to
get the VR headset I can do that start
saving christmas is coming how much is
it there like 800 bucks or something I
think
Canadian I'm not too sure hmm well but
it it's necessary HTC vive pro is
necessary yeah
the end the best comment ever get the
t-shirts
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of yours for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV news rooms
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman Thank You Sasha this is category
5 technology TV I'm Robbie Ferguson and
it has been a blast have any here I hope
that you've enjoyed yourself this week
next week we're gonna actually be
comparing the raspberry pi 2 3 and 3b
plus get a little look at how the
performance differs between those 3
device yeah it's gonna be awesome
and I hope you have a wonderful week see
you at the same time next week see ya
you
