welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode number 572 and tonight
Sascha we've got an envelope in ya we're
gonna be looking at LMD III Linux Mint
Debian Edition because I really want to
be using Linux stick around
this is category 5 technology TV
[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex
and other HLS video players for local
show times visit category 5 TV category
5 TV it's a member of the text podcast
network if it's tech it's here cat 5 TV
slash TPN and the International
Association of Internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash ia IB you know I'm so glad to
be here with you tonight or this morning
depending depending on where you're
watching from when you're watching
exactly but it is so great to be here
each and every week it's true I'm Robby
Ferguson I am Sasha Rickman and we sent
Jeff home because your microphone yes I
can do this I'm assuming you're not
hearing a whole bunch of crackle they
did not I'm just kidding I'm totally
kidding so before the show we had a
great time on a Google hangout so
patrons viewers subscribers on YouTube
we're able to join in a Google hangout
where I actually finally dissected your
microphones little unit nice and you
fixed it that's why you there's no
crackle yeah no that's exactly right
so each microphone see how we yes so
this is a phantom power pack so what it
does is it takes an XLR 48 volt signal
off of our mixing console brings it down
into a little itty bitty cable that is
our microphone right and powers our
microphone we have 48 volts of
electricity going through our brains
right now so that unit yes was defective
causing the crackle your unit yeah yours
is different from Jeff and mine tonight
eras of category 5 because you started
in season 5 yes so
when we got you a mic so mine was like
and yours was so sure mine was newer
yours was newer from like the next yours
was my next generation yeah so it's not
compatible in that we can't unplug mine
and plug in yours kind of right that's
why you always have to use your pack oh
I thought it was a good germaphobe thing
oh you know that's so crazy the whole
time literally like it's not your mic
I've never realized that it was a thing
I really thought he just didn't want my
germs in any way near anybody else's my
doesn't work exactly so I took it apart
on a live Google hangout okay and found
the problem what was causing the static
it's that it got twisted and the cable
got damaged sometimes they dance so I
cut out the cable and I tried I know I
know it happened rewind a little bit
and cut out that cable and started resaw
during a new cable and it wasn't holding
to the board and that's it's not meant
for you if there's no user serviceable
parts inside oh and I'm a rookie
soldering guy at best I I have seen your
skills develop developing developing
it's a work in progress
yes and of itself and fortunately for my
sake just you know being an internet
celebrity of sorts the video recording
for some reason didn't end up getting
recorded and so there's no record
whatsoever of the soldering job that
Robbie did so if you were joining us in
that Google hangout then you are one of
the few chosen who was able to
experience that firsthand so that's
that's the story I missed it
oh I was at work working it was
fantastic so that's that's what I was
doing before the show okay working on
trying to solder this thing it didn't
take it just wasn't gonna work right and
here's the thing if the circuitry is not
made for fixing then there's nothing you
could have done it's this disposable
mentality that's right hey once it's
broken just throw it out and buy a new
that's where things are at as far as
that's an Apple way of thinking of
things yeah isn't it huh not not too
keen on that that's why I want to learn
that's why I want to be a maker and
afraid and be able to fix these things I
want to get to the point where yeah I
can take that apart and fix it sanyo
you'll you'll be there I'll get there
yeah you have to start small you'll come
along with me right when you were born
you didn't even know how to walk and
look you've been doing that like you
throw I've been doing for years see CLB
a master's oh lucky community Marsh man
took screenshots of the of the Google
hangout which they're gonna be printed
on to Christmas cards one second
I'm hacking into Marsh man's computer ah
they're deleted your entire hard drive
sorry about that never happened folks
never happened
but anyways as I mentioned we had to
send Jeff home because we only have two
microphones tonight yeah that's the
story nice to see everybody Dennis Kelly
says I'm great at soldering that I know
Dennis was having some technical
difficulties there obviously he wasn't
able to scream he was unable to see
anything oh okay well I can give you
like a little bit of a rundown on how
sometimes things just don't work out the
way you expect them to okay so you may
know that I had to get my tooth fixed
you might know that okay my headaches
have disappeared Oh fantastic they're
it's incredible I didn't realize that
the tooth that was the problem is also
connected to like this branch oh he's
connected to yeah it's like a branch of
nerves that like go like this and one of
them is in your eye so the problem was I
was having migraine like headaches
because my I wasn't working because my
tooth was so irritated it was sending
like pulses
I don't know through my nerves feeling
like a headache this explains why the
viewers were always asking why you're
winking at them
that's right also while I haven't tried
my contacts again since but I thought it
was my contacts cuz it happened around
the same time okay
yeah the contacts set off the the - what
are you so I didn't even realize the
level of pain I was in because I I'm
kind of like a frog in that way like you
can add pain and I don't really realize
it until the pain is gone and then I
been eating things I've been eating
sweet things I've been drinking hot
coffee I've been drinking cold water I
feel great this is not where it ends
though so back to your soldering job yes
I was at the dentist yeah he was more
skilled
here's he is amazing I mean this dentist
is is great and you can do everything
right and sometimes things just don't
work exactly as they should they
couldn't get the bleeding to stop oh no
my mouth and so they put freezing in and
then they put more freezing in and then
like everything is silent and he has
like a little assistant not a little
assistant a wonderful assistant who's
there like handing them something out of
eye view and I don't know what it is and
there's suction going on and then
finally he's just like ice need to be
frank with you I can't stop the bleeding
okay do you wanna take a selfie I did at
that point around the same time cuz I
was joking with them with my thumbs
because that was my only mode of
communication isn't that nice how the
dentist will speak with you yeah you
know they've got your your mouth all
pried open that's when they start asking
questions the worst part of any dentist
visit is the fact that I think I'm
prettier yes all these really funny
things I want to say and I'm like I know
he couldn't stop the bleeding so there's
like a temporary fix in there right now
this comes back to the microphone he is
a trained professional yes right yeah
and he couldn't do that where you going
with this right trained professionally
it's okay
you've soldered like you can count on
one hand right like a few times you
cannot beat yourself up
about not being able to fix I don't be
myself I will get better
yeah but the disappointment comes from
hears that there will be a point in my
abilities as a solder er yeah where I
can fix those things that normally a
normal person if you will or you know me
would have to just replace because it's
a replaceable mentality I have a TV
sitting behind us here you guys can't
see this but it's here we've got a big
flat screen TV that was given to us
because it's broken right and I'm
determined that one day we're gonna have
a TV on the wall that I fixed because
I'm gonna get to that point because all
of a sudden you're you're free of that
whole disposable mentality right I mean
with your phones and things it's a
little different I tried fixing my phone
and it didn't work my fix did not take
but something like a TV sure I can I
mean I get to the point where I can fix
that seizure so is there a way you can
show like one of the selfies I took can
you do that absolutely
okay good oh thank you because they were
that's it really super fun time all
right
speaking of tearing into something this
has been sent to us Asha yay Michael
Arnold Michael sent us this and would he
refused to let me know what it is oh
really
just said you know I ordered something
for you off Amazon I presume this off
Amazon and sent it to us but I have no
idea do you want to just open it up and
see what it is for the next hour
Michael is a viewer of category 5 TV a
patron as well we appreciate your
support very much
what do we have a box it's a box this is
an unveiling don't know don't open that
cuz it'll ruin it what does this tell
you what it I don't know it says Amazon
gift note from Michael Arnold now Sasha
can be seen with her bright smile
bring on the Sasha show from DJ wheels
aka
me kid thank you Michael
what do you got I dunno oh cool thank
you I'd seen these but I hadn't actually
ever tried one this is a studio bulb you
know the giant bulbs that we have in our
lamp yes but these are LED neat you guys
see that can I can I like get right look
at that there are so many LEDs on this I
feel like I'm spinning corn on the cob
in the butter
right now I'm eager to try that can we
plug it in now ish like on the camera
don't know I have a lamp do we plug it
into a lamp can we hear you not that
with your teeth get the plastic wrap off
of it and Robbie I'll just kind of over
here the cool thing about is that
they're 5500 Kelvin sunlight balanced
okay so what that means is that the
lighting here in the studio yeah it's
not like this this is 3200 just an
incandescent bulb so a 5500 Kelvin is is
like it's genuinely like sunlight okay
okay you want to pop that in the base
there it's the real deal folks have you
ever seen anchorman yeah I love lamp I
don't have no idea what you're talking I
don't know care we ready it's the moment
of truth
don't stare directly into the Sun oh
it's lovely nice it's really if you know
when you're in the car though and you
put the visor down because it's super
super bright the Sun as its setting yeah
that's exactly what this is it's really
bright Wow
there's no weird shadows on my face know
that oh that's gonna be the show from
now on folks
yeah Wow thank you Michael that's
awesome so we traditionally have used
fluorescent sunlight balance bulbs here
but some of the patrons were looking at
some of the available options and said
well LED is the new way to go now one
they save a lot of electricity
- they don't flicker right fluorescent
bulbs 10 - although at 55 to 6000 Kelvin
Kelvin Kelvin what it no count okay I'll
say kay I think it's Calvin Calvin it's
not Kelvin because it would be very very
hot in here
it was they don't flicker as much that
he's absolutely do not flicker and of
course you're meant to get a long longer
life out of that as well cool Wow
I that was unexpected so I apologize for
stepping off the set here folks but I am
that's cool
I'm really happy that we're not doing
the news next I can't see a thing right
now I told you don't look into the
lights really hard not to don't look
into the light is really kind in the
chat room talking about my soldering job
referring back yes and there's so many
things that I like about garbey but not
today not today
that's cool Michael thank you and thank
you to everyone who supports
category-five TV that's a cool gesture
and that's something that we needed
because we had one of our bulbs blow up
and I just mentioned it on the air and
now we've got a replacement for that one
ball one ball every time we get it for a
package can we just open it like on air
Sasha I have three more packages over
that I have no idea what they just like
random things like from sponsors and
partners and and and supporters of
category 5 TV a lot of times though I do
the unboxing live on the air now this
was a different case because it came
from a viewer I did it was a different
case and that is a different scenario
because we're not meant to unbox it on
behalf of a company right makes sense
very cool I seriously I can't see the
computer screen I can't see the camera
in front of me so we'll take a really
quick break when we come back we are
looking at the latest from Linux Mint
it's called L M de Cindy stick around
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cap five
dot TV slash shirts welcome back this is
category five technology TV this is
episode number five seventy two it's
nice happening here Sasha and I are
looking at Linux again yes you are
you're going back to school yes I am
going back to school so what does that
mean as far as like your need for
computers and it means that this
computer which has been here we just
hanging out here in Charley's show it's
my you leave at the studio for use on
the air exactly I'm gonna have to bring
it with me at the end of each show and
bring it back freed shot right actually
the thing yeah like I'm actually gonna
have to use it for homework and you're
using an old version of Ubuntu matei
that we installed right ago like I mean
that was ages ago on the air exactly so
I'm at this point where I'm very envious
of you because you have Linux
exclusively it's true exclusively on
your computer I have this terrible thing
where hey you know I need to do video
editing right DaVinci Resolve has come a
long way and right so dreaming of a day
when I can just go entirely exclusively
Linux and not touch windows ever again
that's my dream obviously our Telestream
Wirecast unit is running Windows it's
either that or Mac right right
and but my laptop I also have to have
Windows 10 on it because I do a lot of
my editing on my laptop right you may be
have tuned into new every day from
category-five TV that show is produced
on my laptop that's how I do it because
I don't want to be working 24/7 I want
to be able to sit with a cup of coffee
on my back deck and I actually do that
right on my back deck with the birds
chirping and the cicada is going and
work on new every day and and that's
that's my Tuesday night that's cool yeah
but I'm stuck on Windows so I needed to
help me and I need the community to help
me figure out well how can I switch to
Linux exclusively you can borrow my
laptop perfect problem solved
just like that so the question becomes
like what is Linux and how does Linux
differ from Windows and why do you need
to do it
Linux is an alternate operating system
for your computer so when you go out and
buy your computer you can keep using
Windows if that's what came with it or
you can wipe it out completely and put
Linux on it well why would you want to
do that I just want to interrupt you
with like the way I visualize the
difference between the two which I don't
know if is accurate but in my mind
Windows is like one person sitting on
the top of the company and being like
you guys all have to do this I have all
the ideas you have to buy this nothing
else at work and then Linux is like like
a group of hands just like lifting a
company up and nobody's on the top the
end leanness thorvald's is there pushing
the PRS I like the idea of the kind of
the analogy right
I see Linux in that regard as more and
totally along that line but it's so
community driven fact that it's like hey
you've got an idea I love that idea
right let's oh I I know how to do that
so you give me your idea I'll I'll
actually make it happen what do you
think if you like it sweep let's give it
to the world
right and that's kind of this
community feel of Linux is that
everything is built by the community
right so when you have ideas when I have
ideas those ideas can be shared if I'm
not a programmer I can share them in the
forums and things like that and
developers then pick up those ideas and
create the software it's so community
minded it's such a wonderful platform
and it's so rock-solid now I need to
decide how I can make that switch
completely my caveat is that I need to
be able to do video editing plain and
simple and I mentioned DaVinci Resolve
it's come a very long way I love the
color correction capabilities of it but
the editing is not yet lacking it's just
not yet yeah but they're getting there
right commercially backed piece of
software do you have an idea that you
could just throw out there that somebody
can I want to look at various Linux
flavors over the next several weeks okay
we've looked at we've had multiple Linux
distributions installed and we've
compared them side by side and said
let's try this let's do that we've done
installations of things like Kubuntu
matei we've done installations of lynn
spire and and things like that even
Debian and then went on our way but can
we as a community can we look at various
distributions and see what one is going
to work best for right and somewhere
along the way you might say oh well the
one that Robbie thinks is gonna work
best for him isn't really the one for me
but that other one that they showed
three weeks ago that one that's the one
that I want to get this is gonna be a
great series of shows this reminds me a
little bit of when everybody got
together when I was building the
computer for Dave and everybody just put
their input in and it turned into this
incredible machine well that's what's
gonna happen with you is we're gonna
we're gonna go through all of these
different ideas people are gonna throw
their ideas at us we'll try them out and
you're gonna end up with an incredible I
can't wait I can't wait and I can't wait
to get that freedom so we know that I
need to be able to do video editing yes
but let's look at some of the
distributions that are available out
there and maybe you don't need to do
video editing but you might want
see what is out there so tonight as we
kick off this series I'm gonna be
looking at LMD III aka Cindy from Linux
Mint Linux Mint has created this distro
and called it LM de which stands for
Linux Mint Debian Edition okay their
developers have said well what would
happen here's a scenario let's just put
this out there guys what would happen if
we Boone Boone whoever folded
disappeared went commercial then where
would that leave Linux Mint right Linux
Mint being based on Ubuntu right well
Debian is rock-solid OS that in fact
Ubuntu is based upon so let's skip that
Oh Boone to step and let's bring out a
distribution that is still Linux Mint
but that is based on the very thing that
a boon to itself is based on cutting out
the middleman that's right right so LMDE
is just that and it's still young I mean
we're version three versus versus
version 19 of Linux Mint basically - but
it's coming along very very well and I'm
excited about this one because Linux
Mint has always been a very good one as
far as the cosmetic appearance I really
like a good sleek attractive looking OS
right one of the things that put me on
to elementary at the office was the fact
that it's really really nice-looking now
as I've been using it over the past
couple of years I found that the little
quirks in elementary or what really
drive me away from it all I would not
want it on my desktop myself some like
tiny hiccups in the ah things like I
have three monitors in front of me right
and when I drag a window from one
monitor to the other there's about a
four inch gap between each monitor right
that's not actually physically there but
it's there in the software so when I
there's like this black abyss that I
have to drag it beyond
move my mouse from one monitor to the
other it doesn't handle them well and
the reason it doesn't handle them well
is because elementary doesn't handle
multi-monitor support where it's a mix
of horizontal and vertical monitors okay
never seen my desk I have monitors that
are turned on their side and so it sees
that and says oh well there should be
this much space and so it doesn't work
on my desktop I don't like elementary
but that's what I'm stuck using for now
on my laptop I want something that's
just as sleek but I want it to be
rock-solid I want it to do very very
well for me and I want it to be
something that I can feel comfortable on
right LMDE is based on Debian and I love
Debian it's all I use on my servers I
would never I just can't
I've tried Ark and I've tried to get
into gen 2 and I've tried BSD and I've
tried yum based systems like like sent
OS and Red Hat and and I just write and
open SUSE is another one that I've tried
and I just can't get into it I just
can't
I love Debian I absolutely love Debian
so okay working with Ubuntu and things
like that I can I can feel at home on -
boom - I can feel at home on elementary
because it's based on Ubuntu which is
based on Debian feel at home on Linux
Mint especially their desk their Debian
Edition okay because it's based on one
WM yes and if that means nothing to you
if you don't even know what Debian is it
doesn't really matter because it's all a
matter of personal preference
exactly but once you've tried various
linux's just know that there are the
granddaddy linux's that other linux's
are based upon and when i say based upon
it's not like oh well we liked what they
did 15 years ago so we're gonna copy
some of that and improve on it no it's
actually based on it so so which ones
are they they're Debian RedHat SUSE like
all these cuz those are like the big
ones yeah and there's WM Debbie I don't
know any of the other ones Debian is the
one so but Debian is like elementary
well Ubuntu right boom - is elementary
Linux Mint a bunch of other flavors
obviously boon to mattei Xubuntu all ya
Kubuntu all of those are based on Ubuntu
which is based on Debian got it so let's
just get in here and just take a quick
look now I have not installed this I'm
just using it on a USB flash drive and
this is one of the nice things about
Linux is that you can just buy a 16 gig
flash drive and install Linux to it and
you can just boot it up try it out even
if even without wiping windows you can
try it and see if you like it so that's
what we're doing tonight so this is LM
de and it has the branding of Linux Mint
it just looks like it and it's version 3
a ka Cindy and it's pretty zippy even
from my cheap little USB flash drive and
it looks sleek so this is the operating
system so you think in terms of
Microsoft Windows or Mac OS well this is
a replacement for that this is LMDE
so let's get in under the hood right out
of the box we've got GNU image
manipulation program super yeah what
does that look like it's 2.8 so it's an
older version but hey you can always
just upgrade that yeah well you can and
the the difference here is that we're
using LMDE which is based on Debian
versus Linux Mint which is based on a
boon to so boon to version supports PPAs
ok more easily get those more current
things if you use a PPA repository
this is Debian based right so you're
limited to what is available in the
Debian repositories or you can find a
dpk the Deb file
you can you can install it from source
so it's it's a little bit of a different
way to do it just as far as that goes
but it comes with it 2.8 is not obsolete
by any stretch but 2.10
would blow your mind what do we got
Firefox web-browser we're not talking
like iceweasel or anything like this is
the real deal youtube.com does YouTube
work out of the box that's my question
Sasha that's a good test let's go to
category 5 TV and let's go there alright
right out of the box there she goes
oh that's live whoa that's trippy that's
weird I clicked on the live videos the
internet it's a KO salad a dope
alright so YouTube works right out of
the box and it's zippy a guy's like this
is pretty darn good and I'm just I'm
literally just booting from a USB flash
drive I have to install it you'll notice
that on my desktop I've got an install
linux mint button which if i've decided
hey this is the one I can get rockin on
it what else does it come with ok so
Internet we've got hex chat cool
Thunderbird is for email it's like an
Outlook Express kind of thing but it has
plug-in extensions and add-ons so you're
able to take it one step further add
calendaring and things like that however
it does not support things like Zimbra
there's no Zimbra connector for
Thunderbird which I'm really
disappointed in the Zimbra development
team for not having proper support for
Zimbra connector on linux very
disappointed in you folks we need to see
evolution support it but it's still an
email client if you've got Gmail or
whatever you can use that transmission
is for BitTorrent
cool it comes with it Microsoft Office
clone called LibreOffice there it is
Sasha it comes with it box cool yeah
let's go into calc because calc is like
the Excel clone if you will I hate to
use the word clone but it kind of is I
mean it opens and saves to excel format
right the same formula and it is in all
essences Excel what do you see on your
screen I mean it that's what it write
like to me and that's how it operates I
mean it uses the same some equations and
formulas and everything else that's calc
and there's also writer which is like
Microsoft Word
and I only say that because if you're
coming from Microsoft Windows I want you
to know that there's an alternative that
is free like keep that in mind this
entire operating system including all
the software that I'm looking at right
now is totally free free free you can
fold it underline it oh my goodness what
can't you do that's good I want it to be
very clear free free as in dollars free
as in beers no free beer is it they will
give you free beer yeah they won't they
probably won't but understand that when
something is free you didn't have to pay
for it then you can afford to get your
own reason beer free as in also the
freedom exactly what I should say
because you are free to share it if you
love it that's true to Sasha give it to
your family members and everything else
you're free to share it okay moving
along the list here real quick just a
rundown I love the way it looks
Sasha I've got to be honest it looks
good it's intuitive it looks user
friendly looks good I don't see anything
out of the box that I dislike what are
all these icons okay Firefox these look
like favorite software manager what's
that that's gonna be just the basic
manager I would prefer to use synaptic
for sure does it come with it it does so
I can just run synaptic package manager'
that's the one I prefer that's how you
install programs on Linux we're a
package managers cool so with things
missing you can just search for it add
it with this do the video editing you
wanted to do like if it's possible I
mean because DaVinci Resolve is
available for Linux it's not linux's
problem right we need software that is
good enough God and DaVinci Resolve I
only mentioned because they're probably
the closest to a proper video editor
right now on Linux
so that's probably where I'm going to
start going one thing that I do want to
know is what we see when we go mint meta
codex so this is a package that doesn't
come pre-installed and it adds all the
packages required for multimedia support
in Linux Mint so if you want to be able
to play videos if you want to be able to
play proprietary file formats mark that
for installation same mark and then
apply and what that's going to do is
it's going to download those meta things
codecs and everything else and it's
going to install them on your computer
for you on linux mint or LMDE in this
case right really quickly really easily
it says it's only going to take 28
seconds to be able to get that support
incredible so I'm kind of impressed
right now if you haven't looked at LMDE
yet I think it's worth giving it a
chance at least to look at it if you're
new to Linux I would I would recommend
that you instead look at Linux Mint if
you're interested in the look of this
and the feel of this reason I say that
is because it's more polished it's even
more polished it's got a much bigger
community and it is based on a boon -
which is a little more user friendly
when it comes to things like setting up
graphic drivers and stuff like that when
you say a bigger community like if you
had it like say I have it on my laptop
yeah
now I default a lot of my questions to
you right you are my commune where do I
get the answers I go to the forums great
ok so that's what the community is right
so if I were if I didn't know you and I
was here and I had a question I would
just I would go to a forum and that
forum would have the answer absolutely
that ok and if not you ask the community
and they get back to you and ok that's
it's again that community feel of Linux
where hey you just ask other users you
you've got me and you ask me a lot right
that's cool but you may want to get
under the forms and try that out too
right and if you're watching you can
also ask you just say you know it's not
just for me not just me live at category
5 TV of course and Garvey yes of course
I would I would go to the chat room for
sure
absolutely yeah we and that again comes
back to community category five has a
great community and we've got a lot of
Linux users as well random funny
chatroom thing I don't I don't typically
I can't typically through the week go
into the chatroom when we're not live
but I have called work I know life I
have gone into the chatroom at times and
I like it was like the first time I
actually realized that it still exists
outside of the time we're here okay
my mind was like blown I was so happy my
heart exploded I was like okay good if
I've ever questioned this is where I'll
be able to go check out linux mint or LM
de two different pieces of software
linux mint being based on ubuntu LMDE
being based on debian get them at linux
mint dot-com all right you ready to head
over to the newsroom I certainly am I
think I've got everything all set ready
to go and you are good to go
here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
Mozilla says it will soon be modifying
its Firefox browser to block all user
trackers on web sites by default windows
on arm is now a thing goober says it
plans to focus more on its electric
scooter and bike business and less on
cars despite the fact that can hurt
profit and gene-editing hopes for
muscular dystrophy these stories are
coming right up
don't go anywhere Jeff Weston GEMA
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website
are you alright you're terrible actor
what the swear acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay I'm building
a really cool website are you building a
really cool website just because Jeff is
confused doesn't mean you have to be
visit cap five dot TV slash dream host
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration if
less than six dollars per month so sign
up today cat five dot TV slash dream
host this is the category five TV
newsroom covering the week's top tech
stories with a slight Linux bias I'm
Sacha Rickman and here the top stories
were following this week Mozilla says it
will soon be modifying its Firefox
browser to block all user tracking on
websites by default
Mozilla VP of product strategy Nick
newgen said on Thursday in the near
future Firefox will by default protect
users by blocking tracking while also
offering a clear set of controls to give
our users more choice over what
information they share it with sites the
move will see an initial trial of the
feature in September and should that
work out the Firefox 63 rollout will
include a component to immediately block
slow loading trackers by the time
Firefox 65 is released Mozilla says that
it hopes to have all cross-site tracking
blocked by default the move means a
shift by Mozilla from the more passive
do-not-track system that relies on sites
to recognize that the notice and disable
their trackers to an active feature that
will instead block tracking by default
and require the user themselves to opt
in to the websites trackers users will
have the option to enable trackers by
default google chrome Microsoft edge ie
and Apple Safari also supported Do Not
Track option in their browsers the
planned update would however make
Firefox the most aggressive browser when
it comes to thwarting trackers Mozilla
contends that the decision is
or about more than privacy the developer
notes that the slow loading trackers are
to blame for some patient pages taking
as much as 50% more time to fully load
than they would otherwise Mugen goes on
some sites will continue to want user
data in exchange for content but they
will now have to ask for it hmm
interesting interesting
well I worry because okay so there's the
idea that the sites will load faster
because there's no trackers I think so
but that seems far-fetched to me well I
wonder what do you give like okay so
trackers are there to sell your stuff
right they track you and then they
there's privacy
stealers aren't they it's not always a
bad thing though right like we have for
example no we don't do banner ads well
there are ads on the site but not really
like they're not tracker or ads and
things like that we used to use Google
ads on our web site right and I do use
Google ads on other web sites like other
web sites that I own mm-hmm and what
happens is if you go on Amazon and you
do a search for something then you go to
my website and you're seeing ads for
that same product and it's meant to
incentivize you to make the purchase
yeah to make the purchase that you
you're already interested in this is
assuming that you're not Sasha Sasha
only searches her things in the five
minutes before she's about to buy it and
then by the time she sees all the ads
right she already owns it but and then
you get like a million ads like here's
this tenth a tenth that you've been
looking at I'm like wait now I own it
yeah exactly I already bought I already
said no to that one and bought the other
one and so that can be annoying but yeah
so it's not always malicious right no
it's it's a lot of times it's just to
sell a hat space and and that in and of
itself helps free distribution and free
media we've got to realize that the web
is free right we want the web to be free
right I'm guilty of it where if I'm
looking on Google News and I click on a
news article that's a vinter
to me and it says you need to sign up
back and click on the next news article
that is related to that same story I -
and that person yeah and I think a lot
of us are so if we hate that if we hate
having to sign up and we hate having to
in some cases pay right like hey you've
already read four articles on our site
now you need to buy a subscription if
you want to read our newspaper that's a
real thing these are trying to figure
out how they can pay their staff exactly
so if we could just it's such a catch-22
that's the thing not always benign right
but it quite often is so if you block it
verbatim or just all all the crime right
then you're hurting the little guys
these things that are free it's not like
people wake up in the morning and
they're like I already have a million
dollars I just want to do things for
free for people except for well we don't
have a million dollars we want to do
free things by 5:00 okay so you have to
make money somehow and a lot of times
it's with ads and so a lot of times
that's what trackers so it's there for
so now if you block the trackers does
the advertiser does the advertising
revenue drop and I think the answer is
going to be yes sorry go ahead I think
that what's gonna end up happening
because you have to opt in to having it
done right you have to opt in to your
tracking but the the benefit of opting
in would be I think that there's gonna
be more in some incentives to opt in
right because if you opt out if you go
to my website and it says click here to
opt in to this service right I guess it
depends on how easy it is for the
programmers to implement that yeah what
I have my doubts about is the claim that
websites will be significantly faster in
that that feels like a jab at like
Google hey Google you guys are slow
fight so I just ran a scan I I want it I
went to webpagetest.org and I ran a scan
on NEMS Linux because Mnemosyne X I do
have Google ads on the website okay my
first bite is doing pretty miserably but
I've got a across the board so let's see
this is called a waterfall and this
shows me where
things are running slow so that I know
the performance of my website and where
I can make improvements right so the
first byte of course happens in M's
Linux comm and then it goes out and it
gets Google's fonts it gets font awesome
a whole bunch of other assets our CDN is
CDN Zechariah comm how cool is it that I
was able to get my son his name calm so
cool he's too young for it yet but when
he's older he will appreciate a big deal
so but for now we use it as our CDN
content distribution network if you're
not familiar with the term ok so let's
see we've got Google tag manager is
happening there where where is there a
performance hit let's scroll down here's
a performance hit it's happening at
Google Ads double-click net there right
is it 50% no it's not 50% it's 792
milliseconds but that's pretty
significant YouTube is also a pretty big
hit but of course being a video web site
is to be expected right what that is the
that's that's the tracker oh and so yeah
it's not 50% you can see where 50% lies
yeah but it's a small amount but it's
significantly larger than any of our
other assets other than YouTube which is
to be expected
what other assets are a big hit that's
it that's the only one that stands out
and it it actually happened to be
double-click huh which is Google ads G
double click done done app so maybe
there Nate there there could be under
something that's interesting that's
interesting and do you see that this
when you think about asynchronous terms
as far as website load time so all of
these assets up here see how these are
all in line yes they loaded it exactly
the same time together right so that's
good look at what happened when ad click
happened on my web site
nothing else was able to load until it
was almost finished and then it loaded
the rest of my assets see that oh yeah I
can picture how that works out actually
my web site from loading like I'm
picturing that on my like on my mobile
phone yeah when that happens I know that
that's happened
it's annoying I don't like that there
right oh I really don't like that there
right but we just proved it right here
on category 5 TV newsroom Microsoft's
long journey away from Intel reached
escape velocity over the past week as
the first traditional laptop with
Qualcomm ARM processor was revealed by
Lenovo the yoga 6fc 630 w OS w OS stands
for a windows on snapdragon how qualcomm
qualcomm prefers to call windows on arm
and since it's a qualcomm inside not
intel inside it gets to call the shots
this is the second always connected PC
from Lenovo to run a Qualcomm chip but
the first to run the snap try Snapdragon
850 processor officially announced last
year the Microsoft Qualcomm Alliance
always connected was created to produce
chips with support for legacy x86
instructions into an ARM processor which
should result in full-blown Windows
running on devices with greater power
efficiency than Intel could manage how
much more efficiently efficiency
Qualcomm says 25 plus hours of local
video playback on a single charge that's
right this particular yoga is a smart
but generic machine with a 13.3 inch
touchscreen convertible display there is
an LTE modem built in and the 2.9
gigahertz Snapdragon 850 system has four
gigabytes of RAM they're expensive but
Lenovo reckons that those enterprise
users will pay that for a longer battery
life microsoft's last attempt to put
Windows on arm showed that most legacy
applications were so deeply reliant on
x86 quirks that only a subset could run
and customers didn't want a subset
Windows RT was short-lived yeah was it
ever yeah this is why we see Raspberry
Pi Linux this Linux that everything's
Linux on Raspberry Pi because it's an
ARM processor right so Linux is ported
Windows not so much right so now they're
taking a different approach and hey
here's a Qualcomm processor they let us
do
we want to do do you think that
increased battery life will let people
like what do you think that that will be
the draw that people will spend that
much more money on is the day it was a
trucker yeah I would want a twenty five
hour battery life can you imagine if you
were going from stop to stop how
brilliant that would be or in business
where you know you're on it out in the
field and you don't have to recharge the
battery except once a month but would
you would you trust it though like
here's the thing so I just got a boogie
board yeah and it runs for one week
without charge it's not what they say
and that's what the air quotes mean I've
never tried to run it one week without a
charge never ever I've just never done I
mean I just got it but you're just so
used to having to charge your phone
I just charge everything I own as often
as I can
assuming I'm not gonna ruin the battery
by charging it how often am i praying
something for twenty five hours and not
think and I look at my bluetooth
headphones for example right and with
that they claim nineteen hours battery
life right well when are you ever gonna
listen to music for 19 hours right
but nineteen hours of battery life to me
means two weeks of listening to music
for about an hour every night while I
clean dishes or do things around the
house or work on my computer
you wait till they die before you charge
it though I don't always but I tend to
get that notification on my bluetooth my
battery low you and I are different in
that regard I will let my gas tank run
to empty performance Villa okay but my
battery life for my things like that's
why I read this news story and I thought
okay yes it's great except that for me
the battery life isn't that much of a
bit like it's not that big of a deal
I've never not around power I can always
juice it up fair enough right right but
isn't so that's not a selling point for
you right it's not that I it's not that
I'm not impressed and I'm not excited
about this it's just that I wouldn't pay
more
for it I'm excited about it and but 25
hours of video playback think about it
like it thank you how now this is a
laptop so it's not something that you're
gonna put into a weather station but
think right like the uses for this or
think about medical right being able to
put it on a cart in the hospital and
wheel it around and it suddenly sounds
brilliant now you don't have to have
wires going to this machine that's
powered by this laptop not that you
would but I mean it's that's pretty
brilliant
yeah the fact that you know my laptop
I've got this ginormous batteries
sticking out of the butt end of it so
that I can get four hours of battery
life
right nine cells of juice it's heavy on
the back end but it gives me four hours
of battery life which I'm very happy
with 25 hours I would never have to
charge my laptop because as soon as I
set it down at home it goes onto the
charger right I would never have to
perceptively
oh no my battery's low I've got to plug
it in I would never have to deal with
that again just yeah out of your mind
yeah cool never an issue never an issue
uber says it plans to focus more on its
electric scooter and bike business and
less on cars despite the fact that it
could hurt profits uber CEO Derek I
didn't make up the name but I did write
it into the teleprompter and I apologize
I know okay we're gonna say daraa
caution offski gosh no I'm gonna get
this right right cross route yeah high
cost for Africa hi Dara Dara Dara
anytime you say it's Daraa Daraa just go
with it says during rush hour it is very
inefficient for a one-ton hunk of metal
to take one person ten blocks
he believes individual modes of
transport are better suited to
inner-city travel he also forecasts
users would make more frequent shorter
journeys in future the ride-sharing firm
has invested a number of bike firms and
the
last year its jump electric bikes are
now available in eight US cities
including New York and Washington and
will soon launch in Berlin as well it
also teamed up with lime and electric
scooter company while forging deals in
other areas such as public transit and
frights Daraa admitted that uber makes
less money from a bike ride than from
the same trip in a car but said this
would be offset as customers used the
app more frequently for shorter journeys
he says we were willing to trade off
short term per unit economics for a long
term higher engagement he also
acknowledged that uber drivers could
lose out from the plan but said over the
longer term drivers would benefit from
more lucrative longer journeys uber
which lost 4.5 billion dollars in the
last year is under pressure to improve
its finances ahead of an anticipated
public listing revenue from its taxi
business is rising but the cost of
expansion into new areas such as bike
sharing and food delivery has meant
losses have grown rapidly regulatory
pressure is also threatening growth in
some markets this month New York voted
to impose a temporary cap on new
licenses for ride hailing vehicles to
tackle congestion while the mayor of
London has said he will seek similar
restrictions okay I've seen these
scooters like around the cities and
stuff yeah that's cool I love this I
applaud her for doing something that
maybe doesn't make sense
as far as profit goes like or is it
long-term is it like Amazon saying we're
not making money just yet but we will
and when we do
it'll be 2018 and we will be the biggest
commerce store in the universe right
right yeah they knew it whoo where is
smart like I really like this and to
tell you the truth I mean you don't need
a driver to drive you from oh sure one
you know like you just don't need that
from here to there if it's you know
three kilometers
right I get a half-hour lunch every day
and that's enough time to have a
sandwich yeah it's not enough time to
walk to the coffee shop that's on the
corner right but wouldn't it be nice if
I could just oh there's that bike and
it's a scooter an electric scooter right
so now I can all of a sudden take the
scooter to that corner get myself a
lunch and then take the scooter back and
park it on the road like not on the road
but near the road yeah where someone
else can grandma exactly I like that
idea
so it makes sense for that use case I'm
not gonna hail a taxi for that no not a
chance
because it feels kind of wasteful like
it's important if I need to go to the
airport yeah I would I would get uber to
drive me to the airport but I like I
don't need anything more than an
electric bike or scooter to get from
getting around town and getting past the
traffic and stuff yeah I mean I guess
you're allowed like to you know their
bikes their bikes you can do it drive it
along the boardwalk whatever
uber eats is another thing that Oprah's
getting into same idea right food
delivery again just a simple way like
that maybe they're not making a ton of
money on it but it's a simple way to
diversify and it's it feels a little bit
I'm more responsible I know it feels
responsible I like the hey this is Green
or aspect I I can sense that yes and I
like that but I don't feel like that's
their motivation it's not their this is
why I'm I'm trying not to say it even
though it's really in my heart for me it
feels environmental I know for them it's
pocketbook or or something but I'm
strategy right I'm hearing environmental
in with their message but that's not
right like they they could have appealed
to me by saying listen this will save
the world and I'd be like okay I will
write an e bites no more I did just buy
a car
fumes if this had happened five minutes
earlier I would have not bought my car
and I would have just taken a bike from
uber or the place where you can do that
here in Canada like it's just there's
nowhere in Canada that that's possible
right I mean maybe a snowmobile up north
and that could be your year-round
transportation but my my sister before
she became a midwife she was using zip
cars in Toronto
so it's it's a car sharing ride-sharing
idea so exactly the same as what uber is
saying I do Park in a public lot and you
just go in and I don't know how you do
you tap your thing and you have the car
for as long as you need it no because
she's now a midwife and people have
babies at crazy hours she needs to have
a car of her own but like women giving
birth in a Zipcar not there it's not
ideal shy away from that but this is the
idea that uber has right like just make
transportation accessible to everybody
in a way that is not so out-of-pocket
and so bad on the environment right
right okay so other flip side it's
thinking along that vein yeah who is
this beneficial to not just the person
who wants to grab a quick bite at lunch
that's working downtown but think about
the in not the Natyam firm but people
who have mobility issues right right so
I may not be I may not be able to go for
a jog but I can make my way to a scooter
and safely drive a scooter right and
take it to the store and take it back or
exactly I want to do or go to the doctor
right like your doctor's probably what
like a half an hour walk or like a form
and a scooter ride Yeah right but so you
know if you've got mobility issues then
it just makes sense it absolutely makes
sense I love it also smart for uber
probably to cut out some of the drivers
not that the drivers of uber are bad but
it's just it's a tricky game to play why
I don't like we used you to build this
thing up and now we don't need you any
don't want to leave it at that but it's
but also I kind of like it yeah I know
I'm that person okay we won't leave it
at that exactly but I just feel like you
might have some bad experiences folks
where you're going no I just think if
you can cut out that extra person you
can save a lot of trouble
yeah I just have for the first time use
gene editing to treat Duchenne muscular
dystrophy DMD in a large mammal a
significant step towards effective
treatment for people with the disorder
the condition which has no cure leads to
loss of muscle function and strength and
ultimately an early death but in a study
on dogs scientists were able to
partially restore the key protein people
with DMD cannot make they hope in future
to test the technique in people Duchene
muscular dystrophy DMD is the most
common fatal genetic disease in children
and almost entirely affects boys and
young men children born with the
degenerative disease have a genetic
mutation that stops them from producing
this dystrophin a protein that is vital
for muscle strength and function the
same disorder also occurs in many dog
breeds using the CRISPR gene editing
tool scientists were able to restore
dystrophin in four dogs that had the
most common genetic mutation seen in DMD
patients by making a single strategic
cut in the faulty DNA this was done by
injecting the dogs who were one month
old with two harmless viruses that
edited the genome of the dog in the
cells of the muscles in the heart
scientists have estimated that 15
percent or greater improvement is needed
to significantly help patients within
several weeks of the edit made in the
dogs the missing protein was restored in
the muscle tissue throughout the body
including a 92 percent correction in the
heart and 58 in the diaphragm meeting
the main muscle needed for breathing
Richard Piercy professor of comparative
neuromuscular disease at the Royal
Veterinary College said the ambition is
to show that this is safe
effective in dogs and then move on into
human trials that said they also hope
the treatment will be used to help dogs
affect afflicted with the disorder this
is the first time the technique was
carried out in a large mammal the
peripheral concepts study raises hopes
that CRISPR can ultimately lead to more
effective treatments for DMD this isn't
a cure but Darin Griffin professor of
genetics at the University of Kent said
this work represents a small but very
significant step towards the use of gene
editing for DMD any steps towards
significant treatment regimes can only
be good news dr. kate Adcock director of
research and innovation at the charity
muscular dystrophy UK said the next step
will be to conduct larger longer term
studies to see if the gene gene editing
approach does help to slow the
progression of the condition and improve
muscle strength Wow huge it's a tough
scenario but it's like it's testing on
animals which I'm not really all for but
the it's like when done right it cures
the animal like this is what they're
doing is they're creating viruses that
when injected into a living thing goes
to the DNA that it is basically
programmed to go to and modifies it
exactly that's it and so you know why is
it on a tech show it's like the
technology is so far beyond the little
circuits and B bobs and and diodes and
now is at the molecular and atomic level
it's just but it's still technology it's
a strategy so I don't love the idea of
gene editing in the wrong hands I don't
fair enough but let's put that aside for
a second because this is a good news
story about curing not curing muscular
dystrophy but like fixing it what's it's
happened Dave's brother Dave's older
brother who was like seventeen when Dave
was born so like I almost a father
figure to Dave his name was Tim and he
had cystic fibrosis
so he died way too early in age I never
got to meet him he was amazing a great
artist a huge personality he really
shaped who David is in a large part
cystic fibrosis doesn't have a cure but
CRISPR gene manipulation right now that
they're not even working on that I'm
sure right now but if they can do this
they can do that and that means that in
future somebody who has a family member
that has some sort of irreversible
degenerative disease something that's
going to lead to an early death that it
really does not need to can actually
like save lives and then ripple effects
save entire like the world would be such
a better place if Tim was in it it's the
world is still good but like I heard it
said that and I don't know the actual
number of characters within our DNA and
the genome but that you can think of DNA
as being just a series of letters right
if something is misspelled this
technique is simply Auto correcting it
right spell checking it and faxing that
spelling error and by doing that it's
correcting whatever the underlying issue
is so you say it's not a cure but it's
kind of miraculous it's kind of amazing
that yeah like in the in this test case
it's pretty huge significant difference
in these animals and if it can go here
where else could it go like that I think
that the Braca one gene that causes you
know breast cancer if you have it right
if if they could test for it and then if
you're born if you're born with the
bracken 1g and if they could use this
technology and yeah if it's genetic and
they can just fix it right these are
people that are loved that we can save
using this technology it's amazing and
it's reality yeah this is not sci-fi
anymore right it was when we were kids
watching this on movies and stuff and
now it's
is something that they're figuring out
right it's pretty exciting and my hopes
are that this is going to end up being
the technology that isn't that doesn't
divide people I want it really to bring
it everyone together right do away with
genetic disorder Star Trek
no disease exactly
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight lenox
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson it's
been great having you here this week
thank you for joining us and we're
looking forward to seeing you again same
time same place next week
[Applause]
