welcome to category 5 technology TV this
is episode number 464 tuesday the 12th
of july 2016 so nice to have you here i
am robbie vergessen please help me
welcome my co-host Kelsey Jensen hello
everybody and standing by over in the
interwebs is Nelson Hugh de San Nelson
greetings to you nice to have you on
tonight thank you for having me on the
show yeah cheers tonight we are gonna
have a lot of fun Nelson's here because
he is one of the early adopters of the
brand-new the first the world's first
legitimate Star Trek original series
communicator we're going to take a look
at that in just a couple of moments time
also we've got a couple of really sweet
drones with first-person view screens in
stock ready to go and they all cost
around well under a hundred bucks let's
be good so we're gonna unbox those for
you tonight because we want to show you
what you could be flying this summer
Kelsey what do you got coming up in the
news I've got lots of stuff coming up to
the news and here's what's coming up in
the category five TV news room hackers
are using a side load version of pokemon
go to distribute to distribute a tool
which allows them to hijack your
smartphone facebook is toying with the
idea of secret messages Dalek commands
can hijack smartphones and Bitcoin
mining just became less rewarding on
purpose stick around the full details
are coming up later in the show this is
category 5 technology TV welcome back
this is category 5 technology TV so
great to have you here I'm Kelsey nice
to see you again nice to see you too
having a good summer off sure Wow off
from school all right here working hard
working hard working very hard yeah it's
fun time I think you should tell the
viewers I mean we'll get to it because
we've got a lot to cover tonight but try
to fit it in near the end of the show
let's talk about what you've been up to
all right because I think some of us
would be interested in knowing what
she's been building it's nothing too
exciting it is really exciting i've got
a couple of really cool drones to look
at tonight but before we get into it
we've got Nelson heute is standing by
you remember me as a friend of the show
Nelson it is so nice to see you again
welcome to category 5 oh thank you very
much Robbie
having the other show again now he knows
his way around the studio but tonight he
is coming to us live over a web
connection and we've been having all
kinds of weird issues tonight so we're
absolutely try to stick it out through
the through the course of the show if
you're watching live i apologizing may
be experiencing some buffering issues
but we're going to do our best to have
that recording for you and and make it
sweet Nelson you picked up an amazing
device and it's available now it's on
thinkgeek you can go there through our
affiliate link cat five dot TV / Trek
but Nelson this thing you got to show it
to us he's already unboxed it we're
going to talk a little bit about it in
just a couple of minutes time it's a
little grainy on the skype video but
fortunately Nelson has already unboxed
this thing and he's taken a nice little
video for us so thanks for that Nelson
we're going to jump over here at you're
very welcome I can take a real quick
look at your unbox of the Star Trek the
original series Bluetooth communicator
and after that we're going to talk to
Nelson about this thing and all the
different features that that he's
experienced over the past couple of days
using it so we'll be right back this is
the Star Trek bluetooth communicator
made officially for the 50th anniversary
of the show and it comes in this
beautiful presentation made by the one
company I am now going to unbox it and
it comes in this authentic will turn it
around USS Enterprise ncc 1701 standard
issue communicator and it opens up like
that and the presentation is as
beautiful as I said before comes with a
stand which you have to put together but
it's quite easy we'll do that later and
it comes with the communicator and it's
very authentic as you can see flip it
open it looks like the original from the
show and we're going to make it we're
going to turn it on and we'll show you
how it works so now it's on and close
the grill and
flip it open just like in the show you
can hear the chirp and they really went
to a lot of trouble and a lot of work to
please the Star Trek fans of the
original show and make something really
authentic-looking communicator also
makes authentic sounds of the show mr.
Spock Scotty Sulu McCoy and McCoy
receive understand and of course a hurry
up this is the bottom of the stand which
has now been assembled which now looks
like that once all put together and it
beautifully sits on my desk and then the
communicator it's on a magnet and it
looks very authentic as I said before
and you can flip it open and it can
proudly be displayed on your desk so
that's where I put my this ends our
unboxing video this is category 5
technology TV welcome back to the show
Nelson who to standing by with a Star
Trek the original series Bluetooth
communicator device we really excited
about this I really am as soon as this
thing came out I was one of those geeks
us at all I need it hold it back up man
he was holding it up and then he put it
down just as I switched over cameras I
love this thing okay Nelson you're
you're as excited about this as me but
you actually get to hold this thing in
your hands yes I sure do yeah thanks for
rubbing it in all right tell us about it
so I saw online last November and I
thought I've been a Star Trek fan since
the 1960s ever since it went on the air
and I said you know what I just have to
have one of these so I ordered it and
they originally said it was going to
ship in January but got pushed back to
April
and then I got pushed back from april to
june but that's because the guys that
were licensed to create this thing for
the fans wanted to make sure that it was
absolutely one hundred and fifty percent
perfect for the fans because they did
not want the fans to ridicule them of
putting on a product that was half you
know half you know not very good at all
sure they wanted it to be perfect and I
I know that they announced it a year ago
last July so it's been a year in the
making they've actually been working on
it for two years but they announced that
a year ago I found it in november
ordered it and it came a week ago
yesterday and i am just happy as heck on
cloud nine love it I'll say now Nelson
you say that it took them a year or two
to to actually achieve this I beg to
differ sir I think that there are those
of us not necessarily myself but
yourself you've been watching for fur
since the 60s what absolutely come on so
so tu come on this is 50 years in the
make and easy that's exactly right and a
lot of the comments they're getting um
on a couple of different websites that
sell it are saying people think that
like that they're like a kid again
because the you know it's been they've
wanted one for over 50 years and now
they can truly have one oh my goodness
yes oh I'm so there with you I'm air
hogs for example has just released July
first brought out a drone that is
ncc-1701 right and so that is coming my
way and I've got that same excitement
right where you are just like me you are
I cuz I am over the moon I'm like a kid
in a candy store holding this using this
all a lot of my friends who are Star
Trek fans are absolutely jealous of me
having or it's put out by a UK company
called the wand company who actually got
licensed by paramount at CBS to do this
for the 50th anniversary of the show so
it is a licensed product fantastic I
want to look at some of the features of
it I think what it really boils down to
is we're kind of like we're finally
achieving
every every Star Trek fan for for as
long as we've been fans has said this
show is is not just basing ideas on
technology but is actually inspiring
technology so as we start to see things
like this even though it's a little
gimmicky and it's a little you know it's
it is to be a you know a reminder of the
show and it's a prop really but but it
shows how far technology has come that
the show is now inspired a device that
actually works yeah that's right all the
other replicas out there on the market
as far as I know and I've done a lot of
reading about it is that they are actual
they're not really true working models
or toys that light up and they make the
chirp sound but they don't actually
connect to anything this is the first
one ever to do that show us so you can
flip it open and it makes the chirp
sound and actually you get some
excellent neat neat sound effects Scotty
and hold it up to your mic for me Nelson
I can I can barely hear it okay sick
sound effects from the show very cool
sound effects now at ease so these are
toy like functions like this is stuff
that you know the the playskool models
have what is this young young not that
part of it is just for fun but yes um
you can truly make a call okay let's see
let's try and give you a call in the
studio okay so are you die you're
actually dialing on your phone we can't
see your phone right now because you've
got it down on the desk but are you
dialing normally or does it does it have
I guess I'm diet does not have a dial
interface I'm dialing on my cell phone
but you would be able to can you control
things like Siri with the voice dial for
example have you tried that yet let me
let me let me finish dialing hang on
okay wait for it wait for it
alright ladies and gentlemen this is the
moment of truth he is dialing the
category 5 TV studio on a Star Trek
communicator never thought I'd see the
day just got your voicemail fantastic
okay now once you start once you start
I'm gonna actually kill your your
microphone on your head so that we can
just hear the communicator alone okay
hello lobby and everybody at category 5
technology TV I am calling you from the
official Star Trek communicator and
we'll count down from ten nine eight
seven six five four three two one test
call end up call nice buddy okay we got
it good old voicemail sends me a WAV
file gotta love it so are you going to
play it back yeah it's already dubbed so
so what what the viewers heard is is
actually the the voicemail so Nelson can
you tell us a little bit about the
features here of course okay we've
looked at the gimmicky stuff tell us
about how the device itself works so you
can actually make calls and receive
calls uh you actually get the that's
that's when an incoming call comes in
and you just can flip open the grill and
answer it you can just like that just
like in the show I so badly want to be
standing in a coffee shop line when that
call comes in as long as your cell phone
is uh in your pocket or on your belt and
this thing is hooked up through
bluetooth yeah this will this will buzz
you just the way it did but it buzzed
Captain Kirk or mr. Spock in the show
exactly like it flip open the grill and
answer your call and and uh you know you
can actually and you can if you've got a
you can use Siri within it as well if
less you've got a an iphone you can do
voice commands through whatever phone
you have and it'll it'll it'll it'll
activate your voice commands on your
cell phone and it'll follow you whatever
voice command you give it
you can stream music to it as well rear
I'm like if you've got a UH if you've
got a tablet and you've got a radio
station you want to listen to you you
can stream music to it I was out on my
porch last week and streaming music to
it oh and the coolest thing I did last
weekend was sitting out on the porch
with my tablet watching a Star Trek
episode and putting the sound through
the communicator it's like Star Trek
inception that's wonderful i love it and
that is the coolest thing of your
wheezing is the illest speaks volumes
and i love it i said just hat just had
to have it absolutely you know and i'm
very glad i got it and having a lot of
fun with it and I'm gonna continue to do
so thanks for showing it to us man i
really appreciate it and this is just
one of those I'm sorry I it's so geeky
and I love it and I've gotta have one
that's what I want my birthday is coming
up folks go over to why five dot TV /
tell your back what you want and tell
her to order one for you that's it baby
he'll end up with hey please send me
then okay so cat five dot TV / Trek
Nelson who does joining us tonight to
talk about the star trek TOS Bluetooth
communicator thank you so much for
sharing that with us Nelson you're very
very welcome and enjoy give me a call
anytime absolutely will do thanks for
having me on the show take care j
bye-bye bye-bye
this is category 5 technology TV thank
you so much for joining us tonight
thanks to our guests nelson who does who
it's always a pleasure to have him on
the show yes and I love geeky technology
and tonight we're actually not not quite
as geeky as a Star Trek communicator
that uses bluetooth but also kind of
geeky at least something that appeals to
this geek I've got a couple of drones
that were going to be unboxing in just a
couple of minutes time so you want to
stick around in the meantime we're gonna
take a couple of quick moments we're
gonna talk about the news yes that means
didn't you what do you got for us Kells
I got lots of stuff all right today is
Tuesday July twelfth play 16 and here
are the top stories were covering this
week hackers are using a side load
version of pokemon go to distribute a
tool which allows them to hijack your
idea of secret messages that
self-destruct Maxwell Smart style I got
that reference by the way she's not as
much a kid as you thought actually
mostly from that get smart movie you
googled it didn't hear uh Dalek commands
purpose these stories are coming right
up don't go anywhere Jeff Weston Yemen
you're building a brand new beautiful
website what
are you all right you're terrible actor
what does we're acting comes into play
oh I don't know where I think you're
supposed to act okay I'm building a
really cool website are you building a
really cool website you need hosting one
of the things about a hosting account is
you don't want to have limitations put
on your website it's sure how much hard
drive space do you have how many email
accounts how many domains can point to
it well we've got an amazing deal for
you for a very limited time cat five dot
TV / dreamhost for just five dollars and
a bit of change per month you are going
to get unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the room so your own
com dice to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat5 TV / dreamhost
just don't peddle the papers on just
don't do it but hey it's a great deal
folks best deal you're gonna find five
dollars and change per month go to cat
five dot TV / dreamhost I'm Christiansen
and here are the top stories from the
category 5 TV news room nintendo's new
pokemon go augmented reality game has
quickly proven to be a cultural
phenomenon juicing the company's stock
but it is only available in certain
countries right now leading some players
to install the game from third-party
sources including yours truly we've
warned about using third-party app
stores in the past and now a malicious
version of pokemon go is poised to
infect android phones with with code
that provides hackers a back door to
their phones we spoke to dave Jevons
back on episode 54 53 about mobile
security and our smartphone spy on us
and now his company proof point is found
a version of the pokemon go program that
included a remote access tool or rat
called droid jack which they say can
give full and an attacker full control
over victims phone
the malicious version of the game was
uploaded to a file sharing service on
July seventh just a few days after the
game's original official release though
they say they have not observed the
malware and in action in the wild
Proofpoint provides a few methods for
concerned players to determine if
they've inadvertently downloaded a
compromised version of the game one of
the major features distinguishing and
android phones from the iphones is their
ability to sideload files from down
piles downloaded from sources outside of
Google Play Store this allows users more
flexibility but is also as proof point
part puts it an extremely risky practice
and part of the reason Android systems
are more vulnerable to viruses and
hacking than iphones okay now is it just
me or an uncovered I kind of felt like
you were confident going into this story
and then as you're reading it you
started to yeah what happened Kelsey
what did you do I did download beside
version of pokemon go are you running
android yes i know i would have I taught
you apparently nothing I'm gonna go home
tonight figure out how to figure out if
I've downloaded a bad version and
problem and if I have I'm going to fix
it immediately it's not available in
canada Kelsey I know but I couldn't
resist not available in canada so if you
get a copy in canada it's not a real
copy and you just read it they're
already using it yeah it's already
proven itself to be a pretty dangerous
app as far as security goes yes and I
knew that that's the legitimate copy
that's the legit copy and I knew that
all you really have to do for that is
just revoke its permissions and then it
can't that I can't see anything oh
really on a side load adapt well not on
the side
nach bypasses the security on the legit
app oh the legit one we're talking about
how we we live in Canada yes I need to
figure out how to fix up you see if I
downloaded the bad version hand you wait
patiently eagerly like those who are
waiting to see this episode uploaded
tomorrow in full HD you just wait for it
Kelsey no I'm siccing Hamilton my head
alright well I'll try to fix it I don't
want it I don't want to be too paternal
but Kelsey you're grounded I'm taking
your phone away dunno to be fair there
are pokemons watching us here in the
studio tonight well I captured that one
now and here's a shot so it's pretty
awesome yeah in this way that's pretty
good at all right take it away private
messages that can disappear are being
trialed by Facebook as it experiments
with a new option for those using its
messenger app they become hidden after a
certain period of time chosen by the
author the firm said and as part of a
new secret messaging service having a
limited trial facebook announced centers
must choose one device to use it on as
messages sent on this this way are
stored on the device itself those flags
to disappear will be deleted from the
device as well starting a secret
conversation with someone is optional it
said seiga conversations can only be
read on one device and we recognize that
experience may not be right for everyone
ok that's their official statement hate
the grammar police but if it can only be
read on one device is pretty lame
conversation facebook talking to myself
what is this
sorry just a grammar police moment carry
on okay all right gious and Facebook
listed health and financial issues as
examples of messages that people may
wish to keep more private the idea is
being trialed on a limited basis
facebook said but added that it would be
more widely available over the summer
Facebook officials explained in a
technical document Facebook will never
have access to plain text messages
unless one participant in the secret
conversation voluntarily reports the
conversation that's either naive or just
marketing hogwash went from Facebook's
perspective why so they're offering
secret messaging and they think it's
going to be used for medical hey Kelsey
I've got I've got some kind of I got
hemorrhoids yeah the thing this is a
private message think more about like
ages yeah terror is terrorism that is a
pretty big concern unfaithful husbands
wives would be another one I don't know
that's my that's my whole you don't yeah
giving me much that's just it we've got
though a different story to move on to
happier things Daleks we have a Dalek
here in the studio I've seen him back
there I'm surprised he hasn't tried to
kill us yet he tries each and every
tuesday night kelsey but we are too
powerful yeah another Maxwell Smart
reference we've got a dome of silence
over our heads and it's extermination
proof looks pretty good I we've been
looking for a story that featured the
Dalek yes he's he's lonely over there
and he says why can't I be on the show
why why can't I do more so here you
don't I will exterminate you here's your
opportunity Dalek tell us Kelsey what's
this about so they these researchers
have demonstrated how garbled speech
commands hidden and radio or voiced a
radio broadcasts could be used to
control a smartphone the clips which
sound like Daleks from Doctor Who can be
difficult for humans to understand but
still trigger of phones voice control
functionality the commands could make a
smartphone share its location data make
calls and access compromised websites
one security experts said users could
switch off automatic voice recognition
the researchers from the University of
California Berkeley and Georgetown
University explored whether audio
commands unintelligible to human
listeners were still interpreted by
smartphones as voice commands they took
a series of voice commands such as ok
Google call 911 which would activate an
Android phones voice control if enabled
and heavily distorted the audio so that
it was a difficult for human listeners
to understand the low pitch speech could
be hidden among background noise and
still trigger for smartphone features
let's take a listen
x.x tonight okay to be fair the last one
may have been added it ever maybe just a
little bit maybe I added a little here
there enhance the audio nice one Thanks
the researchers say their study set out
to answer the scientific question can
one leverage the differences in how
computers and humans understand speech
to produce commands that could be
understood by the former and not the
latter they answered in a statement we
found that the answer to this question
is yes but there's certainly a lot more
work to be done to investigate what it
would take to make these attacks more
practically deployable the researchers
will present their paper at the newsnet
use mix musics yes usenix alright
security symposium in August hmm it's
kind of dangerous but ok I'll let it
slide cuz it sounds like Daleks
apparently yeah Daleks are awesome
obviously in a creepy way yes digital
currency output just dropped by half
thanks to anti-inflation code if you
have computers chugging away as Bitcoin
mining machines don't be surprised if
your output just fell through the floor
code built into the digital currency
system has cut the mining reward in half
as of this past Saturday whether
previously 25 bitcoins roughly sixteen
thousand dollars to remind every ten
minutes you now have to fight over
twelve point five the measure
automatically kicks in every 44 years or
so as part of an attempt to curb
inflation that would come from both a
growing number of miners and ever faster
computers to no one's surprise reducing
the reward could have serious
consequences for dedicated miners as you
have to work twice as hard to get the
same money companies with not so
efficient operations may have no choice
but to restructure or even close shop
entirely
can see minor for instance declared
bankruptcy in May after warning about
the impending profit losses those miners
most likely to survive are the ones that
keep costs to a minimum through low
power computers and minimal staff
although Bitcoin isn't quite as
celebrated as it was a while back it's
still far more mainstream than it was in
2012 there are many more people minding
the word then there were four years ago
and not all of them realize that they'll
have to cut they'll have to factor in
those reward cuts the bigger question is
whether or not the Bitcoin business will
be better prepared with 20 20 rolls
around miners will either have to trim
costs yet again or hope that they can
make money from transaction fees big
things this week to Jeff Weston roy wa
ash in our community of viewers for
semitic stories to us if you found a
news story you'd like to send e-mail at
newsroom at category 5 TV for all your
tech news with a slight linux bias visit
the category 5 TV news room at newsroom
category 5 TV for the category 5 TV news
room I'm Kelsey Jensen thanks Kelsey
this is category 5 technology TV and we
when we come back from a really short
break we are going to be unboxing two
fantastic drones that you can get now
and fly in time for summer so stick
around now here's another great way you
can support the shows you love for the
category 5 TV network by shopping gear
best that's the right Jeff cat5 TV /
gear best it's an online store for the
geek streak in you or the loved ones
well of course I mean especially your
loved ones right because cat5 TV /
gearbest quite frankly has all of the
greatest tech gifts that you could ever
hope for at rock bottom prices to their
cell phones you betcha cat5 TV /
gearbest has a wide assortment of
unlocked android cell phones and tablets
what about compute consumer electronics
those like a great gift absolutely from
high-tech watches to action cameras
headphones even virtual reality headsets
cat5 TV / gearbest has
they literally have it all Jeff
literally really it's like a superstore
right from the comfort of your own chair
at your computer through the interweb
yeah I there's no way they have it all
it's true that's just a bunch of a
random electronic Sesame what about
clothes yep both men and women
fashionable apparel at rock bottom
SuperDuper prices kinda like this well
look at this coat what do you think it's
a slimming mock leather jacket I love it
it's available for less than thirty
dollars plus free shipping at camp five
TV / gear best yeah all right yeah kinda
got me there Wow any other questions for
me jack ah now that the winter is past
flying season do they have any good
deals and say drone coppers oh my
goodness well check this out dude they
have everything check out over 500
various drones and not only that they're
available marked down by about thirty
two up to sixty three percent off the
regular price love it what's website
again while you're gonna find your best
on our partners pages for any of your
favorite category 5 TV shows like new
every day category 5 technology TV the
pixel shadow but of course if you want
to shop absolutely right now and you
want to go straight to the site all you
have to do is visit cat five dot TV /
gearbest so that's easy cat five dot TV
/ your best that's right happy shopping
welcome back this is category 5
technology TV are you ready for a little
drone action I'm so excited okay so for
the category 5 technology TV viewers i'm
going to show you both of these real
quick yeah yeah we've got two buttes on
our site cat5 TV / fly and we're going
to be opening box opening both of those
I will absolutely for the drone zone
viewers we're going to do one at a time
so folks
tonight we are unboxing the JJ r ch11 d
well say that a thousand times fast
brother a okay so tonight this drone has
fpv built-in included RT f I'm very
excited about this ready to fly folks
it's ready to fly ah it's got everything
right in the box and we're gonna tear it
out of the box like a boss but specs
wise okay we've got a 2.4 gigahertz
drone which is standard yeah so the
controller the actual flight happens at
2.4 gigahertz problem that you run into
with first person view or fpv is that
sometimes the screen the camera also
operates on 2.4 gigahertz well this one
says you know what we're going to one-up
that and we are going to instead make
the camera and the fpv 5.8 gigahertz so
they don't conflict with each other all
right let's get a look here pretty good
there you go there's the box there's
nothing on the other side literally
nothing alright let's get a look ooh i
thought the controller was gonna be blue
I love it red look at that okay so what
do we got Kelsey you want to help me out
here yeah sure there's a box here that I
see what what is in that what could
possibly be in that I'm gonna open it
tear into it hmm it's the it was your
viewfinder camera see how you can figure
her out huh whoa right with the shade
built-in no this is the this is the
screen you find her yeah essentially
whoa care but
there's the screen with the sun shade
and it folds right up it has selection
switches to be able to change the
frequency right on the screen and when
you open it up it pops right out there
you go so that's going to go right on
our controller we're going to look at
that just a second camera we've got the
camera here as well this camera has a
tilt action so you can actually make the
camera go up and down live on the fly
from your controller what else you got a
USB cable and the battery so so it comes
with this has 1 420 420 milliamp hour
battery very very tiny battery we're
going to find out on the drone zone how
much how much actual flight time we get
from this probably want to pick up a
couple more of those so that you can fly
a little bit longer but we'll see and
then there's a charger as well okay
let's look at the actual drone here so
there we go it's a quadcopter we've got
four motors they are not brushless kind
of a unique design the motors are on
their side and then we've got some kind
of gearing mechanism to actually spin
the propellers so that's a little
different so when you remove the motors
you just remove one screw and then you
can change the motors if you need to
that looks pretty sleek we've got some
prop guards to prop guards there must be
two more somewhere we're going to look
into that see if we can find them here
are four spare propellers and a
propeller or a screwdriver doesn't look
like the propellers themselves have
screws oh they do on the side they're
kind of hidden that's good cool there it
is little a little bit cool screws man
awesomes brews Kelsey quit screwing
around hey bud I'm bump another USB
cable uh how does this differ from this
one this looks like it's to charge no
this is not is it this was not a charger
cable no that's the camera input and
show the camera not me so that's camera
input so the Cadoc charging cord be to
charge the drum
no because the drone has a battery right
here right and this is the charger for
the battery okay there we go I think
this is just to connect into the you
know what okay this has two outputs does
this have an input it does look you can
you can actually power the screen from
USB so that way I suppose you can i'm
not sure what this looks like a like
another drone battery output will have
to look into that but up so you can
power the screen from usb rather than
battery and the battery is oh my
goodness ah Kelsey it out did you notice
oh this takes the fort oh maybe know it
looks like I'm gonna find out but we're
gonna orden keep unboxing I wonder if
the screen actually uses the 420
milliamp I wonder but then what do is
it's awfully low for the drone itself
let's get a look all right here's the
controller oh this is the battery here
Oh Kelsey yeah I failed the best battery
in it I'm looking and there's no battery
okay now we're talking oh you can see
why initially I was gonna I don't know
about that there's a proper battery what
do we got this is what 1,100 milliamps
on any bitty drone quadcopter and I
think that would be weird then you would
charge it and you plug it in there this
actually plugs plugs in the cable yeah
so I guess you'll get out and charge it
like that there we go figured it out
figured it out
country yeah you can try but what if I
already got it oh it's called battery
does look at that okay so we got that
much that's awesome okay so we've got an
1100 milliamp battery in the drone it
actually came in the drone not part of
the pack and the 420 milliamp is going
to be for the screen so that's but no of
course yeah so I'm not sure what kind of
battery life we're going to get out of
that we're going to find out but it's as
simple as that so the camera mounts on
there and then we've got wireless screen
so let's look at the controller real
quick you know it would be so much
easier if I could you know it's not we
don't need to assemble it right now that
doesn't matter so we've got three double
a batteries let's jump over here there
you go three double a batteries into the
controller has the ability to use a
screw but it's not required we've got
all kinds of buttons including pan or
not pan but tilt the camera right here
so you want to ask if you want to be
able to adjust the camera we're going to
be able to do that on the fly okay
here's what's kind of cool about this
not only does the controller look great
but it's got a mounting spot for our
screen let's get rid of let's put this
back the way it should be there we go
okay so popping that out there's our
screen so our controller winds up
looking a little something something
like that it's pretty nifty that is
pretty sweet alright so we need in order
to get up in the air we need three
double a batteries for the controller
everything else is included and we're
ready to fly that is the JJ RC the model
is h 11 d and you can get it at cat five
dot TV / fly let's set this bad boy
aside all right we're going to pop over
to cheerson now to the other one
oh she's got parts of her what's that
you still part time oh I found two more
I think those are drop guards here we go
all right let's stick all the rest of
the stuff in this box perfect throw it
in the box cuz we took it out of a box
now we can't put it back in the box
makes it never does never does can we
put that one up in the air okay it's
recycle Kelsey come on next up we're
going to be looking at a cheerson CX 33s
now the sea x 33 line comes with there
are three different types of drones
there's the 33 which is just a straight
what's called a y six drone so it's not
a quadcopter because it's only got three
arms it's not a tricopter because it has
six motors it's not a hexacopter because
it again only has three arms so it's
called a y 6 it's shaped like a wine and
has six motors six props this is another
one that has fpv included and that's all
part of it it is pretty cool oh it looks
pretty cool we're going to get into the
box but it is 5.8 gigahertz video it's
my side it's 5.8 gigahertz video it's
2.4 gigahertz controls here we go all
right first thing the fell out is a
little goody bag and this goody bag has
a USB charger cable it has a screwdriver
phillips screwdriver to change prompts
and it has two propellers now this this
drone i'll call it because you know to
keep saying why sex it's kind of silly
has six motors six props so too are not
a lot to spare but there we go but
you're probably not going to crash this
one you're going to be careful with it
right be careful let's set that aside ok
there's the the drone what else we got
ok under here
you know some would say oh the packaging
is just as a little truth be told I'm
kind of glad I'm not paying for fancy
boxing I'd rather get a good drone for a
good price so there we go we've got prop
guards 1 2 3 4 5 6 i'm not used to
seeing six prop guards there you go ok
and the controller you want to pull out
that controller and get a look at that
I'm kind of make sure I don't break this
because with my track record maybe I
should do this kellz wait she's got it
hey he's got it folks what do you got ok
so pull the whole these guys off of
there then we'll call these the nipples
look at that it's got the built-in
screen so this one is actually built
right into the drone are to the the
controller it's got the mounting
apparatus is already kind of it's there
tightens up so you can adjust it tighten
it and there's a channel button on the
controller's face that presumably allows
us to change the channel in case we get
interference again the screen and the
camera are 5.8 gigahertz versus the
controller is 2.4 gigahertz so unlike
say the micro drone three-point oh for
example we're not operating both on 2.4
gigahertz the screen is not going to
conflict with the range of your
controller your transmitter now there is
a screw here so I don't have so I do
have a screwdriver let's find out how
many batteries we we need for the
controller because I don't see any
controller batteries and I'm assuming
that like some of the other drones that
we've reviewed that can the battery for
the drone itself is already in the drone
the screw is a loose screw so you want
to be careful that you don't lose that
and we're going to need for double-a
batteries yes which you know you can get
your local Costco or whatever there you
go ok what is cool about this quad
you'll notice that the the left
controller here which is your your
altitude is automatically centering to
the middle well it actually has this
one's kind of unique because it has
barometric pressure sensors
when you fly up into the air and it also
has automatic take off with one button
so it will take off by itself and it
will hover there because it uses
barometric pressure to realize if it's
moving up or down so you can actually
get to the altitude that you want and
just hover and it will do a very fine
job of hovering a very fancy it's fairly
fancy so beyond that it's also got the
built-in camera video quality is not
going to be a like a you're not going to
be shootin professional video with this
but it is basically meant for the screen
so that you can fly it around and do
first person view it's very it's very
agile it's very responsive because the
try the try design the y6 design is
known to be very responsive we're going
to take it up for a flight on the drone
zone but let's get a quick look at the
actual drone here it's all already
assembled for us already it's again
ready to fly so you see we've got one
motor two motors three motors for motors
five motors and six motors sorry if I'm
off camera okay so there we go we've got
the camera here which is built for fpv
it's not for shooting video it does
though have micro SD input' however the
quality is not going to be it's not
going to be fantastic quality because
it's meant for fpv not for shooting high
quality video it is also able to be
tilted up and down so this is motorized
and you can actually tilt the camera
down so the advantage to that is as
you're flying at high speeds that the
drone is going to tilt like this so then
you can actually tilt the camera up so
that you're not looking down at the
ground you're looking at the horizon and
you can do that on the fly
it's so pretty kind of cool kind of cool
there's no GPS again it uses barometric
pressure in order to maintain altitude
and this is available at cat five dot TV
/ fly and you can pick up one of those
if you're interested in stepping things
up in your drone game there it is the CX
33s I started talking about it just
before we started unboxing ok so the 33
is just a straight it's this it's just
the drone and the controller no screen
no camera ok the 33 next step up is the
33 where the Box go oh sorry on the
bottom there it shows me the three I
can't remember the second one the second
one was the w Wi-Fi so the 33 w is going
to allow you to use your phone or your
ipod touch or android device as a screen
ok but again it connects over Wi-Fi so
it's 2.4 gigahertz so it is going to
cause some interference with the
controller the next step up is of course
the S the sea x 33 ass as you see here
which includes the built-in screen and
it is a 5.8 gigahertz screen so again
can't wait to fly it you're going to see
all these drones and more on the drone
zone you can find out more at the drone
zone dot TV and of course category 5 TV
is a member of the tech broadcast
network if it's tech it's here cat5 TV /
tpn and the international association of
internet broadcasters cat5 TV / IA ib
like house luck that in there love it
thanks Kelsey don't want to lose my
screws that would suck don't screw loose
I know but uh well hey folks it's been
fun having you here this is category 5
technology TV you don't want to miss out
on all the fun that we've got planned
for you this summer we've got a lot
going on we are shooting video this
saturday we've got drone zone coming
soon and we've got I think we've got six
or seven drones that were submitted for
review on the drone zone so today we're
doing an unboxing of a couple of them
but and these are a couple that really
stood out to me as being cool I think
especially the fact that it's got
built-in screens yeah on the controller
and they're all there under a hundred
bucks it's pretty good yeah so and
they're shipping now they're in stock
the ones that I'm looking at tonight are
in stock and they will ship probably
next day so go to cat5 TV / fly if you
want to see them okay but that's all the
time that we've got for the show I
appreciate everybody being here tonight
and I hope that you had fun and Kelsey
always nice to have you here it's always
nice to come before we wrap up I said at
the top of the show we wanted to know a
little bit more about what you do and
you you're getting into production yes I
am building cars building cars so what's
your part of the line what are you doing
um I'm connecting electrical cables
connecting electrical cables how do they
do that in a car is it are they like
butt connectors or they molex or do you
have to do soldering or no they're
literally they're called couplers of
these little box look in kind of like
only can go in one way like eight cables
going into them only well there's one
cable going into like each set of
couplers so you got your call it a
female and a male coupler for obvious
reasons she take your one part stick it
into the other one and it's gettin kind
of graphic health sorry ended and it
runs electrical current through it and
have to do a lot of bolts and cool this
is the electrical system of computers
and sound you do dumb stuff no I'm it's
just a bunch of like I guess there's a
lot of like airbag couplers okay making
sure like all the connections for that
kind of go through how much is left
until the car is ordered like I thought
about stereos but then I thought no
because you've got so many different
stereo options like Bluetooth or I might
want an iPod connector yeah we're more
towards the end line that's so the car
is almost complete almost there still
like the middle console has to be put in
and all the seats have to be put in um
and just a lot of like the finishing
kind of touches cool so I don't know how
much they put in before we get there but
right it's it's pretty good and then
look I have a I have to do some stuff
with on the underside of the body too
cool so you've been there on the line
rebels to doc let's do and I know you
well enough that you have probably found
some pokemon on the line is this true no
because my lab tears are falling you're
not oh good going Honda cuz it could
they know they don't want Pokemon
dancing around their cars and it's not
just that it's like if you people could
take pictures and send it to their
competitors sure yeah so it's all
privacy issues yeah and that's why we're
keeping this purposely vague yes can't
get kelsey in trouble yes yeah well
that's cool good onya and it's it's nice
that you've got something that's you get
to learn tired all the time I guess so
it would be so much fun to learn though
it's I love learning new things and
that's something I've never got into his
cars neither did I until I started at my
job sure I was like no dad you do a good
experience for you though like are you
not the stuff that I would have liked to
learn like changing oil and changing my
tires okay that's the that's the real
world stuff yeah like you're building
cars a little different than fixing them
servicing yeah but it gets you it gets
your hands dirty and you get to learn it
so that you're not is it like afraid of
getting under the hood yeah cuz I'm
freaked out about it I've never changed
the oil in my life I always take it to
the shop i watch the sticker and that's
how I know so well if you never did need
issues i'm sure my dad we what lovely to
help he's thank you for volunteering
your dad i love it he actually to fix
engine bits on my car
thank the lady who's building your cars
folks just called them engine bits well
I have a spark plug go out the engine
bits there's something wrong with the
engine gets in the exhaust fanny that's
all the time that we have yeah some
marvelous week kills me thanks for being
here thanks Michelle and I hope you have
a great week we'll see you next Tuesday
bye
you
