hi and welcome to new every day my name
is Jen and this is Jane and I'm space
show we're in session for of money
matters specifically asking the
questions how can I make money work for
me so stay tuned
[Music]
Thunder
welcome back to new every day thank you
so much for tuning in and for those of
you that are supporting us online
financially we thank you so much if
you're wondering you know how can we do
that we encourage you to go to new
everyday TV and check out our sponsors
page so today we have our friend Jane
with us and she has a few years a few
years in the financial counseling realm
it is actually one of the people at our
church when people are struggling with
finances we would say you need to go
have a conversation with Jane we have
there's a group of people there which is
I'm so glad our church has this ministry
and so you know this whole conversation
started out with Jane I'm in debt how do
I get out of debt know we have tracked
through you know needs and wands and
budgeting and tithing and putting
priorities on things so let's say I get
that all right handled and now we're
going to get our money working for us
and now we're going to get our money
working for us because I hear this on TV
and this is really you know that line
came from a commercial effort like get
your money working for you right what
does that mean like when banking
institutions or I don't know financial
people say get your money working what
does that mean so they're often in from
a worldly perspective they're they're
actually referring to what is known as
good debt versus bad debt that I want an
aspect of it and so bad debt would be
something where the interest rate is
very very high so something like a
credit card which can be considered a
bad debt simply because of the interest
rate a payday loan would be considered
very very bad debt but when you have a
mortgage and your interest rate is less
than 3% the bank from a banks
perspective that would be considered
good depth
okay okay go where and the reason it
would be considered good debt is because
if your interest rate is less than what
you could be earning in an investment
then that would be considered good debt
so it's it's it's used as a gauge to say
pay should I pay off my debt and instead
or should I invest so often from a
bank's perspective so from a worldly
perspective the perspective is if it's
good debt
you carry it don't you don't have to
work as hard at paying it off now again
I'm being very cautious as I say that
because that is very much from the
world's perspective right okay and so if
the world has a respective there must be
another perspective by saying the Bible
has something else to say about that
well yes God actually says that we
should owe money to no one that we
should carry no debt except the debt of
love yes right which takes us into a
very very gray area and I'm not certain
we really want to go down that road in
terms of should we even have a mortgage
or are you saying that you have to save
up X number of hundreds of thousands of
dollars before you can buy a house I
think that's a very gray area because in
the meantime you're paying rent and and
that you know half that goes to someone
else to help them pay their debt right
so I think that's something you want to
wrestle out but let's so let's not go
down that path right that's okay I
actually wouldn't mind going down the
path of how do I get my money working
for me in terms of you know so I paid
off my dad yeah I'm now in a different
position financially I'm working with a
balance book and in fact you know as God
promises us in Malachi he's actually
poured out his storehouses and he is
pouring out blessings on us and our our
our cup overflows financially speaking
so
we actually are in a position to put
some money away for the future yes so
there is another way that we can
actually get our money working for us
right as we're actually now in a
position to be putting some funds away
for our future so where do we put that
because right there are multiple ideas
and multiple places right you put the
extra right and so you know immediately
my mind goes to well I have some you
know I've one friend who says don't put
them in the stock market because it's so
volatile so you put it in real estate
and I have other friends that have said
no if you put this money away you know
in mutual funds or whatever it'll set
you up for life and I'm like okay and
you know if you just keep putting this
into you know a savings account let's
just put money away just time after time
it'll just continue to grow and so I'm
like Edmund you know some people have
said with regards to retirement plans
and then so I get a benefits package and
with it comes a retirement savings right
well I had some friends that have said I
don't want that to give me the whole
thing and I will look after putting that
money in certain places because I'm just
more in tune I guess with where I feel
like I'll get the better bang for my
buck right and I'm like okay now I
haven't told pastor's aren't very good
with money they write it comes in we
tithe we spend it we go on to the next
paycheck
right and so I'm like that's why I have
wonderful friends and Jane where I can
go to her and say can you help me with
this like where should I put the extra
to get the money working for me to save
up to set aside you know mm-hmm old age
is coming at some point I hear it so
what rate so you know what's interesting
it's interesting to me because we will
agree that if we have a medical concern
we would go see a doctor because we
would see a doctor as being an expert
in medical concerns hmm if our car is
making a funny sound we would all agree
that we need to go see a mechanic
because a mechanic is an expert in
repairing cars and yet when it comes to
investing we want to believe that we
ourselves are experts where we are not
experts for the most part if you are
watching and you are an expert that's
fantastic but most of us are not experts
nor do most of us have the time it takes
to constantly look at our portfolios and
rebalance them right that's why when it
comes to investing we should be relying
on experts to look after our money for
us and that's actually what you get when
you invest in a mutual fund is you get a
team of experts who are managing your
money for you okay I guess that would be
my next question is who is the expert
because you know do I go to this bank or
do I go to this bank or do I go to our
financial planner like with investors
group or London Life is likely where
where are the experts I guess is my
question like so someone coming in I'm
like so where do I actually go to get
the expert I'd buy without it because
the thing is that Michael what if it's
biased like could they be biased I guess
no everyone is biased everyone naturally
would be buy it okay right they would
have a and their bias tends to be with
what they are most comfortable with
right so for example if you have someone
who is in real estate themselves and has
been in real estate their natural bias
would be a bias towards real estate
investing because that's what they're
comfortable with that's what they're
knowledgeable about if you have somebody
that actually works in the oil industry
their natural bias is towards stocks in
the oil industry right oh yeah and if
you have somebody who works at a bank
our natural bias is in bank stocks okay
that's our natural bias because that's
the industry we're most familiar with so
that's why it's important to understand
that when you are investing and I'm
going to speak right now about mutual
funds when you are investing in mutual
funds you're not actually investing in
someone who has a bias right you're
investing in a team who looks at
statistics and looks at how it is that
different economies are growing okay and
within that economy what sector of the
economy and within that sector what
companies are poised for growth and
that's how they make their buying
decisions so when you're making a
decision in terms of who to listen to
about what to buy you need to be
comfortable with the person you're
sitting across the desk from interesting
so we're going to pause right there the
question I want you to think about is
who am I talking to I'm going about my
finances so we'll be back right after
this
Jeff Weston GEMA you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what
are you alright you're terrible actor
what that's where acting comes into play
oh I don't know we're arcing you're
supposed to act okay fair enough
I don't a really cool website are you
building a really cool website you need
hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
it's true how much hard drive space you
have how many email account how many
domains can point to it well we've got
an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are going to get
unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name the roots are your own com
dice to put that amazing website that
you've been working on on there if you
run if you want to build a wordpress
site find sign up cat5 dot TV slash
DreamHost still put a little papers on
it
just don't do it but hey it's a great
deal folks best deal you're going to
find five dollars and change per month
put a cap five dot TV slash dream host
welcome back to new every day and we
ended with the question but were you
listened to with regards to your
finances and i thought that was an
excellent point because whoever you're
listening to you know based on what
they're influenced by is how you who
will be influenced or that's the
information that you're going to hear so
at the end of the day like this what we
started off with was how do I get my
money
working with money and and I don't know
if you picked up on that but that's a
very selfish question how do I get my
money working for me mm-hmm rather than
I know in second Corinthians it talks
about we are called to be generous isn't
right we're called to be generous for
the purposes of bringing God's kingdom
so really we need to be taking our
finances all hundred-percent of it not
just the 10% but all 100% of it and
saying god how does this work for you
hmm and that doesn't mean it could mean
but it doesn't mean
God's going to take all of that and say
you're not eating you're not driving
you're not living no he actually says
okay I'm going to put you in a good
place to live I'm going to help you buy
your food I'm going to help you get the
right car or get the right bus pass
because maybe it's the bus pass that
you're going to get this because he's
going to put you beside those people
that you just have these amazing
conversations with mm-hmm but the
question is like when we say who are you
listening to with regard to finances are
you listening to God and God's Word
first and that is the best way to get
money working for you and and we touched
up just during the break we turned to
first Timothy 6 and it says but God this
is person if you 6:6 but godliness with
contentment is great gain we brought
nothing into the world and we can take
nothing out of it but if we have food
and clothing we will be content with
that people who want to get rich fall
into temptation and trap and a trap fall
into temptation and a trap and into many
foolish and harmful desires that plunge
men into ruin and destruction for the
love of money is a root of all kinds of
evil some people eager for money have
wandered away from the faith and pierced
themselves with many griefs mm-hmm oh
that's sad mm-hmm and I think the one
word that stands out to me is
contentment mm-hmm and Paul uses that
elsewhere in Philippians 4 we says I've
learned to be content in all things
mm-hmm and I think or this is what
you've given me help me be content right
and he actually in Philippians says I
have learned to be content in all
circumstances whether I have much or
little so whether we find ourselves
financially with much more little are we
content yes yes that's a hard quite
unfortunately most of us would not say
yes to that right right because most of
us strive to have more yeah and it's
that striving
actually is actually played out here in
first Timothy right because it isn't
about money in and of itself as being a
root of all kinds of evil it is the love
of money and it is that you know
understanding that if that's what we're
pursuing then we've taken our eyes off
of God and we've put it in fact on our
money and that's what we're pursuing
mm-hmm right and that's why Jesus said
you know where you where your treasures
are that's where your heart is so if you
have treasures here on earthly things
that mods and and rust can destroy as
opposed to setting our treasures on on
eternal thing so yeah so what is I think
the real question is what is the purpose
like first of all you can't be in debt
right like you got to get out of debt
and you need to examine how you got in
bed and is it because of school give it
because you didn't want to work during
school because some people will say well
no I can't work during school so I'm
going to get this debt okay however it
is that you got today mm-hmm how are you
going to get rid of that debt but not
for the purpose or you can be debt-free
but for the purpose of God why are you
calling me - right right and so cause he
might say I want you to share an
apartment with someone I want you to
share a home with someone so that you
have money to give to other things or to
go where I want you to go and you're
like I don't want to live with someone
but it says seek ye first the kingdom of
God and all these other things will be
added to you and he's like you know we
worry about clothes right so and how
much greater was Solomon dressed yet
you know he wasn't clothed like the
lilies of the field which is yes yeah
and so it's so important you know and
this is where it's a real mind shift
with finances to say okay am I truly
seeking God first because you might say
I want you to live in a trailer park and
you're like ain't no way I'm living no
trailer park right but if that trailer
park is like a two-year stopgap so you
can be
or maybe you get three or four friends
living together and we're going to save
money and you're thinking there's no
possible way I can do that and it's yet
but what is God calling you to and that
really comes down to the heart of the
issue and that's why he says but
godliness with contentment is great gain
because we often think if I could just
be financially free mm-hmm I'll be happy
mm-hmm and then what and then what right
like is that the period right or is it a
different comma all right because then
what else are you going to go searching
for that's right and so we want to
encourage you today first and foremost
is surrender surrender surrender
surrender your finances surrender who
you are everything that you are the God
and He will well just trust in the Lord
with all your heart and lean not on your
own understanding in all your ways in
all your ways that means in your money
ways to write in all your ways you know
acknowledge him and he will make your
paths straight
mm-hmm and when you pursue godliness
with contentment you will have great
game you will have more than you could
ever imagine
so we want to encourage you today to
surrender and to get your finances right
with God get out of debt and say Lord
how is it that you would use my finances
to grow your king mm-hmm so we are so
thankful that Jane has joined us for
these past four shows we want to say
thank you so thank you very much for
joining us my pleasure so glad that you
could be here and it's just every time I
sit with her I get challenged with
regards to my finances because I want I
think I want I can say I want but I can
think and I could hope that I want to be
fully surrendered to the Lord in my
finances so because just because you
have a little extra I think sometimes we
can get that out of hand right and just
go on to do whatever we'll know is God
just got over the finite like your tithe
or is he lord over all of it no I
have been challenged today so thank you
very much so
let's closing for Heavenly Father I
thank you so much for this
I earn that we can spend together lord
help us to seek you first in all things
to surrender to you in all things that
you would direct our finances so that we
can be released to serve you in all
things help us to pursue godliness with
contentment and Lord where we have
pursued finances for our own games would
you convict a scuffle to repent and
surrender that we need you Lord we pray
this in enlightening this Holy Spirit
thank you so much for tuning in today we
look forward to being back here next
week until then have a great god bless
you
