so back on episode number 475 check it
out if you haven't already seen it
Sasha and I held up our video camera rig
this is to 360 by 220 degree video
cameras of course oh why is it 360 by
220 and not 360 all the way around right
so let's just take this rig apart so
that you can see exactly how this works
so there's the the bottom of the camera
and a great big lens on the top so of
course there's a body to the camera so
it can't see through that it has to film
like this right but it actually gets a
little bit further than the whole you
know than the 180 here and gets down to
220 and gives you this view so in order
to get the full 360 so that's both sides
we need two lenses right one on ones one
side and one on the other
so we crafted this little rig here with
a quarter inch adapter and two of these
cameras that are available on the cheap
from cat5 dot TV slash action cam and
you just screw them together and
suddenly you've got a full 360 by 360
rig in fact even more so we've got some
overlap between the two cameras so we're
able to remove some of the additional
things from the scene using parallaxing
such as the tripod that it's sitting on
so you don't actually see the tripod
because remember it sees 220 and 220 so
we can remove whatever's in the middle
very sneaky
I love parallaxing so that's pretty cool
and 360 okay well let's talk a little
bit about 360 video it's on the rise
especially because you know christmas is
coming and a lot of folks are gonna be
getting these and these are available at
cat v dot TV slash cardboard
incidentally but what it does it's based
on Google's cardboard that's design like
you put your phone in here and your
phone supports VR and then that goes in
here and it has lenses that make it so
that if it it separates the two sides of
the screen and makes it look amazing
when your phone is in cardboard mode
that's cool when it comes down to 360
video because you've also got an
accelerator accelerometer in your phone
so as you look around you're in fact
able to
to look around the video so with a full
360 by 360 video you can look up and
down and all around you can turn around
and see what's behind you it's pretty
impressive
and that's on the cheap like those go
for about $20 us crazy okay so you don't
have to go out and get oculus rift and
you know something in the hundreds of
dollars so it gets you started with 360
video
these cameras are consumer cameras and
because we're doing it this way we're
able to do it quite cheaply because each
camera is under $100 now these the same
cameras that we filmed the kickoff for
season 10 with yes so if you want to
watch episode number 471 in full 360
view you'll be able to see what they
look like and how it works but there's a
lot of post-production that goes into
this because you do end up with to 360
by 220 videos well what do you do with
that these shoots spherical video so
basically the video as you're gonna see
tonight is a circle and so we have to
actually post-process those so that they
become viewable on your goggles or on
YouTube or whatever other you know
device that you want to use and then
eventually we're actually going to show
you how to convert it to standard video
as well using blender so that you can
actually watch it on a computer or a TV
where virtual reality and movement is
not actually possible that's cool
because that equirectangular and
spherical video looks really weird in
its RAW format very very weird you have
to either view it on a device that
supports it or convert it to a different
format we're gonna learn all of that
throughout the course of the series so
it started with episode number 475 where
we shot the video and explained a little
bit more than I have tonight about how
the camera rig works so you want to tune
into that we also did the unboxing of
those cameras that is a category 5 TV
check out episode number 475 you can use
the search at the top in order to find
that I've got my trusty laptop all set
up here tonight and we've got our videos
ready to go so I'm just gonna carefully
move this over here way and I say that
because I know that I'm liable to pull
cables out of the back as I move it yeah
alright
so I've got just two and now here's one
of the things is that unfortunately the
the free tools that are available right
now
our limited because this is a brand-new
technology folks this is and you're
going to see over the next couple of
months now we're filming this November 9
2016 so we're gonna see a real
transition because as companies are
gearing up for Christmas season this
stuff is is really going to be hitting
the consumer market hard right now there
are very very few 4k plus video cameras
that will shoot 360 video on the
consumer end of things so consider that
each of these two cameras is a 4k 30
frames per second camera
okay so I have 8k of video all the way
around
it's huge resolution it's astonishing
and they're in the whole rig costs about
200 bucks so it's less than buying say a
theta ass but a theta ass is only 1080p
this is 8k right right so that's pretty
impressive we're seeing this huge
transition in the technology that's
available now
nikon is brought out the key mission 360
as well their key mission line i have
little experience with them so far I'm
I'm on the fence I'm not too sure
whether I want to endorse them or not at
this point and the key thing is because
my experience with the key mission 170
is that they overheat these never had
any problem with that so there are
different things to look take into
account as well I'll see how they did
with the 360 camera as soon as we get
one but the nice thing about the Nikon
key mission 360 is like the theta ass it
has the two lenses built-in and it has
the stitching software provided with it
but because we're going to be doing this
on a bit of a makeshift real dirt cheap
like this is the way cheaper than doing
the Nikon model for example as well
probably half the price we're gonna use
free software from Kodak Kodak brought
out a camera called the pixpro 4k and
it's very very similar to what we're
using tonight but more expensive so with
the pixpro they've released the software
freely available on their website and
I've actually made some notes it's kodak
pixpro
dot-com so if you want to you know get
that software and do what we're doing
here tonight
then you can actually do that first of
all Jeff I want to show you why it's
necessary to post-process the video so
I'm gonna bring up the video that Sasha
and I had done and as I was saying with
the pixpro software the one thing is
that it is Windows software so here I am
on Windows 10 on this laptop here are
the two sides of the camera that Sasha
and I shot so this is what it looks like
coming off the camera so if I bring that
up there it is that's us firing it up
and there's what the video actually
looks like it's spherical so it's it's
basically kind of unwatchable in that
format but that's how the camera shoots
the video it's pretty cool but not
useable in that format here's the rear
side of the camera so this is the other
view so the other side of the camera
when we have them back-to-back okay so
you can see how it is overlapping you
can see me in both videos how's that
even possible that is impressive
right so but it is spherical video so
you're gonna get to actually see through
the course of this you're gonna get to
see how how wire cache works because you
can see it on the screen there all that
kind of stuff so that's what it looks
like not really usable in that format
right YouTube most video players that
support 360 video are gonna use a mode
called equirectangular and you're going
to learn through the course of this what
that means but basically what that is is
it's a 4k 2 over 1 shot so it's it's
hugely wide totally askew because the
whole thing gets wrapped around the
viewer right and it's it's seamless so
at the back where the two sides come
together it's seamless so if if somebody
were to walk by that 360 camera to you
it's going to look like they'd go whoa
like right ompletely warped right in its
raw format but then you watch it on a
360 viewer and it's going to turn out
just fine and look really really cool so
now I have one I mean looking at these
two files on your screen you get one
camera that's upside down the other one
is is up normally mm-hmm is that because
just the way the cameras are positioned
is you have to fix later or yes so you
see for example
on my way it just records it that way so
on my camera rig you can see okay so
here's the power these cameras are
identical even though they're different
colors we've got the power button on
this side on the black one okay power
button on this side on the white one
right and that's just because of the way
the threading is
I wouldn't want it to be so loose that
they're both aligned perfectly and this
is jiggling like this no I want it to be
fairly tight and I'm working at a ninety
degree so I'm trying to make it as close
to 90 degrees as possible because then
what I'll do is I'll digitally rotate
one of those videos make sense okay okay
so we're gonna learn how to do that
tonight in the stitching software but
first we've got to prepare these videos
for that stitching process and when I
say stitching what it means is to take
those two spherical videos so think of
the two lenses of the camera put them
together and seamlessly adapt them so
that it becomes a full sphere not just
to individual hemispheres so we have to
prepare these two videos together
first of all let's let's learn how to
obtain this software so it's called
pixpro is the name of the camera from
kodak so I'm gonna head on over to Kodak
pix procom I think it is oh you know
what my Wi-Fi is just turned off on the
laptop so I'll just enable that here we
go that would be why it didn't work and
we're off and running there we go
okay so Kodak pixpro calm you'll see
those cameras are fairly similar as far
as their layout and how they work but
let's go into support and let's go into
let's find the downloads here downloads
for pixpro and so well this software
work with any camera essentially the
with the with the single hemisphere 360
by 180 to 220 cameras yeah it should
work just fine
and it's freely available but it is only
what I believe it's only Windows there
may be a Mac version I'm going to find
out in just a moment it's time here
but as far as my platforms go there was
nothing available for Linux I've not
tried this through wine it would be
interesting to note whether or not it
would work in wine it may because it
isn't using any video for Windows or
anything like that but it'd be
interesting to find that out so I've
clicked on downloads I'm just waiting
for their website which seems reasonably
slow tonight but that's essentially
where we're going to get that tool
fortunately for me if they are having
trouble with the site or Wireless on my
laptop I've already got it installed
okay so so Kodak picks p IX procom i'm
gonna leave that loading and in the
meantime i'm going to bring up the
software so here it is the first thing
that we need to do is we need to
actually you'll see that there are two
pixpro software's here the first one is
called sp3 64k that's the one that we
need to use in order to prepare our
video to be stitched
we can't just load our video directly
into the pixpro stitching software
because it's going to detect hey that's
not a pixpro camera right okay so we're
not gonna work with that we're gonna say
no that camera is not compatible
oh my downloads have come up and then
we'll come back so this is the 4k
compatible or K model that we want to
use don't go with the non 4k version so
let's see this is the camera user manual
this kind of gets us see at the top here
it says camera user manual what we
actually want to do is we want to go to
pics Pro software download for PC and
Mac so it is for Mac as well so now
scroll down we've got PC there's the
download here and PC download here for
the is that the stitching software known
so this is the 4k software so download
that one scroll down ways here's the 4k
version of the stitching software we
want to download that one for PC or Mac
depending on your platform okay so it's
available right there on their website
back here okay so the difference is this
program is going to prepare our video
for stitching this one is going to
actually stitch them together so let's
bring up pics pro sp3 64 K to work with
these 4k cameras there it is okay so it
says no photos and videos so I'm just
going to click on this disc down here
well double tap
then I'm gonna browse to where I stored
those videos from my SD cards and just a
reminder that these cameras just simply
store the video on SD cards so all I had
done before the show is just remove
these Kingston SD cards and plug them
into my laptop and copied them to the
desktop so simple enough there it is so
I've got both videos together perfect
now to do these also have like Bluetooth
or Wi-Fi transfer or is it purely these
cameras have Wi-Fi access to your phone
through an app so you can actually
control and view the the either
pre-recorded or live video ok just
pretty cool it has HDMI output but I
have never figured out the reasoning
behind that because it does not support
clean HDMI output in any format and it
only supports playback of the
pre-recorded files so the HDMI is
useless because it only plays back the
spherical video so what are you gonna do
with that so the HDMI on these is
useless the output on Wi-Fi is pretty
cool because you can actually control it
from your phone so you can set that on a
table or something and you can go
downstairs and you can see the kids
playing and you can look around the room
alright that's pretty neat yeah kind of
neat stuff so I've copied the files off
of those on to this laptop as you've
proved the previously seen when I when I
showed you the the video clips in
spherical video so I'm just browsing to
that folder here and as soon as I click
on it you can see these two videos here
so when I click on either of these
videos up here you'll see that it
converts it to a format that I can
actually move around in but it's kind of
wonky because they're on a horizontal
axis right there make this a little bit
larger for you there you go so that's
kind of crazy so you see the black area
below at the very bottom the circle
there that's looking at so that's beyond
the 220 okay right so that if you only
buy one camera you're just going to have
that black space down there and you're
not gonna be able to look any further if
you have the two cameras you're gonna be
able to look all the way around and I
could actually look down and see
everything so that's one video that I'm
looking around there I'm gonna switch to
the other video here just by single
clicking and you can see that I can
my glove cool there's Sasha upside down
I can you know what I can move to a
different point in the video so that I
can see things a little better there's
Sasha there's me in our garb and it's
really really hard to navigate it in the
same way in this format because I'm in
this weird spherical mode where when I
drag it goes all kind of wonky I feel
like I'm flying an x-wing mmm so we need
to convert this to full 360 view so that
I can navigate it more properly hi Sasha
I was waiting for it to say hi
it's so super weird is that strange
it's totally strange yeah well you wait
this is pretty neat stuff so okay so
what I need to do is with these two
videos Jeff I simply need to save them
okay look at this pixpro sp3 64k says
okay I can open these files from this
camera even though it's not actually a
pixpro right but the stitching software
cannot because it says that's not from a
pixpro camera so if I import it first to
pixpro sp3 64k free software and save it
from there it saves it with the meta
tags to tell the other software that
this is actually from a pixpro camera ah
so we've just saved ourselves a couple
hundred bucks by buying the other brand
okay so let's do it so it's as simple as
this save as I'm just gonna throw it
into a subfolder of the one that I'm
working in 360 video 475 and I'm going
to create and we're gonna call this
converted and you'll see this is
actually a very very fast process I'm
going to hit save and there it goes and
this is not a super fast laptop but it's
it's moving along we're at 50% so then I
need to do that with with my next video
as well
well that's there we go finish okay so
that's done now this one so you have to
say individually you can't save them as
though like a full sphere well you can't
say like you can't say like save all you
can do batch processing but I've found
in my tests that
sometimes with the batch processing
frame rates can get uncoordinated and it
can be problematic and it will detect
files weirdly in so yeah doing it this
way you're you're basically just adding
the meta tags to make it so that it
works with the stitching software and
that's where the magic really really
happens so that's already done and so
now when I'm done with this software
that's literally all that I have to do I
can close it out and I go into my 475
folder I've got my converted and they
look exactly the same there are my
videos but they are tagged and ready to
go and ready to be imported into our 360
stitching software we're gonna come
right back with more we're gonna
actually learn how to stitch all this
together and turn it into a full
spherical video and then we're gonna
learn how to export it and prepare it to
be uploaded to YouTube that way people
can actually drag around and look around
in our video but also they can use their
virtual reality headsets if they'd like
to be able to look around the video
because we're working with a very short
like five minute video here tonight
Sasha that we recorded on episode 475
it's very very zippy now episode 471 on
the other hand was a two hour and 20
minute recording on both cameras so a
huge amount of post-processing went into
that we're working with smaller files so
it's working quite nice and fast so the
next step is to take those two camera
lenses which provide two 4k videos so 8k
total video and actually convert it to a
single spherical video which of course
you can't save as a file in spherical so
it creates an equi rectangular which
we're going to see what that looks like
so back at my computer here we're going
to actually bring up the second tool
let's push that again there we go I'm
gonna bring up that second tool called
pics Pro 360 stitch because we've
already prepared our files so we're
ready to go all we need to do is open
that up again this software is available
from Kodak it's Kodak pix procom just as
it shows on your screen there p IX PR Oh
so with this software we're going to
stitch it all together go file open
files and you'll see that there is a and
B so
camera a is going to be our front camera
ideally I like it that way let's see I
want to go to my desktop and 360 video
475 that's where I saved it I can't use
this first watch what happens if I try
to open it unable to recognize files the
selected video photo is invalid or
damaged you notice that but remember
that's why we had to convert it so we
created this converted folder and use
the other tool to do that and it says
information 24 48 by 24 48 30 frames the
second round key is off and it is ready
to go all we need is the other side of
the camera so we browse for the second
file and there we go both files are
valid to stitch please press ok button
to start edit thank you for being so
polite Kodak you've always been there
for me alright so if I scroll through
the video that is now what it looks like
thus far you'll see that our stitching
is very weird because we have not yet
set it up that's the Lahaina of where
the two cameras meet all right so we've
got to actually fix that and stitch it
up let's see what we need to do first
things first what I want to do is over
on the left hand side here there's this
handy little button called audio sync
and that's where a clap board or
something like that comes in what this
is going to do is it's actually scanning
the audio on my two video files and it's
lining them up so that they remember how
we talked on episode 475 what happens if
we don't push record at exactly the same
millisecond right then we're gonna have
the rear of the camera is going to be
offset from the front of the camera so
as people look around they're going to
be seeing things in the wrong timing so
audio sync helps us with that and it's
going to correct the the timing between
the two camera lenses so is it reading
the are like listening to the audio
files looking at the wave table okay
yeah and it's figuring out this is where
as I say a clap board comes in handy
because that's that one and so it all
immediately says oh there's a spike boom
line that up nice and quick you'll see
that this is taking a little bit longer
because it doesn't have any of those
spikes that's just me and Sasha talking
so it's trying to figure out based on
our talking
where do I line these two clips up now
what would happen if one of your
microphones was turned off like I don't
know maybe they don't have the ability
to turn the microphone off but one
doesn't you do audio yeah you do
actually have that capability if that
happened then you would be doing the
line up manually you'd have to set it up
and line them up yourself in a case like
that usually what I would do is I would
pull the circular spherical video into a
traditional editor like CyberLink
PowerDirector or perhaps you know any
any nonlinear video editor would work
and I would line them up that way and
figure out kind of where I need to place
them okay and and work it that way so
this is going to take a little bit of
time to to find the audio in this clip
I'm gonna give it a split second here
but I may actually just abort and and
we're just going to move along because
we we're gonna pretend that we did that
okay said I mean this is just a five
minute video so I could only imagine how
long it took with the season ten kickoff
you don't wanna know Sasha you remember
I was still working on that a month
later like it took a month in the rain
yeah because I mean I have tiny little
things that I asked Robbie to do like
just in general like I'm still working
on the video from six weeks ago exactly
it worked and it came came out fairly
well
so okay so let's pretend that we've
waited for the audio sync because that
could take some time and we're just
gonna skip over that tonight but let's
pretend that it's been done so now we're
going to now proceed with what's called
stitching so this is where we see that
the two cameras do not line up like how
is it that there's me and then there's
the roof the ceiling well that's as you
were saying Jeff the two cameras are not
quite they're not currently lined up
right so we need to actually correct
that digitally so we're going to bring
up the camera with calibration here and
we can roll that camera watch what
happens here
see how I'm rolling part of the camera
and I can line it up so you can see that
behind me there well slow it down slow
it down
man so I want to line those cameras up
as best as I can okay now while that's
open I can move around here it's really
really awkward in this kind of view here
we go okay there we go so you can kind
of see where the where the roll puts
yeah see how you can do that okay so one
of the things here is that I've got 220
degrees not 180 so the overlap is a
little bit strange so I want to kind of
bring in the distance a little bit see
how I can move the distance all right to
fix that and we're gonna just kind of
tweak those settings until we find that
you know happy spot where everything is
lined up as well as possible and you're
going to spend a lot more time than
we're spending on this tonight because
this is just for the sake of an example
but you're going to take some time when
I was stitching together our episode 471
I spent probably about an hour just
making sure that everything was lined up
just right and and even then still had
some spots as people noted where things
were not quite in the right spot but
that's okay I figured you would forgive
that
now I'm gonna do that subtle movement
see on lining up the lines of the
ceiling doesn't have to be perfect for
our demonstration but you can see the
concepts behind what I'm doing now do
you pick one specific spot to line it up
you know ideally there ideally if you
were to set this up now I was just
holding this in my hand but if you were
to set this up and perhaps walk around
it a couple of times and and set up a
bit of a calibration shot so that you
can use that as your your lines and
things like that
using a probably a straight edge or
something what would help right but we
just were I was holding it in my hands
so you can see that I'm well off right
there
finding that spot okay so what I'm
looking at here do you see the chairs
the burgundy chairs there Jeff yes I can
see that there's one here this is that
last chair yep and this is the last
chair right so I can see that okay if I
bring that in let's first see how
distant we are over here we don't notice
we don't have that distance over here it
actually looks pretty good over on this
side okay see that so what that tells me
is that the cameras were not exactly
straight this way there's a little bit
of a deviation tilted one direction eh
okay so that's where it really can be
tricky because you can see okay well it
actually looks really really good on
this side there's the monitor and you
know it gets wonky down around the
camera and then over here there's a much
greater distance between where the chair
should be and where it is so this is
where we're going to use the pan which
is going to fix that end of it so it's
going to tilt the camera kind of that
way and then bring it in a little bit
closer and then roll that
and it's tough to get it perfect that's
for sure you're going to do a lot of
tinkering but you can see that we're
getting a little bit closer there
okay and we are see so there's a bit of
a ghosting line there because my my
alignment is just ever so slightly off
and so you've got to look at okay so
that looks like the pan to me is still
off
maybe the tilt needs to come down like
that see that I'm looking at the
computer as well as the chair and saying
okay the camera is just off like that
there we go and now bring in the
distance a little bit yeah does it only
affect this like your movements is it
only affect the screen your honor does
it move everything behind as well yeah
well it's only moving the the seam
between the two okay so you can see it
actually looks really quite good over
here except I can see a line up in the
roof right but generally and maybe
that's because it falls on the monitor
there it looks pretty good over here
this obviously is perfect because it's
the one lens you're just saying you're
perfect on this you know well and then
this is looking fairly good except my
lines up there off my lines down here or
off so you can see that there's going to
be an unimaginable amount of just
tweaking but you can see how the you're
able to turn the two camera lenses
digitally you're able to tilt them this
way you're able to turn them this way
and pan and tilt and move them around
and move the distance in and out until
you finally get that perfect that
perfect view and it's gonna take some
time and it's more time than we can
really like I'm not going to get a
perfect seamless stitch tonight right
here on the show but at least I'm
showing you the techniques that you're
going to use in order to create this
video but you can see how our video we
can we can look around the the studio
right here with a handheld view of these
two cameras butted together and we can
render that out so I'm gonna hit okay
and I'm gonna pretend that that's
perfect so that for this episode anyways
for 77 you're going to have a copy of
this video that you can see up until now
and we're going to tweak it over the
next little while and we're gonna
actually get it into editing and do that
kind of stuff right but for the sake of
tonight okay so final kind of step in
this program let's pretend that we've
got the calibration absolutely
perfect I'm going to click on export and
that's going to ask me hey well where do
you want to put it I'm gonna throw it
into the same I'm gonna throw it in the
same folder but give it a different file
name we'll call this our 477 stitch okay
then what do we want to do we want full
4k so 38 40 by 1920 notice the strange
resolution it's two over one not sixteen
over nine do we want the audio yes do we
want to upload to YouTube no so we're
gonna say okay and that is now going to
actually render oh you know what I
missed one step Jeff oh you ready for it
yes we're gonna stop that and I'm just
gonna pan through here one of the things
I forgot about this software and it is
important to note this is that where you
position the camera is where it's going
to create the center view so when
someone loads it up on YouTube that's
the first thing that they see oh okay so
I want to actually hard set that by
moving my camera notice I fast-forwarded
through the video because at the
beginning of the video is just a video
of my hand and I was moving it around
quite a bit
so scrolled into where we're actually
talking and doing the show and then I'm
going to position this camera
approximately there okay okay so now I'm
gonna start exporting same thing for 77
stitch and audio yes not upload to
YouTube and okay so now notice it goes
back to my hand cuz the starting at the
beginning and you can see the two
spherical videos they're queued up on
the left and they're playback is
happening as well at the same time so
this is happening in less than real time
it's 30 frames a second and we're
probably moving at about ten frames a
second from what I can tell so it's
going to take you know if it's five
minutes it's going to take you know
easily four or five maybe six or seven
times that in order to render this out
so we're at 1% it's going to take some
time but when it's done we have what's
called an equi rectangular video and
that video is a very strange format I'm
going to show you what it looks like
because I can do that by simply stopping
this pretty
in which I'm going to pick up again in a
few minutes time after the show but this
is what the actual video is going to
look like okay all right so it's crazy
to look at when you don't have the
proper viewer you can't really watch
that on a TV correct it's it's really
messed up but it's going to be viewable
once you play it on something like
YouTube or through your viewer so I'm
gonna just kind of tweak that stitching
after the show tonight I'm going to
render it out and I'm gonna put it on
YouTube so click here and you can see
that and you'll be able to see what it
looks like at least at this point in the
in the game and we're going to take it
from from there on our during our series
I'm super full
