welcome to category five technology TV
it's episode 503 for Wednesday the 10th
of May 2017 great to see you tonight
we are going to be looking at your web
sessions we're going to learn how we can
kind of get a glimpse at what is
happening on our website it's a great
way for us to kind of find out if there
are things with our user experience that
need to be corrected it helps us to see
what the experience is like for the
users on our website so if your web
developer if you've got a blog got a
website if you're a business that have
the website and you want to know how did
the feel for our users well stick around
and learn a free tool is going to help
you to do just that over the newsroom
Sasha tomatoes what have you got for us
well here's what's coming up in the
category 5 TV newsroom based on a new
proposal drone pilots in the EU now have
to register for all drones over nine
ounces another use for 3d printers at
home at home at the University students
prints his way to a better smile
binaural 3d sounds will make the new
Doctor Who episodes terrifying an
amazing 7 Bionic hands has been a noun
and a new camera developed in Sweden is
faster than any photography gear on the
planet stick around the full details are
coming up later in the show
this is category 5 technology TV our
live recordings are trusted only the
solid state drives by Kingston
Technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV is a member
of the tech podcast network if it's tech
it's here cat 5 gb / ppm and the
international association of internet
broadcasters cat 5 TV slash iai be
welcome to everyone who is joining us
live and if you're watching this on
demand hello to you my name is Robbie
and to my right your left is Sasha
Tomatoes hello over here is Henry Bailey
Brown hello dick called is the dream
team we're gonna have some fun tonight
yeah before we get into it just a little
bit of housecleaning if you will it's
been a really expensive week here at
category 5
fantastic so we're all volunteers folks
so if you're not familiar with the show
or if you new here
we don't take a paycheck or anything
like that we do try to keep the bills
paid and when the bills can't be paid
will come out of my pocket or whatever
else needs to be done there or will
we'll sell some services or something
like that to try to make good now this
week now last week you remember on the
show it actually seemed a little dark in
here dinner so we took a look at some of
the lights and this is why I've got this
here so these are the soft boxes that we
use and they basically make sure that
we're well illuminated and the light
bulbs that are in there are about $45
apiece and if we just kind of open this
up I'm going to look at what this looks
like to us oh there you go yeah so
they're about 45 bucks apiece and a
bunch of them have been burning out just
from old age so so I bought four of them
right so they look like almost yeah the
reason that they're unique couple
reasons of course but these are 5500
Kelvin so they are sunlight balanced so
that the cameras see natural tones and
things like that it looks nicer on
camera you have to have good lighting
otherwise it's going to be either green
tinged or yellow canister stead of that
it may look like a standard kind of bulb
if you can see that in the picture but
I'll show you the difference here not a
standard bulb but one of those
fluorescent bulbs that you can buy for
home but you'll notice the box is quite
a bit longer and looks like oh that
super-sized
it's a monster it is so these are the
bulbs that we use here and we've got as
you can see five bulbs in each of these
fixtures so only two of them are still
working so I bought four because that's
what our budget allowed this week and
you know so that's just something that
is an expense here category five beyond
paying the rent and paying for our
internet and everything like that so
then having ordered those and you know
that's that's cool it needs to be done
it's just one of those expenses of
running a show this is completely
unrelated to category five but just
how-- hound expenses in my week right
wonder what happened yes what happened
you nervous now yeah be nervous be
nervous we were driving in town here in
Bari and going thankfully up a hill and
approaching a stop sign and I went to
put on the brakes to get to the stop
sign and the brakes completely went out
on my van don't like oh so I assume you
know it's an old van the to the pipe I
don't know talk to me about computers
I'll tell you all about them but there's
some kind of pipe or something that hold
has on the right she would break flood
the holiday flood yeah it's strung a
leak and decided that my brakes were not
going to work anymore so thankfully
again we're going up a hill yeah you
know how fortunate was that and I was
able to roll to a safe stop and pull
over the side of the road so since then
we've had it towed to the wrecker and
I've had to buy them so that's me
personally nothing to do with category 5
just just life expenses right you know
and we're as I said we're all volunteers
here and then oh there's an exit ok now
this is back to castle you are yeah so
category 5 technology TV is our show a
category 5 the TV network we do a lot of
broadcast we've got sickos that happen
every week and I was producing new every
day
last night every Tuesday night is our
night to put together new every day at
broadcasts on Fridays and notice things
were running a little bit slow so
decided to check on the state of our
server see if it was doing a parody
check because sometimes if things are
really slow I can stop the parody check
and run it manually later because I'm
trying to work with HD video and so it
was really brutal logged into the server
and saw that our 1.5 terabyte hard
drives one of the nine drives in the
array had completely failed it's okay
because we've got a parity drive that
keeps things running and also when I
replace the 1.5 terabyte drive that
failed it will rebuild from parity so no
problem there so I ordered the one point
well I actually ordered a three terabyte
drive to replace the 1.5 terabyte drive
it'll give us a bit more space forward
and it was the best price point so
that's just another expense and you know
we take that here at the studio and
realize that that's a needed expense
so I placed that order and then
continued working on new every day and
checked on the status of things again
and then I got a smart error on the
parity drive what is a smart error a
smart error is an alert to tell me that
a second drive in the server is about to
fail oh ok hasn't failed yet thankfully
because that would result in data loss
one minute I was terabytes of it it's a
lot yeah so we only have single drive
fault tolerance and parity drive is
going as well it's 4 terabyte parity
drive right so the same night that I
ordered our three terabyte drive to
replace the failed drive I also had to
order a four terabyte parity drive so
now from a technical perspective not
talking about money now now from a
technical perspective we've got a hope
and pray that when I get the new drive
the three terabyte that should arrive
tomorrow because I got priority shipping
and also I hope that that parity drive
doesn't fail because if it does then we
will have a data loss situation
fortunately I do keep backups however
have no way to know what was on the 1.5
terabyte drive because it's an array of
9 Drive exactly it spins all those
drives so who knows what's on it so so
that's what you know I'm dealing with
this week and all this kind of stuff and
then the expenses of it so all that to
say as a volunteer organization here at
category 5 and the whole network is a
volunteer organization everyone that you
see on the show is is just doing this
out of the love of making free
family-friendly broadcasts available to
you we appreciate everyone who uses our
affiliate links our partner links as we
call them if you go on our website
category 5 dot TV and click on support
us you'll see shop with our partners and
it's a really neat way to support us
because you're going to go on Amazon
anyways you're going to go to ebay and
things like that so by going through our
website a percentage of that sale it
doesn't affect the price for you it
still costs exactly the same but a
percentage of the sale will actually go
to support category 5 technology TV and
our other shows I say tech TV because
this is really our biggest show as far
as the network is concerned so thank you
to everyone who does that
if you haven't done that yet please
consider it and of course our patrons
those who faithfully stand by us month
after month and say look I want to give
a dollar an episode for this or I want
to give even 25 cents in episode there's
power in numbers and the more people who
decide to do that the more our
day-to-day expenses will be covered and
and when things like this happen where
we need new light bulbs that are forty
five dollars apiece and we need nine of
them and we all you know I bought four
to get us you know so that we can get a
little back yeah
stand regatta get it back up to it and
and you know so those kinds of things
are above and beyond the expense of our
normal you know what we expect with rent
and studio Internet's and things like
that so if you haven't become a patron
and you're curious about what that means
you go to our website category five dot
TV and again under support us you'll see
all different cool ways to support the
show and the network and patreon is one
of the ways that you can do that and
thank you to everyone who in supporting
us and has supported us in the past as
well so that's enough of the money talk
has to be said all right thank you
things we told we all love what we do
oh yeah like we will love it because of
that exactly it's not about the money in
any way no SAP that it's necessary nah
we gotta come on you gotta keep it run
and got you food right foods kind of a
good thing you know well we don't even
we don't even do food I mean a
category-5 does admittedly buy us a can
of coffee every few months yeah got it
so you know my heart is made one third
of coffee yeah I don't carry a
going so those kinds of expenses we
don't get I don't take everybody out to
dinner as nice as that would be should
though but not as good an idea is a good
idea that would be coming out of my
pocket if we did and I would love to do
that but all right so moving on tonight
we've got a lot of fun for you we're
going to be looking at how you can
actually kind of keep track of what your
site visitors are doing on your website
but it takes a unique approach we're
going to talk all about it in just a
couple moments time but essentially you
think about the user experience on your
website what is it like for the
user eye is the programmer think oh this
was great I'll put this to there and
this here and what does the user think
we're going to get the scene right now a
break stick around
Jeff Weston Jemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what aren't
you all right you're terrible actor
what does where acting comes into play
oh I don't know where acting you're
supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website you
need hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
that's true how much hard drive space
you have how many email accounts how
many domains can point to it well we've
got an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just $5 and a bit of change per
month you are going to get unlimited web
site hosting unlimited email accounts on
that hosting service you are also going
to receive a free domain name the rules
are your own comm dice to put that
amazing website that you've been working
on on there if you run if you want to
build a wordpress site fine
sign up cat5 dot TV slash dream house
don't put a toilet paper something just
don't do it but hey it's a great deal
folks best deal you're going to find
five dollars and change per month put a
cap five dot TV / dream host
welcome back to the category five
technology TV our website is category
five dot TV and tonight as a web
developer myself I mean you look at
category five dot TV and that's you know
my baby that's something that I put
together the infrastructure the backend
how it works but as the developer I can
sometimes miss out on things like bugs
right I don't see it the way that the
end user sees it I see a lot of code
I might miss out on the fact that maybe
it's hard to find the local show times
because we've got the local show times
tucked away down in the footer maybe I
need to learn that hey I could move that
up to the top somewhere and then people
would be able to find the show times in
their region a lot simpler now one of
the ways that we can do this of course
is a focus group you get a bunch of
people together you get them to go on
your website and you observe them as
they go about doing all the things on
your website and see how the experience
is for them it's a real eye-opener so
that you can see you know what is this
website like for my users hmm but that
can be expensive and it can be hard to
get people together and who has the time
and so on and so forth it's getting and
this is a focus group basically these
are not your real diehard users right
though there are analytics you can use
like google analytics and that service
allows you to kind of see a breakdown of
house and look from you know what they
click on what did they do while they're
on your website but you need to be able
to generate reports and figure it out
would it be nice if you could put a
camera over the shoulder of every single
person who goes to your website and see
what they go through what they click on
see if they get frustrated or doesn't
start rage clicking because they can't
bind what's going on or they can't
figure out why the button doesn't work
wouldn't that be nice wait is there a
way there is a way done we're not going
to be all creepy and put a kiss that's
not how this works but we're going to
look at a service tonight that starts
out as a free service and what I mean by
that is if you've got a blog if you've
got a website that doesn't have an
astronomical amount of trash
you're going to be able to use the free
service absolutely fine now if you're a
bigger site say a new site that gets
millions of hits well then you're going
to want to invest in paying for their
commercial services that's cool
now they do offer a free trial of the
professional service but we're going to
be looking at the free surface tonight
just to show you what this can do for
you the product that we're looking at is
full story comm so let's bring that up
on my computer here welcome to full
story calm now this is going to tell you
a little bit about it you know is this
all just fancy fancy and they've put
together a video and who knows how real
this really is but let's actually sign
up for an account so you can go through
these steps of now look at the pricing
and everything like that there's the
professional account which includes all
these kinds of features and is two
hundred bucks a month but lo and behold
there's a free service and the free
service includes all these features now
I do encourage you to support any of the
services that you use and love us but I
understand too that you may have a
smaller website or you may just want
some insight into you know the next ten
days of what people are going to be
doing on your website because you just
developed a new website what's it like
for the new user what a great idea to
roll out your new website add full story
to the header and then you've got a
chance to actually have that focus group
with your real life users so this is
just kind of an introduction to the
features and it shows you what this
service is not going to have so the free
service is lacking click maps which show
you basically where people click in a
map format so think of a heat map where
you can see that's interest today click
on that so much that it's red alright so
that's a little bit different it is not
going to show you
geoip and all that kind stuff domain IP
error clicks which would be like I guess
a 404 or things that oh no this is stuff
that produces an a JavaScript error so
this is so it looks like the free
version is more to just kind of see
what's going on on your website yeah but
not necessarily analyze the code because
that's another thing this can be used
for are there bugs on my website that
I'm not seeing we have a website with
thousands of pages because it's got so
much video there well
know if something from season two is you
know when you click on it it crashes out
your browser unless someone tells me
that I'm not going to realize it so full
story is going to help me with that so
we know about the pricing and we know
that there is a free version available
so up here we can just enter our email
address and by doing that it's going to
pop us a quick email that allows us to
activate our trial account now the trial
account again is like a trial version of
the professional Edition of full story
but when it runs out they're going to
need you to start paying for it that's
the $200 a month so during that trial
version if you're interested in you know
if you're looking for the professional
version sure go ahead and do it but if
you're just looking for the free version
you can actually downgrade to the free
version
during the trial with no fear of having
to pay and you're not going to have to
enter a credit card or anything so just
for the sake of demonstration I've kind
of expedited things by signing up and
when I clicked on the authentication
email it actually took me to this form
that allows me to log in with my Google
account and I'm like hey that's easy
enough so I just click on it and say
okay well let's login and boom I am into
full story so welcome to full story
folks now you'll notice that first of
all I've already added the header code
to my website so I could start to track
what's going on on our website I'm going
to show you how to do that when you
first log in this panel is going to be
absolutely empty so you click on
settings and there is your recording
snippet so this allows you to basically
put that camera over the shoulder of
your your site visitors to copy this
code and simply throw it into the header
of your website so if you go to category
5 TV and then I'll do a control you to
see the header and I should see
something here for full story see that
full story com now I'm using rocket
script so it condenses and minify so it
looks a little bit different than the
copy and paste but that is the actual
code that I've pasted into the header
for the sake of this demonstration just
so that we can see how full story works
so now if you go to category 5 TV and
you start looking around I'll give you
an example I installed this this week
and I had not yet added category 5
episode 502
to the website so full story allowed me
to see that a user had discovered that
the top-right module here that says
technology TV episode 503 live right now
normally there's a countdown there it
said five two was going to be live
tonight
well 502 already happened that night but
because I hadn't uploaded it yet my
website thought 502 hadn't happened yet
okay so then I realized oh there's a bug
there I need to accommodate the fact
that okay the show has happened we have
not yet uploaded it it still thinks that
502 is to come so that was a bug that I
discovered thanks to full story I would
never have seen that yeah so so that's
kind of one of the advantages to it as
well it's interesting to me too to find
out that your eyes are somehow
associated and connected to your mouse
say you've never realized this but when
you start watching full story you
realize people actually move their mouse
to the things that they're reading to
the things really it's really
interesting Wow try to catch yourself
see if mucker when you're reading news
stories where is your mouse cursor I
don't think you move it off to the side
and put your hands behind your back it's
actually it's a fact I see it and maybe
we'll get a get to glean some of that
tonight as we look at full story com but
people do tend to point to stuff so that
was brought that bug was brought to my
attention as the user in fact placed
their mouse cursor over the episode
number over here on the right hand side
and kind of moved their mouse around in
such a way that I realized they were
frustrated with something or couldn't
figure something out
and they started scrolling up and down
you could tell they were looking for
never so 502 ah really cool stuff so
let's get a look at what it looks like
from the administrators perspective so
we're not spying on any private
information here this is literally just
this is the information of what are they
seeing in their web browser so that said
if you have a login system or anything
that displays private information
confidential information please be
mindful of that when you install this
plug-in you can actually block full
story from seeing some content you can
block it from recording certain content
and that's important as you set this up
if you have a site
has that kind of private information now
our website the advantage to us is that
we do not collect or show any private
information on the screen plus anything
that is shown on the screen is something
I'm going to know anyways for example if
somebody were to send in a viewer
question they might go to the contact us
form and yes
they will enter their email address but
I'm the one who receives that email I'm
also the one who's going to see the full
story output so there's nothing there
that is private that I am NOT already
ready to write that one private thing is
not something that I really need to be
concerned with but I could block it if I
wanted full story not to have access to
that data okay so this is what it looks
like now that the now that it's plugged
in now you'll see that Toronto has
connected in here on the right-hand side
that might be me because we're on LTE so
there's somebody in London Barry someone
in Vancouver someone in Chicago and
someone in Los Angeles on the website so
if I click play on this and notice it's
just user 483 doesn't give me any real
information that's identifying it's just
the ability to sort of see what's going
on shows me where they're located and
let's see what it shows us feel like
now's a really good time for everybody
to get on the website yeah go ahead yeah
sitting around banned the website now
you notice how right now they're just
kind of sitting there on that page
mm-hmm so I can click on skip inactivity
because it's orange down there and so
that tells me that there are some
inactivity going on I can press skip
inactivity and it's going to push right
over that now that user didn't really do
much they probably went to the website
and clicked on live right right okay
right because that makes sense that is
what someone might do in this instance
so I'm going to fast-forward a little
bit here go back in time a little bit to
well before the show let's jump to 504
p.m. when we had someone from Walsall on
the website on a Windows computer so
again nothing personally identified but
this is what they saw so there's their
mouse that's not mine see that mouse
that just kind of moved around so
they're going through the menu I can see
they are going to shop with our partners
oh good game Sam thank you as awesome
now see their mouse they're looking at
Amazon I guarantee it see
super now they're looking at eBay he
held there it's so interesting it's
almost like and now they've clicked on
Amazon co uk so if that was you
thank you huh but how cool that oh there
drat maybe they're dragons some links up
to their to their toolbar landmark bar
and that's the end of the session so
that's all that was recorded in that
particular session super cool that is
the I moved to Amazon and so did then
the I move to eBay and so did the mouse
so jumping back just a little bit here
let's see what else we can find so yeah
show me more so enjoy it really is and
from a UX standpoint ok so here's
somebody looks like maybe they it's it
doesn't seem I haven't figured out why
sometimes it's just like an instant
maybe it was detected to the bot maybe
it was something that caller they
clicked on a particular link that took
them straight to the content something
like that sometimes I go on the website
to just check the past episodes to see
what shirt I've worn in older days and
or else yeah it's like now here's
somebody looking at the pixel shadow
website as well and and uploading a skin
so you can add more than one website so
I've added that header code to more than
one website but we're just focused on
category 5 TV tonight so here's somebody
here at about noon today see their mouse
cursor there so they're reading one of
your news stories there Sasha
here are the stories we're following
this week and ok now they've jumped up
to the top what are they going to do the
intent oh you know what see because
YouTube is an embed iframe if pardon me
it's an iframe we cannot see that
they're actually watching a youtube
video in the middle there right below
the title of the page so on our website
that's where the video is displayed but
here we don't see that because YouTube's
cross-browser across domain security
policies so we just see a white square
now here's somebody looking at our
statistics newer locations for the last
30 days and they're scrolling up and
down currently viewed videos and so
obviously pausing there to read what the
episode
about see what's going on so you can see
the benefit of this now here on the
network now they've stopped there on new
every day and there's the aboon to image
has kind of stood out to them our point
Linux I guess it was there Sasha and now
boom clicking on creating screencast
tutorials and Linux with me and Christa
and there they are so now the video is
playing there and they've got their
mouths hovered over the fullscreen
button I would assume because that's
about where it would be and then it
skipped over because we've got it set to
skip inactivity and they probably
watched the video at that point and here
they are looking again at our statistics
so we have to hope that this is somebody
who's interested in advertising on our
network yes so how cool is that it's
called full story comm there is a
version that's absolutely free and
that's what we're evaluating it-- and so
it was do check it out this soon
Oh Karin Jenner who happened to be it
was it that recognized that session was
that you and is everything that I'm
saying correct did you notice how your
mouse cursor was going to the right spot
and so what you know what are the
chances here we are there are hundreds
of I just added the code the other day
I've got hundreds of videos to watch he
seemed such a helpful system not
everyone needs this but if you're a
developer if you're looking to build a
better user experience what a great way
to gauge what the users are actually
going through find those little bugs to
find little quirks about your website
and when you're done observing you can
turn it off and then you can turn it
back on the next time you do a big site
overhaul and it's important to note
along that vein full story will not have
a performance impact on your website how
fantastic is that
so check it out it's full story com if
you love it
hey give us a thumbs up and make sure
you post your comments below as well
this is category five technology TV you
breezed in like you're going to say
something so I paused oh no no that was
only just about I was really just trying
not to cough I have a little oh yeah
yeah no longer I could sip of your
coffee
more coffee great idea sorry check out
our website please and thank you so that
we can watch you
hmm with category 5 dot TV - hope you
enjoy the programming that we offer it
is provided absolutely free you can
download HD video via BitTorrent if
you'd like go to torrent dot
category-five TV or follow the links
right on the website as well so I
thought about that program I really like
the looks of little avatars I like 1000
very good-looking it just randomly picks
a cute little avatar for you that
graphic design certain issues like wait
a minute that looks too like me oh wait
I know what it was all right well we're
going to jump right over to your news
room you've got some great stories for
us tonight you're tell us about so right
I'll let you take it away
get on in there oh and I should mention
before we start notice the drones all
around us there be a story about drones
but there I think she's hinting okay
here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom based
on a new proposal drone pilots in the EU
now have to register for all drones over
nine ounces another use for 3d printers
at home as a university student prints
his way to a better smile binaural 3d
sound will make the new Doctor Who
episode terrifying an amazing step in
Bionic hands has been announced and a
new camera developed in Sweden is faster
than any photography gear on the planet
these stories are coming right up don't
go anywhere
now here's another great way you can
support the shows you love for the
category-five TV network by shopping
gearbest that's right Jeff cat5 dot TV
slash gearbest it's an online store for
the geek streak in here or the loved
ones well of course I mean especially
your loved ones right because cap v DV /
gearbest quite frankly has all of the
greatest tech gifts that you could ever
hope for at rock-bottom prices because
that cellphones you bet you cap 5 TV
slash gear best has a wide assortment of
unlocked Android cell phones and tablets
what about compute consumer electronics
those like your greatest absolutely from
high tech watches to action cameras
headphones even virtual reality headsets
cat5 dot TV / gearbest have you covered
they literally have it all Jeff
literally really it's like a superstore
right from the comfort of your own chair
at your computer through the interweb
yeah there's no way they have it all
it's true it's just a bunch of random
electronics Stephanie what about clothes
yep both men and women fashionable
apparel at rock-bottom super-duper
prices kinda like this well look at this
coat what do you think it's a slimming
mock leather jacket I love it it's
available for less than $30 plus free
shipping a camp five dot TV slash
gearbest yeah all right you kinda got me
there
Wow any other questions for me Jeff now
that winter is past flying season do
they have any good deals and say copters
oh my goodness well check this out dude
they have everything check out over 500
various drones and not only that they're
available marked down by about 32 up to
63 percent off the regular price love it
what's website again while you're going
to find gear best on our partners pages
for any of your favorite category 5 TV
shows like new every day
category 5 technology TV the pixel
shadow but of course if you want to shop
absolutely right now and you want to go
straight to the site all you have to do
is visit cat5
the slash gearbest so that's using tech
five dot TV slash gearbest
that's right happy shopping I'm Sasha
through Madison here the top series for
the week of May 10th 2017 the European
Aviation Safety Agency is proposing
rules on the use of small drones that
would include requirements for operators
of all but the smallest devices to
register with authorities the European
Union Civil Aviation agency said Friday
that its proposal would allow members
member countries the flexibility to
define areas where drones are prohibited
or where some requirements are relaxed
operators of drones accepts those
lighter than 250 grams would be obliged
to register with the authorities the
proposal also sets out technical and
operational requirements to the unmanned
aircraft easa says it plans to submit a
final plan to the EU executive
Commission at the end of this year after
receiving feedback on its proposal Wow
so that would mean 250 grams that's just
that sounds small if only we had a
repository of many types of drones that
we could see how much is 250 grams oh
look at a scale a random scale Hollyer
it happened to be there okay here I'm
curious because 250 grams does sound
like a small drone like how heavy is
Buzz he my phantom 3 it's technically
like 2 pounds so it's like 1,000 I don't
know I don't know metrics Ariel 9 out of
SIA 250 grams to pounds though it is
good thing that we have Google in our
world okay so I'm going to start with a
teeny drone okay okay so I have set the
tare mass it shows zero grams right now
let's actually actually show it yeah
okay so yeah here we go go teeny drone
is 13 grams
okay so teeny drones we do not have to
license they're safe thankfully
your name and our okay to imagine f oh
my a lot of paperwork
that's next let's jump a step up we've
got a navigator this is awesome this is
a hexacopter oh it's a bit it's a baby
hexacopter oh look at how adorable that
is
oh you want to see ok I'll get it for
you this like the CX star has a case in
the controller it has the hex ok I'm
going to put it on there so that I can
take a video of it for you that's what
it looks like ooh ahh so shiny it's
pretty and it is 13 grams beautiful okay
we do not have to register our navigator
okay sir save my girl Ani grams is that
150 okay yeah 13 so we are golden oak so
by not gonna look so far they're dealing
this is pretty teeny teeny teeny things
hence the name
tell me drones yeah okay I'm just gonna
set that aside
hello what do we got now have you next
that's an H 101 from flurry on it still
feels light oh let's throw it all in the
box let's throw it on the box and see
that's only 200 grams in the box okay so
usually we know we know that that one's
good
what's next okay we've got the what I
call the spider it looks like a tranche
Allah honey it really does this thing is
sweet to fly Henry it's just like a
cloud controlling a cloud within opens
oh oh it's definitely teeny tiny it's
not going to it's not going to weigh a
ton let's I'm gonna hope nothing yeah
ton yeah that one is 53 grams now I'm
pushing down with the cable sideways oh
my gosh not pre-planned okay so that one
we know we're good okay how big do you
need to be to have to license these
things light about it not only says it's
mad wait so batteries do you think this
one physics this one here that's pretty
heavy
that's the micro drone 3.0 oh yeah
it's got the separate batteries there
yeah I remember this guy he's a good
flier
yeah jinx so itself is pretty light so
of course when it's in the air it's
going to have a battery as well do we
have batteries in here oh I hope so we
don't so the weight is always a
controller well would the weight have to
be with or without the battery probably
a battery looks like a lair flies
without a battery right she's only 50
grams with without the battery and I
can't see a battery being 200 grams know
that er is received a micro drone and
kind of our probably our biggest toy
flyer I don't even know what this is
ei Xin Jie 30 okay let's get it out
whew she's black that's all she's fancy
it's like a really really small Phantom
3 Pro button like a black plastic and
you know about Asian haha I know might
be a green plastic it does have a very
small battery in there okay so it'll hit
a slightly larger quad right so let's
throw that on there and we are still
safe folks so it looks like twice your
own decoy drones are going to be safe
play around me looks like you're okay
yeah 103 grams so that one's a little
bit heavier but we're still golden so
hey if you're flying these guys I think
you're going to be okay right once you
get into the larger more professional
drones she'll need a license you're
going to need to license that under the
new rule so now really the motivation
will be for drone manufacturers to find
a really good a lightweight material
I'll see a lot of crazy awesome drones
coming out at 205 REMS
well you like injected with like I don't
know like helium inside the drone itself
could imagine helium drone helium gel
looks weird with the balloon on top
I once I once bought a tank of helium
and it was superlight what I bought it
and then I felt a bunch of balloons and
I went to a move cake and the tank was
so heavy
really the helium - yeah it was such a
mind oh man all right an undergraduate
at New Jersey Institute of Technology
made his own plastic braces using a 3d
printer $60 of materials and a healthy
dose of ingenuity and they actually
worked a most ugly had braces in middle
school but he didn't wear a retainer
like he was supposed to so as he slowly
shifted back he didn't want to shell out
thousands of dollars for a whole new
round of braces so the digital design
major decided to make his own on his
blog Dudley wrote that he was an
unlikely combination of two things he
was broke and he had access to a
high-quality 3d printer through his
University he took full advantage of
this the process wasn't exactly easy he
had to research orthodontic procedures
and plot the route of his successive
braces so his teeth would move in the
right way but once that was done all it
took was fabricating a series of models
out of relatively inexpensive plastic
and then following through on wearing
them and it was worth it for Dudley
whose smile turned out looking
remarkable now we have a good ol
before-and-after of ya dr. green so you
folks saw that yeah but here's the
before yeah and now I can see that he's
got the retainer on the top teeth hey it
really reminds me of Invisalign I'm not
sure if it's a patented technology so I
don't know if we're going to see his you
know invention or idea go to you know
the mass market because it doesn't visit
line have a patent on that I'm not sure
I don't know invisible braces but that
I'm sorry I don't right so that's the
before okay all right and there's the
after oh no way
look at that that is awesome goodbye I
hope that he made that a project like I
hope that that huh oh yeah he got a
doctorate and not
is just like master's thesis I can do
this now thought and look at him hi
amazing $60 worth of materials I know
and they are so expensive I mean you try
to correct a smile right it is very
expensive wow that is great okay with
this week's episode of Doctor Who you're
going to need headphones to take in the
full spectacle knock knock season tenth
fourth episode will be a brief slide
into the horror genre helped along by
binaural 3d sound technology as Radio
Times reported this week's episode of
Doctor Who knock knock will feature the
show's first ever 3d experience sound
experienced with the help of binaural
recordings and the BBC iplayer by noor
binaural recording is a method of audio
recording using two microphones instead
of one which gives the listener the
sensation of actually being in the room
with the characters it's similar to the
technology used in IMAX theatres and at
home 3d stereo systems so the first
knock on screen might sound like it's to
your left while the other well the one
right after might switch to sounding
like it's behind you
it's a technique guaranteed to send
shivers up your spine when used in the
horror genre and that's exactly what the
fourth episode seems to be aiming for
the binaural Edition won't air on
television but it seems likely that it
will be available for purchase on iTunes
at a later date that is awesome you know
what I love about this is binaural audio
does not require surround town it does
not require speakers all around you it
simply requires that you have a nice
pair of headphones right now so you have
made binaural recording yeah I do
binaural nature sounds yeah and in fact
if you go to our website category five
dot TV you can look at episode number
one of the show show where I demonstrate
how to in fact build your own binaural
recording rig that's so it comes
complete with audio samples so put on
your headphones go to our website
category 5 TV do a quick search for DIY
3d microphone and you'll be able to hear
that on your headphones and it's neat
because it's true you actually like
think about this for a second I talk
this on that on that episode was so not
to be redundant I know you're going to
go watch it right after the show but if
I go like this where am i clicking right
it's so wild to me that our ears even
though there are only two of them we can
say depth dimension how does me how does
that work it really changes your actual
like viewer experience I mean your
listening experience I suppose in this
case because I know in my apartment we
have a stereo system setup where you
have two speakers all around yeah we
have speakers all around us and when
we're watching something well when
Dave's playing a video game
we're like there's a bonfire like our
souls and he walks around it you can
really hear the crackling everywhere
right like that isn't here's the
difference of that surround sound yeah
yeah binaural takes advantage the fact
we only have two years anyways Frey we
don't need seven speakers around us
right we only have two ears so they put
two speakers one on each year your
headphones and record it in such a way
that it emulates the fact you know do it
go like this and you hear where that's
coming from around you and it's amazing
and so binaural audio takes advantage of
that that's so awesome so that everybody
can have the experience of having that
but here no yeah yeah amazing from you
yeah happen on your smartphone
well you aren't going to wake up the
whole house now when you're playing like
Hall duty and there's an emotion or
something just put your headphones on
and you're all set do check out the show
show episode one QA and you'll learn all
about binaural audio I get to hear it a
bionic hand that sees objects and
instantly decides what kind of grip to
adopt has been developed by scientists a
computer uses a camera to assess an
object's shape and size and then to
trigger the correct movement to pick it
up the technology was developed at at
Newcastle University and has been
trialed by a small number of amputees
dr. Knut Naza for a senior lecturer in
biomedical engineering at the University
says that the by a mecan't Bionic hand
can respond automatically the
could spark a new generation of
prosthetic limbs giving the wearer the
ability to grip objects without the use
of their brain researchers say dr.
nassif or said prosthetic limbs have
changed very little in the past 100
years responsiveness has been one of the
main barriers to artificial limbs the
hand to the hand to reacts within
milliseconds and performs four different
grasps suitable for picking up a cup
holding a TV controller and gripping
objects with a thumb and two fingers or
a pinched thumb and first finger that's
actually super incredible personally
because I my mom she was born with only
one arm right so she actually doesn't
wear the prosthetic limb because it
doesn't make any sense to her because it
doesn't it's not really super fun to a
whole lot with it right and and because
she was born that way she's not an
amputee so it's not like there's a lot
of like I guess this would work in the
situation because she wouldn't need the
nerve connections or any sort of yeah
weird it's almost as if the hand Wow has
its own mind and no not was kind of what
it can do yeah if you reach out you know
I can subconsciously reach out and pick
up my mug and you know it just happens
and it just happens so to have a hand
that has the technology to be able to do
that same thing without me having to
think about right so you get close to it
and then it does know the appropriate
thing yeah thank you well it doesn't do
different yeah well yeah things off my
Ma's and I promise I didn't do that
I meant warning hitting us oh my god we
know oh boy okay a new camera haha take
a breath and venusian I never developed
in Sweden is faster than any photography
gear on the planet
researchers at Sweden's lund university
built a crazy fast camera that can
capture a staggering five trillion
frames per second or once high five
brilliant okay or events as short as 0.2
trillions of one second at that speed it
is able to capture video of light in
flight Wow I know that is like
mind-boggling to me with the new
high-speed film camera the researchers
plan to film rapid processes in
chemistry biology and physics that are
otherwise impossible to capture in
photos or videos the folks responsible
for the development are currently
shooting video and will be releasing
several samples this fall neat I can
only imagine how cool it's going to be
to see that in you know just even nature
films right how long would you have to
wait for one second of time to pass with
two long hours and hours just to see
what normally happens in a flash but
that's interesting that they would use
it for biology and processes that
normally happen so quickly that you
can't see them so splosions implosions
my love science very well thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom i'm sasha
Doradus thanks Sasha this is category 5
technology TV our website category 5 dot
TV we've got your viewer mail thank you
everyone for participating in our
contest which is still going on it's
called the category 5 TV treasure chest
and you can win any one of your favorite
prizes we got a chest full of gear we've
talked about it on the show in the past
we're going to talk about it coming up
but basically you open the chest if you
win and you get to choose which prize
you'd like to walk away with so in order
to participate in that contest all you
have to do is email contest at category
five dot TV and when you do that just
tell us a little bit about what you love
about the show and what brings you to
category 5 TV so sash I'll get you to
read what do Lida Vulcans sentence do
leader Vulcan says I found category 5
after installing a Roku during season 6
I think I didn't get to watch many live
shows because of my work schedule at the
time now I just have to remember the
correct day I really love yes so does
Robbie should I just mean yeah yeah
come on now you know Tuesday's for so
many years I do lead a Vulcan you can do
a couple of different things but
subscribe to our iCal go on to category
five TV and click on for our calendar or
a quick link of cat5 dot TV slash
calendar and that will take you to our
google calendar and you can subscribe
and it will alert you how cool is that
very cool the easiest way we did it
julie de volcán also says I really love
the show because it feels like and
reminds me of the sixteen line BBS I was
doing I was a member of back in the day
Wow yes chat and talk about technique
imputing
you don't demonstrate at doing something
you actually are doing it which includes
failures Hey bringing us back to that
show that we will never happen oh never
happened yeah I'm sure some viewer will
experience the same failure and then you
fix it and get around it's somehow it's
a great show and you're all very
likeable people thank yous some Thai
people broadcast and the main thing you
hear is their keyboard because they use
a laptop and the built-in mic that gets
every mechanical sound the system makes
yeah you not only listen to suggestions
but you even ask for feedback any
feedback you can get thanks to the whole
crew and keep up the great work
thanks Julia Vulcan Inc we got pretty
good that you're awesome
Henry there's one for Mehran Morissette
can you take that one for me I sure can
hey rod sit let's see it higher on how
are you doing out there it's good good
to see you alright so Ron says I have
been a huge fan of the category 5 TV
show awesome that's awesome thank you so
for many years now even my wife enjoys
the show especially since the episodes
you and Sasha yeah they did on the
Raspberry Pi so like every since you
guys like sternly that yeah because yeah
because he says um my grandson and I
music our music feature that's right a
music server in the way back when ya
know because Ron says um my grandson and
I are also big fans of the pixels shadow
now okay thanks to you tonight on one of
our shows for those of you who are
yeah on the category-five network yes
hmm whole network of shows on thank you
and mangofox Emma T I'm working towards
changing my main desktop computer - boom
- awesome
I just need to buy another hard drive to
back up my data I am also working on
using a Raspberry Pi as an open VPM
server that's cool projects yeah let us
know how that goes by the way um my wife
and I are both patreon thank you so much
thanks for how the show and wife and
everyone else yes I have placed your
affiliate link - blank on my desktop for
easy access every time I order something
from Amazon again thank you so much I
think that said originally connected
resist yeah the affiliate link to Amazon
yeah because there's like a big blank in
the script right now parently I'm out of
bluing bran he messed it up Tommy
um so I just have to for the record
income I love your show in all
everything that you guys do on Tom and
how the show is improved over the years
and your new co-host 1000 it's just so
cool nice today just kidding no thanks
thanks man and we miss Jeff Jeff will
hopefully be back soon he would be James
planning on it yeah don't worry about
Jeff's not gone anywhere you don't know
he's here he's just has that invisible
cloaking thing on right now um we miss
Jeff but we especially love Sasha
Sasha's getting all the love and thanks
good no but no don't thank you so much
guys like it really it really does mean
a lot and thank you for your comment
about me what so so so here's it right
thank you so much for sending in your
your contest entries again extend them
to contest at category 5 TV we're
getting a large list of folks that have
qualified for this contest and pretty
soon we're going to be drawing drawing
those so just to let you know because
people are starting to ask well when is
the actual break exactly and that is
coming now we are just waiting for some
of the product that's in transit so once
it's all here
then we're going to be accumulating it
so some of the the product is not yet
physically ready to be delivered so
we're just waiting for it all to arrive
once it's here that's when the draw is
going to take that we're going to
I live right we are going to do a live
there is a little bit of a surprise to
it so you're going to have to just cast
your ballot and make sure you watch it's
gonna be fine works super gonna be cool
okay so we've got another one here and
again out of blue ink Robby isn't that
funny and I'm going to try to iron any
of this well okay
reading I meant here that is in blue ink
I see it and I see it but I don't have
access to it and so I'm actually going
to open it up on my screen because I
know you're sitting there and there it
is blue ink f8 Tommy says Oh tea Smith
from mine test is yes
I knit oh that's me
oh so this is MH Tommy from YouTube so
we've heard that name many time yes from
mine test we've heard of you many times
so it's interesting isn't it that you
know we don't always make the connection
if you're on YouTube you're watching the
different shows you're playing mine test
and we've got all these different names
and so we try to make the connection so
thank you for clearing that up
and also says yep I'm a guy and I knit
very cool heck yeah you could have been
a bald woman too
I would love for you to sent you to be
awesome like a beanie or something like
a big r4 rod I need it a nightcap would
be fantastic just help me sleep it's
gonna happen a little bit last night
super duper love when people write in
thank you well thank you everybody for
participating in tonight's show and
being here with us chatroom it is so
good to see you I didn't see any
questions there I do see the flood of
messages that are going by it's so great
to see everybody and very very cool now
we have a product called NEMS that is
the Nagios enterprise monitoring server
do you remember that about six months
ago and I know that because it's on a
six month release cycle
MEMS was featured on the show now names
1.2 is released and in its final kind of
unexpected bug fix phase because there
were some little issues out the gate but
we're working through them and that
NamUs is really really cool if you want
to monitor your home server your your
computer's your network if you want to
take it to the enterprise level and
monitor hundreds and hundreds of
computers see if the hard drives are
failing or see if the CPU load is too
high or the print spooler Tsar crashed
and all this kind of stuff just is a
dream for IT managers it's called names
you can find it on my blog at bald nerd
comm slash NEMS
and ems and that actually runs on a
Raspberry Pi 3 Oh so this whole
enterprise server for monitoring
everything runs on PI this is starting
to sound familiar oh it's working not
good it was pretty cool cool
but 1.2 is a huge improvement over 1.1
so much work went into it I'm very very
excited about it
and the community is responding well as
well so do check it out bald nerd comm
slash NEMS and be mindful that we're
just in the process cooking up an
interview so that we can talk to the
original developer of NatGeo spy and
we're going to be premiering MEMS 1.2 on
the show in the coming weeks so we're
really excited about that I love doing
PI features and showing off some of the
cool things that we do here as well so
and that's a free product so we not only
give away free TV we give away free
distros and freezers stuff again that's
that's what we like to do around here so
and I appreciate everyone who decides to
do the same and give back to the show
and we couldn't do it without you so
thank you very much and those of you
just watching as well yes thank you but
that's all the time we have can you
believe how do hours go by so fast in
this hour but then when I'm at work oh I
know yeah don't say it or if I'm
planking if I'm at the gym and they're
like stop playing for 100 million years
yeah yeah you playing for one minute and
it feels like it's four hour if you had
a camera that could shoot trillions of
frames per second then you could make it
look like you were planking for an hour
for a million years and I started like
immediately I had do you plank do you
ever do it oh yeah oh yeah I get down
there and I start planking and like
within I would say four seconds I
immediately start like my whole body
shakes like I'm vibrating because my
muscles are on no now granted I am
planking on one of those vibrating
gyrating like a rodeo horses but here if
they try it one get a purpose it's like
a cool body court like it's a core
strength it's kind of like in a sit-up
Photoshop
it's a push-up position so like you get
some shoulder stuff going on it's a
seriously intense just subtle looking
move for full body fitness I would look
great in the plank position Sasha thank
you for the tip that's coming to the
category 5 TV numbers random specials we
are doing laying yeah when the Dada
craze like a few years ago - yeah well
now we go weird said this is not what
I'm doing reversing your bra tops of
buildings or anything yeah and thanks
for watching
it's for watching everybody and I look
forward to seeing you next Wednesday
yeah
[Music]
