welcome to category five technology TV
episode number 416 for the 8th of
September 2015 so nice to see you I'm
Robbie
I'm Sasha tonight we are gonna be
continuing on our series on how to build
a music server from a Raspberry Pi
computer it's a music server that will
fit in your pocket but we've got some
very specific needs and desires to go
along with it so we're gonna be
following along we're gonna be
installing the operating system today
getting the software up and going and
really rocking this thing forward
excited I'm totally excited this is the
first computer I've ever built she did
it I just all I did was click it now
here's what's coming up in the category
5 TV newsroom a lightning strike near a
Google Data Center has permanently wiped
out a millionth of a percent of user
data for the first time Apple will allow
advertisements to be blocked by the
iPhone and iPad versions of Safari Canon
has developed a 250 megapixel camera
sensor a new satellite out of Europe
hopes to launch in a couple of months
and observe the ripples in the curvature
of space-time and fiat-chrysler has
started distributing a software patch
for millions of vehicles via USB stick
spent in the post stick around the full
details are coming up later in the show
this is category 5 technology TV
starring
Sasha dramatis Hillary Rumble
Christo wells
and our kid
and your host Robbie Ferguson
this is category 5 pretty intense that
was awesome
yeah alright ready to rock yeah I can't
believe we're here already it's been a
crazy mad week it has been the show show
launched I know it's so exciting now you
can check that out yeah please do
it's the show show dot TV that's how to
do it that's how to do it make sure you
subscribe okay now our new website is
coming along but right now what it does
is if it automatically takes you over to
I think our YouTube channel so make sure
you subscribe on YouTube we've also got
a Facebook page set up we're starting to
accumulate the likes and those really
really help us out because then it lets
us do some cool things with with Google
and with Facebook that we can't do if we
don't have your likes can I say I really
like that episode did you love that
launched perfectly I love that too I had
a lot of fun doing it and and pulling
together as many people as I did to make
it happen so the show shows gonna be a
lot of fun our first season
everything's pre produced it's not a
live show so everything is very
meticulously planned out and and set up
in such a way that you're gonna learn a
lot of cool things about broadcasting
audio engineering recording filming all
the techniques everything from anything
you can think of we're gonna try to
throw it in there anything that I'm
experienced at anyway so that's the idea
of the show show to take some of the
things that I've learned over my Oh 15
years of broadcasting I suppose more
than that so so taking that knowledge
that I've accumulated over the years and
sharing that with you through the show
show TV and some of the questions that
you get from this show then you probably
answer they're a really great detail yes
because if someone says hey how do you
set up a shot in wire cast well I can
really really quickly show you here on
tech TV but I can do an entire episode
on it on the show shell that's
specifically what it's about so if you
have those kinds of questions hey email
me
you can email live at category 5 TV that
still gets to the studio so if it's
appropriate for the show show I'll be
sure to move that over
nice yeah welcome to the chat room
everybody now Robbie yeah do you know
that category 5 TV is a member of the
tech podcast network really it is well
if it's tech it's here we're cat 5 TV
slash TPN and the international
associate association of internet
broadcasters which is cat that sounds
really prestigious it is pretty
prestigious cat 5 TV slash ia IB great
tonight can I give a quick shout out to
some of our newly freshly registered
viewers LH Martin has joined us a
category-5 dot TV also has k4 bo k for
cable or is it as a cable ha ha so that
makes sense
sound Pro 69 who is incidentally joining
us live in the chatroom as well welcome
to the show I believe I saw as if by
that they're watching from Miami Florida
so I feel like I kind of envy your
weather today
are they cooler in Florida tear calm
complain it's really smoking hot here's
been really hot this team like they're
just steamed it was incredible AC is
fixed at the studio though so that's
been a bonus jay-z matrix
oh yeah welcome to the show also
Blackfyre and again leet-speak I should
have left that one to you why yeah I'm
glad you didn't but I'm not doing that
one I'll do this one okay
she's like one three you know obviously
hackers obviously how obviously ethical
hackers with the white hats it's not not
in a basement not it not that I'm
judging movie star watching the show
right no offense if you're in a basement
with green ambient lighting no offense
none of that I want to say thanks to
those who have supported us through
patreon as well as our partner links
this week even a lot of people going to
shop category-five dot TV and picking up
various devices I got my new drone the
XF x5c - one from SEMA and I've been
posting videos and stuff on Twitter and
so a lot of you have actually gone and
purchased one of those through us
through shop category 5 TV check it out
if you're not following me on Twitter
it's at robbie ferguson and then you'll
be able to to do that but and then
you'll see those videos but thanks to
everybody who's helping us out that way
now we've had some internet intermittent
intermittent internet issues in that we
use LTE internet here and it has been
kind of up and down just because it's
it's it is what it is and we've got this
here and we've got concrete walls so the
last couple of weeks have been a little
bit dodgy at times a little bit but
we've got a good device and I said when
I purchased this one that one of the
nice things about this particular model
is it's got the two antenna outputs so I
can get an external antenna so we have
purchased on order an antenna that we
can put outside or even in a window and
I've done a line of sight to the tower
and we're actually in a really good
position here to the tower that is not
very far from us and and within line of
sight even from ground level so so we're
in a good situation that way so but we
do need to install that and it and it
did cost a little bit more than what has
been contributed for that so if you have
a means to support us in that way and
want to help us to improve our internet
connection you can go to donate dot
category-five done TV and it means a lot
and of course again thank you to
everybody who's supporting us through
purchasing and quick and banner ads and
everything that we do to help pay for
this free show I mean truth be told if
you don't have the extra money in your
pocket to give then just to click an
affiliate link I mean if you're buying
something from Amazon and it's taking
you to the end of your budget right then
buy it for our affiliate links you know
some people had a really neat idea and I
don't I don't see any kind of
demographic data or anything from people
who purchase but some people have had
really
great ideas like buying their toilet
paper on Amazon or is someone I even
ordered some gift cards that they sent
by email to friends or family or
whatever so you can get a $20 Amazon
card send it to somebody by email and
then they can use it to buy things on
Amazon but because the purchase was the
card we actually get a percentage of
that it's a really support the show you
could also send us that eat that card
yes triple whammy we get the commission
I don't do that probably like a
violation of the Terms of Use for Amazon
and then they cut us off completely and
I can't believe you would do that to us
I never said a thing yeah so this is
gonna be a great episode I think so are
you ready for it I think so we've been
playing around with this raspberry pie
thing it's a model too you can pick one
up at cat5 dot TV slash pie and if you
have already picked one up thank you
yeah definitely
speaking of people going and purchasing
stuff that we've been talking about on
the show you go to camp five TV slash
pie and there are many of you who are in
fact sitting with yours right now at
your desk because you've picked one up
with this wonderful kit that we've
accumulated there and so we appreciate
you following along with this tutorial I
hope that you enjoy what we're about to
do mm-hmm and that's very cool so what
do we got you you've built this thing
thus far yes except for the snapping
together I've got like an overhead
camera for you oh nice there we go I did
a fantastic job of snapping it together
with my man hands right I was a fold
them yeah well I was afraid a little
afraid that I was gonna break it to do
the snap of the mobo if you break it
it's a different story than it should we
backtrack just a little bit this is a
multimedia server that we're gonna be
able to stick in our pocket right you
know if I had a pocket there you go yeah
pretty cool remember when there used to
be polly pocket protectors with pens
they are harder to source these days
people used to have the poverty people
who never had to throw away a shirt
because of a pen leak come on
you don't understand I wear a black
apron at my work so I've had many times
explode in my black apron why wouldn't
you just wear a black shirt
I wonder where an ink colored shirt
anyway make it the Stein now you can
just put your raspberry pie in your
pocket you don't need to put your pocket
right exactly okay so this is a the the
idea is it's small it's portable but
it's it's something that we can deploy
really really easily and our project is
okay so we've set up a challenge for
ourselves we want to create a music
server that fits in our pocket which we
you've done you've built the machine
it's with a Raspberry Pi 2 from cat5 dot
TV slash PI all the stuff is included in
that kit here is the challenge it needs
to be accessible and controllable from
our mobile devices tablets phone also
computers and things like that I need to
be able to connect to it without having
to connect this to a TV or a monitor or
anything like that right I want this to
be a headless machine that just sits on
my network and it does the work while my
computers or tablets control the music
and things like that what else is what
else did we require we wanted a lot of
file formats right yeah yeah I'll say
nothing quite like building a music box
and then realizing that hey it won't
play FLAC files or OGG Theora or OGG
Vorbis I should say OGG Vorbis files you
know I'm in video when so we want it to
be compatible with pretty much anything
that you can throw at it
m4a files I shouldn't have a problem
playing any file that I can throw at it
it shouldn't be just mp3s and we want to
be able to do playlists right so I think
that would be a great idea right I think
we could pull that off like if you were
if you were gonna do something like this
say you didn't want a DJ for your
wedding right don't do this
this is not a way to save money replace
your DJ with like a point-and-click
intervalometer camera automatically
taking a picture every 10 seconds and
that's your wedding photographer why not
that's what we do we have teacher free
lammeter my mom selling her house and
I've got my $60 tea
my $60 drone with the camera built-in
720p and it's fun and everything but she
wants me to do the video of the flyover
and I'm like mom no no I'll do it for
you sure but the quality is no I just
recently through Dave a big birthday
party yeah right and I hired a DJ and
was the DJ the DJ was great birthday was
awesome but here's what the DJ did the
DJ just so he just like he spent a lot
of time wandering around the room
because he just moved in a couple of
songs then he could go wonder right so
the switch over gone are the days of
flipping he doesn't have to be there
anymore because it's just a playlist
that he's created anyway think the only
time he needs to be there is if you
specifically request a song he's the DJ
he's got the PA he's got a disc a single
CD that says Dave's birthday mixtape
probably exactly he did a great job this
is not but this could do that job that's
not what I'm trying to do here sighs I'm
sorry I know if you're a DJ I don't want
to take over your eye never mind this is
what we need to do though we need taker
however it would be nice if in the
middle of July you could hit a playlist
that doesn't have any Christmas music
and yet and yet at Christmas time you
can click on the one that's called
Christmas and it would play all the
pretty Christmas music that you like I'm
just using that as an example of course
because my temple wasn't good at all
this your example is terrible you're
putting people out of business well what
do a TMS do anyway to say yeah
Touche powered by Windows XP so okay so
those are those are kind of the things
that we want to be able to do the only
other thing I can think of is I want it
to be able to connect to the network and
get its songs through the network right
but let's throw another curveball
let's also allow USB flash drives
because we've got four USB Jack's here
right on the Raspberry Pi 2 so we might
as well be able to plug some USB flash
media
into that full of music perfect the DJ
would bring it on a USB flash drive I
happen to have a flash drive with me so
don't let me forget we'll try it yeah
yeah yeah oh can you reformat those
we'll talk about that a little later
okay so you want to give this a go yes
okay okay first of all we've got the pie
from the first section of this series
we've got the micro SD card in the SD
adapter as we saw that also comes with
the kit okay and it comes with noobs
installed noobs is a version of an
operating system meant for new Raspberry
Pi users to be able to get their feet
wet you don't happen to learn to install
but I'm gonna show you how to actually
install some software today so I'll plug
this in and then we'll just get to it
what we're gonna be looking at is a
program called volume o volumio follow
unions say this stuff volumio
follow you meal yes that's exactly what
it is the operating system volume is off
why I mispronounced it I'm saying it for
the next five years I gotta get it right
just for the sake of volumio so volumio
is spelled vol u em io dot org and I'm
just gonna make it so that I can bring
up my computer screen here for you won't
take me a sec and here we go thanks for
the wonders of desktop presenter from
Telestream mmm-hmm a couple of mouse
clicks later and we have it okay volumio
dot org and what it looks like is this
and it is nice and easy to get started
literally all you have to do is click
get started so essentially let's do this
okay so what are we doing the default is
a raspberry pi so this is to download
volume you know and one of the reasons
that we picked this particular project
now I'm gonna say that there are many
many projects up and rising that cover
multimedia playback MPD on a Raspberry
Pi or other kind of player this
particular one is an active project
they've got great plans for the future
they're working on version 2 already
currently version 1.5 5 and there is
some movement there it's a great little
tool and it's easy to install easy to
deploy right and it has a lot of the
features that we're looking for so let's
hop over to it everything pretty much
anything yeah yeah as far as raspberry
PI's go you could do this on a Raspberry
Pi 2 Raspberry Pi 1 whatever it is that
you happen to have hmm
if you already have one just hanging out
at your house you know there you go so
now all we have to do is click download
quite simply now we're having a little
bit of Internet issues and that's ok
because I happen to have already
downloaded and this is where case for
those who are watching live right now
are probably reporting maybe we've got
some internet issues that's where that
new antenna is gonna come in it's gonna
help a lot as we start using up some
bandwidth the antenna drops the
connection so really looking forward to
that arriving we're gonna install that
on the air ok so let me just grab the
download that I've got here the volume
you yeah now I'm really thankful that
I've kind of plan ahead here all right
here we go so I've downloaded the file
which comes as a zip file and we're just
going to extract that now this can be
done on Windows this would be done on
Mac I wanted to use Linux it's that cool
that's pretty I really wanted to use
Linux because I know if I do it on
Windows a lot of viewers are gonna say
well how do you do it on Linux or can we
bring enix I think that's the way to go
but it I just say that to say that yeah
you can do this on Windows the
instructions are very very clear on
their website so don't you worry if
you're on Windows or another platform
you'll be able to do it ok I'm gonna
extract the file which is going to take
that zip file and extract a file that is
a dot IMG so that's the well as you
guess an image file of the the USB flash
drive and so the next step once while
that's extracting is to simply determine
the
the dev assignment of your USB or your
pardon me your SD card that you've just
inserted into your computer that's
finished extracting so we're good to go
so the way to do that I mean an easy way
to do that is just to hop into your
terminal okay and type LS slash dev SD
star and what that's gonna do is it's
going to do a directory listing of
everything called
SD anything the asterisk means anything
starting with SD in the dev folder which
will show me all my hard drives and the
last one is probably going to be the
drive that I just plugged in right
that's that SD card that I've just
plugged in so then to confirm that you
can eject it remove it do the same thing
LS slash dev slash SD star enter and see
that SD b1 is now gone
okay cool right yeah so SD b is the the
draw of the disk itself SD b 1 is the
first partition on that disk so it's I
can't stress enough it's extremely
important to confirm that this is in
fact the disk you can also type sudo D F
for disk free space - H for human
readable format and you'll see how much
space is on each of your devices that
are mounted oh if it's a mounted disk
you can do that mine's not mounted if it
is mounted then you can see how much
disk space is free on those as well
that's a smart way okay so the reason I
say you can't I can't stress that enough
you have to make sure that it is in fact
the drive is because if that is a hard
drive and you do this you're actually
going to be wiping out the hard drive so
if in doubt we need to understand a
little bit about the Linux file system
we're not getting into that tonight too
much but I'm gonna trust that you have
confirmed that this is in fact your your
drive okay but I'm stressing for you if
you're not sure if you don't know how to
do that make sure ok you need to
inquire and and find out more
information about how to do that
right okay you know if you're sure or
not right exactly
I would I would call you yeah that's
fine yeah unplug the desk right do it
again and see if sdb disappears right
plug it back in
do it again LS / Dave / st star and if
it suddenly is back then you know that
is the one that's the one then your
shirt or one your older Josie if you're
watching this after today if you're not
watching this live then just rewind five
minutes and watch this part again and
then know for sure what you're doing and
then you can and then you can carry on
carry on okay so it's actually quite
easy now I've downloaded that to my
desktop so I'm gonna go like this
and I've got a folder for today's
episode and that should take me there
and it's called volumio is the folder I
put it in and we extracted it into it
automatically created this folder so oh
oh it's not a folder okay no that's the
IMG file there it is
1.7 gigs once extracted so now what we
need to do is we need to take that image
and write it to the SD card that we've
inserted into the computer notice that
we're using a computer to create the
disk to install the operating system
then we're going to boot from the
Raspberry Pi it's actually not that
complicated of a procedure we're gonna
use a tool called DD and make this
window a little bit bigger for us so we
don't get cut off there so what we're
gonna do is we're gonna type DD well no
I'm gonna need superuser access aren't I
cuz I'm going to be writing to a file
system so sudo space DD space be s
equals and how much BS do you think we
should give it we should give it is
there somewhere on the sheet that I
don't know I just I'm just playing with
you how much 100 100 just alright we're
gonna give it one Meg of BS okay so
that's one that's the block size just so
you know I don't know the block size of
the disk so that's that's the
recommendation by the
by the software developers so that's
cool okay so the block size is 1 Meg and
the if' is in file okay
volume you know so notice I just take vo
and then tab completes it and it
completes it Oh F equals so out file
equals and then dev and then SD what was
it be STV yeah no I don't want the one
cuz that's a partition I just want the
disk itself okay okay SD be being
absolutely sure that's my 100% drive
that's the driver
yes and so then I'm safe and I'm good to
go so I can hit enter on that and why
did you just rip it takes time oh for
the magic of television Sascha I've
already created the disk oh thanks for
having I wanted to show you how to do
that okay all right okay okay all right
so now all right so now this disk of
course as we as we've seen before but
this is kind of cool it comes with this
adapter and by removing this micro sd
from the adapter it's just it's so cute
she says listen to this okay so that
gives you that itty-bitty micro SD card
which now oh I'm still upper view here
so I can show you so now this card I
simply put it in there nice and gently
yeah and it will only you don't need to
force it just give it a little clap
actually clicks okay yeah that's perfect
I can hear that alright cool so let's
plug it in I guess I'll let you do this
thing
there you go so I've already prepped all
the wires for you okay okay so we've got
this is the power cable that came with
the kit at camp five dot TV /pi
excellent this is the HDMI cable that
came at the same
so that's video and audio output for
testing and I'm we're gonna plug that in
just so that you can see the screen so
that I can show you what that what that
looks like but I'm gonna explain to you
why we need to unplug that in a bit and
then that's the Ethernet cable which is
purchased separately but most of us have
those laying around but that's our
Internet
activity network connectivity okay so do
I do the power first no power would be
the last one okay because it boots no
it's good question as it boots it
detects what's connected right oh it
tries to get on the network but if
you're networking and connected yet it
won't be able to do that it tries to
activate a television or an external
display and if you don't have something
in HDMI I won't be able to do that
gotcha okay so power last okay yeah so
that's HDMI audio HDMI is audio and
video I knew that maybe I should get
that let's get this you want to bring it
back a little bit here okay so I plug
this guy in yeah it's not HDMI and then
this one here is that's your Ethernet
yeah so it goes over here and this way
and this is the Raspberry Pi that Sasha
has assembled herself okay so now you
wanna moment of truth yep zap is one way
okay okay there we go we got a power oh
there's a little light and we've got
some things going on here look at that
oh and it's booting up so now you don't
have to have a TV screen in order to
boot this up obviously I just wanted to
connect it so that viewers at home could
see that yeah we're getting some
activity here and also it confirms for
us that we haven't destroyed everything
and everything is actually booting up
there it goes brilliant so cool okay so
now the next step is okay we don't have
well maybe you have a TV on it you can
look for the IP address and everything
but you need to know the IP address in
order to access this through your
network to control it yes so the way
that I did that and I'm not going to
bring it up on the screen because it
contains some information that I can't
show you at home but easy way to find
out what the IP address of this is is to
log in to your routers configuration
whatever your DHCP server is because out
of the box this is pulling an IP address
are you familiar with that term yes okay
so that's the it's the address of your
this computer
my network right like a phone number
yeah we did a new story on it where
they're running out of yes okay yeah
same thing
so with that IP address so now how do I
get that now easy way is login to my
router go into the DHCP pool and see
where that one picked up a DHCP address
for we have a very small pool here so
it's nice and easy I can just type in my
address here I'm gonna bring up a
browser 192.168.0.1 my pool starts at
100 and I can just guess that it's going
to be 103 and I was correct okay we go
so we're actually connected to volumio
on this device and it's ready to go it
has no music
as you can see Wow but there we go but
there you have it so there's the
interface I promised that I would pull
out a USB flash drive here which has
some yeah so just to demonstrate the
fact that yeah we can actually plug in a
USB Drive so as soon as I plug this in
well maybe you should do that this is
your your this is mine yeah yes okay so
you get that in there okay and it's in
and now I guess there's nothing really
to see on there however over here notice
at the bottom left oh updating updating
right so now if I click on that
I'll see USB and now I see some things
that are on that disk and I see one file
called jazz Samba dot mp3 and if I click
on it I can hit play and it will
actually start playing I don't know you
guys hear that over HDMI okay so I
mentioned about HDMI now I wanted you to
be able to see the screen here on the
device that you see that it's booting
but there is a catch to having HDMI
plugged in is that it carries audio as
well as I mentioned right so what we
want to do is we want to use the
the output the audio headphone jack
output to convert to RCA and plug it
into a PA system and turn it into a
music system for an office kind of
scenario right right
so if I have HDMI plugged in and then I
plug in a pair of headphones or I plug
in the PA or anything at all if I'm
DJing and I plug in well HDMI takes
precedence over the audio output there
are ways to change that by going in
through SSH and using also mixer and
things like that but we're not getting
into that with the scope of this so what
we need to do is we actually need to
power off disconnect HDMI altogether so
that when we boot up it's going to be
using the headphone jack okay so the way
to do that is simply menu and then turn
off and power off the device pretty
straightforward that powers off of this
whole device this computer here the the
Raspberry Pi so everything is controlled
through the browser you don't have to I
don't have to ask SH into it that I
don't have to figure out Linux commands
or anything like that it's all done
through the browser so now I can unplug
this I can unplug the the HDMI right
plug back in the mini mini computer okay
and it's simply going to boot right back
up again it's got the USB flash drive I
suppose I don't know if it's gonna try
to boot from that so maybe I should just
unplug that just to be safe mm-hmm make
sure that it comes back up and then
we'll plug it in a nice little interface
that's gonna kind of spin us wheels
until it can get a good connection kind
of keeps retrying with ajax I am blown
away by how easy this is
it really is way to we get into
playlists and things this is great so
this is category 5 technology TV and
tonight we're learning to deploy the
volumio software on our Raspberry Pi for
our project how to create a music server
that will fit in your pocket and really
this is all there is to it we've been
walking you through this is the second
part of the series and hope you're
enjoying it and following along and and
learning all about how this stuff works
but how cool is it that you can build
something like this yourself
you get all the parts cat5 TV /pi mm-hmm
this would be a great gift even you
imagine pre building it oh yeah you
could give a Raspberry Pi and if the
person wants to mess around and stuff ya
know ya create money Buddha too by the
way
oh that's nice yeah yeah if you actually
were to create playlists and give this
entire like do the Raspberry Pi do the
project itself and then give this as a
gift to your you know your parents or
you know your mother-in-law or something
right they would have their own music
libraries I'm sure and yeah to import
them you could maybe set set up mom and
dad with they probably have everything
on a Drobo right mom and dad at this
point alright so hopping back over to
the interface here I'm gonna plug back
in our sash is gonna plug back in the
USB flash drive I just unplugged that
just in case of tried to boot from it
cuz I guess there is a possibility of
that and because of the the time on the
show I didn't want to risk it so let's
see what happens here
I've got a pair of headphones Sasha so
that we can test this out okay because
we're like DJs oh wait
that's how DJ's go yes that's how we
roll folks okay so this that's just
gonna go into the headphone jack here
I'm not making fun I just so you know
like really aware that the chat room
agrees with me like absolutely said I
was right sasha is right all right
Kenny let's say so this this simply goes
into the headphone jack Raspberry Pi 2
has a much better sound system than the
first gen Raspberry Pi oh so we don't
have the same problems that we had with
audio quality and there we go I don't
know if you wanna put these on and we'll
give it a try
maybe I'll just check that the volume
isn't bad before I put them on your head
I'm gonna zip over here click on so I've
clicked on well right now it says
updating but normally it's your media
down there
click on that and push play there we go
so it's playing it immediately started
playing do you want oh yeah I can hear
that yeah sound Pro 69 asked if we could
run Kodi on it and control it with an
Android remote app yeah I sure could
absolutely
how's that sound sound quality though
the fidelity of it it's good she's
listening to royalty free elevator music
it's totally elevator just so that I
could like can you guys hear that so
what I've done is effective I hit play
again so you can see there's no latency
okay there is no there it's gapless
playback so there if you're if you've
got CDs that you want you know to have
back-to-back music there is gapless
that's beautiful sounds great this can
now be plugged into a sound system or
whatever you want to do or at home your
stereo system and you've got something
you can control from anywhere and it can
connect your Nass can we go through I
know you're anxious to get into the news
go ahead no we can do yeah can we touch
can we touch on Nass connectivity and
just really basically because we're
running low on time here
and in fact technically we're out of
time for the feature you'll see that it
does support web radio as well so right
out of the box you've got all these
stations that you can start listening to
love it alright that's commercial
commercial free free to listen to online
radio incredible right out of the box ok
so going through real quick we've got
our library that's you know your
settings for the library itself so this
is where you set up a new network
attached storage mount so it gives some
good examples here so this source I
could call music or if I want to break
it up by genre I can call it classical
or smooth jazz and then you're gonna be
using sambar or CIFS is pretty typical
of Windows Network and FS if you're on
linux or of course samba CIFS is
entirely compatible with a linux network
as well enter the IP address of the
server enter the directory on that
remote server the username and password
if applicable and
you can save the mount and then it's
going to be added to your list of
libraries of available media when you
click on browse and you'll be able to
just click through and access your music
that way so once you've got your music
well what do you do let's jump over to
playlists and you'll see I've added that
song twice here I can clean that up
and there's the song now how did I add
that simply by going to browse and then
I'm on my USB Drive or on my Nass or
wherever I am and I can click on it I
can click on this little icon over here
for the menu and I can add I can add and
play I can add replace and play whatever
I want to do but if I click add it now
places it on my playlist this is the
currently loaded playlist and so if I'm
creating a playlist that's all Christmas
music that's the example or if I'm
creating something that's all smooth
jazz royalty-free music you're the
elevator right you can hide this in the
elevator with a little speaker then
that's what we're doing so let's pretend
this is our Christmas cute view of music
so I've added as many files as I want
it's searchable right search for Giants
there it is it's the only song I've got
one result with jazz and then I can
create the playlist name I can call this
one Christmas and hit save and now over
when I hit browse and go back here I'll
see a full of an actual playlist called
Christmas so next time I want to play my
Christmas playlist I can simply reload
it right and it loads that in place of
the currently loaded play that playlist
so it works like you create your
playlist you save it and then you keep
reloading those playlist or you can
create your own shuffle or whatever you
want to do and I mean failing that you
could listen to the web radio and it you
can play that right off the browser or
if you if you get yeah oh yeah let's
let's just clarify the music is going to
come out of the raspberry yes not your
devices your devices are the controllers
Oh for this okay the music will come out
of whichever you've got plugged in
either HDMI so if you've got this
connected to your TV for example it will
come out of your TV or your your
soundbar
if you've got headphones plugged in or
audio output going to a stereo system
great way to do it that's how we're
going to be doing it using a little
adapter that converts to RCA that will
then come out of that jack if you have
both plugged in the audio is going to
come out of HDMI only okay just to be
clear about that
yes your controllers that's perfect
there we good can you believe that we
did it that quickly like that's
literally we've spent maybe a total of
without all the explanations and walking
you through everything probably would
would have taken us about a half-hour to
get here not even not even not even a
half an hour really to build with that
project with that kit a multimedia
server it's powered by MPD the music
letter daemon which you've seen on
previous episodes of category-five TV
but without all the technical setup and
nice and easy to use I love it
love it all right this is category five
technology TV thanks for tuning in don't
forget you can pick up one of these at
cap five dot TV /bh headphones not
included but that's the entire kit to
build this project volumio is available
absolutely free of charge if you're
using this for commercial purposes or if
you find for any reason that this is
fantastic please do show your support at
volumio dot org now off to the newsroom
are you ready over there sir yes I am
right here she is it's - a door made us
it's Tuesday September 8 2015 and here
are the stories were covering this week
Google has permanently lost some user
data thanks to a lightning strike
outside one of their data centers Apple
is opening the gates to ad blockers on
the iPhone imagine a camera sensor so
sophisticated that you could read the
lettering of the side of a plane from 11
miles away Canon has announced their
awesome new 250 megapixel sensors and
we've never been able to observe the
existence of gravitational waves or
ripples in the curvature of space-time
but a new satellite out of Europe hopes
to do just that and in an effort to fix
security vulnerabilities in their
vehicles
fiat-chrysler has quite possibly handed
hackers are handed hacks to malicious
users on a silver platter
yep these stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere
you've got mad skills now hone them
learn new skills or improve your
existing ones with online video
tutorials and training from lynda.com
through our special link at cat5 dot TV
slash Lynda learn software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today to help you achieve your
professional goals join today and start
learning we'll give you this chance to
try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat5 dot TV slash Lynda I'm
Sasha dramatis and here are the top
stories from the category 5 TV newsroom
late last month google revealed details
of a recent incident affecting one of
its European data centers which resulted
in an extremely small but nonetheless
permanent loss of user data logged as
Google compute engine incident number
one five zero five six the company's
report details the events that occurred
between August 13th and 17th the cause
of the problem google explains is that
the power grid local to the affected
data center in Belgium was hit by four
successive lightning strikes that caused
a brief loss of power to storage systems
allocated to the Europe West one - B
zone while the data centers emergency
power management systems quickly kicked
in Google says that some recently
written data was located on storage
systems which were more susceptible to
power failure from extended or repeated
battery drain as a result Google says
that there was some permanent data loss
although this affected only a tiny
proportion of the total amount of data
hosted at the center less than zero
point zero zero zero zero zero zero one
percent of the persistent disk space in
Europe - West one - B according to the
company
Google has accepted full responsibility
for the outage and the consequent data
loss and says that its engineers have
conducted a wide-ranging review across
all layers of data sensor technology
stack to identify areas where the
improvements are needed wow that is one
of those situations it's such a small
loss of data that it doesn't seem like
it would be really a big deal but if
it's your data what seems in pin test
infinitesimally though in such a
large-scale network can actually be a
rather significant amount of data as far
as actual megabytes go that is true
because they didn't say how much was
lost as a percentage tell me how many
gigs here Google huh yeah so I mean for
lightning strikes in a row that caused
you know the storage I guess it just
never went from like kind of short-term
memory into the long-term memory storage
yeah it's I mean I can recon
yeah that can wreak havoc on UPS's and
generators and everything as they try to
trip and failover but there's Google
have a list that we could check of all
the incidents because I would like to
see what incident one is one five - or
one I can't remember one five six so six
few there's quite a few incidents what
was incident one does this raise
concerns though I wonder about trusting
the cloud exclusively I know that there
are a lot of businesses that are working
on migrating all of their data into the
cloud but the scary thing is is it's in
such a way sometimes where it's no
longer a local file it's now no longer
possible to realistically backup all of
your data like it was when it was on a
local server it's it's completely
decentralized what happens if Google
loses your files in a case like that
yeah
yeah how much do your files mean to you
catastrophic really I think so okay now
for the first time Apple will allow
iPhone and iPad versions of Safari the
movies likely to please users but will
concern the many companies that depend
on advertising for users the benefits
are pretty clear webpages become less
cluttered and pages should load more
quickly less bandwidth usage also means
lower data costs and iPhone batteries
could also last longer between charges
so it makes sense from a user standpoint
however it does hurt it hurts free
content providers there have already
been loud complaints about the spread of
ad blockers on PCs and several of
Germany's leading publishers have tried
and failed to block their spread via the
courts their fear is that the practice
could now become widespread on mobile
Steven Chester of the interactive
Interactive Advertising Bureau trade
association warns if you are a medium or
small sized website operating on a very
tight margin this could make or break
your business it's true what do you
think of the state of web advertising at
our studio we try very hard to have a
modest amount of ads strategically
placed to not distract or take away from
the free content and they make a big
difference to us as we continue to grow
our viewer base are you using an ad
blocker and what are your thoughts
Apple will not offer its own ad blocking
software instead people will be able to
download extensions made by others from
its App Store in a similar way to how
they already install third-party
keyboards yeah this is sort of a
bittersweet as a as a user Yeah right as
a user right I don't like you know
sometimes there's really atrocious
horrible just pop up in your face ads
and they're just yeah you know but
that's not every case like our ads I
mean not that I bias or anything at all
no our ads aren't meant to be that like
that we're not trying to annoy you or
badger you I mean we're trying to really
it's almost another case of where a
couple of bad use cases have damaged the
reputation of the platform and therefore
are damaging the the people that are
using it legitimately we offer a free
service for example and so those
advertisements pay for it I think about
newspapers who are no longer able to
sell print newspapers off of the store
shelves in a convenience store so they
rely on the ad revenue of advertisements
on their website as you browse and read
their stories and as soon as they start
charging subscription fees now for for
their websites just like they used to
let you know you're looking at an old
paradigm you can't charge realistically
what do you do you go into Google News
you do your search for your news you
click on the one that says I need you to
pay to have a subscription and you click
back and then you go to the next one
that has the exact same story
differently worded but it's the same
news and those are the ones that you can
read so it just doesn't work that way
now here is some very cool news
electronics company Canon has developed
a 250 megapixels sensor for use in
digital cameras oh that is in seen Canon
said the sensor is sensitive enough to
read the lettering on the side of an
aircraft 18 kilometers or 11.1 miles
away Canon said it had overcome several
technical hurdles to get the sensor of
functioning basically space time Wow
yeah can you a Matt you can like see
through walls errs know we have many
megapixels it's incredible in particular
it said it had got around the signal and
timing problems introduced when reading
data from the 250 million pickle pixels
50 million data was read from the chip
at a speed of 1.25 billion pixels per
second which said
demanded much improved signal processing
systems to ensure picture-taking was
well coordinated the sensor measures
twenty nine point two millimeters which
is 1.15 inches by twenty point two
millimeters which is smaller than many
sensors found on many 35 millimeter
digital cameras and the resolution is
get this nineteen thousand five hundred
and eighty by twelve thousand six
hundred that is crazy
resolution Canon said the sensor could
shoot video but only at five frames per
second which is far slower than the film
rate or the rate needed for a film
however it added the video clips it
captured were one hundred and twenty
five times more dense than those in
standard HD video and about thirty times
the resolution of a 4k video that's
clearer than clear that's like so
incredible it's impossible to explain so
would you use that technology for good
quality yeah or even or would you would
you use it for quality or would you use
it for a magnificent amount of data in
high resolution think about Google
satellite view and how something like
that could be so down to the the planet
surface if it was a larger scale sensor
and the implications the I is it for
good or evil exactly yeah Canon added
the gadget was unlikely to find its way
into domestic cameras or smartphones of
course instead the ultra-high resolution
sensor could find a role in surveillance
systems or other specialized
applications so this reminds me Robbie I
don't know if you remember the news
story of a while back and it had
something to do with facial recognition
or there was something with mall
security camera they were claiming that
oh they're just not high enough
resolution to be able to tell who the
person is exactly right now they cannot
only tell who you are but they can tell
if you've lost like this could be great
for surveillance you think about a
convenience store surveillance systems
and whenever there's a robbery or
something you see the picture in the
police
post on Twitter and they say help us
find this person and you can't make out
a thing surveillance video is so
pixelated and gross yeah could it make a
huge difference to that it's gonna be
like 4k surveillance it's 30 times 4k
it's really really really cool and very
scary only because you'd like to make
everything very conspiracy for the
pickles and conspiracies I know I don't
know why I'm a conspiracy theorist I
didn't think that of me until I started
be Europe is ready to launch its most
exquisite satellite mission yet Lisa
Pathfinder is a fundamental physics
experiment that will test the technology
needed to detect gravitational waves
what are sometimes referred to as
scientists and engineers have declared
the demonstrator ready to fly after more
than a decade of development it will
likely go up in November on the European
Space Agency's Vega rocket the month
marks the 100-year anniversary of when
Einstein published the field equations
that underpinned his theory of general
relativity gravitational waves are a
direct consequence of that grand idea
and although there is plenty of evidence
to suggest the universes will wash with
these ripples so far no actual detection
has been made either on earth or in
space confirmation of the waves
existence and their subsequent routine
observation would open up a new paradigm
in astronomy one that would no longer
depend on traditional light telescopes
to look at and understand phenomena in
the sky very cool I feel like I don't
understand exactly how we would use this
but well
it's like replacing light waves with a
magnetic wave and I don't know the
science behind it or anything but that
sounds cool yeah so I would think that
you could see see much much further than
a telescope can because telescopes
require light right this doesn't require
light so you'll be able to see much more
detailed imagery that wouldn't
necessarily look like what we would see
with our human eye but it would give us
telemetry xand being able to find more
earthly planets right with much more
accuracy those kinds of things that will
UFOs
dance we're on conspiracy theories right
then we'll be able to see whether or not
the aliens have lost
everything's just in high resolution yes
okay this story needs no conspiracy I'll
tell you I'm not even gonna spin this
I'm just gonna read this straight up all
right fiat-chrysler has started
distributing a software patch for
millions of vehicles via a USB stick
sent in the post so now in July to
hackers revealed that they've been able
to take control of a Jeep Cherokee via
its internet connected entertainment
system the car firm has been criticized
by security experts who say mailing a
USB stick is not a good idea
Pete Bissell is chief executive of
Hedgehog security in the UK he says this
is not a good idea now they're out there
letters like this can be easy to imitate
attackers could send out fake USB sticks
and go fishing for victims it's the
equivalent of email users clicking on a
malicious link or opening a bad
attachment he warns that using a device
like this had wider implications saying
hackers will be able to pull the data
off of the USB stick and
reverse-engineer it they'll get an
insight into how these cars receive
their software updates and may even find
new vulnerabilities that they can
exploit the flaw being patched affects
up to one point four million vehicles
sold in the US see I read that story
exactly as is now I will say
what I'm imagining is like a zombie
apocalypse of car vehicles just very
unwise move it seems to be doing this
like can you imagine phishing scams and
it's just much too yeah put this flash
drive in your car and reboot your
computer and suddenly you've got a
backdoor into your computers it makes me
laugh only because I picture like a
boardroom like a really fancy big
boardroom with a lot of like big like
heads of the company sitting around and
somebody comes up with this idea and
everybody agrees with it and great
sounds like a great idea
let's go for coffee and then all of a
sudden USB sticks are just being sent
out in the post big thanks this week to
ROI W Nash and our community of yours
for submitting stories to us if you have
found a news story you would like to
send email at the newsroom at
category-five TV for all your tech news
with a slight linux bias visit the
category-five TV newsroom at newsroom
dot category 5 TV for the category 5 TV
newsroom I'm Sasha tomatoes Thank You
Sasha this is category 5 technology TV
welcome to the show hey if you're new
here make sure you say hi in our chat
room category 5 on freenode send us an
email live at category 5 dot TV we'd
love to have your viewer questions and
trying to help you out with tech all
around speaking of questions do we how
do we have time we might be - we're out
wow what have we done holy so much fun
Raspberry Pi I know I know I hi this is
how do you like the flight of the
conchords reference if you got it you
win I didn't get it all right I do not
want to lose oops
let's see
well you're looking for I'm just looking
for that part where you write general
discussion things the whole point of a
general discussion is just how you been
what's new you know that's the general
discussion of the whole thing but okay
if you need me to write it down well
then on that note folks
it's always fun having Sasha here isn't
it but thank you so much for tuning in
it's category-five technology TV our
website is triple w dot category-five
dot t v-- the show show is alive and
going the show showed on TV is one of
our shows yes how many times can i say
show in a sentence
the show shall teach you well show you
everything you need to know shows do we
have general banter do you want to talk
about your show my show try it buy it
yeah my show try it buy it yeah I know
it's not on the world I know it's it's
not but there are so oh not not judging
you there are so many really cool
episodes that are coming up and try it
buy it
we're right by it is a product review
show Sasha provides unbiased reviews
that are honest and sometimes brutal
with regards to products that are
available on Amazon specifically so you
want to check out that show it's try it
buy it dot TV and we've got all kinds of
other shows as well to subscribe to our
roku channel that's a great way to get
them Nate UK has got cody up and going
so if we've got Cody make sure you get
over to github.com slash Nate UK and
also you'll see that the plex channel is
coming along as well so we thank Nate UK
for that and making that happen please
send us your feedback love to hear from
you also big thanks to Adam tonight who
operates our camera it makes us look
great zooms in just enough that you
don't see all the greys coming in down
here
we're not using one of those cannon
crazy yeah
you have the 3a 250 megapixel that would
be neat no please never get that please
never everage photos even if we get like
a zillion patreon people and we get you
know tons of money just flowing in
leaving 250 megapixels we will be people
we will never ever ever get that camera
there's not enough makeup in this world
for that camera
well have a fantastic week everybody and
don't forget next time we're gonna be
talking now next week we're looking at a
product review on a brand new quadcopter
you can find out more and through
following me on Twitter and then we are
going to be finishing up our review and
installation we're gonna be actually
installing this on a real life network
plugging into a PA system and making it
go and training people on how to use it
it's gonna be a lot of fun and it's
gonna be chance for you to see how we
connect this in the field how easy it is
the idea
exactly people say wow Linux is so easy
Linux why wasn't i doing this sooner
why not see everybody have a fantastic
week
see you next week guys
we hope you enjoyed the show category 5
TV broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every Tuesday at 7:00 p.m.
Eastern if you're watching this on
demand or through cable TV check out the
local show times in your area a
category-5 TV and find out when you can
watch live and interact in the community
chat room category 5 is a production of
prodigy digital solutions and is
licensed under Creative Commons
Attribution 2.5 Canada we'll see you
next time thanks for tuning in
