welcome to category five technology TV
it's episode number 587 so nice to see
it we've got a great show planned for
you we have a device well kind of like a
device about 14 dollars that's gonna
take your photography of products to the
next level and make your shots look bro
we've also got the brand-new Raspberry
Pi 3 model a plus we're gonna be
unboxing and talking about tonight
don't go anywhere it's gonna be a great
show our live recordings are trusted
only to solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 DV / TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash ia IB
welcome to the show everyone is so nice
to have you here again with us this week
I hope you're doing well how are you -
awesome yeah yeah and you I'm Robbie
this is Geoff sash is here I'm doing
well thanks Jeff good yeah anything new
Watts Moo yeah I'm on vacation for the
rest of the year which is kind of nice
so don't go back to work till next year
okay take the rest of the year off to
say that on New Year's Eve New Year's
Eve I'll be able to say that Wow
yeah well sorry sorry to rub that one in
there but no I made a bunch of purchases
today or Christmas mm-hmm so that was
kind of any tech gives most we can't
really talk about it cuz the kids might
be watching but um all were tech all
tech Oh
so we're looking forward to hearing more
about this in about two weeks time yes
when it can be spoken on yes that's
right anything new in the tech world
that we can talk about that email that I
send out just before the show that says
make sure you think about something to
talk about
well you know it
really comes down to the fact that I'm
sitting here going I haven't had to work
what have I done
mmm like the brave just kind of turned
off but at in the tech world I guess at
my church I went in to do some sound
system work because we had a hum in the
system and it ended up we had a whole
network problem that at work yeah their
net yeah that wasn't there was some
devices that were not connecting
properly and then when we tried to get
into the system settings of the router
we were locked out so there was
something on the factory end of the
router that because it'd been so long
since it logged in yeah it was no longer
loading the admin page so we had to
factory reset do you think said might
have a compromised at Bunny chance I
don't think it was a compromised ation
but we have had a lot of technological
additions to the network over the last
year and nobody's gone in to do
maintenance just clean everything up and
so I think it just kind of bogged things
down now this consumer gear or
professional no it's a consumer here
yeah yeah I mean it's just mean after
church now we're in it off and on again
once in a while exactly but it's one of
those things where somebody else comes
along they've got a bright idea of how
they want to make things better and the
notion is patchwork and so when we went
to try and fix the settings in the back
end nothing was working so we had to
factory reset everything so we're
talking about IP phones computers debit
machine all that so it was a busy long
day you had did that networking issue
did it have impact on the hum that you
were receiving or is this just unrelated
in your head no just totally I'm really
I came in to take care of them not that
I've ever been there where oh well I
needed to check one thing and oh by the
way this this this and this are broke it
was totally looked like I came in to
deal with this hum where we had
electrical lines that were running up
against the sound cables and I just
wanted to separate them under the sound
stage and so then because of our debit
machine there was doing a security check
yeah and it was failing because of a
port in the network right so the like oh
you know you got to deal with this port
so I went to log in to fix the port and
I could he get in for diagnosis
absolutely and so then when I couldn't
get in I'm like why
can I get in what's going on and so I
finally found it back end to get into
the one router and it only gave me
access to half the network and some of
the stuff that was not connected it was
saying it was live connected I'm like
this is ridiculous
and so we finally after about six hours
got it all figured out and resolved on
our things run out of looking split nice
and you talk about factory resetting the
device to bring it back to settings that
allow you to connect in and change
things why are you laughing cuz doing
that it with some things actually makes
it worse how do you know so much about
factory resetting Sasha gave me a call
no it was a text message yes Sunday
warning me that there was a problem on
the network oh it was a potential
problem so gonna be ready for it yeah
okay so was it 5:30 the next morning oh
it's still it didn't go away on its own
yeah which I thought we could be a
possibility so I do reminder calls for
patients that have appointments on
Monday on Sunday because I lived closest
right so I stopped in but Dave and I
were like on our way like through like
it was stopped for the calls and go
because I had like a crazy amount of
homework which is another story I got to
work and the internet was down and I
thought to myself Oh probably just the
Internet's down like it'll probably just
be fine yeah yeah right so I um plugged
the what's I called him oh is it a modem
I don't plug the modem and then I
plugged it back in and the internet was
still down this is where it the truth
comes out for what I did although I feel
like you know someone did I don't know
who yeah you do
I just did what I do at home you pushed
all the buttons like Network in the back
that I helped you set up no this is the
okay so Rogers Communications the
coaxial cable internet yeah has a high
Tron modem okay that hITRON modem is
obviously in a business network it's
bridged right so that it goes into
DHCP server and that provides all the
IPS okay I would like to in my defense I
wasn't the first one to touch it because
when I went in to look at it it was
upside down on the shelf
so somebody else touched it but I also
did touch it it's a ghosts of Christmas
past but then I took my pen and I just
put it in a little hole the recent oh my
gosh it was you you do okay so on on
devices where you see the button that
says reset that is not the button that
reboots no it's not so Jeff when you did
a factory reset on your devices you knew
that you were doing a factory reset and
yes how to then bring it back up to yes
so so what happens in a case like that
yeah we need okay we need to save life
for Robbie
so the modem when it comes from the from
the internet service provider mhm
is built for home so you can plug all
your computers into it and it gives them
an IP address and it gives them access
to the Internet but it's insecure in
that your computers are now connected
directly to the Internet so how do you
know that there is a proper firewall
that's blocking certain ports how do you
know that someone's not trying to whack
away your remote desktop right so that
if they finally guess your password all
of a sudden they install ransomware and
encrypt all your files right so when
when a professional network is set up
the modem gets bridged which is
essentially saying okay it allows
Internet connectivity to one device but
the DHCP server which allows things to
get IP addresses is turned off and the
modem acts like a dumb device it is then
connected to a proper commercial
firewall yeah and that firewall controls
what ports are allowed to be used what
devices can be connected by MAC address
what IP addresses are allowed to
remotely connect into the network so
when you factory reset that modem you
re-enabled all the home features of the
device so now so at home that's why it
works fine sure the COS have a
commercial routing right right
so so now what you have is you've got
your commercial stuff yeah it has DHCP
servers and firewalls and everything
else still active but you've just
activated a second DHCP server on that
same network so now you have IP address
conflicts so every time you turn on a
computer it doesn't know where am I
supposed to get the IP address from
there are two servers sending out IP
address so now things lose communication
and they can't connect you can't get on
to the internet because you're in-house
firewall can't get the connection
because it's all messed up right right
well nothing else was working but but we
say that so that you can understand yeah
what the difference is between a reboot
yeah and a reset yeah set puts
everything back to the manufacturer
default and that's not what I wanted to
know my intention so my actions and my
intentions were totally different so
unfortunately that can cause a lot of
problems on a network right if you don't
reboot things like your server for exam
it did sense that from your face that
day doesn't get angry when he's on the
air when people are watching just about
picture what your face was like when you
saw it
I'm just personally that oh no oh no no
no no no we'll see though Sasha know
what I'm an IT perspective I had to come
in and I had to diagnose and figure it
out on an active network that oh my gosh
the bridge is gone right we have two
active DHCP servers and the bridge is
down
now was that an like an initial thought
for you because you left it last time
who should ever reset the modem right
okay so your brain doesn't actually go
there right how long does it take me to
fix it Sasha diagnose it and fix it 18
minutes 18 you timed it well I knew when
your appointment was okay that's pretty
good but you were down for two days
basically yeah because it was when I
came in that I that I fixed it yeah
so watch out for that button you watch
over yeah yeah so I won't do that
so but unplugging it and plugging it
back in is a safe way
that's a reboot and that's fine that if
that I will do in future and so in this
case maybe Rogers was down for a bit
maybe they were doing construction in
the area or installing it in the
neighbor's unit and they had to
disconnect yours for a moment to connect
everything together who knows yeah
exactly
so whether you would have needed to
restart the modem or not is it's hard to
know
so whatever no we do not never know when
you boil it down basically what happened
is Sasha's bread wasn't toasted enough
so she brought out a flamethrower to fix
it what you're suddenly caught on fire
overkill on the solution just wait for
the Internet to come I'm just gonna
reset the system next time call your
toaster manufacturer and is this what
I'm supposed to do hey we've got a
really fun show for you tonight we've
got a Raspberry Pi 3 model a plus the
brand new one from Raspberry Pi we're
gonna be unboxing in just a few moments
time we've also got a little bit of kit
that's available for under about
fourteen dollars that may be able to
take our photography of product shots
okay to the next level and make it look
professional can it be true for only $14
we're gonna find that out tonight on
category 5 stick around
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
PNH photo/video ebay or amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching
welcome back tonight we're looking at
the Raspberry Pi 3 model a plus now how
can the latest and greatest version of
the Raspberry Pi be an A+ when the last
greatest model was the B+ I can answer
that
can you well I think so a plus is just
better nicely done you could do a little
better
what we're saying is Raspberry Pi is
most improved student yeah cuz they keep
absolute yeah so this is the the latest
version of the Raspberry Pi line it
boasts a 64-bit quad-core processor ok
just like the previous iteration the B+
it has a different form factor it's got
dual band 2.4 gigahertz and 5 gigahertz
and one of the neat things about this if
you're using the A+ for for developing a
product so if you want to put this in a
smart home device that you're going to
be selling for example the Wi-Fi is
already pre certified so you don't have
to go through the certification process
it expedites your ability to release
your product that's using the Raspberry
Pi as its brain kind of thing but it
also cuts your cost because you don't
have to go through that approval process
right the Raspberry Pi 3 model a plus is
also just $25
so hey if it meets your need this is
gonna be the perfect thing I'm gonna
head over to our unboxing table here
this was a gift from from marsh man
Thank You marshmallow nice and there it
is the Raspberry Pi 3 model A+ let's get
right into the box and get a look at it
as I mentioned it's got a 1.4 gigahertz
cortex a53 64-bit quad-core processor
now you notice right away that the form
factor is different from a standard
Raspberry Pi like the B+ for example
let's get out our trusty ruler here make
sure I've got the right side here
because I always do this this is the
craziest ruler folks what do we have we
have turnover 65 millimeters about two
and a half inches a little more than
now I can see it looks like a square but
in my hand this side is definitely a
little bit shorter but yeah 56
millimeters about 2.2 inches this way
and so the form factor is definitely a
little bit different for you so we've
got a couple of interesting facts about
this board first of all the one thing
that I noticed right out of the box this
the first time I've had it out is that
there is no Ethernet but as I mentioned
it does have dual band 2.4 and 5
gigahertz Wi-Fi
it's got BGN and AC compatibility it's
got bluetooth 4.2 and it's got a
full-size 40 pin GPIO extended connector
as well so if you want to use this for
prototyping or building your product
this is the perfect little board as long
as you don't need Ethernet it has a
single USB 2 port and working our way
around the board we've got our audio
jack here as well which doubles as video
composite video so if you've got the
cable with the yellow end on it you'll
be able to pull RCA video off of that as
well we've got a camera connector we've
got a couple of different connectors
there display as well we've got
full-sized HDMI we've got the power
input which is 5 volts 2.5 amp right
here which is
the USB micro working our way around
we've got the improved Wi-Fi chip the
processor there on the other side we can
see a couple of well the board is
double-sided and then we've got the SD
card port here so that's for your for
booting your operating system as well as
the storage itself so not a lot to see
because we're so used to these single
board computers and this one is kind of
a little bit streamlined a little bit
stripped-down if you will but definitely
as a prototyping board or something that
is going to power a device that you're
creating manufacturing this is gonna be
really really cool again as long as you
do not need that Ethernet connectivity
that said we do have a USB 2 port so
presumably we could use an Ethernet USB
adapter in order to gain that if we like
what else is in the box if anything
nothing at all there you go just the
instruction manual and that's it that's
the model 8 plus Raspberry Pi 3 we're
gonna be taking a look at that getting
the giggle score off of that in the next
couple of weeks time there you have it
what do you think of that that's very
nice now one thing chatroom picked up on
yes 65 by 56 millimeters not centimeters
we're using a special telescopic lens
we're still very nice in the end then
there was a question about micro sd it
is micro sd okay if I said SD that's
that's what I mean yeah absolutely and
of course we're open any other questions
we are going to be testing that as I
mentioned with the giggle score we're
putting that up against a couple of
other boards as well very interested in
seeing how it performs and interestingly
enough in the preliminary test that
we've been seeing in the community I do
believe that it is performing better
than a Raspberry Pi 3 B+ now I say that
as a preliminary yeah you kind of think
so as it's newer and everything else but
it does have half of the RAM so we got
to keep okay that's true so if you're
using it for
like it's not something that you're
gonna be using for a retropie system or
or probably not for NEMS linux or
anything that requires a gig plus like
that one gig of a Raspberry Pi 3 B+ is
really low already so cut that in half
and now okay what what is it good for
what can I be used for there are certain
applications of course that are going to
be really really good for this board
especially at the price point of 25
bucks or a pretty sleek very nice now
the one thing about it they kind of
shocked me is that there was no Ethernet
port yeah like that to me is a drawback
because I like to be hardwired in at
home absolutely I have better control
with the data that's being sent when
it's over Ethernet as opposed to just
out there in the Wi-Fi world mm-hmm
so why would they eliminate the Ethernet
on it cut cost cut the underlying price
of the board so they're presuming that
this is going to be something of a smart
home device so if I'm gonna build
something and create something from this
device use this as my prototyping board
it's going to be Wi-Fi connected right
you know all of the the devices that we
use that are smart home they're all
Wi-Fi yeah you don't you don't plug an
Ethernet cable into an Amazon echo it
just that's not how it works so yeah
it's not great for streaming video
because it is Wi-Fi and it's limited to
the the throughput of Wi-Fi now it is a
pretty decent Wi-Fi chip but I have
found that raspberry pi Wi-Fi has been a
little substandard yeah but again it's
what is it for what is the Raspberry Pi
for that's that's where it really does
well in that kind of manufacturing
building something learning education
robots for example using this as a brain
for a robot with Wi-Fi yeah that'd work
and it's a smaller form factor it's a
little bit faster doesn't have a lot of
RAM but doesn't need it when it's just
running some Python and and it would do
very very well in that scenario I think
cool so it boils down to what you want
to use it for I'm excited to see the
giggle score mm-hm I am too you get what
a cap 5 dot TV slash
I check them out and let us know what
you think would be the best option as I
mentioned Jeff you can presumably use a
USB adapter to get Ethernet if you
absolutely needed it but that's not the
intention of this book with you know
keeping the cost down at 25 bucks hey
that's pretty cool we've got to take a
really quick break when we come back
we've got another - well not really a
device it is a it's something that we
connect to power at least so it's a
little bit of technology but it's
something that is only about 14 dollars
and it's meant to bring our product
photography to the next level and make
us look like pros with our photos can it
be true next round we'll find out
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
category-five TV slash partners for the
you might want to take the lens cap off
I don't need to because I'm a
professional photographer exactly how
many of us want to be you know we're
amateur photographers we want our photos
to look good then we take pictures with
the lens cap on and we do all sorts of
silly right okay
it happens come on Jeff fair enough
don't be foolish I've got my nikon d50
100 by no means a professional camera
but hey it takes some pretty good
pictures right but when I want to take a
product shot what am i doing I'm like
clearing off a table and wiping it down
and trying to make sure that it's nice
and clean I'm I'm setting up maybe a
cloth or a drape or something like that
in such a way that it you know looks
reasonably professional right but what
if I could take it to the next level and
it would only cost me 14 dollars would
not be nice along comes the snake oil
salesman right and right it could it be
true we're gonna find out I'm gonna head
on over to our unboxing table with my
camera here okay I'm working my way over
all right guys whoo all right here's
what I'm gonna do we've got this device
from cat5 dot TV slash cam tent for
camera tents now you've seen these kinds
of things before but for just fourteen
bucks can this really be worth our 14
dollars we've had fake SD cards off of
Amazon we've had all kinds of junk off
of Amazon but could this really take
decent this is called a slow dolphin it
is called slow dolphin 20-centimeter not
20 years LED portable photo studio so
you see how portable it is comes with
its own carrying bag it's got a USB
cable right out of the bag so this is an
unbagging tonight I guess a little bit
of instructions I don't think we're
gonna need we've got several colors of
fabric here oh that's taking me back to
the carpets you sit on in kindergarten
yeah
all right so this is presumably oh look
at this
we've got led here I've got another LED
strip at the bottom there I don't have
to go out and invest in a whole bunch of
gear I can just pack this thing up and
these are four product shots so if
you're shooting jewelry or any kind of
smaller products single board computers
things like that we've got some snaps
just like the buttons on your jeans just
gonna pop these together here we go
and lo and behold one more snap come on
there we are so this is what it looks
like like that we've got a flap here
that we can lift up to be able to put
our camera in camera lens and I guess
these guys are just gonna I didn't read
the instructions but that's Jeff's job
yeah the instructions for us oh I see
okay so without reading any instructions
this is how simple it is there are a
couple of little cut outs here see that
it's a little flap oh so it's like a MS
mini muslin a little what the is so how
you pronounce a muslin like for like the
back muslin screen yeah yeah this is not
a muslin material this is like it's yeah
a cheap fabric but it's gonna clip on I
guess right here look at that so set-up
time if you are doing this you know at a
let's say you're doing this for a
customer site look at that that's quick
and easy not too shabby
so let's let's grab this USB cable that
came with it and just for kicks
Sachi you're gonna appreciate this I've
got my USB charging device so this is
just a battery pack and and also got
batteries charged good to go
so this USB cable has full size USB
sorry I'm a bit out of focus there just
because of the depth
I've got USB on one end USB micro x - on
the other end so I'm going to plug these
in to the light panels that are built
right in here turn it upside down just
so that you at home can see it so this
being only $14 it is you know a quick
and dirty solution but presumably with
all these LEDs it's gonna do pretty well
we don't have to have big soft boxes or
anything like that now one thing I'm
going to mention here you'll notice that
as I'm plugging these in I'm holding
that USB port as I plug in that cable I
want to do that as well when I'm
unplugging it hold that port and very
carefully unplug that you don't want to
break the solder joints off of this port
okay so be careful of that and if you're
reading reviews on Amazon be mindful
that some folks didn't think to do that
so if they're complaining that it's
broken just keep that in mind over here
I'm going to do the same thing and
because this is powered by USB again I
should be able just to plug this right
in to my USB charger for my phone
there we are
and here we go
beautiful nice so we can just kind of
fix up that drape a little bit get the
creases out there we are I'm doing this
upside down and backwards so just keep
that in mind if you think it looks a
little bit rickety there you are so we
can now take pictures of products
through the through the top here or of
course from the front now this is about
1 foot square I would say and that's our
new product shot device so I can turn
this around and get a picture for you
let's just throw let's throw a nano PI
m4 on there ah beautiful
take that and there you go and and so
then presumably with the hole at the top
you can take a down shot
sure let's give it a try that's the
intention okay beautiful and that's all
there is to it so for $14 a little kit
that will now take our product shots
very much to the next level I shoot a
lot of single board computers so setting
them up and you know you've got clutter
in the background or whatever else right
so now that's not an issue whatsoever so
now you can live your the cluttered life
and still have a nice tray you go right
take it with you and set it up anywhere
you want and you've got a way to take
great little product shots for just $14
and in fact if you want to save 5%
there's a little checkbox for you that
will give you another 5 percent off of
the price and you can do that through
our link at cat5 dot TV slash cam tent
hmm cool it's just another thing I
really want there you go turns out you
can use a phone take pictures with the
phone you don't have to have a DSLR
exactly and it'll still make your shots
a lot better no interestingly enough I'm
just seeing in the chat room from soul
boo he says that the chairman of the
board at his job has one of those mmm
and he uses it heavily to take pictures
of the items that are on sale at the
second-hand store and you know list them
on the Facebook page purse oh okay and
that's interesting because hey if you
sell them you've made money presumably
and and the better the product shots are
the the more you're gonna sell
guaranteed the the professional photos
and even if they're not professional I
use the word professional in in the
context that they look good they look
clear they've got a nice backdrop like
that they've got proper lighting and
what I love about this is that the
lighting is built-in and as I showed
there tonight you can plug it into a
battery charger or a phone charger you
don't have to have AC power right so now
you can take it anywhere and you've got
that you don't have I'm used to having
big softbox that's right that you've got
to set up for everything that issued i
legit could have used this this week
three times like I'm thinking of times
that I had
to take a picture of something and then
put it into a project
oh yes and so like the picture is like
I've taken with my phone and my hand is
in the picture right now you know no I
mean one of the things that popped up in
the chatter totally unrelated to the
product itself but the fact that it's a
cheap product yes
not necessarily in quality but it's a
cheap product from you know overseas
wood and it's USB would there be wisdom
in buying a USB condom not knowing
what's within the oh no it's just a
light you can see the circuit board yes
okay all right what Jeff is asking is is
there any potential of it destroying
your device or hacking yeah because we
covered that what about two months ago
yeah no not in this case I mean look at
LED light panel that's a pretty basic
circuit for sure but as I've shown there
I'm using an external power pack that I
use right charge my phone when I'm on
the go so it's completely air-gapped for
many devices and it's not not a concern
whatsoever in this case I'd be
interested to know how long those LEDs
little LED lights last mm-hmm because on
the battery no like or just the actual
lights themselves because I find so
often it you know when you get those
cheap little runners of LED lights they
start burning out one at a time and the
interesting how long they last
right you could just replace I mean you
could just buy a new one for that just
replace them right you're a good solder
er you could just I wouldn't want to
deal with that $14 yeah no no exactly
and I'll just give you one tip use a
five volt power cable yeah not a 12 volt
and you should do okay just plug it into
USB and you're good all right we're
gonna head over to the newsroom Sasha
are you ready for us I certainly am
here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
Samsung has patented a phone display
that projects Star Wars like Holograms
Fitbit has rolled out OS 3.0 for versa
and ionic with new apps more stats and a
bright future yay more Facebook security
loathes the latest bug exposed the
private photos of 6.8 million users
capture an iPhone 3d scanner app hints
at the future of augmented reality these
stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere this is the category 5
dot TV newsroom covering the week's top
tech stories face like Linux bias Jeff
Westen Gemma you're building a brand-new
beautiful website what
aren't you right you're a terrible actor
what does where acting comes into play
you're supposed to act
okay I'm building a really cool website
are you building a really cool website
just because Jeff is confused doesn't
mean you have to be visit cap five dot
TV slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host welcome
back to the category five TV news room
aka tech bytes just a quick mention
before we jump into the news stories
this week our thoughts are with our our
friend Roy W Nash who is our news
director here at category five TV I
received this email and I wanted to
share it with you too Robbie and the
crew and the category 5 TV community I
haven't been able to submit any news for
the upcoming show as I suffered a heart
attack on Friday I'm now awaiting for a
triple heart bypass operation and it
looks like I'll be in over Christmas so
I would like to wish everyone in the
cat5 community a very Merry Christmas
and a Happy New Year and God willing
I'll be around for years to come that
comes to us from Roy W Nash aka Scorpio
55 in the community y'all know him and
love him our prayers our thoughts are
with him and his family and we wish you
well man and and are hoping for a very
speedy and successful recovery and
operation all right we're gonna jump
into the news Sasha back over to you
okay
I'm Sasha Rickman in here the top
stories were following this week Samsung
has patented a phone display that
projects Star Wars like Holograms
Samsung claims that it has invented a
new holographic device that will
actually project high quality 3d images
in the air without having to look at a
display from a specific aim angle unlike
the Nintendo 3ds the display according
to the patent published by the World
Intellectual Property Office and the
United States Patent and Trademark
Office uses a new type of spatial light
light modulator that
eliminates the limited viewing angle and
low resolution of current holographic
technologies while it may sound like
hype Samsung is known to have been
working on holographic technology for a
while perhaps they have indeed solved
the bad quality and limitations that
plagued current holographic systems the
document describes a series of micro
lenses arrays that set on a flat surface
that focuses the light beam emitted from
the display to project the 3d image into
midair thanks to the company's new
spatial light modulator there's
speculation that Samsung could be
working on bringing this new patented
technology to this to future phones in
the past the company's phone patents
have mentioned 3d holographic displays
without providing any implementation
details this is the first time that the
Korean company has provided actual
details of course while this may show
promise in the lab we don't know how far
we are from an actual implementation
wichcraft
no you know Samsung you're our only hope
Oh nicely done sir
nicely played I'm excited about this one
yeah I I have loved the changes in
holographic technology that we've been
seeing over the last couple of years and
I I always look for the next thing
because it's still I mean as much as you
can say this about holographic it's
still very basic mm-hmm oh sure but I
mean it's incredibly advanced technology
but I feel like there's so much more to
be done and so when these kind of
stories come out like yes I love it
because I can't wait to see those you
know Star Wars type images show up I
mean what was the movie with Ben Affleck
where they wipe his brain and anyway he
at the beginning of the movie he steals
another company's technology and then
like does that whole thing and rebuilds
this device and ever since that I'm like
somebody's got to make that happen and
it'd be cool if Samsung nailed it was
that Minority Report no no that was I
can't I remember who's yeah write a
paycheck I think it's called paycheck
can't
I do remember the movie yeah yeah and
and that that technology I mean the
spatial light modulator was so cool
really cool yeah I just patent the name
I picture like going into like a
doctor's office at for a diagnosis
situation and having the doctor like
bring up a holographic like this is what
a heart looks like and this is right and
to be able to explain something to
somebody where they can actually get it
because they can see it and we know to
one of your stories tonight is about the
the kind of spatial recognition of the
iPhone and and so we know that like 3d
imaging technology has come so far that
we can control things with hands we know
from the Nintendo switch for example
that hey accelerometers are pretty
amazing these days right and so what's
to stop you from being able to control
this like right like 75 so like in a
classroom setting you could have you
know like the dissection class could be
a holographic image that you can just go
through right yeah that's way less
smelly than formaldehyde I like this one
that is really neat edits Samsung I love
Samsung Fitbit has rolled out OS 3.0 for
versa and iconic as new apps more stats
and a bright future
it's the season of giving and Fitbit has
a great gift for all versa and ionic
owners beginning this week the company
is rolling out Fitbit OS 3.0 to all
SmartWatch models bringing a slew of
apps features and enhancements to help
you get even more out of your new
SmartWatch at the center of the update
is an extended on device dashboard so
that you can both see and input more
stats right on your wrist well you could
already monitor things like steps
exercise and heart rate by swiping up to
reveal the today's screen OS 3.0 expands
on the concept letting you view sleep
data as well as heart rate and hourly
activities you'll also be able to see
your weight and water logged totals and
update them right on your wrist there
are also new apps and clock faces that
love
which the sensors built into Fitbit and
ionic to create an even stronger link
with your route with your workout
routine among the new apps are the couch
to 5k which offers insights and training
programs for short and long races genius
wrists which bundles for apps which is
Jim genius Jim time pro work ill builder
and workout genius to provide structure
on device workouts and my swim pro which
delivers custom guided swim workouts and
uses real-time heart rate data to help
you would perform with your performance
all of the new apps are free to download
but some features require a separate
smartphone app purchase to update your
device visit the Fitbit app on your
iPhone or Android phone now do either of
you use Fitbit no okay
I do boom I have an eye on it ionic ok
yes which has I don't I don't know if
you go here you switch back to your
because maybe you can see my super cool
yeah you can maybe see it it's a little
smiley face oh ok ok did your watch not
allow you to view your sleep patterns
and all that before so if I go I haven't
updated I don't watch doesn't oh great I
haven't wound it so I have my steps I
can see my calories burnt I have my
heart rate you need to like walk up to
the camera with the head and show that
that's pretty neat ok but this is I mean
as you're going through story I'm like
hey this is cool updates that's fun but
then when you're like oh you could you
know check your water intake and your
sleep our water ok my watch is like 3
years old and and it's a gear fit too
and oh it's kind of doing that forever
like that's why I got this is because I
wanted to monitor my sleep so I'm
shocked that the fitbit's didn't already
have it as part of their soft but they
can update it so that's exactly my my
watch tells the time hey that's all and
that's ok right so with this one you you
get the updates yeah gets you the new
features and everything else exactly how
is the like does it have an
accelerometer I guess it would have - it
does
how accurate is that like could they we
were talking about being able to move
Holograms like could they put it in
Fitbit I would think they'd probably be
able to and then you could like have one
on each wrist and control things just by
it just yeah oh
see we're see patent that that's a
spatial hand modulator even I didn't get
the Fitbit though is because you went
with Garmin no I went with you said gear
gear Samsung gear fit Samsung yeah the
reason I went with this is because I
found that the step counter was much
more accurate than on the Fitbit oh yeah
like with because I checked I trial ran
a Fitbit and like we need things like
flipping papers was counting his steps
nice I need that 1.7 million brilliant
it takes some time to learn your step
right so if you only trialed it for a
short period I think it took yeah it
takes a little bit of time because I
know sometimes for example when I'm
writing an exam I'm not allowed to have
a watch on but I like the heart rate
monitor so I put the watch on my ankle
right well I'm still taking just one
step but now the stride is so much
longer it really it's confused resting
but you're not supposed to wear it on
your ankle I mean as far as this story
goes it's neat that they're just rolled
out of a whole bunch of new stuff it's
like hey we're update to your phone yeah
watch yeah yeah I mean that's the
technologies I'm I'm very old-school
that way like I do have a wind up in a
steampunk ish it is very steampunk ish
and and that's what I like it's right
but if you're into that kind of
connectivity and everything I can see a
benefit in that for sure mm-hmm so if
you got the update I haven't yet I
checked I checked this morning and I
didn't have it on my I didn't have it
available on my phone okay but as soon
as it's available current news as soon
as I have it available all update and
then I will let you know I guess
presumably if folks have ordered these
for Christmas gifts and things like that
then they can get that update right away
most likely exactly
you've got the latest and greatest 2.0
well I'll tell you the sleep log
situation is what most interests me
because it's the only reason why I
checked my Fitbit app on my phone
everything else of interest is on my
watch already so now it just takes me
away from my phone and on my wrist I
didn't like that about the Google home
many having to check my phone for the
things that were the answers to my
questions right so I can see how yeah
you'd want that to be hey ya supposed to
show me stuff
exactly so now I don't need to use my
phone and we know that I've been trying
to distance myself so there you go good
yay more Facebook security was the
latest bug exposed the private photos of
6.8 million users Facebook has revealed
that a bug in application permissions
allowed 6.8 million users private
photographs to slip into app developers
hands the mistake went unnoticed for 12
days before being rectified anybody
affected by the bug already allowed the
apps in question to take photos from
their timeline it's just that the bug
then opened this up to images from
Facebook stories and Facebook
marketplace it also allowed access to
photographs uploaded to Facebook but not
posted which Facebook says are stored
for three days until they're removed
thanks to gdpr it turns if it turns out
Facebook waited longer than 24 hours to
report the breach then it could be on
the receiving end of a 20 million pound
fine let's make an example of them does
anybody actually trust Facebook anymore
no no like I think I mean for years I've
been saying and and and I have been well
don't put private stuff up on there
right but here's the thing it's not
about private stuff it's on their their
private photos like I can put up a post
yes that is only for certain people it's
not public accessible but it is public
you know Facebook is a public absolutely
but the fact is I think there's a
certain
because I mean when I first heard about
this I was like okay fair enough
I never post something on Facebook that
I don't want Zuckerberg to see sure so
anything that's up there if it gets out
it gets out whatever it's just really do
I want everything to be seen it and so
but the funny thing about this is sure
it's a bug but this used to be a common
thing years ago with Facebook is they'd
update their security settings and yeah
everything in the past have you had a
slide it was now reset to public because
when I worked at the jail I found out
this because one of our former clients
look me up on Facebook and then was like
hey beautiful family's looking through
your photos I'm like excuse me I was
locked down so this yeah new for
Facebook I feel like this is just
another iteration of them going out
there the part that is bothersome to me
is the fact that Facebook so if you
don't post your photos right so you've
loaded them but you decide not to post
them it's still today still accessible
you didn't post them right so that's
troublesome oh that's just like the tip
of the iceberg I will take photos that I
put in private folder locations on my
phone that I don't want my apps to see
it's in a secure folder and somehow all
load Facebook gonna go hey do you want
to post a story about this photo that I
have not uploaded to Facebook I have not
given a permission and access but
suddenly goes hey LA so it's like you
know that apps gonna suck the life Eddie
any way how many of us are still using
Facebook now I have to have it for the
show yeah that's it you know Jeff knows
especially and Sasha was the first to
abandon Facebook I would love to abandon
face you know that I'm very
you'll never get a hold of me on
Facebook now exactly yeah discord and
that's it pretty Weiss now I've actually
wiped out Facebook eliminating my
profile and everything because of you
know private previous work but you know
just all the families on Facebook I
don't do like that the Christmas cards I
don't do the email a family updates it's
like that's the only way for them to get
thing
get connected because there you know I
will say it actually was great at my
sister's wedding
this past Saturday to see my family and
they'd be excited to tell me what things
that have happened because they know
right right not cool yeah because
Facebook has created this society where
someone will start to tell you oh did
you know about yeah I saw the photos on
Facebook yeah that's cool
at the future of augmented reality 3d
scanners don't have to cost a fortune as
it turns out you might already have one
in your pocket a new free app called
capture uses the true depth sensors on
x-series iPhones to make crude 3d models
of small objects which you can then plop
into different settings through
augmented reality or share with other
folks through iMessage or other means
with capture you can use an iPhone XS my
X s Macs to scan 3d models of say Mac
world's old Macintosh se being careful
to scan each angle once done you can
flip and spin the 3d model around inside
the app as though the old Mac were a
prop in a video game you could also send
it to a friend who then be able to use
their iPhones camera to see how it looks
on their own desk through augmented
reality this will work even if that user
is on an iPhone 7 which doesn't have the
true depth sensor built-in sounds
revolutionary right for now it looks
pretty basic but don't blame blame
standard cyborg for this captures
awkwardness Springs from the current
design of the true depth sensors which
are made to read faces from only a few
inches away
that means capture only works well if
you're holding something in your hands
for or scanning your face as the iPhone
only has true that depth sensors on the
front-facing camera capture is free so
it can be appreciated as a novelty that
highlights the potential of trove true
depth how cool is that that is awesome
to think you've got 3d scanning
technology in your
presumably that's that's okay so it's on
the new iPhones but now to be able to
you know maybe potentially bring that
kind of technology to yeah it just
starts small right so it's on the iPhone
it's only on the front-facing camera but
eventually people will pick up on that
and build on it right and it seems to be
a theme that's kind of happening tonight
yeah completely unintentionally but
maybe it's just that you know technology
is driving toward holographic technology
the ability to interact with augmented
reality that we are capturing ourselves
how cool would now combine those two
technologies right hey here's a theory
for you and make a make a FaceTime call
with your kid who's away at college
holographic holographically of your kids
augmented like put all of this stuff
together right augmented reality they're
standing in the house as a hologram
right like this is like serious Star
Trek stuff right we're now starting to
see the the bare-bones introductory
technologies to make it possible
sure it's neat I like and what I love
that we've gone to a are it was for a
long time it was all virtuality virtual
reality is gonna be the big thing we've
moved off VR as a technology it's almost
like a look at where it's at right right
but it's on the hop it's time to move
forward
right it's like it was dead before I
even got off the ground no it's not now
it's not bad I know but I think with the
advancements of AR it could take it to a
whole different level and is VR gonna be
able to stand up to AR is this going to
be like the the HD versus blu-ray I
don't think it's one or the other I
don't think it's AR or VR exactly right
but they both I don't know it's gonna be
interesting to see yeah the capability
though to carry it now in our pockets
rather than having to set up like a
PlayStation VR rig yeah kind of set up
or anything like that or you've seen the
cameras wrapped around somebody and that
becomes you know a photo environment to
create a 3d bust of the person or
something like that so now take that to
your pocket
and once they start improving on that
technology so right now it's very
rudimentary right right but now combine
the 3d scan with the actual photograph
the the actual textures that the camera
is seeing put them together and now all
of a sudden you've got something that
you put in video games you've got
something that you can bring into
augmented reality so if you're at the
store and you see something that you
think oh that would look really nice in
the house
well now you can scan it with your phone
right in 3d space mm-hmm take your phone
home bring up augmented reality this is
all just using your phone and see what
it would look like in your house then
combine that with your first story and
use holographic imagery - oh yeah that
would look really good there right see I
think to myself remember they had the
Google glasses yeah I like and they
didn't will fly
I don't know what they were called what
glass Google glass okay cool they
truncated at the end right well there
you go
well one glass okay so picture that they
can make that just don't like why I'm
calling a Google monitor now they could
like if you had that opportunity again
to relaunch that sort of technology with
this augmented situation then really you
could do some things with I guess it
wouldn't be super safe I was gonna say
with safety in mind but maybe they could
wear where they are able to use the
augmented reality to put things in your
visual space right absolutely lock off
entire streets you're not supposed to go
down yeah see I'm I'm thinking from the
emotional support end of it as weird as
that sounds but like you hear of all
these stories it's like oh I need to
bring my emotional support snake onto a
plane you know oh if you if you can get
you know these scans of say your pet and
then you build it as an augmented
reality thing for you does that provide
the emotional support for people and
Isis can creepy no I'm just wondering
how it's wrong to have no I'm not saying
it's wrong but but we're people they
want to be able to connect with things
that are coming to them but you know hey
going away on a long trip
here's a scan of you know this one piece
of but whatever my channel that gives me
if it fits in my pocket now why why not
just make that call and have like a
face-to-face conversation with the
holographic replica or an augmented
reality replica at this point because
maybe it's it's not something you make
it call with maybe it's just it's a
video like if this gets from beyond
picture to video it's a video of your
dog napping or something and you in it's
like I'm feeling how Brad's will be one
Kenobi exactly but here's this you know
this augmented reality of my dog on the
wherever I am you know like I can see
how that's it so it's okay to replace
your dog with a holographic image of a
dog no no from a therapy standpoint
stuff like that I can see how this could
be very so many great uses oh I love
just the potential there but I think
what we're seeing though and we're at
this very interesting time you mentioned
Google monocle for example yes so what
we're now seeing is so that was a failed
technology but they're still working on
it for industry inside the building on
it yes building on it so that
yeah VR it's great but let's make it
let's build on that and so all of a
sudden now it can be something different
maybe you know maybe the kids can travel
to Mars right like it's gonna right if
they're working on and when it does
happen will the technology have
progressed to the point where now they
can be here like Star Trek in a
holographic form and interact with mom
and dad I love it I have no doubt we're
gonna see that come to reality before I
stepping stones stepping stones yes
we're getting into this crazy exciting
sci-fi era which is so super exciting
according to coin gecko here's what the
crypto market looked like at 1700 hours
Eastern Time on Wednesday December 19th
2018 Bitcoin this week is at three
thousand six hundred and eighty nine
dollars and forty four cents u.s. they
lost five hundred fifty one seventy five
in the past two weeks
litecoin similarly down twenty eight
dollars and ninety three cents per coin
lost loss of five dollars and fifty
seven cents USD aetherium is at ninety
nine dollars and ninety
six cents USD again a loss Manero is
down to forty five dollars and twenty
four cents USD now the small guys
stellite is at one point eight six ten
thousandth of a cent down just a little
bit as well as turtle coin also with the
same loss of well it's lost a little bit
at zero point four seven ten thousandth
of a cent remember the cryptocurrency
market is always changing and it's
always volatile thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our website from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Sasha Rickman and I'm
Robbie Ferguson and I'm Jeff Weston
thank you so much for being here again
with us everybody not sure when you're
watching this if it's before or after
Christmas but we're recording this
before Christmas Merry Christmas Tia I
hope it's a wonderful wonderful season
for you and your families and also happy
new year going into 2019 we'll see us we
will see you next week but we'll be
pre-recorded again not sure when you're
watching this so how that plays into
things but we will we will be here in
the new year and looking forward to
seeing you take care everybody all right
happy holidays
