so you know we've got this kind of
plethora this mix of various brands and
various capacities what do you actually
use so I mean there's there's one thing
to say what's the biggest USB flash
drive what is the you know the first one
that you bought but what's the one that
you carry with you and that you wouldn't
be seeing without that's really the
question I'll query you in the chat room
as well you know we look at all the
various brands and one brand is always
cutting-edge when it comes to capacities
and that's Kingston technology Kingston
is the forerunner at huge capacity
solid-state media okay now we've seen
this with the data traveller one
terabyte USB flash drive can you imagine
a USB flash drive that fits in your
pocket like this terrible and it's a
terabyte capacity that's pretty much
like your entire like personal life on
the average person that's not more we're
going to get into it tonight what we
could possibly do with the kind of
capacities that the Kingston is bringing
out in the small media market and before
we do that Sasha you had a bit of an
adventure this week I did yeah what were
you up to well I was at the mall yes and
I love shopping till you drop shopping
till I drop and I was walking around
talking to people should we check in the
seashell all right let's head over to
the georgian mall here in Barrie Ontario
here Sasha I'm Sasha dramatis and
category-five technology TV and today we
are showing people their first look at
Kingston technologies biggest flash
drive in the world
Soloman do you use a USB flash drive for
your files
for your storage I use a couple of them
yes awesome what size do you
depending for school I like to use 32
gigs pretty solid size anything else I'd
like just songs and somebody that hate
gigs are typically okay for quick
movement okay that's awesome what is the
biggest size that you could imagine that
they have four USB flash drive two
terabyte awesome yet you you're in the
loop not very many people know so we're
just letting people know that Kingston
has unveiled a 2 terabyte flash drive we
sold
it's amazing to look at it
[Music]
aside from the general bulk it actually
is pretty nice with fiddling my backpack
on I've got no issues Dave can ask you a
couple questions yeah do you use a USB
flash drive for your storage of your on
file yeah I use a 256 gig I might put
music on it and bring it in my car
nice what's the biggest flash drive that
you can imagine
um I don't know maybe a 512 by 512
megabyte yeah okay what if I told you
that Kingston technology is just
unleashed a data traveler that is 2
terabyte what I never even heard a thing
like that that's huge
pretty amazing act yeah how much do they
run for wow that's incredible but I mean
for somebody who needs it you know I
wouldn't be too much if they're using it
for business
pretty incredible act yeah that's nice I
love it
Nathan do you use a USB flash drive for
storage for files no I don't I have you
heard of them yes I have all right what
about is the size you would guess they
they would be 100 Gig 100 gigs Andrew do
you use a USB flash drive for your file
sometime time ok
about what size is it a couple gigs like
I don't really move a whole lot around
so what would you imagine the biggest
one would be 500 gigs I don't know 500
gigs ok so what if I told you that
Kingston technology has just unveiled
one that is four times that size that's
pretty crazy look up your Tara blader
this is 2 2 terabytes Wow
incredible
I can't believe that come on take a look
at it doesn't look a whole lot different
from your average USB Drive I guess it's
pretty cool
Alex I'm Sasha I'm Jess here to ask you
a couple questions okay
so Alex do you use a USB flash drive for
file storage or for everyday use I do
not you do not have have you heard of
them okay okay
so what size do you think it's the
largest size that you can imagine that
they would have four USB flash drive I
would say 256 gigs 256 gigs well what if
I told you that Kingston technology has
unveiled a USB flash drive that is eight
times the size that would be incredible
if your mind blown Sloan you want to see
it that is super cool two terabytes wow
that is pretty cool so you're giving
them out what is that we're just blowing
people's minds on evil Malka all right
Connor do you use a USB flash drive for
your storage for your files and devices
not since I was in school
that's awesome post-secondary okay so
when you were in post-secondary in
school what size USB flash drive
approximately did you use around 32 gigs
32 gigs okay so what size USB flash
drive do you think is the biggest flash
drive don't you terribly you think 2
terabyte yeah I think that's pretty
accurate I don't know well I'll tell you
you're absolutely right I mean Kingston
Technology has just unveiled its newest
greatest USB like USB Drive well it's
big but I suppose it kind of needs to be
to store everything inside 2 terabytes
that's really cool it's incredible that
is it's good if you're obviously if a
business person or anything like that we
are consistent either on the go or
whatnot we have like all these followers
we need to kind of keep with you at any
time ok if your question Brian do you
use a USB flash drive for your storage
for your computer and files for Debus a
USB flash drive you
I'm guy now have you heard of them no
you've never heard of them old school ah
my name is Tasha with your name M'Lynn
really nice to meet you nice to meet you
too
do you use a USB thumb drives flash
drive uh occasionally occasionally ok so
what size would you imagine the biggest
USB flash drive would be around email
size of your name ok what storage size
you mean Torres yeah one terabyte one
para bite
what if I told you that the biggest
flash drive was just unveiled by
Kingston technologies called the data
traveller and it has double that size so
it's 2 terabytes wow that's that's
amazing
wanna see it yeah cool man
so what do you think looks cool yeah
like I almost hard right hard right yeah
meat does it have any cloud storage or
any functionality or just origin its
storage to read and write so it's 300
megabytes a second for read and 200
megabytes a second for right
okay that's flu yeah how much does well
I'm not I'm not telling you every tale
true it's not in the market right
it's just unveiled so that's cool so now
let's head back to the studio where
Robbie is going to give us the technical
info of the Kingston DataTraveler 2
terabyte flash drive you are a fast
runner because you just got back here
you change looks like that so flange fan
wow so that was a lot of fun thanks for
doing that oh yeah aw nice to get some
folks on the show that otherwise may not
may not be here and if you're watching
hey thanks for watching and make sure
you say hi in our chat room or send us
an email let us know that you're hanging
out with us okay so this is the data
traveler ultimate GT it's a USB 3.1
Drive and as you saw there this is 2
terabytes capacity let's jump on here so
that you can get a closer look at this
and this is how it comes in the kit so
here's the drive now one of the things
that you may encounter is that maybe a
you know blocks the ports on the back of
your computer because it is a little bit
larger than a standard USB Drive ya see
so Kingston has thought about that and
they've included just a little tiny USB
cable this is going to help you if you
want to plug it into your ps4 or
something like that you want to plug it
into the back of a computer in your
bezel on the chassis is going to be
blocking that that's going to work for
you what else is in the kit we've got a
nice little bag that there you go for
carrying it in your pocket or whatever
but here you go I'll pull this out here
so that you can get a good look and
there is the data traveler ultimate GT 2
terabyte let's get right up there so
yeah
so this is a 16 gig data traveller to
move down just a little bit sore on the
frame and you can see the comparison
there just a wee little bit larger a
just a bit it's it's anything chic like
and this is a nice
I suppose it's aluminium it's a metal
body nicely made nothing but the best
from Kingston and so you know the the
question becomes well what on earth
would you do with a to here right let's
back this up really good fit on a 2
terabyte I just need to like imagine
reefing everything right like every
movie ever
well you figure a movie in is like like
a full-length movie would be anywhere
from about 700 to 1200 mega Giga bytes
megabytes 1.2 gigabytes say ok so you
could have like 2 to have it we need we
make it 1000 mm I'll bring up the
calculator here because I'm really bad
on the fly Mac oh my gosh ok so we've
got 2 terabytes let's just say that's 2
thousand gigabytes and my first drive
was like 64 megabytes so this is about
31,000 of those drives that I originally
bought plugged into the back of a
computer like it's not it's crazy
and yet awesome so if you're a business
person and you're needing some space to
keep a backup that isn't very highly
portable one of the things about a
backup drive is that they're not always
portable right there oh yeah they're
inconvenient they they get left behind
places because you've got to set them
down because they don't fit in your your
bag or whatever you're carrying purse
and so this is something that you can
literally disconnect it fit it in your
pocket with two thousand gigabytes
all right orage and it's nice and nice
and well built as you say so looks like
something that would be in a spy movie a
spy movie
hi now we're getting something let's
talk about that you can actually check
out now I'll just mention there's a
reason that every time someone asked
about the price we had to sort of Center
that in the interview and that is
because this is brand new to the
Canadian market so the pricing in fact
since you were there on like last
weekend yeah has dropped $400 oh good
like that that's the how things happen
because it's brand new to the market
they're starting to get stock in into
Canada and so we're starting to see you
know the price kind of find its spot in
the market they are not inexpensive but
for what they are for what this done
such an investment that's worth it
absolutely yeah they're fantastic
solid-state device so this has not got
any moving parts well that's a wonderful
part like even for a backup right to
keep your files like it's an air gap
right so even if you like you have
family photos or something and you don't
want to invest on like a whole like raid
system or nothing else so what would be
the problem then as I think about
putting all my family stuff on here or
my business stuff or whatever it's
confidential it's stuff that I don't
want other people to have access to
Sasha you know what have we covered
recently that would be applicable to
something like this that would really
help us to protect our data so if
someone were to steal this from me and
it's got all my family photos right all
you would do is you would encrypt it
absolutely huge spy movies there you go
go back to the so on our website
category five dot TV check out episode
number 506 507 for the two-part series
or just search for excel yeah Luke
Stumpf is a great value ASD umps your
search for that you can find out all
about encryption well so you know if you
were to you know the other risk that you
would run with something like this is it
stores so much data I think this is my
biggest fear when you know if I were to
hand this off to someone and say here
you go yeah our temptation is wow that's
that's got more harddrive space than my
desktop computer if you walk into a
super store and buy a computer chances
are this is this is more space right if
you've got a solid stay
hard drive in that computer so if that's
the case I can be tempted to put a lot
of stuff on here that is nowhere else
so I therefore done away with redundancy
and this becomes the only copy so yeah
and so like any storage we need to make
sure that we have redundancy so when you
get into two terabytes of Pocket storage
we need to make sure that this is a copy
or there is redundancy somewhere I like
to when you put yourself by one your
nards
please use our affiliate link I put one
in a safety deposit box what it really
boiled down to to me so we understand
this the capacity of this yeah that's
pretty that's a no-brainer this is
literally the largest capacity hard USB
flash drive that has ever been created
now as I say that I think about some of
the Alibaba sales and the and these
knockoffs that you see for ten dollars
and yeah immediately know that they're
fake but do be mindful a bay is known to
and they already have had a lot of stock
on something that said it's two
terabytes it's not Kingston obviously
those are not real so what someone does
is they hack into the firmware of the
drive so that it reports that it's to
tear okay and it's really only like 128
gigs or something like that so as you
put your data on it it works great oh
this is fantastic until you hit that 128
gig actual physical limit and then you
lose all your data so this is by
Kingston technology this is legitimate
this is the first and largest but it's
also very very fast right you had
mentioned about 300 megabytes read and
to reckon and 200 megabytes write 200
right so great I wanted to put that to
the test because understanding the
capacity thing what I really want to
know is is it going to be faster than my
traditional USB hard drive my last drive
I should say because this is what I use
when I need to put something on a drive
and take it with me usually I'm in a
hurry
quite often I am I want to play
that in copy a video file and get away
from this like the spy movies you're
kind of get a laser okay so you see an
Alec word do you want to wait for it by
super tide or do you want to feel the
storm or in less time now you're your
cue from legacy just button okay so the
little old data traveler to this is adt
101 g2 it's a 16 gig drive this is one
that I typically use for just all kinds
of miscellaneous stuff because the 16
gigs is nice and small small enough to
be quick format and reuse
yeah but big enough to be able to store
larger files so this one came in what I
did is I used USB flash speed comm they
have a benchmark tool that then creates
a website that shows the benchmarks and
it compares it against other people
running the benchmarks so this drive
plugged into the bus on my my best
window system came up with 22 point
eight nine megabytes per second read
okay and just two point five one
megabytes per second right so you can
imagine as I'm copying files to this
drive it's brutally slow if they're
reasonably large keep in mind this
benchmark tool does average things out
so it tests all different file sizes and
it does it four times each to make sure
that you get the accurate averages so
this is this is the average there so now
if we look at the data traveler ultimate
g2 two terabyte this one in the same
test plugged into the same bus gave me a
whopping two hundred and thirteen point
eight eight megabytes per second average
read that's a lot that's a lot now it
has ever have a USB flash drive that is
super super fast for this type of media
hard drives like the internal SATA
components on your on your computer can
be a little bit faster than that mine
run about five hundred and fifty
megabytes per second but for a USB 3
device is something that just plugs into
the back of your computer or the side of
your laptop this is the fastest that I
personally yeah amazing that's writing
because I do a lot of video how's it
going to perform our average was one
hundred and twenty seven point five
seven megabytes per second megabytes not
bits bytes so it's very fast so then you
know so we know comparison wise this is
significantly bigger significantly
faster than our average you have a flash
drive but really the proof is in the
pudding how is it going to perform for
me in my use case so let's put them
head-to-head let's plug these two in
together and now I've got about three
point two gigabytes of video files from
last week's show so if I just copy those
well let's just bring up the properties
there I know my screen capture isn't
perfectly clear there but it's about 3.2
gigs for this handful of files I'm just
going to copy that to my clipboard and
I'm going to paste it to both of those
drives we're going to show it
simultaneously now this was done and
recorded at a different time there is
the data traveller ultimate gt2 terabyte
moving along at the bottom right look at
the one in the top left
it's it almost doesn't seem to be moving
this is real time this has not been sped
up this is about 3.2 gigabytes of data
being copied over the USB bus to that
drive Wow
boom it's done it took only twenty four
point oh nine seconds now the other
drive continues for another 21 minutes
oh my gosh I will subject you to it but
you've all been there you've all seen
that window that just keeps on going and
keeps on going keep in mind this is
exactly the same data set while you are
seeing them on the screen at the same
time I actually did them at two separate
times so that I could plug the drives
into the same bus yeah and do an
accurate test and then just use my
software to edit it together 21 minutes
it took versus the data traveller which
was 24 seconds I think so the difference
between plugging it in transferring and
going and go and plugging it in
Coffee for 20 minutes relaxing yeah and
then going okay spy life like analogy in
my mind and I'm like man I do whole like
gun fight in that time yeah a lot of
advice input into that time frame yeah
that's the whole movie right there so
there you have it that's the data
traveller from Kingston is the ultimate
GT watch for it go over to our website
cat5 dot TV slash big flash and you'll
be able to check that out so that is it
that's I'm just like imagine because I
my retropie right so you can imagine and
I had that game again how many games
that would plug right over raspberry oh
I've been thinking about that because
like again because like last week I
mentioned like I want to like make a
cloud storage device out of my PI so I
can plug that in 2 terabytes to it and
just instead of paying for Dropbox pros
does have everything stored locally at
home not a mobile not the most
economical ways yeah I know but I
thought up I still but you would be the
envy of geekdom engine yeah just so for
that where this is where this to me
works really really well is in that
portable backup solution yeah now
redundant copy that I absolutely need to
be able to keep with me but also being
able to transfer an entire database of
video files and and take them with you
to the cottage that kind of stuff and
not having to worry about space
restraints for video producers for folks
that need to have redundant copies of
their files the data traveler ultimate
GT is the perfect solution Wow
2 terabytes
[Applause]
