hi everyone and welcome to new every day
my name is Kari my name is Jen and do
you have an area in your life that needs
some fixing like maybe you find yourself
misunderstood all the time or maybe you
misunderstand people well on today's
show we're going to talk about that so
stay tuned this is new every day with
Jen wagger and Carey web
[Music]
hi everyone thanks so much for tuning
back into new every day and if this is
your first time tuning in thank you so
much Jen and I have been doing this for
almost three years
yeah Wow it's been it's gone by really
quickly and we just sit and we talk
about the Bible we talk about God we
talk about life we talk about questions
that we have or life situations that
we've encountered that we want to share
with you and honestly we learn so much
doing this and really benefit from it so
thanks for tuning in and and we just
sure welcome you mm-hmm
this is your first time well we do
welcome you thank you so much for tuning
in and on today's show we ask the
question like have you ever been
misunderstood or or have you
misunderstood someone
I mean communication is so important and
so often people just say things and then
they wonder why they have been
misunderstood yeah or they text
something and wonder why they you know
they didn't pick up on things and oh
before the world of emoticons it was
like what do you really mean what do you
really mean and so one of the things
that we've started actually in our house
because Kari and I share space together
and basically were like hey we both need
a place to live why don't we you know
rent an apartment and share space and
one of the things that we've had to do
is figure out how to understand each
other communicate because I have a very
different communication skill and I like
to think she knows what I'm thinking or
feeling but I actually haven't said
anything and so you will often just say
just tell me and in my mind I'm like
what can't you just can't I just infer
something and you're going to pick it up
so but it's so challenging and I think
that goes both ways yes like in in so
many relationships I think like how
could they not see that or how could he
not know that that that's what I wanted
him to do yes yes so often unless it
comes right out and says it it's the
person
then it's just miscommunicated so one
example is so when you share space with
someone like a kitchen you in my mind I
would like to put things in a certain
place and Kari and her mind would like
to anyway that was funny
Kari likes to but we don't really know
and so I always have a very specific
spot for things and I don't always know
it but I should know it because they end
up there all the time like the tongs or
Tupperware and they go one day we have
mix our measuring cups and I always put
them in the top drawer because that's
where the baking stuff goes in my mind
and Kari kept putting them in the second
drawer and I'm thinking does she not
know that they go in the top drawer but
it just strophe Bunker's because every
time I'd go to close the top drawer the
baking cup would hit the top with the
drawer thing yes and so I kept moving in
this is the conversation would you like
the mixing the measuring cups in the
second drawer and you said yes because
because the thing keeps hitting the
thing I said okay I can put the mixing
the measuring cups in the second drawer
as long as I know that's where they're
always going to end up because in my
mind I want things at least there in one
place I know where to go
yeah and get them but that was we
thought the other person should just
figure it out yeah without us actually
speaking yeah to each other and
unfortunately that is one of the biggest
problems people often have is that we we
have such this strong sense of needing
to be accepted and belonging and
understood and understood that we think
well they should know me they should
have no that's what I want but often we
just want to be told so we're in the
know yes right and oshare the mental
framework I I I say that so much like in
working in a dynamic environment it's I
find it
so hard when people aren't sharing what
they're thinking so like a plan of care
for you know in my case it's like a
patient but if someone doesn't actually
articulate here's the problem here's the
direction that we're gonna follow to get
to a solution and here's we're gonna how
we're gonna know that we've arrived yes
which is so important but it's hard to
translate that into like like non work
relationships and still value those
communication tools that you would
actually employ at the workplace yes yes
and what kerry said is so true that that
mental the mental model the schema yes
and so often I would say well I've been
thinking about this for two or three
weeks shoot I keep forgetting to
communicate it yeah because in my mind I
want to have it all finished before I
drop it on someone and so often huh I'll
go into my wonderful administrative
assistant who is a planner and loves to
communicate about what's coming up and I
have learned to start to say can I talk
to you about something I should have
told you to listen oh and I'll try not
to make eye contact but now we just
laugh like yesterday she had this list
of 17 things and I said so and I
literally turned away from her because I
knew what was yeah and you you have time
to do this today is one more thing yeah
and we laugh because but that's part of
the communication like now we laugh
about it when I come in two minutes
before I want something yeah and instead
of saying beforehand can be look at
doing this way that's why communication
is so important that we that we say okay
what is coming up and for me it's really
hard when I don't have all the details
to be sharing with someone cuz I don't
want them to start thinking about what
are the possible options when you know I
arrived there yet yeah I haven't ran up
there yet yeah so people want to know
more details online I haven't got there
so for me because I'm a finisher yes I
want it to be finished before I give you
the package yes but then people are like
well why didn't you tell me about this
yeah like I could have helped get you to
where whether it was planning a vacation
planning
for groceries like how often do you get
to the store and I'm messaging Karen do
you need avocados do you know alamos how
many apples do we have rather than like
okay let's sit down
but yeah the list rather than you know
and it happens at the grocery store all
the time so often you go in and you know
you need eggs but then you're like oh
yeah but if I also need you also need
and then you come home and somebody says
to you did you get apples and you look
at them you're like why didn't you tell
me that you needed apples and you say
wow I thought now this has not happened
here well I thought when you open in the
drawer and you saw there was no apples
you would figure that we needed apples
yeah right it's that whole inference
thing rather than because communication
actually needs to be worked on yeah it
is not the the workforce calls it a soft
skill and it's one of the things that is
like at the top of the hiring list yeah
so if you have good communication skills
then that is at the top of the list
people are looking to hire you but it's
something that you actually have to
learn to do Wow I guess sometimes better
to over communicate something to tell
things two or three times it is to not
say anything and it's it's so true when
you think of people that you feel most
comfortable with you know what's going
on with them because they told you so
you don't feel like you're in the dark
and because when you know what's going
on you feel safe you feel like there's a
plan I think you'll include it yes yeah
there's the confidence and a belonging
yeah yes and and also when you are
communicating with someone it does take
that little piece of vulnerability so
I'm sharing this with you what are you
gonna do with it and so when it's
reciprocated well it just reinforces
that confidence that we're okay yeah you
know and and this skill is so important
and it's so multi factorial in the way
that good communication skills come
together that really to do it well is a
life hack because you can cut corners
and avoid problems and put up fires by
having quality communication
and there the book of Proverbs is full
of these like gold nugget life hacks
that you can apply right now yes yes and
a life hack if you don't know what that
is is basically a tip that makes your
life easier if and better and like one
of the things that that proverb says is
the power of life and death is in the
tongue yeah right so that's a life hack
so when you think about how powerful
your tongue is and it can bring life or
bring death and it's like oh I need to
be careful for with what I say and so
what we're going to do over you know a
number of weeks a number of series maybe
even throughout the next few months is
talk about certain life hacks from the
book of Proverbs that actually are going
to help help your life because one of
the things that people are often looking
for is how do I make my life better
mm-hmm how do I get along with people
better how do I feel more confident in
myself and I avoid conflict I Drive away
conflict how do I prove my relationship
with the Lord and one of the key things
is so important to remember is that God
can help us communicate well I I will
often say as a pastor dear Lord Jesus
please help my words through the power
of your Holy Spirit to communicate what
you want me to communicate but you can
say that about your family about your
husband about your wife about your kids
Lord would you guide and direct my work
so I'm communicating clearly to them
what is on my heart what I want to say
but also lord help me to hear what I
need to hear and so when we talk about
one of the best life hacks that you can
cultivate is listening skills hmm and
what we often say is well let me see if
I understood you correctly so on that
note we're gonna pause
welcome back right after these messages
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching
hey everyone welcome back thanks for
staying tuned to new every day we just
want to thank our partners if you go to
our partners page on new every day dot
TV you can find all the organizations
and businesses who help support this
show and make it possible and I just
want to let the viewers know that we are
under the umbrella of category 5 TV so
category 5 TV hosts new every day so
when you go to support the show you're
hosting Robbie Ferguson our producer
editor the guy who makes this all happen
and that goes to support category 5
which in turn trickles down and makes
new every day and a number of other
shows possible yes so thank you for your
continued support so Jen I'm listening
what are we talking about we were
talking about good communication skills
and how important it is to first of all
pray dear Lord Jesus help me to say what
you want me to say yeah I pray that
every morning help me to say what you
want me to say and help me to hear what
you want me to hear because so and we
prayed this before we actually pushed
record on the camera today I said Lord
we're still broken on the inside we
operate out of like our sadness and our
sore spots and so sometimes things come
out that we're like whoa where is that
coming from and to do this out really
you can't take it back in so it's like
okay would you and and proverbs does say
that I don't know where it's it's found
right now but it says or could be Psalms
who says that you put a guard on my
mouth
and you know people often make say the
phrase God gave us two ears and one
mouth so that we can listen twice as
much as we speak right well James says
that we should be quick to listen slow
to speak and slow to become angry and I
think there's great wisdom in that
there's an there's like an old Indian
proverb that says he who knows does not
speak he who speaks does not know yes
and sometimes that is true yes and so
one of the verses is so important is
that when we fail to listen we actually
fall we can fall into a ditch like we
just get ourselves into so much trouble
yeah when we fail to listen yeah and so
one of the best things that you can do
for a listening goes like this you're
good at that but just to be quiet just
to be quiet yeah and listen and so often
you want to jump in to somebody else's
sentence before they've even finished it
looks like this yeah it's so like even
yeah I think that if you so if you
actually then he who answers before
listening that is his falling and his
shame okay did you see how awkward that
is I know we've all done that before if
you ever talk to someone and they're
like and they're like ready to think of
the next thing that they want to say and
they haven't actually heard so you don't
feel valued and they're missing out on
the opportunity to learn from you yes
because they haven't heard you through
all the way to the end yeah they've
already formulated that like you said
what they're already going to say but
they haven't actually finished listening
to what you're going to say yeah so I
think there's a lot of wisdom in that
and that's just like one pearl one
nugget from the book of Proverbs that if
you answer before listening it's to your
own folly and shame and that's something
good to remember as we talk and interact
with people so Jen we have to wrap up
already but there are so many other good
life hacks coming your way I'm really
looking forward to this
session seasons episodes yeah talking
talking with you listening what are you
pray and I'll listen well I'm gonna pray
because one of the things that we often
hear time and time again is nobody
listens so we're gonna pray you're gonna
be a good listener this week so dear
Lord Jesus help us to listen well this
week help us not to focus on what the
things that we want to say to be
understood but help us to listen so we
can understand others we ask this in
your name amen thank you so much for
tuning in and we're going to see you
back here same time same place and we're
gonna keep this conversation going so
have a great week cheers there Jen catch
a new episode of new every day every
Friday morning at new every day dot TV
we're also on Kody Roku Plex YouTube and
Facebook or if you're in Southern
California tune in every Sunday morning
at 6:30 Pacific on channel 33 television
for the high desert
