what you're about to experience is a
free worldwide interactive broadcast
from Ontario Canada we broadcast live
every tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time
get your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live and category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Robbie
Ferguson welcome to episode number 160
of category 5 technology TV tonight we
are gonna be installing a boon to 10 all
right hmm that's the theme song for
Ubuntu 10.9 we're gonna be actually
doing it in a virtual machine with
virtualbox so we're like taking free
technology upon free technology and
piling it into a free technology
sandwich sweet starting with a boon to
as our hosts VirtualBox as our
virtualization and 2.2 as our guest
we're really in stick around that's
gonna be a lot of fun also I'm answering
your questions live in the chat room
category 5 TV and given away some more
nanodots by which you look like you've
been having sighs this week oh you have
no idea you're looking kind of
blinged-out you like some little bling
that a no bueno bling brilliant I don't
know if you can see that oh yeah I made
that I made that myself kids this is way
better than that bedazzler my sister
wanted when I was a kid oh yeah wait I
see you got your ears pierced is like a
lot of noise John can get in there and
and just kind of show that I gotta say
these national the studs nano bling now
it should be noted I eyeballs a little
and well I didn't really anticipate just
move it around there oh that hurts like
heck I gotta say I forgot oh you know
today yeah I got a dent I gotta tell you
the nano dots are not necessarily
designed to be about the Renee Knoblauch
fashion apparel you know that looks
pretty cool bracelet there yeah that's
gotta be therapeutic in some way I'm
thinking yeah my things are going hard
magnets but speaking of super-powered
magnets as jewelry check out what I got
from ebay whoa Oh super powered magnet
there you go I can just smell the geek
rolling off that brilliant you can even
wear this with just a standard dress
dressy kind of shirt with a pocket you
know it's like the new pocket protector
of the 24th century well if you're
daring you the bear was out of pocket
well you wouldn't want to do it him in
public necessarily know cuz I'm not that
daring brilliant that was like 10 bucks
free shipping can't complain I'll be
happy to send anybody the info justin.tv
having trouble again to thank good sorry
gang switch over to our WMS feed cool
and in the meantime I'll stall
everything and move everything over to
ustream if you guys have the ability to
check out the ustream feed actually did
and give the WMS for you to try and
hopefully things will work out for you
oh cool we got lots of questions you got
news coming up in the Gospels coming up
you want to hear what's coming up you
really you really aren't you don't hide
a subject I I'm not sure I've got a red
dot but this this is nano Blair must be
a warning on there that says not to be
well it says not to yeah there's all
kind do not eat yes not wear as jewelry
oh I kind of like it that looks good
looks good um so coming up into the
newsroom Robbie we have a story boat you
know the phrase Google car no longer
refers to only the Wi-Fi stealing
panoramic photo machine but also to a
robotic car that drives itself um 200
hackers took a spain's copyright
protection website and a pro bittorrent
campaign and that's something
Apple has been ordered to pay 200
million to Robbie in there no 200
million in patent claims for their cover
flow and time machine interface hmm Wow
hogle plant crow and all their stuff
that's uh that's really something
remember John Lennon took exception to
the apple logo but bet pogoplug pro is
now available it's black it has built-in
Wi-Fi and it's available at best buy so
you really ought to stick around for the
latest news from the category 5 TV news
room nanodots said so while he adjusts
as jewelry I'm gonna I'm gonna kill the
justin.tv feed tonight because that's
having some trip and that's gonna cause
some stuttering in the feet so those of
you who are watching in the feet after
the fact you'll hear some funny kind of
elements there on my voice and I'm gonna
fire up the ustream channel so we'll get
that going for you there how's that
they're a veteran yes but it my ears
feel better is a little britain denson
look okay yeah really yes really um I'm
gonna get a link for everybody so so
you've had the Nano that's for a week
now yeah but my my daughter got old so I
didn't get to play with him seriously
Champa oh yeah nothing's wrinkle thought
they were pretty cool very cool uh you
know you can always go to cat five dot
TV nanodots cat five dot TV / nanodots
yeah you're right you are correct but
I'm gonna just post in the chat room
here for those who are watching live get
onto category 5 TV and join the chat
room and I've just posted a link there
for the ustream channel hopefully that's
gonna work a little better than justin
TV tonight and we're gonna keep an eye
on things over the next couple of weeks
and if if things keep up we're gonna
have to start hey what's going on get
smart Diane's
not really provide a great service for
free you can't complain you got lots of
got some questions you want a question
really yeah bird questions and throw
your questions into category five dot d
guns answers in the chat room okay well
this is from Gator man mm-hmm hey Gator
man and guess what he did well I'll read
it I enjoy a gator with his hover group
no that was I did that was I I didn't do
it i was with oh the story changes you
didn't act I was in the hovercraft on
the Hubbard well you were in it okay
yeah good good good sorry Gator that was
he driving sorry we digress um was wide
enough it didn't probably hurt him too
bad okay i installed the 10-point 10 RC
and when the final release came out i
tried to update but had a repository
problem i decided to do a clean install
want to have only a single partition for
the 10-point 10 and not create another
one when i do the install how can i make
the clean install replace the RC
partition for the OS i do not want to
use the erase and use the entire disk
option since i have linux mint on the
machine and want to retain it all right
now you i have to kind of have to kind
of walk you through just because I don't
have a system with that kind of
configuration up on on my system but
it's doable just build one like that
will install windows on a partition and
do a dual boot and then we'll do an
upgrade on your we'll see in a couple
hours that might take some time so
here's here's the thing what you'd want
to do is get when you're going through
the installation procedure go through
the advanced custom like being able to
custom Li do the possibly yeah custom
Lee the partitioning custom league
Russia advanced partitioning when you go
in there you'll see your existing
partitions you'll see one of them is
called swap that's fine you'll see
another one called whatever it is ext4
maybe and it'll be that's your linux
you'll see 11 you've got three
partitions one is your other one right
whatever other operating system you see
swap and you'll see your Linux partition
so highlight some in the next one okay
so i like the little highlight the linux
one and bring up config i believe it is
for that partition if you highlight it
hit config or details or something like
that without having it in front of me
and once that's up you'll be able to set
it to ext4 and then change the mount
point which is currently going to be
blank make it / it'll be the first
option in the pulldown and what that
will do is it will mount that partition
as your your home or not your home but
your home your top-level mount points so
then you'll be able to install and it'll
keep everything on the other partition
just as it is always keep a good backup
when you're doing that kind of thing
okay and let me know how it goes but
that should that should get you there
okay and I'm still trying to get I'm
gonna try to get you stream up on the
front page of category 5 TV here you got
more for us well actually somebody's
using up all our bandwidth here and i'm
having trouble retrieving any messages
right this second really really mm-hmm
and you know what that is what would you
bring up oh you're double clicking and
bringing up balls no no no don't know
that that was after I'll let's try that
okay okay well just highlight it it
brings it up in the little preview pane
yes we know that see and I'll show you
what it did it did that yeah you gotta
wait for us I know but it took a long
time I did and I got impatient of course
seems hard to get along with today
Thermal do you are he's positively uh
you know I'm not gonna let you play with
the nanobots I'm just gonna you know
what I did I was rushed rushed rushed
and kubuntu 10-point I put it on your
system for you so now we've got we've
got evolution on there running on and it
does it functions a little differently
than Thunderbird did didn't wasn't it
certainly does why as long as you're
patient enough with it and it works good
but I got to admit we are milking a
little bit of bandwidth okay well you
got a question hammock I rocklands got a
fairly a fairly simple question here I
think hi Robbie I remember a while back
you mentioned the upcoming release of
a category five dot TV desktop yeah some
app I can run and watch your show search
episodes and so on where can I get it
thanks so much the desktop player is
html5 and we were planning to switch
everything over to Agua urbis oxy or I
should say and get everything moved over
we ran into some really big snags that
halted production on the software which
is still intended to be released but
unfortunately because of the way that it
falls with with it having to be halted
as far as production goes and then with
us launching our new website in January
that's taking up all of our development
times so unfortunately don't have the
resources to fund like to actually hire
some programmers to push things along so
it's really it's kind of like just me
kind of coding stuff on my weekends and
stuff so that said I really ran out of
time for the for the desktop player with
the problems that we ran into wasn't
working with OGG the aura and I was
displeased about that because I was
really hoping to go open so we're
looking at whether we can fix those
problems or whether we need to switch
back to flash what needs to be done so
unfortunately is not currently available
to the public there are hidden bettas
and stuff that you know if you follow me
on twitter twitter.com slash Ravi
Ferguson on occasion i will post links
to either working demos or screenshots
at least so you can get a good look at
how the development processes is coming
but as it is it will probably be
launching after the new website and it
will be a feature that's included as
part of the new website so keep watching
for it I do intend to bring that out
okay we have a question here from Andy
hey Andy hey Robbie hey do you know of
an easy way to enable speech recognition
on Linux more specifically to work with
openoffice I have found that I am far
more productive using it in windows as
my written grammar seems to be
troublesome when I speak I am able to
write much more intellectual sounding
work using speech recognition thanks
Andy
big question and it's and it's a tough
one because Windows has been doing it
for like Windows software stuff like
Dragon Dictate it's been a true but but
it's been out for so long like they've
been they had that stuff out when I was
a kid I would get fired from the TV
station for using dragon dictate really
he'd walk around with his mic repent he
used his loud voice and he was well
around with well you can't do that in a
group of people so you know that kind of
is not the purpose but that's the word
that you're looking for is dictation
when it comes to speech recognition and
converting speech to text Dragon Dictate
of course can in some cases be run under
wine but it's commercial application
what is there for linux anybody in the
chat room if you have a good solution
please post it in the chat room category
5 TV or on freenode our chat room is
category 5 i'm just doing a quick search
here for dictation on linux and it's
going to be a you know a topic that is
going to have a lot of questions more
probably more questions than answers
unfortunately but Andy you could you
could run that that query like it into
your search engine and type dictation
for linux and just see what comes up I'm
seeing that Linux forumz org comes up
first on Google with a thread about that
very thing voice transcription or
dictation on Linux and F it loads up
I don't personally know here you're just
having a good old I am there hi I'm not
giving these bad oh you've ruined
everything there we go ya just
but they are kind of you know there is a
warning about them being addictive it's
that there is I I didn't read it before
I handed them to you okay I'm done I
think I think I'm done mmm yeah we most
likely do oh really isn't it lovely when
the broadcaster's have bandwidth issues
so bear with us everybody i hope that
the things are working out for the feed
itself yeah let me know are things
working through ustream okay and I'm
clicking I'm just doing the search for
Andy here just to see if if I can come
across any kind of suggestions but it
may be a situation where you might just
you know do the search yourself
dictation for linux and there are a lot
of results but the first several that
come up or that very question what is
the current state of dictation on linux
and possibly using Windows applications
through something like wine or even
virtualbox may be a solution for you but
if there's something out there I'd love
to know about it if there's something
that's native to linux unfortunately i
don't personally know of one but that's
not a tool than I've really used in a
long time okay i use dictate i use
dragon dictate in high school kind of as
an experimentation like just to try at a
lake cuz i wanted to see what it was
like and it was the newest wow thing i'm
sure i would start advice because love
you as a calculator the first year well
yeah okay but it was it was like oh
that's all they had when you were in
high my brother in a slide rule but you
weren't allowed to use that on an exam
they had calculators when you were in
high school wow that's a dance tech I
remember computer science class we had
one computer in this fair city of ours
and it was at a different high school
but fill out a box of these Fortran
cards and send it off and sir what's
this invalid parameters
arif is invalid acorn mmm okay yeah okay
sorry I don't have a suggestion for you
Andy but do give it that search I think
knowing the knowing the terms are gonna
are gonna help you you don't have the
chat up I'm okay you can tell me these
things do you know I could tell you that
but ok this is what happens when Robby
reinstalls everything on you it and you
go to click on James who moved my cheese
is what the question is yeah brilliant
okay cuz I saw John was saying something
to me there but I did not get to see
what it was I was soon gonna ask you why
aren't you asking these questions from
the chat this type / join that's how you
get on IRC space in the pound or hash
crosshatch category 5 everybody say
greets to eric has he hit center there
you go so you can just close the server
connection there close chancer close
buddy little what what what what he's
getting around he's getting around here
what am i closing here I'm closing them
that one yeah all right that's the
server Chancellor is the channel server
I guess IRC guy it's a bot and then
close the buddy list up there and
that'll your desktop
you think I fanny yeah the ex oh there
we go Oh even put the X on the wrong
side they moved it over just like a left
side instead of the right size to want
to be Mac its people wondering where
things are at with you and Twitter but
you know what I forgot to time in the
last couple we got a couple of messages
from you the first couple of days and
then I fell off and i was busy i was
making Thanksgiving dinners I was
playing hockey a little bit oh yeah you
realize your own way honey it's only 140
characters okay doesn't take a lot of
time but everybody wants to say hi to
eric it's that kid Eric with 2 d's on
twitter no no my goodness cool all right
as he are we having fun yet you're
getting there I have not what's the side
of a fire with whatever weird okay sorry
what I'm a good guy had a question yeah
what is the status perfect boom to with
Bluetooth 5 with maverick meerkat um the
status 5.3 you can download off of
perfect bluetooth category 5 TV but if
you're running five point two or before
you need to download the executive Allah
game so that's all on the website
perfect link to category 5 TV some stuff
may still you know because repositories
are still going to be becoming available
so some things may or may not work but
testing is going to be going on over the
next couple of weeks as as you know more
and more updates or added to 10 110 and
we'll try to stay on top of that as well
my opinions of 10 point 10 so far i
would say it seems to be a little bit
zippier you probably know you're not
experiencing the zippy yeah well our
internets lagging but that's not so much
the operating system itself like when
you're executing stuff it's actually
it's it's doing all right they've tried
to do some things to streamline the
interface i'm not too sure that i like
it like even right away i'm seeing like
this that's shrunken down scroll bars
and things like that i don't really like
that and some of the beautification that
they've done but it may just take some
getting used to that may be all it is
because you know anytime they change
something it's it's it takes some
getting used to but that said out of the
box seems pretty good the installer is
definitely getting better one of the key
things that I notice about the boon to
installer this time around is and they
may have had this before but I really
noticed that this time is the
multitasking installer so as I'm
answering questions it's copying files
to my hard drive so that makes a big
difference in the perceived speed of the
install so we're gonna be looking at
that just after the news tonight
yeah looks looks good so far we're going
to be taking a closer look over the next
couple of weeks and certainly we're
gonna be looking at some of the
applications that come with the new
version of a boon to as well okay well
I'm almost almost here you're getting
there get there you're there even
completed everybody tweeted everybody I
think twitter.com slash kid Eric that's
this guy yeah hey good guys mentioning
that the paid app store for Ubuntu is
not quite ready yet with only one codec
for sale well so far so it is it weighs
loaded well as they probably it's
probably booming it's it's one of those
things with Abu to usually I find the
first few weeks you're you're really
waiting I haven't I don't even bother
with the release candidates anymore
really to be honest because there's
always still stuff to be worked out and
ironed out even after the the final
release so I'm kind of giving it a
couple of weeks to to really see where
things are at at that point we're
getting you know even out of the box you
know day 1 day 2 we're already getting
updates so it's a good thing I like the
way that they keep on top of it but
we're going to see some stuff over the
next you know stability and
compatibility fixes over the next little
while
well I think we should hit the news or
you got all you've got a question you're
retrieving I thought I was retrieving a
question young ones have been retrieving
40 i just clicked on that all right
could be fewer than five minutes I think
nope well why don't we go in take low
let's take a quick look here if I may
what I'm gonna do he's using evolution
here and it's kind of forced to imap
which which can be perceived as fairly
slow because you're downloading the
email when you when you click on yeah so
what I'm going to do I'm going to turn
off local synchronization and hope that
that will keep holding your left alt key
for me just so I can move that thanks
you can let go now all right she could
see all the things that I'm clicking on
here
you're something else did hey I said I
can play with yeah there's what are you
go see what's any faster hood if that's
any faster yeah okay it looks good so
far okay let's see what we have here
okay it's gone okay okay okay but we've
already talked about perfect blue
heavenly yeah it's a little bit okay so
now it's loading all right so I disabled
the local folder syndicated syndication
synchronization in the settings for
evolution that seems to sped it up a
little bit because it's not downloading
all the stuff yes sir just seems way way
better so if you're using evolution
there could be a possible fix for you
hey whoa let's see here's here's one
from Greg hey Greg and he watched
episode 44 recently a while back not
sure is and where you did a feature on
handbrake just wondering it for you were
using anything new to rip dvds yeah
you'll be surprised what is that what
it's called we went through this
conversation didn't we we did we did
with all kinds of anything yeah what's
the program to rip dvds dvdrip does a
family it's available through perfect
you you are a tinkerer I I give the guy
the pen with the clacker and hey the
nanodots night is not played with the
seed one teardrop once you thanks sir
and I haven't said cool beans um you
haven't I didn't see Hillary in chat
room either dvdrip is an excellent
application I don't think I've got it
installed on my on my notebook here
let's just double-check oh I do too it's
it comes up like DVD colon colon rip
that's the name of the application so
really really simple easy to use all you
have to do once you've installed it it's
installable through either synaptic
package manager or if you use perfect
boom too perfect boom to category 5 TV
you can get it that way all you need to
do is just create a new project once you
get started and and basically give your
project a name go through the steps it
goes step-by-step give it a name rip the
title to your hard drive clip and zoom
if you want to work on subtotal
subtitles transcode the data
and then you can look at the log but it
does everything for you so it's a great
application DVD colon colon rip which
you'll find if you search through
synaptic just for DVD space rip that's
the one that I use and Mitchell has a
question war couch is mentioning the
handbrake is still pretty good canine
copies good as well certainly handbrake
I think though since they pulled a lot
of the feature set I guess it's not
quite as good as it used to be yes it is
Corey um yeah okay so are you okay well
comment there well Mitchell has a
question man Robbie I've heard a few
questions over the past few weeks but
grub too high and one of my friends had
an experience after upgrading to 10.04
that it didn't add our vista or win7
partition to the room to menu after a
few weeks of trial and error i found how
to add missing items to the grub to menu
and i have a short illustrated article
on my blog about how i did it oh cool Oh
feel free to share with others or use in
a future segment okay great thanks
Mitchell what we'll do is I'm not
reading that well no it's a long it's a
long one but I what we'll do is we'll
that will just take a quick look at that
just to make sure it's good and and so
if you're watching this and you're
interested in that if you've got a
problem with grub to check our show
notes for episode number 160 and i'll
have a link there for fur Mitchell's
blog all right there you go cool pray
for the news we're perilously close to
being ready for the news
all right some time already it is wow
it's nap time driving eight hours to
visit family this past thanksgiving
weekend robbie had a great idea invent a
car that drives itself so you can just
sit back and green turkey dinners upon
returning home he was frustrated to find
that google had the same thought had
already put a few dollars into his
development at least robbie and google
agreed on two major points one it has to
drive itself and two it should be at
toyota the only thing that makes
Robbie's car better is that would have
looked like a shuttlecraft from Star
Trek but Google one up krabi by making
their car actually real Sebastian Thrun
from did I say that correctly probably
Sebastian from google says our goal is
to help prevent traffic accidents free
up people's time and reduce carbon
emissions by fundamentally changing car
use google has seven test vehicles
driving around California built from the
Toyota Prius google has added their own
artificial intelligence with video
cameras mounted on the roof plus radar
laser sights which monitor traffic and
prudential hazards at all times for
safety and legal sake the current model
allows a human driver to take over at
any time but so far the tests of being
successful google says their cars have
driven more than a thousand miles
without any need of human intervention
hmmm category 5 TV estimates the Google
car to be in beta for around 10 years in
order to protect Google's reputation
should there be any crashes okay to
Spain Spain's copyright protection
organization came under attack by
hackers on Thursday as part of the
latest move in a high-profile campaign
against organizations trying to bully
file-sharers a denial-of-service attack
was launched at midnight which and
crashed the organization's website
before its official launch the group of
around 200 people are running their
attack and response to legal threats
towards bittorrent tracker sites such as
the Pirate Bay as well as individual
file shares
louise Koren's technical director of
panda labs says with the way things are
progressing now will be no surprise to
see cyber protests managed country by
country with targeting various copyright
protection associations the attackers
involved claim that their actions are
justified Apple has been ordered to pay
more than 200 million to mirror world's
LLC after having lost a patent
infringement case brought by the company
Apple was found to be in violation of
mirror world's document streaming
patents which Apple allegedly used in
its implementation of cover flow and
time machine a federal jury in eastern
Texas agreed with mirror world's on
three of their four claims for patent
infringement and according to Bloomberg
mirror world's founder David gellert nur
said he was tremendously grateful to his
lawyers for their performance
tremendously grateful with 108 point
five million dollars I mean thank thank
you very much I would be grateful for
208 dollars Thompson cloud engine zinc
released their Pogoplug Pro device today
not to be mistaken for the earlier
released the pogoplug biz the latest
version of the pogoplug includes all the
great file sharing features of its
predecessor with the addition of
built-in Wi-Fi and a new look pogoplug
allows users to easily and securely
access share and stream their personal
content from anywhere without uploading
content remains safely on USB hard
drives connected to the pogoplug device
in at home or in the office and those
files become available from any
internet-enabled device including iphone
android ipad blackberry and palm ross
rubin an executive director of industry
analysis that the NPD group says
pogoplug is a great option for those who
want to quickly and securely share
personal files over the internet with
the addition of the Wi-Fi feature owners
of the pogoplug pro can place the device
anywhere in their home
having to physically connect it to their
router pogoplug pro is available today
in best buy stores and online for
ninety-nine dollars that us or canadian
us four pounds or euros it's pretty much
on par these days as far as the canadian
vs you i don't know any way you can get
these full stories at the category five
TV / newsroom the category five TV
newsrooms research by roy w gnashed with
contributions from gadget wisdom guru
becca ferguson and our community of
viewers if you have a news story you
think is worthy of on-air mentioned
email newsroom at category five TV so
there hang komodo st. that's sweet but I
wouldn't want to go to best buy to buy
it oh but I think the thing is is that
it's cool that it's getting its way into
retail but no matter where you buy it
make sure you somehow get ahold of the
company I don't know if they have a tech
support line or you can pop an email off
pogoplug calm I'm sure just let them
know that you heard about it here at
category 5 TV they don't fund anything
with the show but like I don't know it's
a great product I know that they've been
on the show a few times and and we we
highly recommend it I use it all the
time for off-site backups and stuff and
it's fantastic so make sure you let them
category 5 TV we've got some more
nanodots to give away in just a little
bit we need to work on the signals here
the director over here inside yeah I
thought he was the third base coat
you're not Eric you're not Eric quick
switch it I need to get him like a yeah
all right I figured it out took some
time and I had to actually say it
verbally but John unfortunately has been
removed from the draw tonight it's been
disqualified and how's that cuz he won
last week oh that's correct couldn't
give John all the prizes you know just
doing pretty good so stick around we're
gonna be giving away some nano gonna
give these away category five technology
TV is brought to you in part by planet
calypso you can download the
pregame at cat five dot TV / Calypso
what job was taking me for a hovercraft
right took me for one where were you I
was maybe those maids a dirty that's too
busy to go in a hovercraft you know we
couldn't give jawed all the prizes I
think we could we do Oh seems to be the
stereotype but around a job in that in
the chat room dude seriously they aren't
addictive at all it's good thing we
don't have my pressures like the durn
think that's it if we had a PGM on here
well would that be great everybody we
just okay we're back in the bank put it
back in the bag let's take a look at in
the bag i'm running oracle vm virtualbox
oracle of course bought out sun
microsystems and put their name all over
the products that that Sun has developed
but they have introduced some cool
features in virtualbox I have to say
multiple monitor support is a huge big
deal for virtualization or a virtual
machine to move on one monitor we're in
play yeah usually you've got the host
you've got the guest if you have two
monitors you maybe have it set up so
your host is on one monitor your guest
is on the other so let's say you've got
ubuntu and windows one on each screen
but only one computer that's cool now
with some of the new features that have
been introduced its not to know it's
been a couple of months but
multi-monitor support up to eight
monitors in a virtual machine so you're
able to actually put multiple virtual
screens from the same virtual machine
virtual screen well like say I've got
two monitors I could have windows XP
Windows XP and these would actually be
the same virtual machine right just like
as if I had windows as the host so so
that's cool
what I'm going to do tonight though is
now I've got ubuntu 10.04 as my host and
I'm going to install Ubuntu 10.04 the
screen VirtualBox of course you can
download it for free virtualbox org if
you want USB and SATA support make sure
you get the non free version OS e is
that open source edition that will that
will restrict some of the feature set
because of the patents and the non-free
nature of some of those things so if you
if you want free as an open source
you'll need to get the OSE if you don't
mind having some proprietary stuff built
into the software you can get the non
free version off of the website
virtualbox org or you can install it
with perfect boom to as well and that's
going to give you those additional
things like USB 2.0 native support in
your virtual machines so could be very
important to you and like I say SATA as
well being able to virtualize an SATA
controller that can be important and
lots faster than ID so I've got virtual
box installed nice and easy and I'm
going to just create a new virtual
machine we're just going to go next i'm
going to call this mat we're going to go
linux ubuntu and it gives you all these
different options we're just basically
telling it what are we going to be
installing and this does nothing more
than just pre configure your computer
your virtual computer to run the
operating system that you've told that
you're going to be installing I
understand they go next I created for
little aids look I created 512 megabytes
of virtual ram so this is telling me
that because I selected a boon to it's
actually selected kind of the default
options to run an Ubuntu virtual
machines so if I wanted to go bigger
than that I could as long as I have at
least double that in my system so with
with specifying 512 megabytes of virtual
machine Ram I'm basically saying I've
got at least two gigabytes in my system
because I don't want to I don't want to
push the fifty percent threshold of what
my system is capable of doing
because the host operating system always
needs to have more RAM available to it
then your virtual machine because
otherwise you're doing something in the
virtual machine and suddenly the whole
computer locks up because you've tried
to use too much RAM and you don't
physically have that ram or it starts
swapping data from Ram to your hard
drive which will hugely degrade the
performance so I'm saying 512 megabytes
because that's what it's recommending
and that's fine for this case but if
it's a production environment you might
have a gigs of RAM in your computer and
you might want to go a little bit bigger
create a new hard disk is what I'm going
to do and remember that this is all
virtual hardware welcome to the create
new virtual disk wizard go next what do
I want dynamically expanding storage or
a fixed sized storage dynamically
expanding means that it's going to start
at the size of the data that's contained
within that drive so even if you create
an 80 gigabyte hard drive it's only
going to take up say one gigabyte on
your hard drive on your actual physical
hard drive because you've only installed
that much but then as soon as you
install you know say you install a four
gigabyte game into that virtual machine
or something just use the example then
all of a sudden you've got five gigs so
the file grows on your actual physical
hard drive but the guests still sees
that the guest being whatever virtual
cooperating system you're installing
still sees it as an 80 gig hard drive
regardless of how much space it's
actually taking up fixed size storage
means that it's going to actually
allocate all of the space that you say
you want now advantages to that is
better performance as well as you don't
have to worry so much about whoops I've
filled up my virtual machine hard drive
or I've grown my virtual machine hard
drive so much that it's surpassed the
capacity of my hosts in which case it
could crash the system because you've
run out of space on your host so
dynamically expanding is good if you've
got a lot of space fairly good amount of
processing power because it does
have higher resource requirements than
fixed size storage but in the case of a
residential system usually dynamically
expanding its going to work just fine in
a server environment or if you're using
it for anything that requires any amount
of performance beyond what would
normally be expected I would go with
fixed sized I'm going to go with dynamic
just drawn the tan reference what's that
that's the maverick meerkat okay the
10-point ten of ubuntu if you have any
questions erica is watching the chat
room category five TV yeah that was no I
was watching you excited sorry you know
that's cool you can watch both so how
much space do you need on your computer
again this you don't want to exceed how
much space is actually physically
available on your host I according to
this could go up to two terabytes I only
have maybe 250 gigabytes so I don't know
what would happen if I tried it would
probably just say I don't have that
amount of space but you want to make
sure that this is never going to grow to
the point where it's going to surpass
the amount of space that you physically
have in your computer so in this case I
would say that it's going to be safe to
say okay well I'll take about 20 gigs
doesn't have to be exact I'm going to go
next and it tells me what I'm going to
do I'm going to create a dynamically
expanding disk it's going to be 20 point
13 gigs if the above is correct press
finish so I've done that it's ready to
go and I click finish so it's created my
virtual machine I've got all this
virtual hardware including a nice eh
ac97 integrated audio card which is
virtualized it's given me a fake Intel
probe 1 gigabit network adapter for
example so all that hardware again is
virtual it's not real Hardware it's been
virtualized into this into this computer
so next step is we need to have the
ubuntu iso image of course i'm going to
get that from ubuntu com you can do that
first if you like
the download is already here i have
already downloaded it and again that's a
boon to calm it's spelt you bu NTU calm
and you can just click on be yeah yeah
we want to download a boon to because
we're doing this in a virtual machine
i'm going to go with a 32-bit version
but if you're doing this native you may
have the power and the processor ability
to go with 64-bit in which case you
should if you have that ability check
your specs on your computer to see if
you do have that ability and we can just
start downloading that file that's going
to give us what's called an iso file
it's a it's an exact copy of the disk
itself you can burn that disc if you're
going to be actually creating a real
disk to install on to a real computer in
this case because we're doing a virtual
machine I don't actually need to do that
so in virtualbox what I'm going to do
I'm going to start from scratch here I'm
just going to wipe out some of the ISO
images that I already have just so that
you can see what this is going to look
like cuz I've already loaded this
okay so download them
just one sec here I'll go and click on
the round thing you got some
distractions upstairs how about did you
just set value no no I just accidentally
purge the wrong fly it's all good I need
to re add that hard drive here we go
CDs okay
and if you have any questions this is
category 5 technology TV we welcome you
to join us in the chat room category
five dot TV alright so we're you have
one there no I just wonder if that
reference about dropping something on
the floor and cracked and you've had
anything dude might have Louise loc
might have to do with episode for sure
oh thanks MMD Murphy what I was doing
here was just clearing out my my CD iso
is just you can see what this looks like
from scratch because i've already
installed fedora on kubuntu so if i go
to file now and virtual media manager ok
and then i can go to CD DVD images this
is how it will look out of the box
you're going to have none and then I
want to add what I've downloaded so I
can go to my downloads folder and I'm
going to grab the i386 file is the 32
bit and this is the desktop edition not
the server edition so now I've brought
that in and it's basically telling this
virtual computer that it now has this
disk in the drive even though there is
no CD drive it's all virtual and there's
no CD it's an iso file so I've added
that and now i'm going to double-click
on maverick and that's going to launch
that virtual machine ok you can run
check with it what it tells me here
lead to the corruption of a virtual disk
under these conditions well we want to
make sure that we get around that
so this this error here that I've got
says the host I Oh cash for at least one
of the controllers is disabled okay okay
so let's fix that
so this isn't the virtual setting at
this point oh it absolutely is
everything's virtual all this hardware
is is not in existence right so I'm just
going to right-click on my machine go
settings go to my storage controller
SATA controller and turn on this is what
it's telling me to do use host I Oh cash
alright I'm going to do that and see if
that eliminates that air it's gone okay
no bootable medium found make sure that
it's got that device so I'm clicking on
devices CD DVD and clicking on ubuntu
10.3 86 and I'll try to reboot notice
again I'm rebooting the computer by
going machine reset I'm not resetting my
real computer i'm resetting the virtual
machine which now detects the CD because
i've added it using the devices cd/dvd
so basically what i've done is i've made
it think that i've inserted this disc
into this computer which doesn't
actually exist it's a virtual machine
with virtualization technology of course
you can use it for so many different
things be it being able to run multiple
different types of operating systems
like we're doing here as the example was
earlier tonight being able to run
different types of operating systems so
you've got some windows applications
that you still need to be able to access
you're not able to run them in Linux for
example so you install a virtual machine
with windows in it and you're able to to
do that so cool so this is booting right
up to boon to 10 point 10 this is
category 5 technology TV i'm your host
Robbie Ferguson Eric's here with me you
good it folks pan out there and get some
Eric in the shot I'm here to he's here
I'm here and I've stopped playing with
the nano dust although it's a star
speaking of me did they do we're gonna
be giving that away in about five
minutes yeah what about five minutes in
five minutes we go will I get to take
them all oh yeah you take them for the
link sure here we go we're booting up it
boots up really really nice and quick
okay so the first thing that boom just
going to ask us is what do you want to
do it's detected my wired connection
which is I don't have it's actually
wireless here so in order to blow it up
full screen what I've done is I've hit
my right ctrl key and the f button on my
keyboard that's your full screen now it
asks me okay here we go what do you want
to do you want to try ubuntu which is
cool if you've never used it before and
you want to just give it a go see how it
works on your system make sure that it
detects all your hardware without
actually committing to install it or if
you're ready go install Ubuntu and
that'll take you right through the
process of actually installing the
operating system so one of the neat
things that have come along since the
most recent versions of Ubuntu and and
especially with meerkat is this screen
here what do you want to install in
addition to what's included with ubuntu
and here you see that they've actually
provided a way out of the box to install
some of those third-party tools that was
at virtual box though right no this is
all virtual virtual boxes the
virtualization tool here you are you
Vanessa crafting said right out of the
box and I said that was virtual bugs 3
ignore the pretty suree down those two
thing yeah so there you know what you're
getting though is you've got like flu
endo which gives you mp3 support so you
can play your audio files which doesn't
sound like anything exceptional but
operating systems out of the box don't
usually include that no so we've got
that it's now a part of the Ubuntu
installer I've checked off both of those
because hey you know what I do want the
updates i do want flash and mp3 other
media and I want the flu endo player as
well which may or may not violate
intellectual property rights depending
on where you're located in the world of
course being a global show it's hard to
know where you are and what kind of
situation the patents are there so make
sure that you have the legal
right to install flu endo on your system
so I've just clicked those and clicked
on forward and that's going to go
through to the next screen it's
detecting hardware it's going to give me
the option to partition my hard drive
which is the point where you wanted to
be at a little bit earlier we had a
question about the partitioner so here's
the question how do you want to allocate
your drive space in this case now I've
never actually set up another operating
system on the drive so it's not given
the option to you know run it alongside
of another operating system because I
don't have another operating girls to
install this is my virtual hard drive
remembered so do I want to erase and use
the entire disk if this is the only
thing you want to have on your hard
drive and you've got a backup of the
files that are there that's probably the
option that you want to go with however
the option is also there to specify
partitions manually if you'd like to
configure them that's the one that you
would select if you had the the
situation that we had earlier the
question that came in about about being
able to overwrite the release candidate
without overwriting the other partition
right that's the one you would choose so
I'm going to erase and use the entire
disk I'm just going to go forward it
gives you the option of you know if
you've got multiple hard disks you can
pull that down I'm just gonna I've only
got the one and I'm gonna go install now
and it's quite a nice install and that's
just the virtual 21-point whatever guess
that virtual hard drives that I be rude
now if you want to install the boon to
on your actual physical computer the
steps are exactly the same just omit any
other virtual box steps right because
what you're seeing here is not something
that Ubuntu is set up to install a
virtual machine this is we're doing this
in a virtual machine this is what I was
talking about multitasking the Installer
it's creating the file system it's
starting to calculate files to to skip
copy copying files but meanwhile it's
asking me where am I what time zone am I
am this is practical to me rainy river
well it's better than anybody want any
River there in the jet room not that
it's better than t1 I mean it's a better
guess than Tijuana I'm sewing I've typed
in total toronto and i'm gonna click
toronto ontario canada it puts the
marker where i am and then i can go
forward but you see that this
multitasking is still copying files as
as i'm doing this other stuff so it's
more productive as far as the
installation procedure goes yeah it's
getting stuff done while it's waiting
for me to answer cuz if you'd gone up to
make me another coffee which you didn't
I'm sorry it would waited for type of
keyboard you're going with a USA
keyboard if you use an international
keyboard with special keys you want to
select the right one but see it's still
copying files it's still going and if
that's exactly right i don't know if
you've ever installing XP it reaches
like it waits and waits and waits and
you answer three questions and then it
asks you to ten more lots of interaction
lots of there actually it is definitely
in a dependent install so but here we
are it's asking me okay what do you
what's your name even while it's still
copying files there so my name is Robbie
it automatically detects now the name of
like the host name the computer
manufacturer pick a username I'll go
with Robbie as far as my password goes
doesn't really matter in this case just
pick something i'm going to go log in
automatically because it's just my own
personal computer you may if this is a
laptop you may want to require your
password in order to log in you may even
want to encrypt your home folder to
protect your data should your laptop get
stolen in this case this is a virtual
machine I don't need any security in
there because there aren't going to be
any files in it and I don't I'm not
concerned about what is going to be
contained within that so I'm just going
to go no problem we'll just log in
automatically
go click forward cool no questions in
the chat room a that's the final step
that's the final question now you see
it's given me a slideshow of welcome to
boon to thank you for choosing a boon to
10 point 10 it's going to tell us about
some of the new applications that are
coming that's it so next prompt is we're
all done done and done so while that
runs we do have some nanodots to give
away and I know that you're you're
itchin to give these like the barrel
sorry it'll girl roll drum roll was fine
no I didn't I didn't give you a hard
time over the drum roll it's the star
counselor it was the sarcasm hey Corey
wants to know about a quick review of
unity well let's we've got we've only
got a few minutes here we've got a draw
to give away now tonight for what I want
to do is I want to include those of you
who are in the chat room so give you
just about 30 seconds those of you who
want to hop over to the chat room
category five dot TV to be able to
participate in the draw certainly Corey
yeah pop me an email live at category 5
TV just we're almost out of time tonight
feel free to pop me a question if you
have a question that you couldn't get in
tonight that's the way to do it live at
category 5 TV so we're done what I was
saying is is that I want to give
everybody an opportunity now so far from
episode number 156 we've got a handful
of people who have submitted their entry
to be a part of the nanodrop nano dr.
I'm still in the drone they're still in
the drawer except shot of course who has
already won but from there tonight we're
doing the draw with the people who had
entered that way but we're also
including those who are in the chat room
so good luck to everybody on the draw
for nanodots here we go you can play
with them now it's good actually play
with them again cat five dot TV slices
nano daughter key out there stuffed
turkey time oh look at that
of tana name well hello and I just
noticed your name is actually rotating
that's when we haven't added you to the
omissions so know if you win this
I was doing it wrong I know something a
half um and it was your little longer
glastron yes that looks a little bit
suspicious okay
good luck everybody this is for a pack
of nanodots you find out more cat five
dot TV / nanodots
errtime person
I'm just
I'm getting close the musky we've got a
lot of names there don't check this out
it's gonna you me oh you're gonna
have to show the people or the people
well you better not come up I I think
that would be really fun if I won but
all I'll serum the jaw cuz no here we go
Reagan Texas rig oh my sorry I'm not
sing country songs in this room oh he's
from Texas so I here dropping beads
uh-oh so what are you not going out that
congratulations Greg in Texas make sure
you bought me an email live at category
5 TV so that we can send those to you
make sure you include your real name
your address for for male and any
information that's be pertinent to a
shipment coming to you phone numbers
will stuff like that congratulations so
what do you well I had a rope mate and
that's when I wasn't looking at started
to this one's open yeah now I have a can
you get up here on the I can only have a
well around clean okay and no oh here we
go engineering great no home yes I saw
the razor blade ok ok I'm I'm taking
these ones home John so we're still
moving along downloading language packs
because i specify that i want everything
to to download there and that is going
to be good to go for next week and next
week we're gonna be looking at some of
the new apps including a new audio
multitrack editor that comes with the
noob really so we're going to be
checking that out so make sure you tune
in next week with the midi interface and
all that sort of stuff for Louis
multi-tracking different thing
altogether but if you recording sessions
and stuff like that you know so very
cool stuff also next week we've got a
special guest is going to be joining us
I'm talking about technology behind
office organizations so make sure you
check that out that is for episode
number 161 and this has been episode
number 160 of category 5 technology TV
for joining us this week and that's all
the time we have but I believe it that's
it well thanks for having me Robbie
thanks for being here thank you for
joining us folks have a great week we'll
talk to you next Tuesday night
