welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode number 564 and tonight's
Sascha is across the room from me but
she is here now it's just Sachin and I
and tonight we're gonna be looking at a
beautiful single board computer from
pine 64 that is going to be manufactured
all the way through at least to 2022
we've also got the GNU image
manipulation program pre-installed on my
laptop I can't wait to show you the new
features in ten part meat version 2.0
point four it's a free alternative to
Adobe Photoshop if you've ever wanted to
edit photos or even get into graphic
image editing as a profession even this
is a free alternative to the commercial
applications available for you and we're
going to show you how you can get that
and show you just some of the new
features as well lots of great stuff
coming up don't go anywhere
this is category 5 technology TV
[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku kodi
plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech is here cat
5 TV slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash iai be welcome to episode
number 564 are we actually at five sixty
four is that for real 64 that is
insanity that's great incredible now
Sasha and I are both in studio D and for
those who would say oh it's like they're
not even on the same camera it's true we
have this great shot so that Sasha I can
I can look over at you you've got to see
but when you look straight you have to
actually look at the drapes the drapes
yeah I'm basically I'm basically the
floor over there
am i looking at you right now no not at
all the drapes which drapes you're
thinking you're pondering things right
now like the red curtain maybe there oh
hey Sasha mini Robbie this is crazy
so we've had we've had a fun time
getting things kind of up and going
tonight we had major technical
difficulties before the show we don't
need to get into the details but I do
need to say thank you to our patrons our
technical difficulties tonight will most
assuredly result in expenses in order to
get things back to exactly where they
need to be it's part of the nature of
doing a live broadcast each and every
week I think that's one of the things
that you know behind the scenes that can
happen is we can have some technical
glitches and things that hopefully we're
able to still be able to bring you a
great show and you're not even
necessarily going to notice the
difference but then we've got to fix
things gotta fix things so to our
patrons to those of you who are
supporting category 5 technology
TV whether it be through patreon or
whether it be through direct donations
through PayPal maybe you've mailed us
something or maybe you just purchase
things through our partner links on our
website category five dot TV that's a
great way that you can support category
5 so the funds that are raised through
that usually help us to kind of sustain
things this time around this week it's
going to help us to get things back up
and running the way that they should be
so here's hoping that we have a good
week ahead right sash I know it's gonna
be a great week ahead yeah thank you
everyone for your help
absolutely and thank you for being here
with us tonight and Sasha thank you for
making the trip as well you notice the
Jeff is not here and Jeff of course
works down in Toronto and unfortunately
is stuck in traffic we're on the air
live on a Wednesday night now if you're
watching live now if you're watching
this on demand or maybe on cable TV on
the weekend you're catching the
on-demand video but if you ever want to
catch us live we are very thankful to
have a great internet connection now and
we come to you live from a city called
Barrie Ontario in Canada and that is
just about an hour north of Toronto and
we love doing this for you week after
week so category 5 TV shirts are still
available you can head on over to cap 5
dot TV slash shirts to pick yours up
Sasha you've still got some of those
video games yes ded effect 2v are we
still have a couple left to give away so
you can win yours by emailing contest at
category 5 TV and let us know who you
are how your watching where you're
watching from any questions comments
thoughts concerns we will submit your
ballot we will draw one you will win you
will love it mm-hmm
hi to the chatroom DJ Mike says hey we
should shoot the show every single week
on green-screen and then we can make it
so that the show is anywhere in the
world right huh that's funny we did that
one time where I did the news from like
a cave in Jamaica that's right yes yeah
why we do not do green-screen each and
every week now we do have a green-screen
chroma key studio here
but our cameras have been upgraded to 4k
however our broadcast server has not so
in order to pull a 4k stream do live
chroma key we don't have the resources
to do that eventually now you'll notice
if you are on patreon one of our goals
is that we would like to upgrade our rig
so that it's capable of 4k chroma key
our show is still we max out at 1080p so
that's what we record at but in order to
actually process that amount of visual
data we need a more powerful system here
at the studio I mentioned chat room hey
Linden it's nice to see you again see
128 D is here live Marsh man as well if
you ever want to join us in the chat
room you can head on over to our website
category 5 dot TV and you'll see the
interact menu there Sasha you've got you
got here real quick tonight how did you
walk so fast ok so here's the thing last
week at this time I did not realize I
would be talking about this this is like
one of those really last-minute
super-fun spontaneous things I did I
bought a car no way I did and I've got a
brand new car like I do are you serious
you're spoiling yourself girl
no it's amazing ok so I went to the
dealership to test drive a car thinking
ok well at some point soon I'm going to
buy one I'm gonna need to because it's
about to snow and Dave is so amazing
that he feels as danceable husband Dave
yes yeah he feels responsible we tend
there's bad weather to drive me wherever
it is I'm willing to walk her bike but
now we've just had this heats I always
want to call it a heat stroke it's not
it's a heat wave heat stroke yeah has
been driving me everywhere amazing and
that's probably what that's good I'm so
so you said I guess the conversation
went something like well you know you've
been driving me around thank you so much
sweetheart but I'll save you the trouble
and I'll go buy myself a brand new car
what happened was he said I'm gonna go
golfing so I can't pick you up and I
said ok well
I'll go buy a car yeah that's okay I
just wanted to go test-drive a car
anyway so don't worry don't rush home
and for long-term viewers Sasha
sold her car thinking hey this is a
great idea to bike to the studio each
and every week and everywhere you go and
yeah that didn't last through the
Canadian winter and that surprised me
because as a Canadian we bike in the
winter right okay so I have to tell you
a little bit about my car because
brand-new.i
technologically sophisticated right so
it's a 2018 Chevy spark so Chevrolet
Spark I don't know whether or not there
is Chevrolet international I don't even
know anyway so it's a subcompact it's a
tiny car it's not as small as you can
get but it's like a tiny bit bigger than
that the thing is I've had it for like
two hours now yeah I picked it up went
to work came here so we should be we
should be doing like carpool karaoke or
something like that it should be the
show tonight there's 30 kilometers on my
car right now which is like 15 miles
come on yeah it's incredible okay
so when I get into my car it asked me to
sync my phone which I guess is a normal
thing but that asked me to connect my
phone with a USB cord and now everything
like it mirrors onto the skirt the - no
so I could see that you were messaging
but my only response could possibly be
can't talk now I'm driving right right
but I can listen to my music it was
straight from my phone my car I can all
my navigation is done through Google
Maps I can talk to my car like
throughout like I say okay Google kind
of like you would say hi Alexa right but
I have never had anything and nearly as
sophisticated because I always base
model things this car itself like was
like stinkin cheap so I could go with
one level up you got a good deal I
really love that feature of new cars
that you know you can connect bluetooth
now my I have only ever bought a family
van
sascha so i don't know what it's like to
drive around in a sporty brand-new car
my my family van does have bluetooth and
and so it connects to my phone when I
get in it which is cool for making and
taking calls because then it's
hands-free so the whole danger of
picking up the phone or texting while
you're driving becomes a moot point
because it just allows me to make and
take calls by pushing a button on the
dash and then using voice commands which
is really really great
but mine does not have the capability of
streaming music from my phone over
Bluetooth and I wish it did mine does I
love that it's like my car is it's like
I'm living inside my phone that's what
it's like it's so connected to my phone
that anything I can do with my phone I
could do with my car and I can do it
like by and large hands-free I believe I
haven't actually tried any of it really
if your husband Dave gets in the car
does the car say hello Dave I don't know
he actually hasn't seen it yet but I
have it and I named it so that's it it's
great that absolutely love it now to be
fair to my van there is a USB port in
the glovebox and I was like oh wonder
what that is and so I plugged the USB
flash drive into it from the old van
filled with mp3 music and sure enough it
loaded up and it plays from a USB Drive
which is really really nice I would love
we should have done this show live just
drew booting around the only thing is
it's an automatic not a standard I
wanted a standard okay if anybody likes
the show or the show the game Dark Souls
the Dark Soul series
I named my car Estes because that is how
you get life in Dark Souls so you drink
from the estus flask so there you go
I've no idea what she's talking about
either folks
there you go welcome to the Sasha show
yeah there you go we've got to take a
really quick commercial break when we
come back we have a beautiful long-term
supply single-board computer from the
wonderful pine 64 we're gonna pull it
out of the box and see what it looks
like stick around
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cap five
dot TV slash shirts welcome back this is
category five technology TV we've all
heard of the Raspberry Pi but there are
other single board computers out there
sash are you ready to take a look I
certainly a.m.
alright so tonight we're gonna unbox the
pine 64 LT s now I've got kind of the
kit here I've got my trusty ruler so
that we can measure everything alright
let's get right into it this is now LT s
in this case for the pine a 64 LT s
stands for long-term supply that means
that they're gonna support this thing
and continue manufacturing it until at
least 2020 where do I start
okay first of all let's get right into
the box of the pine 64 LTS there it is
the first thing that is immediately
striking about this board is that it is
significantly larger form factor than
than the Raspberry Pi that we're used to
let's get in here
there it is so this is the pine a 64 LTS
and it has an all winner r18 quad core
ARM Cortex the 853 that's a 64-bit
processor and that allows it to have 2
gigabytes of lpddr3 RAM so it's got
about well twice as much memory
a Raspberry Pi so presumably we're able
to do quite a bit more as well it has a
built-in spi boot flash it's 128 Meg's
and it's also got some really great
capabilities here that we don't see on
some of the smaller SBC's first of all
I'm gonna flip this over now we do have
what looks like the SD card reader here
and that's about it on this side over
here we have I hope you can see that all
right that's an e MMC input for a module
of up to 128 gigabytes so that is
essentially so if you're used to single
board computers where you've got a SD
card we know that SD cards are not
overly reliable and they do eventually
basically fry themselves and you'll lose
the the data that's on them and that's
part of SBC's we know that SD cards
cards are not that reliable so we tend
to have a backup and be able to replace
them on the fly
now emmc on the other hand it's a solid
state hard drive and it's quite a bit
more reliable and significantly faster
so this has that capability unlike the
Raspberry Pi but similar to the Odroid
xu4 for example you can boot from
either/or so you can boot from either
the MMC or the SD card which is
beautiful you can put the OS on there
and you can choose which one you want to
use now if you are a maker you're gonna
notice that it does have GPIO so it's
got the PI 2 GPIO bus Euler GPIO bus and
it's got connections for other
peripherals as well
lots of interfaces like you are SPI i2c
so if you're a maker that you want to
you know you want to integrate some
sensors into this board or other
peripheral devices you can do that so
it's a perfect maker board it's gonna
get you up and going real good so this
one comes with a one-year warranty looks
great now I don't see a USB input for
power do you notice that but what I do
see is a barrel connector so I assume
that this guy over here is gonna be what
we're looking for
so it is a 5-volt board and this should
be let's see we've got a 5 volt 3 amp so
5 volt 3 amps and it has the the barrel
connector this is a 3.5 OD / 1.35 ID
barrel type or one or the other there
you go
so just like that so it's a barrel
connector anyways not a standard USB
micro or anything like that so you will
need a separate power supply for this
particular SPC and you notice again it's
quite a bit larger than a traditional
SBC which might be about half the size
but we've got a case for it so let's
take a look at that first of all I say
it's larger let's give the measurements
here so we've got three inches you see
that okay sash hey Ken perfect
three-point three inches and two maybe
three millimeters and this way we've got
five inches right on the money so there
you have it let's see what we've got
here ooh they look like triple-a
batteries
these look like like a type of riser oh
I'm excited about that that looks nice
okay let's get a look at what they've
got here
so we've got some PVC oh and it's got
the pine a 64 logo there nice and simple
now it is it looks like it's quite
open-concept there you go so that's
gonna screw so we've got a couple of
screws here I'm not gonna actually
assemble this but you can use your
imagining and you see that these four
screws will hold this onto the riser
plate and then the risers that we have
here that look like triple-a batteries
and they're about the same size as a
triple-a battery they're going to give
us a rise on that board as well about
this high so you're gonna have a lot of
airflow but a lot of potential deaths
getting in there as well so keep that in
mind you're gonna want to keep that
clean that looks good okay now other
peripherals that you might need for your
pine a64 LTS first of all if you want to
have Wi-Fi it does support it but you're
gonna have to get a separate module and
that looks a little something something
like this there we go and I guess that
just snaps right on here somewhere let's
see there we go and then just like that
it has Wi-Fi well that that is Wi-Fi now
and then I guess this is just the
antenna so we can stick that on there
and then yes you've got a Wi-Fi
controller built in next up I've got a
16 gigabyte I mentioned the emmc
capabilities of this board I love emmc
in comparison to say SD cards more
reliable significantly faster and that's
all there is to it so it looks roughly
the size of a small SD card but it's
going to just simply snap onto the board
just like so so you just place it on top
find the spot and snap it on and now
that is a 16 gigabyte hard drive on that
mainboard perfect
we've got a heatsink for the CPU and
just in case I want to flash my own OS
on there let's say I want to put names
Linux on it or I want to put a different
districts or Android or Windows or
whatever I want to put on there they've
included this extra peripheral which
you're probably going to have to buy
separately now we've been sent this by
pints a pint sixty four to two review
but this is a emmc USB adapter so now I
can just simply plug this into the
adapter and plug that into my computer
and be able to flash any OS on to that
that's compatible with this board
so speaking of compatible os's now this
carries the a 64 markings and it is the
a 64 LTS so you might presume that an a
64 plus OS will run on this and that is
not the case this will run any of the so
pine platform os's and that is due to
the to the RAM configuration of this
particular board so that means that the
a 64 plus distributions of Linux or
whatever it is that you want to install
will not run on this board even though
it carries the a 64 marking okay so you
need the so pine versions of those os's
so that's any of the builds that are
available on the so pine platform so
there you have it
I can't wait to fire that up I love
unboxings they're absolutely my favorite
favorite episodes
I love the single board computers and
how there are other brands that are
really on the rise the a 64
LTS is something that I'm really excited
about find out more about this board
I've got the links below but head on
over to pine 64 dot org and you'll be
able to check out this board stick
around we've got to take a really quick
break when we get back we are going to
be looking at the brand new release of
GIMP the GNU image manipulation program
well two point ten point four is out
we're going to show you what it looks
like right after this
[Applause]
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching welcome back
this is category 5 technology TV now our
website is triple w category 5 dot TV
just go category 5 dot TV in the address
bar there in your browser and you're
gonna be able to see all the different
shows that we produce now this being
episode number 564 of Technology TV that
means there are 563 other ones that you
can go onto our website and catch those
shows there are some great ways to
participate in the community to become a
part of our patreon page as well so that
you can get some behind-the-scenes
access things like our our weekly vlog
sasha was talking about maybe going out
to the car and showing her new car on
the patreon vlog for example so if
you're a patron you gain access to those
things and that's all through our
website at category-five dot TV one of
the things that we love here Sasha yes
any guesses one of the things we loved
here is unboxings yeah we love unboxings
she's gonna say Linux yes a open source
software yes open source software why do
I love open source software so much
because it's your heart I don't know why
because it's open and it nobody makes
money yes Robbie who gives away the show
for free who loves things that make no
money no there is that but I think
there's this whole kind of spirit of
community around open source software
that says and sometimes this is not the
case but certainly a lot of the times it
is it's people working together to
develop software that they love and they
are passionate about and they distribute
and they give away absolutely free so
that community members people who want
to just go to their websites and
download it can do that
yeah that's free you took the words
right out of my mouth it's like it's
like the tech flashmob like the way
everybody just in community gets
together and they do something for the
greater good only this is just open
source not just open source this is just
like it is just like it so you think
about things like Microsoft Windows and
then you realize that there is Linux
look at Linux Mint look at a boom to
look at lubuntu Mattei and realize that
windows being a commercial application
that's closed source it's proprietary
and it is it belongs to Microsoft and
you're paying for that Linux on the
other hand is open source it's free you
can download it you can install it
you're not limited to how many computers
you put it on you can put it on
everything and it still remains free you
can do all the same things that you
normally would like going on the
internet doing the you know checking
your email surfing the web watching
YouTube watching category-five all these
things can be done and then you say well
yeah but I need Photoshop because we're
back in that mindset of proprietary
commercial it's owned by Adobe it's not
something that we can just have and
install on everything but then we
realize oh just like Linux is to Windows
there are alternatives to things like
Photoshop Sasha's got guests
um GIMP GIMP when you say GIMP it stands
for the GNU image manipulation program
GIMP for short gimp.org is where you can
go head on over there gimp.org I'm gonna
see if I can bring up my screen here I'm
sure I could here we are
and there we are and the first screen
that you see is giant huge button that
says download two point ten point four
that's what it says today tomorrow it
might be ten two point ten point five so
you click on that and lo and behold hey
download it directly and it's available
for Linux so if you've already made that
choice that hey I want to go the
open-source route not use Microsoft
Windows not use Mac OS I want Linux and
you've made that choice hey you can
install the GNU image manipulation
program on your Linux system and now
you've got an open-source alternative to
Adobe Photoshop on that computer as well
so you're saving some money my friend
you are frugal but then look right next
to that it's also available for OS ten
it's also available for Microsoft
Windows if you are stuck on Microsoft
Windows or maybe you love it you can
still download the GNU image
manipulation program and you can give it
a go hey it doesn't hurt anything to try
it right so why not head on over to
gimp.org and download that application
and install it to your computer so if
you're on Windows just click on the
Microsoft Windows link and it'll take
you there this tells us a whole big
bunches you see I mean this tells us a
lot about the GNU image manipulation
program it's been around for years and
years and right now with two point ten
point four why am I so excited about it
tonight anything that I could ever
complain about with the GNU image
manipulation program or anything that
would make somebody say yeah I like that
it's open source I like that it's free
but it's not as good as Photoshop a lot
of those things anything that you can
think of other than CMYK we'll talk
about that
but any of those things are resolved so
now we have we're at the place with this
free program where the GIMP is so good
you can use this in commercial for
commercial use you can use this I have
used this to do billboard scale print
jobs and I do it all in RGB because the
GNU image manipulation program if you
want to look for anything that is better
in Photoshop that would be my example
would be that Photoshop will work in
both CMYK and RGB if you don't know what
that means it probably does not matter
to you graphic designers will prefer to
work in CMYK it's more photo accurate in
print so when you print something it's
going to probably come out more
accurately but with some care RGB which
is red green blue can still produce an
exceptional result and if you're
producing images for web for online for
screen display and for most print jobs
to RGB is going to work just absolutely
fine so it's not a downfall in the GIMP
it's just truly that's probably the
biggest the biggest thing that is
different about the GIMP so with 10
point to that part me to point 10 point
for having been released there are a
bunch of really great new features now I
mentioned that some things have been
fixed that used to be idiosyncrasies
about the program now those would be
things like when you used to rotate an
image a little bit it would go blurry
because it didn't have very good
interpolation for re interpolate in the
pixels Photoshop had a one-up on that
things like scaling down images
Photoshop did a better job because the
GIMP would come out with a blurry image
if you scaled down now that's no longer
a problem
I've showed it on category 5 before but
I will show it again tonight really
briefly but so that is no longer a
problem so now looking at 2.10 point 4
we have some enhancements to things like
the measure tool which is what I want to
look at tonight in our demonstration but
it allows us to fix
the horizon of our image our images and
I want to show you that so I'm not gonna
get too much into it
it has a synchronous font loading what
does that mean when you open your
program it loads all the fonts
well now GIMP says you know what you
probably don't need comic sans ms so
let's not load it until you demand it
let's let's just wait and and sew it and
because it's asynchronous it's doing
other things while it's loading those
fonts and so it's gonna load up a lot
quicker
we've got font tagging we've got
dashboard updates which means that they
have made some improvements to the UI
the PSD loading so this is important
they've made some enhancements to the
way it loads PSD files that may not mean
anything to you but if you are
transferring files between someone who
uses Photoshop and the GIMP a PSD file
is a file that was saved in Photoshop
Photoshop document I believe it stands
for correct me if I'm wrong but a PSD
file was saved in the actual Adobe
Photoshop program in their format so in
the GNU image manipulation program if
you make that transition now you can
open all those PSD files and it does a
very very good job of loading PSD files
directly they have been working toward
giggle and Babel support and that is
just nonsense right but it means that
again the interpolation is much much
better speed is much much better and a
lot of the plugins have been redone to
work better and more professionally
giggle is a big part of that and again
you don't need to know all the details
but you can read about it on their
website at gimp.org are you ready to get
into a sash certainly AB can I show you
how this works please have you Sasha I'm
talking to you kid yeah have you ever
taken a photo only to realize that you
it looks like it was taken by a
one-legged pirate you know me well even
the camera take the picture you think
it's straight but you know you're a
little bit scared so it ends up being
horribly skewed I've got a picture here
that we're gonna pretend I took in fact
I did not I got it from pixels
texels comm check them out okay open
with GNU image manipulation program now
I skewed it the photographer didn't do
this to it
welcome to the GIMP this is the GNU
image manipulation program two point ten
point four beautiful now I am running
this on Microsoft Windows 10 you can run
this on any platform Windows Mac Linux
and you'll notice with this photo now it
is incredibly skewed if I create a box I
can see that one legged pirate did take
this picture and this happens very very
often now I get photos from customers
that because when you're standing in a
room if you are not looking straight at
the wall you're looking a little bit off
that horizon of the wall will be off and
so in your mind you think oh well
straighten it and then take the picture
but then it ends up actually being
crooked because it's not where the
horizon should be so I'm using this
extreme example to really quickly show
you one of the great new features the
enhancements that come built in to the
GIMP two point ten point four now this
is a free program remember and we've got
all these great tools we've got filters
we've got color you know if you want to
fix the levels of a photo you can do
that just like you would in an in adobe
photoshop and then you can save those
settings to to the photo just like that
or you can undo you've got all these
options filters as I mentioned we've got
things like gauzy and blur you need to
install this go through these things and
just play and have fun but in this
example now I brightened it up a little
bit there with my levels and in this
example I want to fix the horizon now
normally I would go through a process of
having to rotate the image which I can
do I can turn on things like a grid if I
want to be able to kind of line that up
let's see if I can show grid
I don't know I'm just kind of playing
but sometimes yeah there are things like
show grid I don't know where it is but
just to say they're you know sometimes
we hack around things and have to go
like that and then we crop it and it's
not ideal now watch how easy they've
made this so looking again at this as a
possible professional suite to use I'm
going to just simply use the measure
tool which is usually used to of course
measure right and we can use this to now
fix the horizon of any photo so when I
say horizon I'm using an actual sunset
horizon you may be using photo in a room
or indoors outdoors whatever but the
horizon being you know where it should
be straight so jumping back here I'm
gonna change my interpolation now I
mentioned how things used to get blurry
if you made some changes because we only
had none linear in cubic now we have no
halo and with no halo interpolation
we're able to get a very very nice clean
pixel recreation if we modify the the
image the scaling and those kinds of
things then we've got the clipping now
this is how we want to work with the
image how we want to crop it or whatever
after we straighten it so I'm gonna show
you those features in just a moment and
it'll all make sense so I'm gonna just
simply click on the horizon and drag and
I'm gonna just put a line what looks
like a line with a measure tool and let
go now there's a line where the horizon
is you can see that and so now all I
have to do you ready for this Sacha I am
what do you think about this button
straighten I'm gonna push that and just
watch what happens to this picture now
it's fast I'm working with a 48 18 by 25
90 photo and now my horizon is perfectly
straight look at that if I make a box
that is perfect it's beautiful but I've
got this like strange kind of cropping
happening because it's done it within
the canvas and so it's got these kind of
you know the alpha
section showing behind so I'm gonna
change the way that I do this by going
back to my measure tool which is moved
now that I made that wider where to go
there it is all right
leaving interpolation and no halo
because I want it to stay real clean
let's look at what clip does differently
so I can I do the same thing and
straighten and lo and behold clip looks
pretty much the same to me as a just
he's not gonna undo and I'm gonna change
to crop to result now this is starting
to sound promising and do my line
straighten and you may not think to look
for this under measure but there it is
so now you see what's happened we've
still got that alpha area but it is the
image has been cropped so that I can now
right-click on the image and go image
and then crop to content watch what
happens boom nice there is a beautiful
image that I can now work with that has
a perfect horizon and I didn't have to
figure it out I didn't have to do any
calculations I didn't have to line
things up and zoom in and squint it was
just that easy that is incredible
I could probably do that that's our
measurement folks Sasha do you think you
could do this I think I could do that
she thinks she could do this so you can
do it too but truthfully I mean okay
let's backtrack just real quick
GIMP GNU image manipulation program is
free you can download it from gimp.org
it runs on Windows Linux and Mac and it
is continually being developed by an
open-source community of developers and
it is continually improving now with two
point ten point four available you can
do something like straighten your image
horizon just that easily go to gimp.org
pick up your copy today it's absolutely
free what are you waiting for
we'll be right back
I'm gonna throw it I'm actually going to
throw it right over to the newsroom and
then we'll take a quick break after you
tell us what's going on
sounds like plan here are the stories
were covering this week in the category
5 TV newsroom under a government
proposal to cut emissions new homes in
suburban England will need to be fitted
with electric car charging points a
migrating tagged male stork flipped out
of contact on April 26 only to run off a
12 $2,700 phone bill a few weeks later
Amazon wants to fill the gap left by the
closure of stores like Toys R Us by
sending out printed catalogs and a
friendly reminder in case you haven't
already upgraded your web hosting to at
to use SSL effective this month Google
is warning users that their websites
aren't secure these stories are coming
right up
don't go anywhere Jeff Weston GEMA
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website what
are you your terrible actor what this
where acting comes into play you're
supposed to act okay I'm building a
really cool website are you building a
really cool website just because Jeff is
confused
doesn't mean you have to be visit cap
five dot TV slash dream host to sign up
for unlimited web hosting for your
website with unlimited email accounts
MySQL databases the latest version of
PHP WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host this is
the category five TV newsroom covering
the week's top tech stories with a
slight linux bias I'm Sacha Rickman and
here the top stories were following this
week new homes in suburban England will
need to be fitted with electric car
charging points under a government
proposal to cut emissions also wherever
there's on-street parking ministers want
new street lights to come with charge
points details of a sales ban on new
conventional gas and diesel powered cars
by 2040 are also expected to be set out
the strategy comes at a time when the
government is facing criticism for
failing to reduce carbon emissions the
government's target is to reduce the
UK's greenhouse gas emissions by at
least 80 percent of 1990 levels by the
year 2050
the proposals announced by transport
secretary Chris Grayling
aim to make it easier to recharge an
electric car Grayling's said that the
proposed measures would mean having the
UK having one of the most comprehensive
support packages for zero emission
vehicles in the world
he said the prize is not just a cleaner
and healthier environment but a UK
economy fit for the future and the
chance to win a substantial slice of the
market estimated to be worth up to seven
point six trillion pounds by 2050 Wow
ok ok this is absolutely incredible and
it seems inconceivable to me because
here we are without anything like that
in No
with America but I wonder to myself and
this is not me trying to be in any way
like dark or anything but how are they
getting the electricity like is it the
electricity not being sourced in a way
that's not green do you know Robbie
mm-hmm
you know my knowledge of UK electrical
generation is well outdated and I know
that it was very much skewed toward gas
and coal generation renewable resources
were very low now I'm just checking if
things have been improving and I do see
that it looks like it looks like
renewable energy is on its way up like
we're looking at almost 25 percent at
this point now in the past the UK has as
I mentioned very much been skewed toward
gas coal with very little nuclear
renewable energy and so we're starting
to see that rise and that's part of you
know initiatives to push for renewable
energy sources so looking at I'm looking
at energy - UK org dot UK and renewable
technology which is natural energy to
make electricity fuel sources like wind
that's a big one that's something that's
been really booming wind wave marine
hydro biomass and solar so now making up
twenty four point five percent of
electricity generated for the UK so
that's a huge rise over say ten years
ago when it was closer to like five
percent so I'm pleased to see that
because it's an interesting point that
you raise Sasha where it's kind of you
know where is the advantage to switching
to electrical motor vehicles if the
electricity itself is being generated
using dirty means right right you know
what this is interesting and and timely
for me because I just bought a car and
while I was looking for cars electric
cars came to my mind as an option but I
was really scared well I scared off by
the price point because right now
electric cars are still way more
expensive than the gas cars but then
also
charging them for me wouldn't be as easy
like there are some charging stations in
in the city we live in and bury but then
charging it at home seems like you have
to I rented installed that you would
have to pay for it right and I would
have to ask my landlord because of
course it's his electricity bill and it
seems easier in this particular case
just to buy a small little four-cylinder
car and fill up a small gas tank and not
make a huge dent in the fact that it's
little I'd rather be electrical but I
feel like we've got a little bit of time
before it actually happens here I don't
think we're ready for it and I I can
understand like you mentioned about
there are charging stations here in our
city of Barrie Ontario and it's true but
they are all kind of clustered together
and they're only near a particular
shopping center so hey if you happen to
be shopping at that shopping center or
maybe you're lucky enough to work there
and have an electric car it makes
absolute sense but if you live or work
on the other side of town to have to
drive 25 minutes to a charging station
and then you know dilly-dally
in the shopping center for however long
it takes to charge your car it just
doesn't seem it doesn't seem practical
at all so close we're getting there
working on it it may be what the UK
initiative is is doing is making it
practical maybe that's what it takes
maybe it takes having them installed in
every house exactly Wow all right a
migrating tagged male white stork known
to the Polish environmentalists who were
tracking him as Kay Jack flipped out of
contact on April 26 that however did not
stop him from making good use of the SIM
card in his GPS tracker with which the
bird or somebody who found the GPS
device and picked it apart in order to
get at the card racked up a $2,700 phone
bill Kay Jack was last located at the
Blue Nile Valley in Sudan on his way
back home to Poland after successfully
making his annual 6000 kilometer or
3,700 mile trip to Africa when his GPS
tracker showed that he had stopped
moving
then when his GPS tracker showed that
Kay Jack had stopped moving researchers
at the environmental group ecologic
assumes that the bird was dead they had
placed the tracker on him in April of
last year in a fairly routine practice
he was it was April 26 when things got
weird that was when the scientists who
were monitoring kay Jack's tracker
noticed that the birds signal started
moving again taking a roundabout 25
kilometer trip before it went dead then
a number of weeks later on June 7th a
ecologic got the giant veil from its
phone company the group believes that in
June someone pulled up hurt the tracker
to get at the SIM card then used it for
the marathon call everyone everywhere
spree running up the $2,700 bill
ecologic said that it doesn't know who
made the calls and they expect that
they'll have to fork over the money for
the phone bill out of their own pockets
so hmm now I use pay-as-you-go so that
if my SIM card or my phone ever gets
lost the worst that could happen is they
could use up the remaining balance right
and to think that they had a calling
plan on a SIM card on a bird's tracker
and then didn't cancel it when the bird
stopped flying right so my question is
really if my SIM card gets stolen yeah
right I'm I'm responsible for the belt
yeah you sure are so I think the key
thing is to call your service provider
and cancel it immediately let them know
that hey my SIM card and the worst that
can happen is is that they cancel it and
then you find your phone or whatever and
then you just buy another SIM card for
$10 and they port the number over to the
new SIM card okay I have a second
question and it's kind of an
environmentalist question they're
putting these trackers on birds so I
don't know exactly how they equip them
but then they just like once the bird
stops moving or is presumed dead it's
just like
right because the tracker is dead right
so are they just letting it just be
where it lays and you know what Sasha
I'm sure that if it was like nearby that
they would go and collect it but
realistically I mean these birds are
migrant Birds that are traveling great
distances they could go down in a jungle
or you know who knows I don't know where
they fly but and III think that they
were you know could go down in a very
dangerous place where they're not gonna
go in and look for and who knows where
it is right and then what about
predators right so you put a tracker on
and a predator attacks the prey that you
put the tracker on now they've ingested
this maybe there should be we did a new
story once about making like parts of
hearts with like silicone or so it was
something that it was a non-toxic
obviously because it was in a human body
could they not come up with some sort of
tracker device that maybe would dissolve
just yes it tastes like gummy bears
exactly I think they might be larger
than that I mean but it's a GPS unit
right with a battery that has to last a
fairly good amount of time and be
trackable from GPS satellites so what it
boils down to is it's probably it's
probably not reclaim Abul in most cases
and in this case I think it was just oh
like facepalm that they didn't cancel
the service on that SIM card they will
never make that mistake again yeah
Amazon's move into retail has largely
hinged around opening or acquiring
brick-and-mortar stores but this holiday
season the online retailer will
reportedly try something different
printed catalogs we're talking about a
massive holiday themed catalog dedicated
entirely to toys to conveniently fill
the void left behind by their recently
shuttered Toys R Us chain in the United
States
Amazon's toys specific catalog will be
mailed to millions of Amazon shoppers
homes and will also be given away for
free at Whole Foods locations while the
report compared this catalog to similar
Christmas season
boy catalogs from Toys R Us Target and
other big-box retailers it did not
confirm whether Amazon's planned book
will be as big as those 100 plus page
catalogs the report also didn't clarify
if or how the book will include price
information since the site hinges so
largely on dynamic pricing and prime
exclusive deals this is actually a super
cool idea I think from a marketing
perspective for people who perhaps
haven't delved into the world of online
shopping yet and I think those exist
yeah I think Lyndon wants to know like
why are they stepping backwards here as
far as the way things are done I well I
think that this is not a step backwards
for them in that they're trying to get
new customers I think this is a new
customer acquisition situation so
they're really like capitalizing on the
nostalgia of the catalogues but they're
sending them to two or they're having
them picked up at Whole Foods and
perhaps you know grandma or grandpa or
could just be anybody who doesn't online
shop opens the catalog and sees how easy
it is to get all of these things right
directly to your house I think that's
one perspective now my perspective goes
right where Lyndon and the foo in our
chat room are thinking about the Sears
wish book and you know that was the big
thick catalog that came out every year
and had everything and we would sit down
as kids I'm not gonna date myself here
Sears just went out of business so it
could have been just year a few years
ago who knows we would sit down his kids
and we flipped through and our Christmas
list was like circling the things that
we wanted and and our list would be you
know if it was handwritten it would be
page 273 I four and that was like what I
wanted for Christmas or for my birthday
or whatever so there's a nostalgia for
people who grew up in that era and I
think Lyndon that it's not so much a
step backwards as it is improving
loyalty for the nostalgic
look at the retro gaming systems that we
that we look at here on the show look at
the NES mini and the SNES mini and these
kinds of things and you think these are
appealing to the nostalgic people are
probably not going out and getting retro
games because they're amazing
it's nostalgia and and there's something
about when it looks like a little mini
Nintendo Entertainment System that
really makes it brings it on home right
I really do wonder how they're gonna do
pricing they probably won't have prices
in the catalog they can't they can't a
class especially that's such an
international system like the whole
Amazon idea you're gonna have to take
maybe you can scan things we'll see but
take those codes take them on to the
website and then get your pricing yeah I
want yeah they might have those whatever
they call the QQ Qi codes you are now
we're really stepping back in time I
don't know QR codes really you know
looked like they had a lot of potential
and everybody was like oh yeah let's get
a QR code and they put it on every
product and then they just kind of
fizzled and nobody uses them it just
kind of seemed to die as a technology I
think maybe until now maybe they'll be
in the catalog maybe or they'll bring
out something new and the Amazon app
will be able to scan from your phone the
new type of code that Amazon implements
you watch for it
I'm going to patent that right now
marking it down new QR code from Amazon
got it this is exciting
yes for the past several years Google
has moved toward a more secure web by
strongly advocating that sites adopt
HTTPS encryption and within the last
year they've helped users understand
that HTTP sites are not secure by
gradually marking a larger subset of
HTTP pages as not secure effective this
month with the release of chrome 68
chrome will mark all HTTP sites as not
secure developers have been
transitioning their sites to HTTPS and
may and making the website the web safer
for everyone
progress last year was incredible and
it's continued since then over 68
sense of chrome traffic on both Android
and Windows is now protected over a 78%
of Chrome traffic on both Chrome OS and
Mac is now protected and 81 of the top
100 sites on the web use HTTPS by
default Chrome's new interface will help
users understand that all HTTP sites are
not secure and to continue to move the
web towards a secure HTTPS web by
default HTTPS is an easier and easier
and cheaper than ever before--and
unlocks both performance improvements
and powerful new features that are too
sensitive for HTTP wow that's all that a
lot of viewers heard right there is HTTP
https HTTP HTTPS and what does it all
mean
i'm wondering yeah I understand like the
S stands for secure is that right well
HTTP is the protocol that your computer
uses in order to access the Internet so
when you look at your web browser's
address bar and it says HTTP colon slash
slash and then category 5 TV or whatever
website you're on amazon.com or whatever
but it starts with HTTP is the old way
or now HTTP so HTTP was the original
protocol that allowed this information
HT hypertext HT Transfer Protocol so it
allowed the transmission of that
hypertext information which are if you
back up to the 1960s when the internet
was invented the its hypertext is like
website content the the text the the way
that it interacts with one another the
way the href links connect to one
another and so that protocol is used to
send and receive transmit and receive
data so then it was realized that hey
this is not very safe we're sending a
lot of information over a protocol that
can be intercepted and ret now hypertext
think about it text it is text it is
readable by anyone who sees it so you've
heard of man-in-the-middle attack m.i.t
M
man-in-the-middle that is somebody who
has a server or a computer or a router
or a modem or a device on the internet
or network that is listening for
hypertext traffic text traffic and they
can then save that log it aggregate it
and read it so if it's confidential
information now they have access to that
so what has happened over the past
couple of years and now Google is
forcing is that all of that traffic
needs to be encrypted so when you look
at your address bar it now says HTTP for
hypertext Transfer Protocol secure or
SSL and so then you are you can rest
assured that the information that's
being sent to your computer from the
server and back to that server from your
computer is encrypted so it cannot be
intercepted by that man-in-the-middle
attack well it can correction it can be
intercepted but it cannot be understood
it's no longer plaintext it's encrypted
data flow so Google has put their foot
down they've said okay we're forcing the
internet to be HTTPS now if you run
Chrome and you go to a website that is
not HTTPS which means it's secure it's
gonna tell you it's not secure so if you
run a website you have to set up SSL
Certificates and you have to enforce
that anyone who goes to your site it
automatically puts them on HTTPS that's
important and it's also you know it's
not just to stop google's browser from
complaining about it no it's to protect
the end users category-five TV we switch
to HTTPS years ago because we want to
protect the confidentiality of our
viewers our users as they interact with
us so that's important to us and it
should be important to you as well you
can check out just quickly Sasha if I
may I know you're like hey you really
kind of took over no this is perfect
this has been very helpful Oh fantastic
let's encrypt is a free service that
allows you to set up SSL certificates on
your website they have an amazing
amazing website that you simply tell it
a little bit about your server
and it will give you the codes that you
need in order to set this up on your
computer so it's let's encrypt dot-org
you can head on over there I have just
brought it up on my screen just to
confirm I had it right in my mind let's
encrypt org what it means is that you
can have secure hosting at no extra
charge because in days gone by one of
the things that kept people from setting
up SSL Secure certificates and
encryption is that it cost money
now let's encrypt has changed all that
and it's free so check out let's encrypt
org we love free yeah it's good what's
good thank you so much Ravi and big
thanks to Roy W Nash and our community
of viewers for submitting stories to us
this week thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our web site from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Sasha Rickman and I'm
Robbie Ferguson thank you so much for
being here again with us this week hope
you've enjoyed the show please go to our
website category 5 TV track us down
track down this episode number 564 of
Technology TV and submit your comments
give us a thumbs up if you're watching
on YouTube don't just give us a thumbs
up give us a subscribe as well and we
look forward to seeing you again next
week we'll see ya
