I'm Sasha tomatoes and here the top
stories from the category 5 TV news room
in August microsoft announced that it
was going to change the patching model
used by windows seven and eight point
one as well as windows server 2008 2008
r2 2012 2012 r2 to something close to
that of Windows 10 in a break from
Microsoft's older operating systems
windows windows 10 s monthly updates
incorporate both security and non
security fixes into a single monolithic
update these updates combined not only
each month's new fixes but also the
fixes from previous month's a similar
system is being offered to those older
operating systems the patch which rolled
out yesterday was the first time this
new system has been used so this new
system will now if I understand it just
monthly updates everything eat non
security and security random during the
month when I am at work and it's the
least convenient for me that is what I
understand from the story don't leave
stuff running is that correct for
example I mean I had our render process
running 55 our render yes and windows
decided that's time to reboot right
don't be careful you're real sweet
worried about that okay yeah I am the
only one that has problems with windows
access to online storage systems
including Dropbox github and Microsoft
onedrive was blocked in Turkey on
Saturday the Turkish government imposed
the blocks after a hacktivist group
leaked emails that it had said at that
it had said it had stolen from the night
nation's energy minister the Red Hat
group had threatened to publish the
information unless left-wing dissidents
were released in total more than 57,000
emails were put online by the group news
about the block was broken by the turkey
blocks digital rights group which
monitors net
censorship in the country it said that
google drive storage service had also
initially been included on the list of
sites blocked but this block had been
lifted soon after the block stayed in
place on the other web companies until
late on Saturday as the links to the
email cash were removed so that's a
pretty significant move I think that
turkey did and as far as security goes
is that something that's easy to do
robbing just I don't know what their
firewalling system is like I know we've
encountered that with mainland China
blocking our show in the past and having
to put servers there in order to get
around that and I think it's sometimes
it's about control sometimes but in this
particular instance is about protecting
leaked information right from getting
into the wrong hands or the hands up
their community bit is there a wait
maybe turkey could have done it better I
feel like email hacks are know there's
an argument that says censorship in
general is just not the whole world wide
web aspect is it should be free it
should be accessible it should be
available but then there's that fine
line of what happens when it's being
used to distribute illegal material you
know do we block that mm-hmm never
blocking most the Internet yeah yeah I'm
not sure on that one yeah opinions
comment below okay South Korean tech
giant Samsung has permanently cease
production of its high-end galaxy note 7
smartphones after reports of devices it
had deemed safe catching fire the firm
had already reduced galaxy note 7
production volumes owners are expected
to be able to return the phones for a
refund or in exchange for a different
samsung phone in September Samsung
recalled around 2.5 million phones after
complaints of exploding batteries it
later insisted that all replaced devices
were safe however that was followed by
reports that those phones were catching
fire as well in a statement yesterday
Samsung has said we recently readjusted
the production volume for
bro investigation and quality control
but putting customer safety is top
priority we have reached a final
decision to halt production of Galaxy
Note sevens for the benefit of consumer
safety we have stopped the sales and
exchanges of galaxy note 7 and have
consequently decided to stop production
well thank you samsung for a finally
stopping production yes it's gonna be
the best phone ever you hear that now
this is news today is that now they are
actually providing fireproof explosion
proof boxes postage prepaid in order for
individuals to send these back to them
can you imagine with the instructions
that you're not allowed to send these by
airmail okay so look make sense right
but here's the thing that gets me is it
companies keep getting pushed to to just
go one step beyond year after year right
so like big galaxy note 7 I feel like
the galaxy no 6 was just really like I
just feel like it's so quick that things
have to be released with a new component
you know what the other aspect of that
the flip side of that sasha is not only
are they being pushed to release quickly
yeah and innovatively but also cheaply
yeah and then we start looking at okay
well how are these chips manufactured
how are the cooling systems manufactured
how are the batteries manufacturing
charging mechanisms yeah then we run
into prom so not every single note 7 is
bursting into flames but they only test
maybe one every ever out of every 1,000
and the one they tested is obviously
fine yeah I don't know it's sad for me
that's true that's how QC works right
they'll take the first 20 off of the the
run and test those and if those work
then it's ratio wise okay well then most
of the other ones are probably going to
work to the same manufacturer exactly
it's the same with car companies it's
the same with so many companies it's
just that this is the sort of situation
everybody now has a phone and even I
really really wanted this I wanted this
phone but I'm a little bit cheap so I
did not buy it
um and I'm happy I didn't but yeah Asha
the phone is burning a hole in your
pocket takes a whole new meaning but the
thing is I mean because everybody has
one it raises the risk right cuz like
say that there's a problem with a
certain type of car not everybody has
that car yeah every single person has a
phone now so stop making them said they
explode just like that yeah stop making
exploding phone Sam's phone samsung and
then there won't be problem if you don't
have to recall them if they don't
explode so don't build those ones yeah
salt yeah go that's the solution Sasha
you got it yeah okay humanity just took
one step closer to computers that mimic
the brain university of southampton
researchers have demonstrated that
memristors or resistors that remember
their previous resistance can power a
neural network the team's array of metal
oxide memristors served as an artist as
artificial knit synapses to learn and
relearn from noisy input without
intervention much like you would and
since the memory stirs will remember
previous states when turned off they
should use much less power than
conventional circuitry ideal for the
Internet of Things devices that can't
afford to pack big batteries where they
explode it's still early days for this
technology if you wanted AI that could
replicate the brain in its full glory
you'd need hundreds of billions of
synapses if not more the far simpler
memristors array in this test was
limited to looking for patterns however
the Southampton group is quick to note
that you wouldn't need to go that far
for narrower purposes you could have
sensors that know how to classify
objects and identify patterns without
human help which would be particularly
helpful in dangerous or hard-to-reach
places you might just see IOT gadgets
that are not only connected to the
outside world but can make sense
of it ah I feel like Jeff would hate
that news story this is very robot
friendly I'm just waiting for data Oh
Lieutenant Commander data what is going
on from Star Trek you don't know
seriously no idea okay okay video I know
you were just I was just joshin yet I
thought you didn't I thought you were
bringing up a video of them or something
like okay that's fine all right okay
forget more cell towers verizon is
banking on airborne radios to offer
extra 4G LTE coverage over the past two
years the company has been working on a
new initiative called airborne LTE
operations or a low which basically
means it will be outfitting drones with
4g radios so that they can beam
connectivity to those below this may
sound familiar Facebook has announced
the similar initiative for providing
internet connectivity to people who
would not otherwise have it Verizon's
plans however are a little more focused
the company will be using its drones to
provide emergency LTE connectivity when
cell towers are not an option so when
could this be useful there are actually
plenty of cases when LTE connectivity
would be very useful as techspot notes
for example in 2012 hurricane sandy had
a huge impact on the communication
towers of the East Coast at the time it
was said the storm had wiped out a hefty
25% of cell towers in as many as 10
states initially verizon would work with
american aerospace technologies and will
test connectivity using an unmanned
aerial vehicle with a wingspan of 17
feet of course Verizon's 4G drone could
be used in more than just emergencies at
some point next year the company hopes
to implement the technology for a range
of different purposes including
inspecting pipes and power lines as well
as gathering data on
farms and farmland so if they took this
drone and they used the last stories
memristors I feel like that your own
could recognize patterns right is that
intelligent I I like it you know what
there's a couple of things here that are
neat and that's okay I was thinking as
your as you're telling the story how are
they going to control it because the
interference off of this thing would be
brutal and then I realize oh it's
connected to LTE they could control this
thing via the very network that it's
broadcasting in which case it has an
unmeasurable distance of being able to
fly because it's satellite driven that's
pretty cool that's neat that's just my
thought right and I like we're verizon's
going versus where Facebook's going with
like trying to help people in like
natural disaster twist a good well i
like i like where verizon is starting
from and i think that they're smart
because they're starting like this it's
going to relieve disaster zones but then
they're going to be the ones that are
known right so they're going to be the
go-to right so they're starting in a
great spot and they can explore more
consumerist avenues in the future can I
share my quick observations of this
photograph yes first of all it looks
like a prop plane to me which is rather
interesting that's kind of cool but
there are two other things of note in
this picture first of all they have what
looks like an explosion proof box and a
fire extinguisher handy that's so I
wonder if perhaps samsung could lose you
learn a few things nice thing I like it
big thanks this week to roy w nash and
our community of yours for submitting
stories to us if you found a new story
you'd like to send email at to newsroom
at category 5 TV for all your tech news
with a slight linux bias visit the
category 5 TV news room at new
room dot category 5 TV for the category
5 TV news room I'm Sasha der made us
