here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV news room a
Linux variant of a very destructive
piece of malware has been discovered
official Lego robotics are now a reality
amazon echo has been ordering things
discussed on TV shows without the user's
consent and Google is shutting down
hangouts API these stories are coming
right up don't go anywhere now here's
another great way you can support the
shows you love from the category 5 TV
network by shopping gearbest that's the
right Jeff cat5 TV / gearbest it's an
online store for the geek streak in you
or the loved ones of course I mean
especially your loved ones right because
kappa TV / gearbest quite frankly has
all of the greatest tech gifts that you
can ever hope for at rock bottom prices
to that cell phones you bet you cap 5gb
/ gearbest has a wide assortment of
unlocked android cell phones and tablets
global compute consumer electronics
those like a cricket absolutely from
high-tech watches to action cameras
headphones even virtual reality headsets
cat five dot TV / gearbest have you
covered they literally have it all Jeff
literally really it's like a superstore
right from the comfort of your own chair
at your computer through the interweb
yeah I there's no way they have it all
through that's just a bunch of random
electronic test me
what about clothes yep both men and
women fashionable apparel at rock bottom
SuperDuper prices kinda like this well
look at this coat what do you think it's
a slimming mock leather jacket I love it
it's available for less than thirty
dollars plus free shipping a cat5 da TV
/ gearbest yeah all right you kinda got
me there Wow any other questions for me
Jeff now that winter is past flying
season do they have any good deals on
say your own comforts oh my goodness
well check this out dude they have
everything check out over 500 various
drones and not only that they're
available marked down by about thirty
two absolute sixty-three percent off the
regular price love it what's website
again while you're going to find
gearbest on our partners pages for any
of your favorite category five TV shows
like new everyday category five
technology TV the pixel shadow but of
course if you want to shop absolutely
right now and you want to go straight to
the site all you have to do is visit cat
five dot TV / year best so that's easy
tech five dot TV / ear back that's right
happy shopping I'm ecstatic through
madison here the top stories for the
week of january 18th 2017 ESET
researchers have discovered a linux
variant of the kill disk malware that
was used in ukraine in attacks against
the country's critical infrastructure in
late 2015 and a number of targets within
its financial sector in december 2016
this new variant renders linux machines
unbootable after encrypting files and
requesting a large ransom but even if
victims do reach deep into their pockets
the probability that the attackers will
decrypt the files is small kill disk
attack campaigns continued throughout
december aimed at several targets in the
sea transportation sector in the ukraine
the attack tool set has evolved as well
while the december six kill disk
variants were quite artistic and
displayed a screen referring to the
popular mr. robot show on television
recent variants add a more sinister
feature file encrypting ransomware the
ransom message begins with a provocative
we are so sorry and demands that the
victim pay an exceptionally high ransom
for the return of the encrypted files
222 Bitcoin which is between about
200,000 and 250,000 us that is steep I'm
wondering if it's Canadian because they
start with we are so sorry hahaha
hackers we figured it out the hackers
are Canadian recent ransomware kill disk
variants are not only able to target
window systems but also Linux machines
which is certainly something we don't
see every day this may include not only
Linux workstations but also servers
amplifying the damage potential in both
Windows and Linux variants the ransom
message is exactly the same including
the ransom amount 222 bitcoins cific
coin address and contents email showing
that the two variants come from the same
source kill disk is a trojan it does not
spread automatically using his own means
it requires user intervention in order
to reach the affected computer the means
of transmission used include among
others flash drives optical media like
CD or DVD discs email messages with
attached files internet downloads FTP
IRC channels peer-to-peer file-sharing
networks and so on which really just
brings two lines safe practice in meters
yeah practice safe internetting folks
yeah and it will come down this is why
phishing scams are so incredibly popular
because they trick people into providing
access to a computer or you know things
like that oh yeah so that's where they
get in truth be told if your computer is
shut down with a ransomware a message
for 222 Bitcoin which is a mind-blowing
in its amount I can't even imagine
you're just done you're done nobody has
that if you're a business oh yeah like a
big business if you're Richard Branson
it happens right but at the same time I
think you'd have antivirus or something
that could look after that not that I
want to give them ideas or anything but
I feel like if they had just said like
to bitcoins then people would actually
know a lot of money oh yeah oh my
goodness you inside of the coins can you
split bitcoins in half oh yeah 0.0001
bitcoins that's about what I have that's
my net value here what is your income in
Bitcoin yes one in Canada yeah okay I'm
doing better than our currency is going
to make everybody across the world happy
oh yeah it's next door we go toymaker
Lego unveiled its boost line this week
at CES oh yeah I know a set of 840
programmable bricks for your kids to
control self-made robots with booth
comes in five kits that include an
interactive motor and a color and
distance sensor encoded monitors tilt
sensor and bluetooth low energy
connection programming is drag-and-drop
via iOS and Android tablet you or rather
your kids can build and program a robot
named Vern a rover vehicle an electric
an electric guitar occurring interactive
catfight pet named Frankie and an
automated production line capable of
building miniature lEGO models that
what's my favorite than you don't have
to build any Lego again no one and then
it does the word it's like I hope that
it subscribes to a so mom's rules
because like they're basically creating
more robots yeah if I take it over it's
just makes orbited we're going to have
all these miniature LEGO robots trying
to take over do you like yet have
something to say about this he's like
you're putting the kids out of work yeah
what do you think about that
Jeff and I are going to get along just
fine this week do you in the second half
of 2017 boost targets those aged 7 and
older so yes that's you too mum and dad
nerds and life hackers that's the best
now on to an also incredibly child-like
situation amazon echo owners have been
issued a security warning warning after
a number of devices in america
automatically ordered dollhouses being
discussed on a TV show oh my gosh you
imagine that's I feel like the world is
going to go crazy tell us about that ok
so the high-tech gadgets has become a
recent and welcome addition to hundreds
of thousands of UK homes after being one
of the most popular Christmas presents
last year they let owners ask virtual
assistant Alexa to carry out tasks
including buying items from the internet
using just their voice as a command but
a recent incident involving the gadgets
has shown how vulnerable they are two
mistakes which could cost owners dearly
earlier this week a San Diego TV station
sparks complaints after an on-air report
about a girl who ordered a dollhouse via
her parents amazon echo caused echoes in
viewers homes to also attempt to order
dollhouse that is right this is amazing
as voice command purchasing is enabled
as a default on the Alexa devices
viewers found that they had mistaken the
show for their command and made the
purchase the show is depicted a
six-year-old asking her family's new
Amazon echo can you play dollhouse with
me and get me a dollhouse the device
followed the command ordering a kid
crafts Sparkle mansion dollhouse in
addition to four pounds of sugar cookies
oh my goodness times like how many
echoes across the state actually did
order but that's a lot of sugar cookies
a lot of sugar the Keebler elves are
like wow where things are really booming
for after Christmas yeah
to be the company that that elects a
default 20 you're on a dollhouse maker
that that automatically can you get me a
doll house and just one shows up you
want to be that person you want to feed
all house that's right the parents
featured on the TV program had quickly
realized what had happened and have
since added a code for purchases to
their Amazon echo they have also donated
the doll medical local Children's
Hospital well I remember yeah exactly no
ever learned however viewers watching
the segment been found there Alexa
gadgets complied with the request and
also purchased all houses an Amazon
spokesperson said you must ask Alexa to
order a product and then confirm the
purchase with a yes response to purchase
via voice so what you're saying sash is
Alexa yes by a raspberry pi
microcomputer three-point oh yes please
didn't happen videora did it do it oh my
gosh we in trouble there probably is
hack Alexa what would be great is if
that automatically ordered it from us
yes right these darn get linked Alexa oh
my gosh oh you asked Alexis to order
something off by accident simply say no
when asked to confirm experts said the
incident highlighted the need for people
to password protect their Amazon echo
devices and avoid Rose payments being
made so truly action you should be doing
that like I don't know why that's our
new commercial Alexa buy this buy that
really the whole numbers each other oh
really like if that's happening sure
that's scary we talked about it on the
show last week and we and it came up in
the news the Google ok Google ok kasbahs
games robotboys obama and it started
doing things so can somebody have Alexa
so that and he just ordered a thousand
dollars worth of stuff right if you and
don't have to protect your Alexa device
and if I had one and if you had friends
like the order my good friends like mine
and had your friends over for a party
would end up with a ridiculous amount of
like your thing being shipped to your
house because he would just sneak on
over and with sure now yeah absolutely I
had it happen where my kids were playing
a game on my phone and you don't think
about it and it's important to think
about this when i first set up my new
phone it did not have password
protection on its ordering process not
doing that by d fatties there my son was
playing a race car game and he bought
this and that oh you can upgrade to the
latest and greatest G wicked let me
click this that's cool I got it now I'm
the Amazon I sitting at my desk at work
$500 had gone on to my credit card like
it was 480 something dollars she's like
that because we just had y se oh my god
0.8 that's a good money of course it's
just a great thing yes yeah I want to
buy that every level yeah I'm what I was
already just push one button and there
you go yeah right and it's Wow so put a
password so last night Becca wanted to
put an app on on her phone that cost
money so this first thing I did was say
always ask me for my passwords that's
good when I put my credit card
information into the phone so I'm back
about it she always have to ask you so
that when the kids are playing on the
phone no she knows my password yeah yeah
google has quietly dropped a bombshell
about the future of its chat client
hangouts from April 25th the Hangout
service API is to be shut down as the
company pushes hang of swords enterprise
while pushing social use on newer apps
ello and duo this could be seen as a
quiet own goal for Google migrating
users to a different messaging client
may alienate them all together and a
straw poll has seen most moving towards
whatsapp and Facebook Messenger rather
than google replacements as of now
there's facility to build new apps
within the hangouts API and google has
confirmed the reprieve for certain
integration such as slack hangouts on
air tools and dialing into a call
in reality what it represents is another
tiny piece of the google plus layer
being disabled as the company continues
to reorganize its social layer in an
email to developers who will explain
this API was originally intended to
support social scenarios for consumer
users this part of google plus whereas i
guess is now turning to focus on
enterprise use cases some users have
speculated that this represents a long
slow death for hangouts google has
continuously in strenuously denied it
though they'd much rather you use a low
for personal conversations i will tell
you i have hangouts i've rarely use it
but i have hang out yo until april 26
but what do you do thanks for watching
the category 5 TV news room don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias and for
more free content be sure to visit our
website from the category 5 TV news room
I'm Sasha der Maiden
[Music]
