welcome to category five technology TV
it's so great to see you so nice to have
you here this week tonight we are
looking at a Raspberry Pi we're using a
GPIO breakout
so that we can program it to do some
cool stuff now tonight we're just
getting started with the basics we're
gonna turn on and off a light bulb but
this starts at all it does this is where
it starts there goes the bank where else
could it be unboxing and Atomos ninja
flame it's a recorder that records in 4k
we've got one right here at the studio
stick around this is category 5
technology TV
[Music]
[Applause]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other Rachel last video players
for local show times visit category 5
dot TV TV it's a member of the text
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 TV slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash iai be welcome to category 5
TV everybody this is episode number 571
and I'm Robbie Ferguson Bob Jeff Weston
I am Sasha Rickman how's everybody doing
good yeah what a week that's been a wild
week you guys know because like you're
here and it's like running around and
I'm rewiring a whole bunch of stuff yeah
what were you active oh well we've got
all kinds of things going on at the
studio but we as you know had some
issues where our recorder fail so the
drive that we use to record category 5
TV actually failed on us and for the
past few weeks we've been kind of make
shifting and figuring out how to write
how to get by and and put out the plea
that we needed to raise the funds figure
out a way to be able to replace the
recorder and lo and behold a viewer sent
us an atomos ninja flame this week and
so that we're going to unbox tonight I'm
going to show you what it looks like
we're gonna get into the box into the
accessories and show you kind of where
you know what what that is and full
disclosure we actually pre-recorded the
unboxing so that we can hook it up and
wire everything in tonight so so we're
kind of in a makeshift in-between phase
this week because we're still recording
two discs as our failsafe because that's
how we've always done it and we don't
want to take the risk of accidentally
hooking something up wrong right when I
haven't read the manuals yet but before
the show running all the cables running
all the wires
making it happen so that things are
ready to go and here we go yeah I guess
so very very excited about it
now that is a very expensive piece of
hardware for one viewer to to contribute
to the show if it's something that you
would like to pitch in on then please
head on over to our tip jar and and do
whatever you feel that you'd like to do
and just pop me a quick email that just
tells us to allocate that and what we'll
do is we'll actually take any
contributions toward that recorder and
we will kind of donate it back to the
person who contributed that hardware
just to kind of offset the cost it's
quite quite astronomical really love
about the cat5 community like everything
about this show is people pitching in
helping out I mean I think of Sasha's
computer for Dave and I think of all the
various upgrades we've had around the
studio and it's all because people love
what we do and they're like yeah I got
Alpo but it's you know it's even like
the kindness I had been suffering from
headaches you know for well I still owe
him a little bit but I had one of the
viewers email me and say hey listen I
used to suffer here's something that you
might want to try turns out I need a
root canal is that so I'm probably the
only person on earth excited for a root
canal I am really looking forward to
well it started affecting my see I just
assumed it was the contacts and that's
why you're back to glasses right no no
so it started affecting the vision in my
left eye but it turns out that the the
the nerve that is attached to that tooth
I guess it also attaches to your eye so
that I'm having a referred pain into my
that does happen which presents as a
migraine of course if I get the root
canal and the pain doesn't go away then
we have other problems but so when's
this happened on Friday and Friday yeah
so again it's the community I wouldn't
have even thought anything of it had I
not been here and had somebody Leo
listening without open-heart right
it's it's huge so thank you and I
appreciate like cuz I come and do this
every single week I fear and you to have
been gracious to fill in for me when
I've needed to we thoroughly botched it
but with that you know when when
something like a hard drive crashes or
something goes wrong or tonight having
some trouble before beforehand with
Wirecast not working and and things like
that because something was wrong with
the keyboard shortcuts and you know all
these kinds of things I'm the guy who
has to deal with this so that stress
comes down on me the technical stress so
when the community comes together and
when I know that the community's there
it's like for me that's uplifting so I
can never get discouraged even when
things are tough because something like
this happens where a viewer sees the
need and says I can fill that need yeah
and so you know big group hug to the
community to everybody who has ever
watched category 5 TV supported us in
any way even just giving us a thumbs up
or subscribe on YouTube is a way to
support category 5 TV and we appreciate
that very much and if you haven't done
it why haven't you done it please do
subscribe click the bell it's a good
times I have to say that now click the
Bell click the Bell there's a bell
there's a bell that will notify you when
we post new videos that's what I have
that battle clicked nice hold on I
definitely get on YouTube on YouTube so
when you subscribe is it on the app it's
no when you subscribe right next to it
there's a belt does it show up on the
app yes yeah it does wait that I have or
do I just want is it like a brand new
feature because I know like I was on
YouTube like two days ago and I haven't
seen a bell it could just say get
notified what have we started maybe I
need to update my app no it's brand new
phone there you go there you go
hey do the chatroom hello everybody
thereafter Tasya
yeah and it's it's tough I want to go
down the list but then I know because
there are so many of you that I can't
possibly go down the list because then
I'm gonna admit
somebody it's true but it's so great to
have you here thanks for those who have
been pitching in in the chat room as
well kind of keeping things Pleasant
keeping me super entertained as well yes
sometimes you guys are talking and I
forget that we're actually live and I'm
just like oh yeah in yeah we really do
enjoy those moments when you're like
engrossed in the camera and then Robbie
oh polo and you're just like oh it's fun
clearly I love the chatroom a lot yes
you do yes so tonight we've got a lot of
fun stuff planned of course we're gonna
get right into unboxing the animals
ninja flame yeah later on tonight we're
gonna be looking at the Raspberry Pi you
notice I've got a Raspberry Pi with a
GPIO cable sticking out of it very
colourful filter thing which nobody
understands but yeah that's I can the
kids do yeah I don't know isn't Twitter
no it's not Twitter it's like a thing
you open your mouth and then a rainbow
pours out oh I have seen that one it
waves you'll see them on YouTube videos
just like that okay yeah it's my GPIO
we're gonna be showing you how to how to
set that up and how to do a little bit
of basic programming tonight as we kind
of prepare for all of the fun stuff that
we're gonna be doing on over the next
little while I like fun
yeah use the Raspberry Pi for
programming and external device do you
had fun when we were doing Arduino yeah
so this is gonna be this is gonna take
it to the next level because this is a
full Linux computer with gonna be a lot
of fun we do have to take a really quick
break when we come back I am I'm just
gonna take this time to mosey on over to
the review table and we're gonna make it
look like it's live I'm gonna hop over
there we're gonna do an unboxing right
after this start
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cap five
dot TV slash shirts welcome back in just
a few minutes we're gonna be taking a
look at the Raspberry Pi but before we
do that we're gonna go over to the
review desk with Robbie to take a look
at the animals ninja flame unboxing
alright let's get right into it we've
got the ninja flame recorder right here
I'm just gonna get right into the box
okay this looks like it's pretty easy to
get into nice oh it's stuck on the
zipper that's the end of it there we go
alright there it is so it comes with
kind of like it's like a soft hardshell
case it's not quite hard it's not quite
soft but it's definitely it's got some
sponginess to it I think that's going to
protect things pretty well even if you
don't get the accessory kit here we are
and ladies and gentlemen the atomos
ninja but this is the flame model so
that means it is 30 frames per second 4k
whoo-hoo Pro res 4 2 2 beautiful now it
looks like a screen right it looks like
our Lily putt screen
but this is actually not just a screen
it's also a 4k 30p
ProRes recorder so an SSD is going to go
into here and slide in there just like
that we've got a spot for two batteries
here and they are hot swappable they
recharge while they're connected so if
one is dead you can pull it out put in
another one and and so on and just keep
on going okay so first things I notice
we've got quarter inch mounting on the
bottom as well as the top it's nice if
you want to have if you want to have it
hanging from like a gimbal system or
something like that versus mounted
directly onto the camera we've got a mic
and line input we've got a headphone
jack nice power button there and then it
looks like we've got like a screw-on DC
input six point two volts so that's kind
of nice we're not going to have to worry
about like the barrel connector getting
accidentally unplugged from that so the
ninja flame has HDMI and so that's 4k
and no SDI which I don't need here at
the studio so we opt out of that like
that's not something that we need at all
because we're fully HDMI here so we can
take an HDMI signal in hit record and
output to our monitors to another deck
whatever we want to do I see a jack here
for a remote as well and I can't wait to
plug it into HDMI I'm wondering if I'm
gonna be able to trigger it from the
HDMI I don't know that yet haven't even
plugged it in yet as you know I'm just
taking it out of the box for the first
time but wouldn't that be neat III don't
want to get my hopes up but what if what
if otherwise I think it's gonna hold a
lot of videos so I can just hit record
and let it go so that's great
okay back down here what else is in this
kit here so this is the like what you
get with just the K just the recorder
itself we've got a QuickStart guide
looks like it's only a couple of pages
here
yeah it's like a real visual kind of
pull out flyer nice and easy nice and
straightforward nothing overwhelming and
there we go we've got power adapter so
that is now I don't see a screw feature
so as I was mentioning on the back of
the Atomos ninja flame there is the
option to screw it in however this
particular charger that comes with it
doesn't have that now that said it's
pretty snug I don't think that's gonna
get pulled out of there at all if you're
working in the field you might want to
get one the screws in I think that's
nice that it's got the threading I
didn't expect that nor do I really need
it here in our studio but that's cool so
here's the power brick looks like and
we've got adaptors for looks like China
the UK what is that - 10 - 20 I don't
know and then we've got the 110 4 here
in Canada and the United States so
that's kind of nice that it's universal
out of the box so if you're doing any
shooting and traveling then you're gonna
be able to take this with you and there
you go comes with the adapter all right
now that I've put that together is it
gonna go back into the box that's the
question now that I've put that on no I
guess you got to take it apart there you
go that's alright looks like we've got a
couple of couple more pieces of foam
that we could remove here so if you have
other accessories that's a bonus that's
something that typically you'd have to
buy another case for we do have another
case in the accessory pack but that's
nice that it comes with that if you want
to throw an SD card holder or something
like that in there or whatever else
maybe a couple of batteries if you've
got them that kind of thing that's great
okay so that is the recorder let's put
it all back together here so you see it
packs up real quick real nice you want
to take it with you there we go let's
set this aside here
and then I'm gonna get right into our
accessory kit Wow that's got some heft
to it
all right so what does it look like here
we've got Oh a handle there you go
so this comes with a whole bunch of
stuff I'm just going to tear into it and
it's hard to hard to kind of get a shot
here maybe if we pull over to this
camera here we'll be able to see the the
wider shot a little better there we go
and let's just kind of get in there this
way I'm just gonna set it down here
folks for just a moment and there we go
so this it's nice that the accessory kit
comes with good Wow looks like weather
tight waterproof case it looks like a
waterproof case it's got the got an air
vent and everything you guys see that
all right I'm gonna get it out of the
wrap oh I need scissors I seriously need
scissors for this don't worry I got some
all right there we go okay buuuut now
one of the things the first thing that I
do notice is a couple of the reviews
that I've seen online and I guess this
foam is just for the packing a couple of
the reviews I've seen online they had
when these first came out they had these
bright kind of orange or red neon
looking things for the case but they
have obviously made it black now which
just looks a little you know it doesn't
stand out doesn't make somebody want to
run up and grab it on yeah that kind of
thing alright let's get down here so
we've got a nameplate so that we can put
our name in there
we've got locking holes here if you want
to get some padlocks to keep it locked
up now remember folks I have not been
into this yet so I don't even know how
to open it there we go so this is not
just a case as you see this is the full
accessory kit for the Atmos Ninja flame
now this accessory kit from Atomos is
designed to work with with all of their
4k field recorders so that's the inferno
or flame series so it's not limited to
just the ninja flame that we have here
today and that means that these
batteries are interchangeable between
devices if you happen to have more than
one as well
5200 milliamp hours looks good and hefty
and that is an NP F 750 so I think that
these are actually the same kind of
batteries that go into our lighting rig
yeah so that's cool so that means I've
already got a couple of extras kicking
around as well so those are pretty
common batteries if you've already got
studio gear you're probably already
using these that's fantastic these are a
little heftier those so at 5200 milliamp
hours we should be able to get some
pretty good life out of that okay we've
got some kind of breakout cable I don't
ever use any of the internal miking or
anything on a camera so I'm not sure
what this is for I'm sure the first
person to Google it is gonna raise some
noise in in the comments below for sure
it's not a headphone jack it's about
eight inch no it's smaller it's like a
sixteenth it's tiny anyways alright
moving on to the Caddy's something that
I know about alright so we just get an
SSD drive and put it in there so there
and then this becomes the case for our
SSD and then here's a docking station
with USB 3 which is nice I'm glad that
they included this because now I can
dock my drives to to the system I hope
it works on Windows I'm going to be
trying that I'm sure it does I've got
Windows 10 on our broadcast system for
editing and things but it's nice not
having to go out and find a docking
station that will fit because this won't
fit into a normal train ow because or a
docking station without first removing
it from the caddy so that does away with
the with that problem
all right we've got a couple of holes
here for more batteries if you want to
purchase some more
looks like the Atmos Ninja flame will
fit right in here let's actually grab it
I'm gonna reopen this box because we're
gonna consolidate will consolidate
everything into one carrying case
alright so here we go let's put this in
here beautiful there we go alright and
then I can set this the one that came
along with it that could be handy to
take you know if you need something a
little more portable all right let's get
underneath here and see what else we
have all right we've got a hood a Sun
shield a Sun hood whatever you want to
call it there you go
let's get her out of the packaging and
see how this looks alright we've got a
couple of different pieces not sure if
they're magnetic or how they go the true
unboxing yes it says right on it
magnetic quick release warning ok so I
noticed that it has a nice little
trapdoor here for doing puppet shows and
things like that but will be able to
reach in to be able to get our hands
into the - the touch screen alright so
put this in here
there we go I'm gonna set all this up
remember I'm gonna set this up we're
gonna do a demo this is really just an
unboxing and I haven't seen this stuff
yet so I haven't really learned how all
the puzzle pieces go together but we
will figure that out and give you
another demo all right oh and it comes
with instructions specifically for guys
like me to figure out how to put that
together okay looks like another charger
just like the one that I had in the
other kit so this is gonna be a backup I
suppose but if you didn't have one
there you go but this also check this
out oh how do you get that out oh you
can go underneath okay
so this one will plug into a battery
charger for the batteries there we go
swell all right we've got a shoulder
strap we've got another cable of sorts
this is like power for the screen if
your camera supports that or if you've
got some kind of separate power pack
then we've got a couple of quarter-inch
adapters here a little riser to be able
to mount your Atomos screen to to your
camera or whatever else you're mounting
rig then we've got the the parts for the
the power adapter itself so that looks
like everything that's in the box there
you go that is the Atomos ninja flame
and we're gonna be seeing in the next
couple of weeks how this compares to say
for example recording straight to SSD
how it compares to shooting video
directly to sd card on our video camera
we have a 4k camera and we're gonna put
this to the test by shooting some
footage recorded both to the internal
card and to the atomos ninja flame as
well all right so we're gonna head right
back over to our desk over here thanks
Robbie that was a unboxing of the at
most ninja flame what a beautiful
product
right stick around cousin just a few
seconds when we come back we're gonna be
taking a right take a look at a
Raspberry Pi and take ain't gonna be
using it with the GPIO don't go anywhere
whether you shop on thinkgeek gearbest
B&amp;H Photo Video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category-five TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching welcome back
this is category 5 technology TV I'm
your host Robbie Ferguson that's Jeff
I'm Sasha Sasha and tonight we're
looking at the Raspberry Pi GPIO so this
is a way that you can program external
devices to do things
all right so Raspberry Pi we've looked
at it as a micro computer we've looked
at it as something that we could build a
retro PI on so that you can play video
games and find cryptocurrency on mine
cryptocurrency huh nine hashes per
second oh sorry and you know it's it's a
fantastic piece of kit but you can take
it to the next level because there's a
40 pin GPIO on there which is a whole
bunch of pins that you can connect
cables to and program what you want
those cables to do right so we're gonna
start with the most simple example
tonight that could ever be possible
we're just gonna turn on an awful light
but along with that we're gonna kind of
learn what we need in order to get
started because as we grow as makers we
need to be able to have the kit so that
we're ready to go obviously we're gonna
need a Raspberry Pi Mike it is a
Raspberry Pi 3
I love this guy here you've seen it on
the show from you hat five TV slash
maker just because it comes with things
like bags and bags of many different
image resistors for example like it just
comes with tons and tons of resistors
you can buy all this stuff separately
but buying the kit as a beginner maker
this just gave me a whole bunch of stuff
to get started I've got various
capacitors I've got various transistors
and switches all kinds of stuff you got
I got a couple relays there so as we
grow we can start using more and more of
this kit so tonight for example I needed
to pull out some resistors so I needed a
resistor I needed an LED I needed a
couple of cables and I need to be able
to program my GPIO to turn on and off
this light bulb okay over the next
little while category five TV is going
to be looking more and more at beginner
electronics we've looked at some in the
past and we've really wanted to get
going on on some of the projects that we
can do here and we've done some pretty
cool stuff but that's gonna grow over
time and the Raspberry Pi is an
interesting one because it's a full
linux computer right I have a question
yeah what does GPIO stand for oh gosh
GPIO you could have googled that as well
as AI GPIO stands for general purpose
input output okay that's the pins on
right very PI for example and yes I have
that because I am a beginner maker and
I'm okay with that
right I just assumed you know everything
like a lot in the tech world we have
acronyms that you just use or short
forms and it just becomes part of the
lingo then you're like oh what does that
I know LED is light emitting diode
nicely done right nicely done so I've
got one of those so with the GPIO these
are all those pins
remember there's 40 pins on the
Raspberry Pi board right but I want my
board to be in this nice little case
it's an LED we know I love this case
it's aluminum I've got a heatsink on the
co pro and the at the CPU internally
there and it's an aluminum chassis it
keeps it nice and cool with passive
cooling
no fans either but if I want to use a
case
well now it's really really tough to get
in to do the gpio putting things on the
pins and things like that so that's
where GPIO breakout cable cobbler for
example would work really well so I have
this what we call well it's it's a
cobbler I'm gonna see if I can get in
here just a little bit closer so this is
a GPIO cable coming out of the side of
the case and it's plugged into the GPIO
on the Raspberry Pi and inside it looks
just like that so it's just an extender
everything kind of yeah so the inside
GPIO has been basically brought along
these cables and into this what looks
like an old IDE it's a 40 pin GPIO
connector so then I have the tea cobbler
+ v 2.2 and this is available at cat v
dot TV / Pi and I love this because part
of you know doing this is it's really
tough to get the right pins and you need
a diagram to figure out what pin is what
and so on and so forth right and
sometimes if you get it wrong you can
cause damage to either the peripheral
your connecting or the pie itself the
one quick question because it was just
brought up in the chat room that that
looks like the old IDE cables is that is
it just an ID cable or is it something
totally different because I would hate
for somebody to go old computer and then
I really like when I seem to recall that
ID though had a pin that was that was
blocked out let's see yes okay so it's
not a table no cuz IDE had a if I'm if
I'm not mistaken I wish that that was a
bigger photo no it looks pretty similar
no it's 34 pin and but there's a 40 pin
okay so I don't know the answer to that
but okay that does look like a 40 pin
cable okay so maybe they're the same
which really hey if you're a packrat and
you've got some old 18 that's funny I do
have some that help bring one in okay
let's try this cable I don't know if the
pin assignments would be exact or proper
I don't I don't know the answer to that
but they definitely look the same what
the tea cobbler + v 2.2 does though its
first of all it's a prebuilt board okay
so I didn't have to assemble this
cobbler and what the cobbler does is it
allows me to connect to my breadboard
for prototyping busily without having to
run a whole bunch of cables out of the
Raspberry Pi it's just one cable that I
plug in to the tea cobbler Oh perfect
okay so why the tea cobbler versus like
a standard cobbler is now a standard
cobbler is gonna just get rid of the tea
part that's why this one's called tea
cobbler right so that would be a
standard cobbler that's tea cobbler the
tea cobbler because it's got more space
because remember if you have it just a
normal cobbler the interface is in the
middle here right so there's not a lot
of writing on the board it's really
really tough to see the pins nice thing
about the tea cobbler is every single
one of these pins is labeled that's
helpful so you can see the pin number
you can see which ones are 5 volt 3 volt
ground it's labeled right on the circuit
okay
so then you need a breadboard it came
with my Kit Kat 5 TV slash maker you
just simply plug the tea cobbler into
your breadboard and then plug your IDE
cable IDE cable there I go if now you're
doing it plot your GPIO cable directly
into the tea cobbler and that's all
there is to it so it just works like
that so now my breadboard is set up to
be a Raspberry Pi GPIO Beast right okay
so what I've done is I now have the
ground going to the negative on my
breadboard and I have pin 18 I've got
that going down to here I'm just gonna
move my laptop for you and I've got a
220 ohm resistor going to the positive
and then an LED the resistor is so that
I don't cause damage to my to my
Raspberry Pi I don't want to damage the
PI if I draw too much current from the
LED and I used it to 20 because I wanted
it to be bright enough for you to be
able to see tonight if that will just
give it a little bit more brightness
than say a 370 ohm so let's give it a go
you want to take a look yeah
all right so I'm I've got everything
kind of set up there it is I've already
loaded Python as route and so I'm I'm
raring to go so now that I've got this
all set up
got my led here I've got the pin 18 is
the one I'm using and I've got the
ground going to the negative so I'm set
now one question I have sort of before
you go to is the reason why you have
them situated on the board that way
specifically or was just for somebody
who's looking this going I don't know
how to use them no time yeah
just so that they know in case you try
to replicate this at home it's it's
tough for me to let you know what I'm
gonna make this happen I'm gonna show
you what I've done you don't have to the
way a breadboard works is and you don't
have to copy Robbie's way of doing it
exactly so on the far right here is the
negative and it's labeled as such and
then right next to that is the positive
so that's why I'm able to have the the
LED just simply plugged in to negative
and positive with the positive being the
longer leg of the LED okay then I've got
the ground from the Raspberry Pi GPIO
this is the tea cobbler and it shows me
that this is the ground so I've taken
that and I've used a lead to take it to
the negative so my ground is now on this
entire line of the negative channel so
anything that I plug into the blue see
that blue stripe anything I plug into
that will be connected to the ground on
the Raspberry Pi once this is plugged
into the GPIO so then with the yellow
cable just up here because it's on the
same horizontal line as the ground
that's why it's plugged in there you
couldn't just throw it anywhere down the
line correct you could look at as long
as it's touching a contact because as
long as it touches a contact in the
negative line so when it's in this line
it will it will basically connect to all
of the holes that are in this line okay
that makes sense on the right-hand side
and the left-hand side where it says
positive and negative positive and
negative it's like that but this is
basically to two separate sides so I'm
working all on the right-hand side of my
board okay so if I if I take this LED
for example and I move it down to
down here that is exactly the same
connection okay it doesn't matter where
it is as long as I've got the positive
and negative connected okay okay reason
I put it up here is just so it's a
little more visible on the camera
because my laptop gets in the way here
on the show right the positive which is
pin 18 on the Raspberry Pi which is just
the one I'm using for the GPIO so that I
can program it that comes so pin 18
comes out and I'm using this tether here
to go down I'm just plugging it in
anywhere but on the middle channel here
it goes this way
horizontal so now anything that I so
I've plugged this in here anything that
I plug in next to it will have the
positive alright I hope that makes sense
it does so this is now connected so this
resistor that's next to the red because
it's on the same line that way so there
yeah it's really really fine but it's
right next to it the where the resistor
goes in so the positive is connected to
the resistor on this end and then the
resistor carries that current to the
positive here so then even though it's
kind of stretched out on the board
really it's just a big circular loop you
could do this in a little tiny place
that's okay absolutely the reason that I
brought it down here was because I
didn't want the resistor to accidentally
come in contact with with something else
fair enough whatever right sorry I
didn't mean to throw you off I just I
thought in case somebody's watching this
and they're like why isn't it working
yeah you know that the pin assignment as
far as where I put this doesn't matter
as long as I wire it correctly so I
could put this up here yeah okay
so I've now moved the red up here so now
there is nothing going to the resistor
because there's nothing in line with it
right so now I have to take this
resistor I'm going to connect the
positive terminal first and the reason
that I do that is what if I accidentally
plug it into the negative and then
short-circuit my board yeah I don't want
to do that don't want to do that so I've
plugged that into the positive terminal
and now I'm going to plug it in to the
same line as the red cable okay alright
so it doesn't matter where it is up and
down
as long as it's in in the right line up
perfect okay no that makes sense cool
all right all right so let's plug it in
there we go so it is hot baby all right
and I'm gonna jump over to Python here
which is running as Super User the
reason that I need to do that is because
it needs access to the GPIO which only
the Super User can do so I'm going to
import the capabilities of the Raspberry
Pi GPIO GPIO so I'm gonna go import our
PI dot GPIO as GPIO so just typed
exactly as I've shown there and then we
need to set the mode of the GPIO to
Broadcom so set mode GPIO dot BCM these
are just kind of we're just setting up
our script let's see what I did most
recent call last STD in gee I missed an
OG Pio dot set mode GPIO dot DCM that
looks a little nicer and then now I know
that I'm using pin 18 so I need to
actually set it up as an output so I
need to go GPIO which I set up in the
first in the first line dot setup and
I'm gonna use pin 18 comma and we're
gonna set that as GPIO dot out enter Oh
let's see what that tells me there oh
that's so tiny what did I type wrong
GPIO dot set up 18 GPIO dot out
gpio not set up you guys see what I've
done wrong no I don't possibly space
after 18 comma where do you need that
you don't need it but it shouldn't
matter what did I type differently how
did I get a typo there I don't see it
folks I don't either
well now what I need to do is I need to
actually tell the output of pin 18 to
turn on so true or false true if I did
it right Jeff can you hit the light
switch right behind you because that's
going to allow us to kind of see it's
dimmer in here okay
I think it's on it's on okay now I'm
gonna change that to false that's yeah
you can definitely see on/off on/off and
I don't know what my typo was there I I
just I don't see it but I'll watch this
back and I'll see it so basically what
we've done is we've used that tea
cobbler plus you can hit that light
again if you like and then we've used
the Python programming language in the
terminal on a Raspberry Pi to be able to
turn on and off the light which
essentially what we're actually doing is
turning on and off pin 18 positive
current so it sends a current through
pin 18 right so that is the most basic
example of what we can do now you know
the next step is okay once you've got
all the kit then we can start doing some
really exciting stuff there's a lot of
stuff to come I know names is gonna be
using the GPIO coming up soon really so
that's going forward to that as well so
there you have it head on over to cat
five dot TV slash PI for a Raspberry Pi
and the tea cobbler plus and if you want
to look at the maker kit and all the
accessories cap five dot TV slash maker
is where you'd want to go and check that
out good times
awesome we had one question in the chat
room please why is it called a
breadboard why is it called a breadboard
yeah serious question once again you
could you could Google that what
I could I don't know okay well I did
someone named it a breadboard yourself I
personally feel like it should be called
a waffle for it maybe because it looks
like a like what you would cut bread on
maybe or maybe because it's the best
thing since sliced bread yes you know
true fact
I don't know I said in the chatroom
waffles are just pancakes with ABS back
in the day circuits were often
constructed by wire tapping components
onto nails driven into flat pieces of
wood that resembled the old days yes
okay a lot of stuff is we should head
over to the news room I know we're you
know I'm using up all your time tonight
no right we're having fun right actually
really love episodes like this where I
can where I can learn from the beginning
what I think that the viewers need to
know too is that I'm learning this is
like an experience for me like you're
learning as we go and as we as we grow
and and I'm learning stuff like how to
how to do this and I love it
like the soldering episode yeah and it's
so basic for somebody who knows how to
do this stuff but for somebody who's
never done electronics in their life
I've been a computer guy all my life and
now to understand it and becoming more
and more versed at it I'm excited to be
able to fix things I'm excited to be
able to service things and replace
resistors on circuit boards so that I
don't have to replace an entire circuit
board yes awesome yeah it's really cool
but now but now the news here are the
stories were covering this week in a
category-5 TV newsroom t-mobile admits
that have to school their customers data
in a major security breach I
eeehm is patenting a coffee delivering
drone that can read your mind google go
the tech giant's search app optimized
for emerging markets can now read
websites out loud and happy birthday'
linux these stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere
Jeff Westen Gemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what are you
you're terrible actor what this where
acting comes into play you're supposed
to act
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cat5 dot TV slash
dream host to sign up for unlimited web
hosting for your website with unlimited
email accounts MySQL databases the
latest version of PHP WordPress and more
and even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat5 dot TV slash dream
host this is the category 5 TV newsroom
covering the week's top tech stories
with a slight linux bias I'm Sacha
Rickman in here the top stories were
following this week in a statement
Friday t-mobile admitted that hackers
have breached its systems and stolen
customer data including names addresses
account numbers and billing zip codes
the company said that it discovered the
security breach on August 20th and
immediately shut it down a company
representative said that around 3% of
t-mobile customers may have been
affected meaning around 2 million
accounts t-mobile seavey CEO John Leger
said on Twitter that it's always a good
idea to regularly change account
passwords and t-mobile admitted that
some encrypted passwords may have indeed
been in the data stolen
according to the company's timeline the
breach was only discovered on August
20th and affected customers first began
to be notified by text message on Friday
however the text looks suspiciously like
a phishing attempt complete with a link
to a shortened URL to learn more the
message reads hello we ID'd and
shut down an unauthorized capture of
your info no financial info / SSN taken
but some personal info may have been
more at t dot t /m o dot co / security
so that sounds like a like it sounds
dodgy right you know it sounds like
another day in tech news data breach
stolen passwords but what kind of way
open e I'm holding my tongue would
release an email IR a message like that
to their customers like we in security
and data security teach our customers
never don't fall for that type of
message right no bank is ever going to
email you and say click here to sign in
no you know what you know how to log
into your online banking so log into
your online banking it's not gonna give
you a link right so this is actually
really dangerous because then this is a
legit way and it seems so non legit it's
actually them t-mobile right so now
they're giving like a false sense of
security and safety to people who follow
it and there isn't an issue so here's
the thing all of your data has just been
stolen right and now we are teaching our
customers that when a phishing scam
looking message comes through that you
can trust it yeah it's really us so now
that this data has been stolen what's it
going to be used for phishing scams
click here to find out more this is
banana so what would you recommend that
t-mobile do they fire their security
staff and would be a start
I feel like wouldn't it be okay just to
put it on the news like it like I what
how else would you tell because because
you can't do it via email the easiest
way would just send a subsequent email
saying we sent out an email that said do
this please don't do that like the
damage is done we can't teach our
customers to do something stupid that
Kagami that they have done so they need
to send an email to educate and say
don't
we told you to do we would see the
backtrack and say this is the new
message we've been hacked your data has
been stolen contact us for more
information you can find out more by
looking at your bill yep right that's it
that's it let's don't click a link at T
- MoDOT co dot uk' slash secure whatever
goodness sure you know where to come
once a week and let's just put a link on
[Laughter]
IBM has filed a patent for a mood
sensing coffee delivery drone it
features facial recognition
psychological profiling and scalding
liquid flying through the air
IBM's plans for aerial hot beverage
deliveries not only include deliveries
of pre-ordered brews but also taxi style
flagging down of aerial drinks the US
Patent Office filing revealed that IBM
thinks such a delivery system is part of
our future in the patent application
they talk about a coffee Laden drone
flying into an area including a
plurality of people scanning the people
using one or more sensors connected to
the drone the one or more sensors
connected to an electronic processing
circuit which identifies an individual
among the people that may have a
predetermined cognitive state put
another way if you're feeling glum IBM
wants a circling coffee drone to sense
this and then fly hot drinks at you the
details of the filing have suggested
ibm's drone sensors could be collecting
and analyzing data on everything from
the time of day - facial expressions
your gestures and even the dilation of
your pupils it hopes to merge this with
your work calendar as well as the time
an individual woke up in the morning all
right at first I was like ah sweet come
on the flying coffee I love coffee yeah
and I see it coming and I'd be like I'm
sad face okay and maybe they would give
me like a coffee on a special day like
your birthday just
free like happy birthday here's coffee
like it would be so good if it wasn't
obviously some sort of weird privacy
employee right like it's like it but
here's here's the thing though the idea
of personal privacy in a public setting
of video feeds is out the window right
like there used to be a time of day when
news companies couldn't air a clip
unless they had the approval of
everybody who was on film now it's like
you don't want to go on air you need to
tell me because we're automatically
going to put you on there and so this
whole thing is just biometric collection
for data and marketing purposes it's
it's gonna happen they also know what
time you woke up and how dilated your
pupils are and whether you're or not
you're just about to lose it like don't
give that guy coffee's gonna throw it at
somebody else apparently they're using
social tactics as well to make people
want this service so I don't know what
the future holds for it but to think
that a drone will fly down and give the
popular kids coffee everybody else is
like hey I want some of that you know
like when you're walking through and
everybody is walking around with cotton
candy you know the kids are asking for
it so way to get my full attention is to
start a story with something's gonna
deliver you a coffee
bye bye drone but the dark side of that
is now they're all thrones that are
flying up and down the street that maybe
no longer have coffee maybe they just
write tickets maybe they just police you
and because they know you because these
things use AI to know who you are they
just be like oh there's Robby give him a
coffee
oh there's Robby give him a coffee hope
there's Robby give him a coffee right so
they know me they know my trends the one
thing about this story
totally guaranteed you're not gonna see
this one coming I wonder if this was
inspired by a friend of mine do you know
John Stein guard from Hawk Nelson mm-hmm
so he's a big drone enthusiast and oh
yeah I remember that three years ago
yeah he was playing with his drone and
he decided to do it on YouTube a pickup
of a coffee from Starbucks using his
drone he was sitting there on the beach
the drone took off flew up the road to
the Starbucks came down they handed the
coffee to the machine yeah it took it
back up in the air and brought it back
to him he used their app ordering system
yes and so it was a phenomenal video
that went nuts was talking somebody the
other day who had seen it like I know
the guy that like shut up so how much
you want to bet this inspire that that's
the case I hope he gets royalties he's
cool
he gets royalties I hope that this is
not as bad as I feel like it that's
gonna go horrible because you won't see
the data basically putting like some
random drug in your coffee to make you
more complacent and can you know
compliant you're gonna get these coffees
but really it's just gonna be like yeah
we're talking about like chemical
manipulation excuse me one second there
yeah see it happened no I want to okay
peer pressure I've chemicalized enough
as I can I feel much better now there we
go see now we can resume we've been
keeping an eye on some of the
accessibility enhancements coming to
smart devices lately and this week
Google go the tech giant's search app
optimized for emerging markets can read
websites out loud
the company has updated its browser with
the ability to read web pages in 28
different languages using a natural
sounding voice that works even on a 2g
connection the tech giant has announced
the new feature at its annual event in
India which is one of the markets
Android Go was created for according to
Google then the apps new ability it
takes the old text-to-speech idea and
gives it a brain they're using AI to
determine the most important parts of a
web page and it will only read those
sections and leave out everything else
for instance if it's reading a cooking
blog users don't have to listen to a
drone on and on about a writer's a life
story before reaching the recipe itself
since Android Go was designed for
affordable phones with the most basic of
specs some devices built for the
platform could also have relatively
tiny screens this ability can make it
easier for users to consume written
content in the same way one would listen
to an audio audio while doing something
else like exercising or cooking or while
on the go however it will probably be
the most useful for those with vision
problems difficulty reading or even
those learning a new language as an
added bonus the browser displays what
it's reading and highlights each word as
it goes making it viable as a learning
tool that is cool cool so you could
learn really 28 different languages hmm
really
yeah I guess and Google translation
service is fantastic so you could do as
that in tandem with this sure that would
be cool see I just have to find the time
for that the AI that decides what's
important that worries me because what
if oh everything is dark with you
tonight
no because the writers life story it's
not dark it's just I just want to know
how it's deciding what the important
thing is right so are you able to let's
just do it with a recipe for lentils
okay let's I'm gonna click on the first
thing that comes up okay all right so
it's a it's a list of lentils lentil
here's the lentil recipe so it starts
with we love lentils here at kitchen
they are magically easy to cook on the
stove and versatile enough to go into a
wide range of cuisines plus they are
quick what more ah really so think about
that you I just asked for a recipe for
lentils you never read that why would I
read that what but when I'm looking for
that's true if I wanted the back story
fine I've scrolled down that's true okay
in thirds of it no way okay I've now
scrolled down what I would say is
equivalent to about three or four eight
and a half by 11 sheets of paper yep and
the recipe still hasn't started it's
starting to explain lentil Bowl humble
meals are one of my favorite things to
keep in concentrate oh right okay I'm so
imagine that this is the first thing I
googled
like just lentil recipes right so if I
just using that example because it was
in the story just give me the recipe
right right it's gonna read it to me
like like Alexa would or like goo
googles yes that is really neat you have
a very good point and the truth of the
matter is there are people who are
visually impaired that will now be able
to explore webpages tramonto inexpensive
device spray and I've used
text-to-speech a fair bit in my time yep
and on a website it can be annoying
because you got to think if if it's
gonna read everything on the screen
about to us information in an image does
it read all shorter it might it might
read advertising I get an annoying voice
it just interrupts that's smart great do
away with ads and stuff as it's reading
to me and if it is pretty good if it's
intelligent enough then it would be like
like an Alexa type service that would
take me to a web site and then it's just
integrating that service back into yep
okay Google and Alexa and everything
else that's it's actually it's awesome
that accessibility features like this
are are not only existing but they're
getting better as we go yeah oh yeah and
they sound better like you said it's a
very natural sounding we've we've looked
at voice like text-to-speech here on the
show it's amazing sometimes you wouldn't
even know the difference that's right
yeah yeah yep incredible so stick an AI
on that hope you're replaceable soon
never happy 27th birthday Linux yes it
is once again the time of year when we
celebrate the hero of modern computing
the Linux kernel some Foss fans consider
the first public release of prototype
code which dropped on October 5th 1991
as a more worthy of being the kernels
true anniversary date others take this
past Saturday August 25th as the birth
date of the project and for good reason
the 25th of August is the day back in
1991 a young finished college student
names linus torvalds sat at his desk to
let folks on comp
OS Dominic's news group know about the
hobby OS he was working on the hobby OS
that wouldn't he cautioned be anything
big or professional here's what Linus
said in that original post hello
everybody out there using MINIX I am
doing a free operating system just a
hobby won't be big or professional like
GNU for 386 486 80 clones this has been
brewing since April and it's starting to
get ready I'd like I'd like any feedback
on things people like or dislike in
MINIX as my OS resembles it somewhat
same physical layout of the file system
due to practical reasons among other
things and look at Linux now which
birthday you celebrate is up to you for
what it's worth
Linus says that he's cool with people
celebrating either date or even both way
to go Linux person born on April 21st
I also celebrate two birthdays because
the Queen does and she was also born on
April 21st
so Linux is like me cool Wikipedia has
some excellent information about kind of
like how Linux started and what what how
it evolved yeah I'd encourage you to
check that out if you're you know
interested in it Linux is everywhere
yeah we looked at Raspberry Pi here on
category 5 technology TV our computers
are powered by Linux you may have
Windows but maybe there are some
components of Linux that are involved in
that your phone if you use an Android
phone it's Linux yeah what else has
Linux on it your fridge if you boxes TV
boxes Playstations Linux Playstations
some ATMs or limit if you've ever heard
of steam steam OS is Linux right
Linux is bigger than you think or
perfect soft doesn't mind
no this yeah they really don't but the
internet use the internet every day
guess what makes the internet go Linux
yep yep so happy birthday no wrinkles
even yeah looking youthful 27 - I really
like open source everything I like the
idea and I love Linux that's what makes
Linux so great is that being that it's
community driven mm-hmm it's like if I
have an idea for Linux or if I find a
bug in Linux I can submit the fix for
that right and then the creators of
Linux can look at that and say oh yeah
oh look at that you found that and we
merge that pull request into the actual
kernel and that's why there are
thousands of contributors to and then
taking it one step further so Linux
being the kernel right now you've got ax
or whatever environment you're using and
then you've got your desktop environment
like you know KDE or whatever so when
you look at your computer so you look at
it boom - for example it might be gnome
3 or it might be unity if it's an older
one and older Linux was gnome - and so
the interface that you see is a whole
other project on top of Linux right and
so many people just kind of helped to
lift that into the air and make it be
right like it's love it's like a flash
mob like a flash flash mob big thanks to
Roy W Nash and our community of yours
for submitting cerise us this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category-five TV newsroom I'm
Sasha Rickman thanks Ashley I'm Robbie
Ferguson this is Jeff yep and Sasha and
it's been great having you here with us
this week don't forget head on over to
our website category 5
dot TV we've got lots of great
programming there check it out if you
want to become a part of this community
join the chatroom send us an email join
the community forum there's so many
different ways to interact to watch us
on YouTube you can comment below the
video make sure you give us that thumbs
up to subscribe and clean up the bell
Bell yeah right but that out we learned
that tonight and we look forward to
seeing you again next week
