here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsrooms
air-gapped computers can have SATA
stolen by a nearby drone cloudflare had
a bad data leak we may have well get
used to it yet another web-connected
children's toy has leaked a ton of data
and the next-gen gallery plugin for
WordPress is our next big exploit time
to upgrade these stories are coming
right up don't go anywhere now here's
another great way you can support the
shows you love for the category 5 TV
network by shopping at gearbest that's
the right deaf cat five dot TV /
gearbest it's an online store for the
geek streak in you or the loved ones of
course I mean especially your loved ones
right because cat5 DV / gearbest quite
frankly has all of the greatest tech
gifts that you could ever hope for at
rock bottom prices do that cell phones
you betcha cat5 TV / gear vest has a
wide assortment of unlocked android cell
phones and tablets global compute
consumer electronics those like a
quickest absolutely from high-tech
watches to action cameras headphones
even virtual reality headsets cat5 TV /
gearbest have you covered they literally
have it all Jeff literally really it's
like a superstore right from the comfort
of your own chair at your computer
through the interweb
yeah there's no way they have it all
true it's just a bunch of random
electronics Stephanie what about clothes
yep both men and women fashionable
apparel at rock bottom super duper
prices how to like this well look at
this coat what do you think it's a
slimming mock leather jacket I love it
it's available for less than thirty
dollars plus free shipping a cat5 TV /
gearbest yeah all right the county got
me there Wow any other questions for me
jack now that winter is past flying
season do they have any good deals and
say your own cup to hold mine goodness
well check this out dude they have
everything check out over 500 various
drums and not only that they're
available marked down by about thirty
two apps to sixty-three percent off the
regular price love it what's website
again while you're going to find
gearbest on our partners pages for any
of your favorite category five TV shows
like new every day category five
technology TV the pixel shadow but of
course if you want to shop absolutely
right now and you want to go straight to
the site all you have to do is visit cat
live TV / gearbest that's easy protect
five dot TV and flash your best that's
right happy shopping
I'm sapphic tomatoes in here are the top
stories for the week of march first 2017
air-gapped computers are physically
connected to any network and so should
be protected from remote hacker however
juice Stuxnet showed air gaps can be
breached the sidestand insider could
always insert a USB Drive into an
air-gapped computer now security
researchers from Israel's ben-gurion
university have demonstrated that if an
attacker did manage to infect an
air-gapped computer they could steal
data semi remotely at their leisure by
using the camera to capture signals from
the LED lights of its hard drive the
LEDs normally flicker when the drive is
undergoing read and write operations but
can be made to transmit data visually
the malware that researchers devised can
force the hard drive led to blank 6,000
times per second if those lights are
visible from a window a camera-equipped
equipped drone or a telescopic lens
could capture the signals at a distance
the researchers explained that data can
be leaked via the LED at a rate of four
kilobits per second that speed is
incredibly slow by today's standards but
it's more than enough to steal
encryption keys or text and binary files
according to the researchers it's an
impressive 10 times faster than
previously previous optical covert
channels for leaking data from
air-gapped computers the beauty of the
attack is that the hard drives LED
blinks anyway making it easy to conceal
that the infected machine is actually
transmitting data that is crazy really
when you think about like your computer
I know on my computer tower I see the
look like liquor and all the time so I
really do never actually but never there
is some sort of weird conversation going
on this reminds me of back before
Bluetooth was invented I had a watch and
it used it flashed my computer screen in
order to download data to my watch
calendar appointments and things like
that right you remember that technology
I do not know wow I wish I could
remember the name of it but this was my
first
like wireless watch it was a great watch
but it literally there was no
transmitter it flashed the monitor in
order to download the data so similar
time normative yeah crazy you're never
safe don't exploit anything Patrick your
hard drive led come on man same
CloudFlare a service that helps optimize
the security and performance of more
than five and a half million websites
warn customers late last week that a
recently fixed software bug exposed
sensitive information that could have
included passwords and cookies and
tokens used to authenticate users on the
site she visited a combination of
factors made the bug particularly severe
first the leakage may have been active
in September 22nd nearly five months
before it was discovered although the
greatest period of impact was from
February 13th to February 18th second
some of the highly sensitive data that
was leaked was cached by Google and
other search engines the result was that
the intent that for the entire time the
bug was active hackers had the ability
to access data in real time by making
web requests to affected websites and to
access some of the leaked data by
querying the search engines the leakage
was the result of a bug in an HTML HTML
parser they use to modify web pages as
they pass through the service the parser
performs a variety of tasks such as
inserting Google Analytics tags
converting HTTP links to the more secure
HTTPS variety up obfuscating email
addresses and excluding parts of a page
from malicious web bots when the parser
was used in combination with the three
cloudflare features email obfuscation
server-side excludes and automatic HTTPS
rewrites it caused CloudFlare edge
service servers to leak some of the
content from memory and expose it on
other websites Graham Cummings the cloud
Slayer CTO has ruled of the possibility
that the secret keys for customers
transport layer security certificates
were exposed in the leak
still he said end user passwords
authentication cookies awake tokens used
to log into multiple website accounts
and encryption keys CloudFlare use it to
protect server to server traffic we're
all at risk of being exposed their
warning that CloudFlare customers should
at a minimum strongly consider changing
passwords okay that's dad is a problem
to me just because that's their
recommendation and just so you know I
wasn't being a jerk we had this
conversation before what do those
communications I can't even say it when
I trying to repeat it it's like it's a
different language I cannot say it I
love it here's here's the issue the
particular exploit on CloudFlare it
affected us in a way not don't worry
your data safe because nothing that we
transmit is is private or anything like
that everything is I'm very very
security minded here but that said it
affected us in that we use CloudFlare
and so there is potential that you know
if somebody was watching an episode of
category 5 TV on our website that
episode may have shown up on some other
website so here's the okay here's the
problem that i have with okay well if
you're a cloud player customer change
your password has nothing to do with
with cloudflare customers so to speak i
can change my password and sure that you
know if I if my password on cloudflare
was exploited then that's great but the
problem is is that if I were to let's
just say let's say category 5 TB was
vulnerable which were not okay because
the data that we're transmitting is not
personally identifiable but let's just
say it was just to use the example so if
I logged into category 5 TV let's say if
you did okay and I pass my password over
to category 5 TV now cloud flares leak
now exposes that password on jeff's
block ok so now Jeff's blog shows sashes
password right for category 5 TV
completely unrelated sites could be
entirely it could be different corners
of the world they just use the cloud
player service so the only way to
protect myself from this particular
exploit now that it happened is to
change
Sasha's password on category 5 TV has
nothing to do with changing my password
on cloudflare right so it so it's this
messy situation where we don't know how
bad this is we don't know which what
private information has been exposed and
that's why this one is a little bit
scary because we just don't know whom
CloudFlare doesn't know word fence
doesn't really know what data now we
have little snippets and excerpts of
data to show oh yes this happened this
is approximately what is happening and
it's been fixed but we don't know the
scale of the data breach so do you think
that maybe their statement with a little
kind of like blase like maybe super
probably ain't consider marketing
cliches right like the marketing
director says make sure you change your
passwords because that's what you do
when there's an exploit right right and
for most people because they're not
savvy in this area they go okay and I
think they're protected yay not at all
well exactly I use um I used Aisling for
a lot of my passwords and I don't have
anything that I'm aware of that's under
CloudFlare loud flair is a dns rightly
like they replace the DNS record so
understand it has nothing to do with
CloudFlare to you right if you go to
category 5 TV my website you are going
through clouds layer to get there right
but what I mean is I didn't get any
notice from any of these any de sites
that are you saying we're under
cloudflare when we might be affected but
yeah I got this thing they would know
yeah from dash dash line saying change
your password and if I read the article
on going this may not be the issue
though right so do I really need to go
through this whole process again yeah so
you know all the sites that I'm on flick
yeah that has this impact of you that
you know of let us know closest an email
live at category five dot TV Thank You
session alright internet-connected teddy
bears it dubbed cloud pets leaked
personal information this put voice
recordings email addresses and other
sensitive data pertaining to children
and their parents at risk of compromised
by who knows
how many people cloud pets are billed as
a message you can hug they read stories
play lullabies into future interactive
games and let parents record messages
for their children the problem the
devices stored user data in an easily
accessible any form of password
protection Troy hunt from have I been
owned says that the clouds pets database
was indexed by a search engine for the
Internet of Things products and has been
accessed by many people hunt said
information from roughly eight hundred
and twenty one thousand people was
compromised in this way within the
databases he said are references to
almost 2.2 million voice recordings of
parents and their children exposed by
databases that should have never should
have never have contained production
data that would be enough of a problem
on its own but upon further examination
of the cloud the cloud pets mobile app
hunt discovered even more easily
exploited security problems cloud pets
apparently stored user information in an
Amazon s3 bucket that that also doesn't
require any form of authentication to
access the only thing needed to view
someone's profile picture the name of a
child and the name of the relatives with
whom they can communicate via their
futuristic teddy bear is the proper
filepath voice recordings from children
and their family members can be found in
the same way hold on it gets even worse
hunt discovered that cloud pets has no
strength requirements for user passwords
someone could just type L as their
password and clouds has explicitly
advises parents to use qwe as a password
in get it in a getting started YouTube
video neither option is secure in any
way and hunt explained that even though
clouds had stored passwords as decrypt
hash cracking those simple passwords
would be trivial for any hacker
as it turns out the products creators
were warned about these issues at least
four times but never responded to any of
those emails let's recap a bunch of
internet-connected teddy bears collected
and then stored information in public
facing databases without password
protection serve data via Amazon s3
buckets without safeguards actively
encourage people to use weak passwords
and ignored several warnings cloud pets
aren't the only internet connected toys
with privacy issues as we've heard in
almost weekly news about store weekly
news stories about data leaks right now
the message seems clear don't buy
internet-connected toys for your kids
yeah it's becoming such common it seems
like redundant to last week's news right
now for that it's in seen and the thing
is these cats are these patties toys
look amazing yeah and the feature set is
cool and the price is right and now I'm
you know I want to see this leaked data
and see just how many instances of you
know these this data is just your shows
nuggety you feel cute the recordings see
it's that impression when I would affect
what was it like 200,000 audio
recordings from parents I think it said
I'm sitting there going how many lawyers
out there whatever going ooh I wonder if
one of my clients has this and we need
to worry about an illegal case and they
will probably see that somebody will buy
up the data sure I don't know for some
reason every week we have another story
or multiple stories about breaches of
data and information and I just I'm
starting to develop this callousness
when it comes to it where I'm like
really people are we that surprised that
somebody is going to find some sort of
exploit and get your information out
there a number i think my position on
this and maybe yourself as well I'm
you're in the newsroom so my position is
kind of like it's like when there's a
recall mm-hmm right I saw a recall
notice come up on my my facebook feed
the other day
which I've already seen before and it's
like old news and my temptation was to
comment this is like three years ago
right as recall but it's like wait a
minute it's important that people know
this sure and so it's yeah it's same old
same old it's another thing exploit it
but if you have one of these teddy bears
you need to know that oh absolutely and
it's not about not knowing but it's
Marshall the fact that why are people
still continuing to produce products
that's it like we know the app we know
we're not going to say I'm not going to
get political okay now here's my point
in it have you ever tried to take a
child favorite toy away from them you
ever like ever like that I'm not like
that doll from last week or that teddy
bear from this week they are somebody's
favorite toy that is the heartbreak
because they're going to remember that
they can't have it anymore / if you need
to know how to get rid of your favorite
stuffies I can tell Dave there's always
a back story as to why that the teddy
bear had to go find his family because
you heard that his grandma was sick and
so he's gone on a trip so heartbreaking
no longer go on with the news I have
young children I'm thinking about my
kids losing their stuff yeah but stuffy
that transmits information Yeah right
man you can dissect the stuffy that's
true maybe they can render it in it like
they can brick the stuff you can fine if
you can watch the internet traffic as
the stuff he communicates with its
server you can create a dnf host
redirect so that the host name that it
goes to which is s3 or whatever and it
would redirect to your own in-house
server and then you can create your own
your own service can we throw your kids
teddy bear can we maybe order one of
these teddy bears and you can do a show
on how to do this so if i order one then
that's dangerous it'll be listening to
us and running up our internet bill
that's care yeah okay oh you got more
yeah I've got more okay more than 1
million websites running the wordpress
content management system may be
vulnerable to hacks that allow visitors
to snatch password data
and secret keys out of databases the
vulnerability stems from a severe SQL
injection bug in next-gen gallery a
wordpress plugin with more than 1
million installations until the flaw was
recently fixed next-gen gallery allowed
input from untrusted visitors to be
included in the wordpress prepared SQL
queries under certain conditions
attackers can exploit the weakness to
pipe powerful commands to a web servers
back-end database for the attack to work
a website would have to be set up to
allow users to submit posts to be
reviewed an attacker could create an
account on the site and submit a post
that contains malformed next-gen gallery
shortcodes web security firm security
has assigned a severity rating of nine
out of a possible 10 points to the
vulnerability which was fixed in version
2.1 point seven nine of the plugin web
site administrators who rely on next-gen
gallery should install the update
immediately feel like it's never good
news sure you're on category function
one of those weeks we are not even
talking about Amazon in that regard I
have great news my kids pokemon cards
yeah did not release data to the
Internet hey that's supremely great news
and tastic just say what was on that
piece of paper still there nobody else
knows good news great technology
collectible cards thanks for watching
the category 5 TV news room don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our website from the category 5 TV news
room I'm Sasha tomatoes
you
[Music]
[Applause]
