hear the stories were covering this week
in the category 5 TV newsrooms BTW is
adding angie junk call filters to their
phone service an autonomous transit bus
is being tested in Las Vegas salesmen
latest laptop is one hundred dollars
cheaper if you buy it with a boon to
yahoo wants to change its name and
google has revealed how they secured
their cloud infrastructure and it
includes some clever custom-built
silicon these stories are coming right
up don't go anywhere Jeff Weston Yellin
you're building a brand new beautiful
website what are you alright you're
terrible actor what does we're acting
comes into play I don't know where
Arctic you're supposed to act okay are
we building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website you
need hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
it's true how much hard drive space you
have how many email account how many
domains can point to it well we've got
an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV / dreamhost
for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are going to get
unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name the route put your own com
dice to put that amazing website but
you've been working on on there if you
run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat5 TV / dream hope
still compatible papers are just don't
do it but hey it's a great deal folk
best deal you're going to find five
dollars and change per month go to cap
five dot TV / dreamhost there we go i'm
sascha through madison here are the top
series for the week of january 18th 2017
behave recorded more than 31 million
nuisance calls in a single week before
Christmas and is doing something about
it the company supplies forty percent of
the landlines in the UK BTW is now
launching a new service for its
customers which it says could block up
to 30 million such a nuisance calls per
week called BTW call protects the system
monitors call data to identify rogue
numbers it will for example highlight
phone numbers that make an unusually
large number of calls those calls will
then be automatically diverted into a
junk voice mailbox the system will
continue to block such callers even if
they change their number a common tactic
used by solicitors customers will also
be able to identify nuisance callers
that get through by dialing the code
after receiving such a call talktalk
introduces a similar central call
blocking system for landlines three
years ago while vodafone operates a
system for mobiles super cool idea i
wonder if you can just dial a code after
somebody called you and you don't want
to talk whenever you are yeah except as
long as it just keep them from calling
you again yeah we have this from our
magicjack where we get constant
solicitors calling and it's a big
problem and we've got a particular
solicitor that calls every single day
drives my wife not you know one by name
no yeah it's FDR oh yeah so we called
magic jack and so you used to have this
service to block a particular number do
you still have that and they said no
they don't have it anymore so we're
looking at you know can i build a device
with raspberry pi right that you know
intercepts the calls that's an adjuster
them and then rings the in-house line
there might be something on github or
write code there might already out there
oh yeah you can't really really hurt my
work day before because yes if they get
our number and they start calling
sometimes they'll call it 45 second
intervals like they're calling and then
call it and I works perception it as
very big big chiropractic clinic I need
the fun you gotta take the call yeah I
I'm a programmer full time I sit at a
desk and I code and there's nothing like
answering the call and it's some
solicitor
or robot and now I've lost 15 minutes of
my day in the two seconds that it took
to hang up on them because I've got okay
where the heck was I am my code here I
got ivory go back over the stuff I was
doing and figure out where I was right
surprise me not so we got to build a
system this is going to be an upcoming
feature I promise you that raspberry pi
or some other device where the chest
filter phone calls by phone number how's
that sound no BP got it going on hmm all
right a small autonomous bus called an
arma is running a short route along Las
Vegas's Fremont Street marking according
to transit operator Keolis the first
time a self-driving bus has new
passengers on an American public road
the route is short just three blocks and
this is only a pilot test which started
a week ago woman will end on friday
while detects the fully electric box can
carry around a dozen passengers moving
at a top speed of limited to 16 miles
per hour though the bus is capable of
hitting 30 miles per hour the bus has
sensors that detect obstacles and an
emergency button that any passenger can
use to stop the vehicle during the test
there's also a staffer on board to
monitor passenger safety that's a really
great idea navya the french company that
makes the ARMA has already deployed
vehicles in Singapore France and
Australia Nevada has a strategic
interest in developing transportation
technology the state could benefit from
easier or long-distance transportation
to gambling centers from California
while autonomous vehicles like the mafia
boss could provide flexible
transportation for visitors once they
make it to Vegas I like this idea I like
that it's right but it does remind me of
like just a street elevator and I think
to myself if anybody could in any way
stop the bus at any time by pressing a
button you don't want like six year olds
on this bus no they could they would
just like continue it look at what
happens when I start pushing buttons
well so he goes well I like turn off
your like will ferrell and elf you just
make it a Christmas tree with the
elevator right you go in information
every single but yes exactly yeah I'm
dealing with that you're dealing yeah
yeah we got this yeah really cool it's
exactly like an elevator on the street
an autonomous bus
could be smart could be good I do like
that it keeps people who have been
drinking at the at the casinos off the
streets I'll be a pretty good i draw
obligation to be the actual guy who sits
there to stick all day just to tell you
ride the bus all day no it's like yeah I
like the like the guard on a steam train
like yeah no well I mean it makes sense
for now especially with the technology
still being new but like we see all
these other companies like you said ARMA
is unlike France and all these other
countries but we also see other
companies like uber who tried their um
self-driving it was shut down that's
right I know forgot i'm still doing it
in on some parking lot yes i'm not even
like a sweet-looking bus like that hot
spring yeah yeah you go ahead that's
pretty much right yeah I like it and you
know what its kind of secure in its own
in the fact that it's so visible it's
not like people could just be on that
bus like yeah just doing things I
shouldn't be doing this you can see you
know hands to yourselves people say
security on board like a great school
dance right ok you win in Vegas dell has
announced the immediate availability of
the dell precision 35 20 laptop and
buyers can save over one hundred dollars
by choosing a boon to 16.4 LTS preloaded
instead of Windows 10 yay Delbarton
George says more of Bluetooth Howard
precision work stations will go on sale
in the coming months worldwide including
anna bunton of the company's stylish new
precision 5720 all-in-one desktop pc
unlike other vendors dell doesn't ship
their linux option on no frills reduced
power hardware all models in the Dell
Precision lineups pack powerful seventh
generation Intel Core and intel xeon
processors support us bc thunderbolt 3
and can have up to thirty two gigabytes
of ram wow the dell precision 35 20 is
available now nice that sounds like a
sweet mobile workstation which is
basically a laptop that is built for
business writing a business for the
business money you might get a better
system get a really sweet system file
here's the thing you could save your
hundred bucks because you probably
already have a computer that came with
the windows license even if you wanted
to put windows on it maybe dual boot or
something yes my laptop my desktop they
all came with a windows license so
what's to stop me I'm going to upgrade
my my laptop let's buy this brilliant
new dell and take the license off of
this one put it on there install and
KaBlam right now I still got windows and
linux dual booting but save 100 bucks at
the same time though it's really
exciting because it's do you think I'm
not saying that mainstream is a good
thing or whatever um but do you think
it's also going to make more users of
Linux because it's coming pre-installed
right right certainly could people maybe
because it's going to normalize that
people won't be so scared of Linux I
work in a place where some of the people
I work with are afraid of Linux like
it's only by name yeah not I actually
don't actually use it there just cared
to make this way they do use it but they
don't know that they use it and that's
the thing a lot of your devices already
have linux on it and you don't realize
it so then when someone says they will
sell you a computer with linux on it oh
I don't know don't know I don't know how
to use that right well technically and
then own a watch my job yes volvo sasha
it but technically you could be
considered an astronaut then because
nasa uses linux now in the space station
right because they scrapped the windows
computer yeah i read yeah so technically
Sasha you could apply to be an astronaut
because you know how to rekal enix
computer there you go oh that's all I
keiko real guys no it'll be about we
just offended a lot of astronauts I
actually could not do it I'm a people
person there's not very many people out
in space okay so that yeah that's just
now Sasha that's about to change space
tourism yahoo revealed in a filing with
the securities and exchange commission
that the company would change its name
to altova after
it completes its transformation from an
actual business to a corporate wrapper
around Alibaba stock if all goes was
planned CEO Marissa Mayer would step
down the board would be trimmed and Alta
ba would simply continue to exist as a
way for investors to own a chunk of a
non-controlling interest in a Chinese
e-commerce company whether that
transformation happens as the result of
a successful sale of the Yahoo internet
portal to verizon or some other less
desirable outcome has yet to be
determined it still far from a sure bet
that the verizon acquisition will go as
planned the change to alta ba apparently
some non trademark infringing sort of
reference to alibaba in which yahoo all
holds a 15% stake depends on the
completion of the sale to verizon of
yahoo holdings the new corporate wrapper
for its internet business verizon
initially offered four point eight
billion dollars to Yahoo for light Yahoo
last July but the deal was in doubt
after it was revealed that yahoo had
failed to disclose a huge security
breach in 2014 to customers and verizon
a second major breach dating to 2013 was
discovered later we reported on both you
be sure did right yes Verizon's planned
for the Yahoo brand isn't completely
clear other than it would be somehow
aligned or merged with AOL which verizon
acquired for 4.4 billion dollars in 2015
and is still in the process of
assimilating given that Yahoo's
management is not in a position to go
look for a better offer Yahoo would have
to pay verizon a 145 million dollar
termination fee to walk away from the
table and find another buyer and there
isn't exactly a long line of people
looking to make a better offer it may
end up having to settle for whatever
Verizon decides as a purchase price at
this point or wait for verizon to walk
away from the deal verizon has already
reportedly knocked 1 billion dollars off
of its offer oh
1 billion dollars Sasha we've talked
about this before its 1 billion the
correct correct pronunciation is that 1
billion dollars okay dr. evil yeah so I
mean that's just it is what it is when
you lie about your stuff you get one
also have a yahoo account after like all
those hi I'm surprised to find that yeah
I did because I used flicker I wall here
thoughts mention that too is that I'm
gonna have a user flicker as well so
it's like what's going to happen to us
right so that's that dave has one that's
his main email is Yahoo time to move on
yeah I know he was a mail address and
this is why the price is going down is
because users are saying okay I don't ya
I don't trust this I know anymore even
better all night you know for anything
I'm fine like an email address fine
google has published an infrastructure
security design overview that explains
how it secures the cloud it uses for its
own operations and for public cloud
services revealed last Friday the
document outlines six layers of security
and reveal some interesting factoids
about the alphabet subsidiaries
operations none more so than the
revelation that we also design custom
ships including a hardware security chip
that is currently being deployed on both
servers and peripherals these chips
allow us to securely identify and
authenticate legitimate Google devices
at the hardware level yeah the silicon
works alongside cryptographic signatures
employed over low level components like
the BIOS boot loader kernel and based
operating system image these signatures
can be validated during each boot or
update update the document says adding
that the components are all Google
controls built and hardened with each
new generation of hardware we strive to
continually improve security for example
depending on the generation of server
design we root the trust of the boot
chain in either a lockable firmware chip
a microcontroller running Google written
security code or the above-mentioned
Google designed security chip
the document goes on to explain that
Google fleet of applications and
services encrypts data before it is
written to disk to make it harder for
malicious disk firmware to access data
there's plenty more in the document like
news at Google's public cloud runs
virtual machines in a custom version of
the kvm hypervisor if you're interested
in seeing the document for yourself you
can access the master at cat 5e TV /
google dash security I love information
like this it just makes me feel far more
secure alright thanks for watching the
category 5 TV news room don't forget to
Like and subscribe for your all your
tech news with a slight Linux bias and
for more free content be sure to check
out our website from the category 5 TV
news room I'm Sasha dramatis
[Music]
