what you're about to experience is a
free worldwide interactive broadcast
from Ontario Canada we broadcast live
every tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time
get your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at
category five TV and now let's begin
here's your host Robbie Ferguson welcome
to episode number 171 of category 5
technology TV i'm your host Robbie
Ferguson and I'm Eric kid he's Eric good
to see ya I missed 17 he didn't know you
did did you have a good time you catch
it on the download we having fun yet
it's 20 and we just started over already
having fun it's Tuesday December 28 2010
when this is going out live nice to see
so many people joining us live getting
excited about the new website that's
coming next week lots of people in the
shower especially our betta testers who
are looking at the new website or saying
there's this the websites coming along
fantastic but there's this massive gap
right on the front page where it says
Eric's bio that will be a completed
before launch any time though maybe
during the show maybe I'll just do it
right now just gonna yeah just talk
about yourself solar typing and stuff
yeah there you go there you go what are
you doing we've got a little creeper
here all right hello what are you doing
you just came to say good night oh and
you wanted to show your new pen all
right in flat home okay well that's
pretty cool this is what happens when
things get out of control upstairs and
for becca's trying to manage things are
out of control downstairs to rubble Lily
okay night sweetheart love you good eye
sweetheart I lose this boat and dock
put it up okay he's got mom's approval
you better be careful you'll a sweet
night head on upstairs hen very pink pen
she hears she hears some some familiar
voices because we actually have a good
friend joining us tonight christy is
here in the studio hasn't been around
for quite some time after getting a job
at the radio station down in
Peterborough so it's nice to see her and
I know tally hears her voice down here
and and one to come say hi so and to
show off her beautiful pen that she got
for performing so fantastically at UH
her dance recital at Christmas oh yes I
forgot she is a performer she is yes you
know I well indeed she's a performer /
ham at Christmas I wasn't sure which am
I was supposed to get Cerreta Terry
Robin oh sorry kept you at Christmas ah
indeed idea and you yeah very nice very
nice Jack see some family and the
daughter got me a new shirt I thought
I'd wear it tonight yeah how Canadian
looking huh the plan the plan how's
everybody doing we'd love to hear from
you in the chat room category 5 TV let
us know your geekiest Christmas gift
would love to hear the doesn't really
qualify as a Christmas gift but
something that I did pick up recently
was this well which is kind of funny
because I literally just is it's funny
these little scores that you find when
you when you just kind of go shopping
for some I was looking for a cheap DVD
player because of our DVD player broke
and you know me I don't like to replace
things I know you don't have to write so
we wanted a cheap DVD player to plug
into the 5.1 surround sound all in one
DVD VHS everything unit so i picked up
this thing for 37 bucks the things got a
USB card reader and SD card reader so
you can put your external hard drive
with all your family movies and stuff
like that plug it into USB sweet and
they all come up on the screen and like
in st like nice high quality video
better actually better Oh
set it up and play with it right now I
was thinking we show everybody but
because it's like an off-market okay
kind of Walmart special to us I don't
know it was like it's possible you might
not find it if you do find it though you
can ask me questions about it it's an
onyx 1080p upconverting DVD with hdmi
sw2 300 x s but it actually does really
well and computer geek Robbie likes it
there I just thought I'd throw the
endorsement in there hmm I do have some
some gifts that i'm gonna be showing
maybe next week well I didn't really I
didn't want to bring down too much stuff
but I've got some pretty geeky things
that that I picked up for Christmas
especially having to do with Star Trek
oh man so you know you want to check
that out where's yeah of course all
right let's take a look at the chat room
jot happy birthday it's great to see you
we have a birthday present for you and
christy is going to say hi all right how
old are you no cable stuff I'm already
getting questions about the DVD / USB /
st combo unit oh it works really well I
don't know what it plays it says it
plays avi / mp4 like that's how cheap it
is it doesn't even specify what codecs
are anything it just says plays mp4 /
avi everything that I've fed to it
played so awesome yeah wonderful well
okay okay what do you got going on well
why don't we jump into a question
fabulous John steers hey John hi Robbie
and Eric hey that's nice hi John what I
was trying to do is use my old ID e XP
hard drives in my new win seven box I've
read that there is a connector called
SATA to ide that is supposed to work
I've tried kvm switches to use both
systems with one monitor but I can't get
them to work with question marks that
seems the best alternative my XP system
works just fine I'd like to be able to
use it I have a great boon to
10.0 for and there and want to use it
what do you suggest how can i use two
computers with one monitor i don't
really want to install anything in my
win7 box it's mainly for PVR activities
kvm switches only function in vga not
DVI as my win7 does i don't really
notice much loss in monitor resolution
when both systems are on what kvm switch
do you recommend they must be USB both
my boxes have USB but I can't get the XP
box respond correctly thanks John in
Dallas there's a couple things with a
kvm kvm is keyboard video mouse and a
lot of them will have audio as well so
they're still called a kvm but sometimes
they'll nickname them like a kma and
it's got the audio cable as well you can
get as pires rock is mentioning the chat
room you can get DVI kvm switches no
problem you can pick those up but they
are more expensive and if depending on
what you use your computer for will
determine whether or not the d sub or
vga versus DVI argument is valid for you
I personally wouldn't want to use vga
because of the the fact that it's an
analog signal so you've got your digital
card converting to analog and then your
monitor which is a digital monitor
converting back to digital and you've
got signal degradation so somebody who
who has good eyesight for example or me
with my glasses I would really notice
the difference between that and a true
digital signal from DVI and then these
days a lot of newer systems are going to
actually be using HDMI as far as what
kvm switch you can use pretty much for
what you're probably wanting to do two
computers one keyboard one monitor one
mouse possibly one set of speakers so
you want the audio component is there
really you could get away with a pretty
cheap device for for a home user the
only time that you really need to step
into like the more expensive units is if
it's for a production environment where
if something goes awry then you've got a
problem as far as and another thing is
just the distance from the compute
if it's just sort of under his desk both
computers it's not quite as big a deal
as if yer kvm switch typically is going
to be like six feet from each point
because video vga or DVI is typically
six to ten feet i think as the max if
you want to go any further than that you
need a kvm extender exact which is quite
a bit more pricey and then you're
talking about this is something that we
would Christie we would have used in the
radio stations when we were laying
computers in other rooms so that a
studio couldn't hear them right so
different thing altogether in a normal
environment though kvm switches are
going to do the job for you there
there's so many that you can choose from
to use aisle gears got some I'm sure we
could find something for you that you
know but you just want to find one that
has the DVI if that's what you're so
that what your systems using but then
again you could use if you're again if
you don't have if you don't notice a
difference between DVI and d-sub and you
want to save the money you could
probably just down scale your DVI card
22 d sub i don't think i have a d sub
adapter handy to show you but a lot of
monitors will come with that where
you've got the adapter for your cable
and it converts it over to d sub did all
kinds of other things I got inner other
things yeah I'm just looking at what
even just what tigerdirect has available
is you know you do a search for kvm and
you find it a ton of different units
just kind of like this right and it's
just a little box that has one keyboard
with this one is USB because it's USB
keyboard and mouse and vga you want
again possibly be bi soon but you're
looking you know that's a $25 unit
they're cheap so look around well I'll
give you I oggy really good luck with a
lot of the iogear stuff to that ride
they're decent enough they're well built
I've never had one fail on me that those
things which takes me back to a point I
was just making a moment ago where about
mission critical you know uck VMS that
are in the hundreds of dollars range
we're talking servers and
and units that you know where you've got
six or seven servers all connected
together with one keyboard video mouse
that's a different different ball game
than them what you're doing at home
simply iogear calm is their website i'm
sure we could find here if we did a
search kvm see what we come up with
maybe i'll do a search for kvm switch
just to narrow it down a little bit that
didn't really narrow it down did it I
didn't narrower the oil pages 12 pages
but you might want to throw it in the
rocks kvm vga to port there we go well
double combo guy right there yep they've
got DVI right on the menu there for you
but actually just love that was combo
which might think that's so it looks
like you're gonna find what you're
looking for an i/o here and then it
doesn't have to be iogear and we're not
and you know saying you have to buy io
here it's just we've used them they work
yeah they're good they're affordable so
there you go John and jealous yeah
that's a great website to iogear com
lets you track down exactly based on
what specs you need that you know the
perfect kvm switch for you mmm Cheers it
is really just calm I bought some nice
Canadian mix Colombian Rebecca I don't
know how it's Canadian but they call it
the Canadian I guess cuz it's like
canadians love their morning Canadians
and they've said this is the Canadian
cup of coffee and it's good it's all
right nice quite happy with it I made
just decode if you see me disappear it's
gone for the second cup yeah but we got
enough people around tonight but maybe
assign someone to the runner position we
were gonna be looking at VirtualBox
four-point-oh tonight at which was
released this week if you can bear day
took a big jump from three while 3.2 all
the way up to four point oh fantastic
stuff we're gonna be checking that out
also time tracking unknown so that we
can figure out how much money we need to
build our customers and where we're
allocating our time
while we are we checking that out and of
course known being linux base desktop
environment so talking boon to any linux
distribution that has no more known
libraries so check that it no never seen
a we're talking about in just a little
bit go all right we have another
question actually we have a few
questions here tonight right that's good
yeah this one's from Rhonda guy hey
Rhonda guy hi Robbie lately that is Ron
the guy oh do gay do come again dude I
don't think we get the I just liked the
way it sounded when you said the guy the
guy it's wrong like little man you
anyway he's the guy this is a question
from Ron hey Ron okay he's the guy hi
Robbie hey lately I have been going over
my allowed download from my internet
provider I have three computers as well
as we ipod and PSP all on my home
network I would like to limit the amount
of each of the limit the amount each of
the above and download in a month to
keep me below my limit any ideas on how
to do this my current router does not
have this feature any idea which ones
would thanks Ron the guy all right Ron
Cheers all right well I know there is a
special edition of dd-wrt that will
enhance your Ritter it's the commercial
edition that you you know you pay a
little bit for it's like it's 20 euro or
somewhere around there but i'm not sure
if they're still making at night and I
we can take a look if if it's available
it was the dd-wrt qos for quality of
service special edition
so I'm just doing a quick search there
to find out if it's still available and
just folks I've worked with Robbie for a
while and he really does type that
quickly see special version a special
version of dd-wrt which extends qos
capabilities to do this set maximum
bandwidth available per netmask or mac
address so that what that does is it
allows you using QoS quality of service
to specify specifically how much
bandwidth each device by MAC address or
netmask is able to use in any given
amount of time so that's a special
version available apparently through the
dd-wrt shop are you able to keep track
of how much each device has you do that
anyway over the course of the month you
can do that anyways to be what runs oh
yeah you're in monitor but I have the
understanding that he's looking for a
way to actually stop access at that
point is that right yes if you just want
to keep an eye on at dd-wrt out of the
box the free version will do that for
you you can monitor bandwidth on any of
your devices you can set up quality of
service but it's a little bit different
in that it doesn't work by by limiting
bandwidth at a certain cap okay whereas
the qos special edition does instead the
quality of service on the default dd-wrt
what it does is it takes wherever well
it prioritizes task for everyone on an
intern this device is only going to be
allowed to use this much of the band
with this one as much as kept open for
another if it's being used by more
higher priority devices so for example
you would set your we as a lower
priority device and skype higher so that
when you're on a Skype phone call the
kids playing the wii doesn't interfere
with your skype Kyle okay right but then
as soon as you disable skype all of a
sudden the we get
more per hour though it does that's
quality of service and it works
fantastically at kind of keeping your
network seeming fast all the time that
that said that doesn't allow you to cap
you'd have to pay for the additional
special features in order to cap at that
point you could do it manually obviously
but to do it automatically is a special
feature tomato firmware on the other
hand which I do not to label for the
model you tomato firmware I'll admit I
don't have a lot of experience with
tomato because I got into dd-wrt of when
when I was comparing the feature set of
the two at the time of course dd-wrt is
much more feature packed tomato is is a
lot simpler it's very easy to set up and
use but it doesn't have the same feature
set so someone like myself who wants all
the features goes with dd-wrt but then
again tomato does a better job out of
the box of quality of service and has
that that kind of stuff already set up
tomato firmware here's just a screenshot
off their website oink oink hmm alright
i guess like you set up so you can see
that you can set up any I a mac or me
any mac device and you set up the
maximum kilobytes transferred I suppose
again I don't have a lot of experience
with it but what i'll do is i'll give
you a link to to this website this is
polar cloud calm / tomato for the
firmware there are less device is
compatible with tomato than would be
with dd-wrt but tomato is a good place
to start and dd-wrt if you if you want
those extra features and maybe give it a
try out of the box and see if the qos
out of the box is going to do it for you
and if not you you may you may want to
purchase that special edition with the
enhanced qos alright thanks to the
question wrong are you are you making
notes about my grammar that was a note
for myself ok yeah well leave that alone
for now right no for himself to remind
me about my grandma
yeah i'll harass you later oh my
goodness but we have another direct
question here from Louise please Louis I
like I was thinking that was probably a
Spanish name is probably well write it
on your list we'll talk about it after
Lu is Louise I say Louis or Louis all
right no I think they're being all in
there but we're Louie we've covered all
the possible pronunciation okay hi
Robbie hey what's the best way to
encrypt an entire volume in ubuntu 1000
10 Wow let's pretend i have a 500 gig
hard disk but no data on it Thanks oh
well if there's no one no data to drive
data tomato tomahto betta betta is doing
that oh sorry we'll leave bull let it go
Eric I love that line from dr. Pulaski
when she said to data is she called him
data and said and said you know what's
the difference data data this is what is
my name the other is not okay Robin what
is correct nike socks oxford will allow
both but because it's an empire I've
because it's an empty drive i would say
what are we driving to the encryption
back ok the question ok because it's an
empty drive during the installation
process of ubuntu you'll be able to
choose to encrypt that drive that's fine
if you haven't done that already the the
Tula did actually that is included with
a boon to his DM dash crypt which is a
part of the Linux kernel after I think
version 2.6 so you if you're going to
install the operating system on to that
drive you can just do it through the
through the installation process I'm
going to just go to Wikipedia is a great
resource for finding information about
this kind of thing and I'm just going to
DM crypt i'm not sure if i said that
right i think that's what you said did i
say that i think that's what you said in
my head i was getting confused with tiki
double DD wrt and then we start talking
about diem crypt and thinking the wrong
thing DM crypt is a transparent disk
encryption subsystem in Linux kernel
version 2.6 and later it's part of the
device map or infrastructure you can
read this article for information about
what it does and how it works and then
there are some external links for making
that happen but the reason that I want
to kind of point you towards that
article and then get you to do some
searching on your own asst because what
you want to do is going to be unique to
you based on your your situation and
encryption is something that you don't
really want to I wouldn't want to give
you a cookie cutter version of how you
can set that up because then the next
guy goes to do the same thing and all of
a sudden they can't access any of their
files and that becomes a big problem you
know what that is unfortunate that would
be that would be that would be because
then that's the night when I hand that
off over to you and you can even fix it
so DM dash crypt also get into your
favorite search engine i'm going to use
google and i'm going to type d m dash
crypt ubuntu 10.10 salts hopefully
google has done a fairly decent job of
prioritizing them for you but also in
the ubuntu forums you'll you'll find a
lot of help there as well but no cookie
cutter way to do it that i would
recommend other than in setting up
encryption during the installation
procedure i'll go boom to itself ok
that's a blank drive so it sounds like
that might be the best solution for you
well we have more questions you want
more questions or where are we timewise
well not quit sign yet is it well we've
got we've got VirtualBox four-point-oh
to install we've got we're gonna be
looking at hamster applet for gnome this
is a time tracking software so let's
let's do that let's take a look at a
hamster that sounds I'm gonna bring up
synaptic package manager under
administration i'm using a boon to know
of course there are many different ways
that you could do this but i'm using a
debian based package manager synaptic
package manager and of course you can do
this through apt-get however you want to
do it you can do it with that with yum
if you're if you're running a young
based distribution that that has this in
the repositories only going to do in
synaptic package manager which again is
found under system administration
synaptic package manager in a boom to
linux and do a search for hamster and
you'll see that it has given me the
hamster applet which if you look at the
description this is a time tracking
applet for known helps you to keep track
of how much time you spend on various
activities during the day now i was
looking for a good tool to help me with
this I'm just clicking to install it's
telling me that I also need Python
evolution I going to say ok and then hit
apply and allow that to happen I've
always wanted a good application that
makes it easy to very quickly keep track
of the time that I'm spending on Viet
client work or whatever else it is that
I'm doing bring Tim yeah eric is showing
me bring Tin out a little bit that's
it's better than a toy it's ok it's very
helpful but but what I have to do with
the bring Tim is I'm transferring that
data over to a spreadsheet or something
and then submitting that to billing in
it then it becomes an extra application
so so one of the things I wanted to do
was try to streamline that staff still
using bring Tim in the max for phone
calls and things like that but for four
main the main work that I'm doing
i'm working on a particular development
project or whatever being able to keep
track of time and then generate reports
so that i can see bar graphs and things
like that on how the time was spent and
that kind of determine how i should
approach different projects so the
simplest method that i found was this
hamster it's done installing it's really
really quick now that I've installed it
it's an omoplata so i can actually while
you will find it on your applications
menu you'll actually be able to right
click on your panel and go add to panel
and you'll see that in this list now
you're going to see one called time
tracker which you can now add to your
panel there we go that's all there is to
it close it down and now you see no
activity up in your pan
yes you went like you're gonna say
something there's no activity Wow no
activity let's give it some activity I'm
going to first of all right click on
that no activity and go preferences this
is the first time that you run it you
want to set up how you want the system
to work now this is kind of neat it's
going to automatically remind you of
current activity every 27 minutes by
default so if I told the system that hey
I'm working on X project 27 minutes into
it it's going to remind me hey this is
what you're supposed to be working on so
that I don't get sidetracked by a phone
call or whatever else and then forget to
go back to the project I was working on
or worst case would be forgetting to
stop the clock really so you can set
that however you like and there are
different different settings there that
you might you might play with there are
categories which by default you've got
work day to day and unsorted and we're
going to look at that in just a moment
and then you can also use tags as well
which were kind of like keywords you can
resume the last activity when returning
to a workspace or start new activities
when switching to different workspaces
so in this case you could actually have
your different Linux desktops like how I
can move around on my desktop like this
so desktop number three could be a
specific application for example or a
specific job that I'm working on whereas
desktop number two would be another
another job and the time tracker hamster
will actually automatically change what
it's tracking when you're looking at
different workspaces so then all of a
sudden it becomes this really great tool
for keeping yourself on task because you
can have certain applications that are
attributed to each job on different
virtual desktops so if I'm working on
say a client website on desktop one I
can set this to automatically start
tracking time for that client when i'm
working on desktop one if on the other
hand i'm over here in the gimp on
desktop to building a logo for a client
i can have an automatic
cracking that quiet automatically
automatic loss we got stuck on the once
we switch to the other planet yeah
exactly so there there are a couple of
neat little advanced features there even
though it's it's simple in the way that
it functions in the way that you set it
up so now that I've got that set I've
just closed that I'm going to single
click on no activity and now I can fill
in what it is I'm doing now it starts
out with a couple of examples like doing
handstands lunch I don't tend to do at
work I do lunch so this no good so
let's do okay so here's the task that
I'm doing right so now I go start
tracking and now this it shows me what
it is that I'm supposed to be doing
right now and it's actually tracking
time for that job if I again click on it
and then over here I've got a little
edit button it's a pencil if I click
that it's going to give me this dialogue
which allows me to fill in a description
because when i'm working on a client job
for example in mainland i was gonna say
demonstrating i just was talking to some
time okay i will get to finishing that
word it could have been worse demon cat
alive because each job i'm going to be
doing different tasks i want to keep
track of what each portion of the task
is that I'm working on so here I am
demonstrating Dylan strut how to use
hamster okay and you see that it's
created a timeline here much like a
ruler and that this job is currently in
progress so I've saved that and now if I
single click up there again that's going
to show or hide and it shows me that I
am currently one minute in to this
particular task once i'm done i can stop
tracking this task so I'm done for now
or I've picked up the phone and I'm
switching modes to a different task I've
hit stop and now it's gone back to no
activity status so next up I'm going to
take my lunch
and I can add tags if I want and I've
started so now I am on lunch officially
alright so I'm out to lunch so I'm gonna
have a coffee did you like fries with
that i would i would i'm practicing for
my next job okay so let's pretend my
lunch was done because i had a sip there
we go it was under a minute it didn't
even it didn't even track we really need
to let it take more than a minute here
for the sake of the demonstration we're
not like the cell phone companies we
don't charge by the second sure no way
the cell phone companies oh yeah
bragging but can I tell you have stories
of FATA hear me we won't get sidetracked
on that but we might we're gonna try not
to the indignation will start filling
the airwaves okay so I finished those
two activities now if I single click
there I'm gonna go show overview now I
can see a breakdown of the time that
I've spent today so there's Tuesday I've
spent however much time now I didn't
spend quite a minute that was a rough
day yeah maybe you work tomorrow though
maybe I well short demo one there you go
so now the neat thing is is you can take
that you can look at totals okay which
right now because I'm I really only
clocked one minute it's not it's not
showing me anything but your totals are
going to show a breakdown and bar graphs
of everything that went on and then from
there if you're satisfied or you want to
generate a report you can actually save
the report in which case you can choose
an HTML report tab-separated values XML
even an ical file so with that I Cal
file you can subscribe your calendar
like we did last week with that with the
category 5 TV calendar you could set it
up in zimbra you could set it up in your
ical software your calendar you could
have it automatically update your google
calendar for example ernest ICS is a is
a wonderful thing for sharing your
calendar with other users as well in
read-only mode so so that will allow you
to show the time that you spent working
or doing any particular tasks
format so that program again is called
hamster it's available as a free
download on linux and it requires gnome
and that being of course because it's a
known panel application but as I said
you can also execute the application
through accessories you'll see a new
option they're called time trackers so
if you're not running gnome I'm sure
that would probably work with the gnome
libraries even though you may not be
able to integrate it directly into your
panel this is category 5 technology TV
and you'll find us online at triple w
category five dot TV nice to have you
here indeed yeah it is it's it's it
would be nice to say hello to two orphan
friend Christy here as it is your mic on
you can you can fire that up sure so we
can hear you all right how are you this
thing we're gonna give the weather
tonight we are yeah we're gonna all
right weather forecast hello now how
things been going XO interested to know
yeah of course I miss category five but
I'm learning how to live and and not be
on category five TV it's been a long
hard fight though this is like watching
an episode of stargate universe with the
camera ography either that or it's an
advertisement for dasani there's camera
graffiti thing like videography it's
something like that you'd have to be an
expert tell a difference huh you have to
be christy is so good to see it maybe we
can swap swap positions here they don't
know me no clue we're gonna I'm gonna go
Christy on the air and we're gonna do
some Mel right news I will I'm gonna
back up step out of the way grab another
coffee makes it sound so sad tune up to
get to her no just giving you a break
yeah there you go break time so um
yelling you off for a minute
this is category 5 TV nice to see you
hey hey looking good thank you like the
heron yeah thanks so here I mean is it
is a christie van noort is that New York
and then or door yes like north yeah
yeah Jack would go all about that yeah
yeah so that's what we're going by we're
gonna have to change all your footer
graphics name well no no for media
purposes and still Burton you're gonna
go by Burton yeah so what are you
tonight that way I can hide out yeah
yeah Kristi Burton yes lash van noort
yeah like North without the h mm-hmm hey
it's great to see it now you haven't
Christy showed up we kind of got got
here just as we were going live so how
if you feel like doing some news that's
it nice yes I know you've been dying to
tell everybody about the weather well I
have been actually these lots of snow
that's it lots of snot everywhere that's
your 4k you for canada west coast it's
no it's been done via an unbelieving
stored snow and snow 17 feet of snow in
victoria some TV seas 17 feet see now
that's newsworthy people were tunneling
out of their houses we actually saw i
think with cbc was showing people in an
apartment and a second-floor balcony was
where you had to be to get out because
the entire Wow first floor balcony was
covered with snow that's unreal where's
that that was in Victoria Wow well there
you can take it away it well at a news
yeah okay see how you do on the fly it
without any proof reading oh yeah dad
down Denton
I Microsoft has issued a warning about a
serious vulnerability in all versions of
its internet explorer browser if
exploited by a booby-trapped web page
the bug would allow attackers to take
control of an unprotected computer a
workaround for the bug has been produced
while microsoft works on a permanent fix
in the statement microsoft said it was
investigating the bug and in the
meantime it recommended those concerned
used a protection system known as the
enhanced mitigation experience toolkit
what is he doing which can be downloaded
by visiting cat5 TV met that's a.m. ET
and he has a snowball isn't this
wonderful illustration we have graphic
illustration of the weather this is this
is from outside and this is what we have
here in Barrie Ontario lots and lots and
lots of this yeah that's right if it
weren't for the cameras and honestly I
don't throw it out it's just covered in
one he knows he knows needed a mun trust
i have five bucks i have five bucks says
you more if you up it a little bit
alright so what so that's the
vulnerability on internet explorer
amazon announced yesterday that the
third generation kindle is now the best
selling product in amazon's history
beating a previous best seller harry
potter and the deathly hallows on
christmas day more people turned on new
kindles for the first time downloaded
more kindle apps and purchase more
kindle books than any day in history the
most purchased and most gifted kindle
book on christmas day was stieg
larsson's the girl with the dragon
tattoo which is still on sale for five
US dollars Jeff Bezos diesels somebody
might know how to pronounce that founder
and CEO of amazon i guess i should know
that commented we're seeing that many of
the people who are buying Kindles also
own an LCD tablet customers report using
their
2d tablets for games movies and web
browsing and their kindles for reading
sessions they report preferring kindle
for reading because it weighs less
eliminates battery anxiety with its
month-long battery life and has the
advanced paper like pearl e ink display
that reduces eyestrain doesn't interfere
with sleep patterns at bedtime and works
outside in direct sunlight an important
consideration especially for vacation
reading Kindles 139 dollar price point
is a key factor it's low enough that
people don't have to choose the 139 u.s.
dollar price is for the briefie had to
Sam um Wi-Fi only Kindle a version with
Wi-Fi and 3G costs 189 dollars Samsung
is planning to debut a portable media
player to rival apple's ipod touch next
month at CES the galaxy player will be
just under 10 millimeters thick and
powered by android 2.2 froyo according
to the samsung hub blog reports the
device will have an 800 x 400 4 inch LCD
a 1 gigahertz hummingbird processor and
Wi-Fi connectivity it will reportedly be
available in 8 gigs 16 gigs and 32 gig
storage capacities and come with a front
facing camera for video conferencing as
well as a 3.2 megapixel rear facing
camera much in the way the ipod touch is
essentially an iphone without the phone
features the samsung galaxy player will
be based on their successful galaxy 5s
smartphone minus the phone features the
oldest color camera film ever made will
fade into the history books on december
30th as the last laboratory in the world
that processes the film runs out of the
chemicals to develop it the film has
been used to capture many of the most
iconic color images of the 20th century
when Abraham Zapruder filmed the Kennedy
assassination he used kodachrome
kodachrome was the first commercially
successful color film and has been in
production for 74 years kodak announced
last year would not be producing any
more as they consider it to be
longer viable Dwayne's photo in Parsons
Kansas the last laboratory still
processes seven hundred rolls every day
but will grind to a halt abruptly this
week the real difference between
kodachrome and all the other color films
is that the dyes that make up the image
you see in the film in kodachrome don't
get incorporated into the film until
it's actually developed said grants tiny
who runs the lab kodachrome was
appreciated by professionals for its
vibrant colors and accuracy as well as
its storage longevity the final roll of
kodachrome manufactured was used by
photographer Steve McMurray of Nash
Steve McCurry sorry of National
Geographic Fame and processed in July
the film was so popular that singer paul
simon even wrote a song about it you
want me to sing that now would you want
me to keep doing the news here coated
the new category 5 you actually we
website will grace the internet on
January first at 1101 am the launch
being called 11 01 01 11 01 plays
hommage to the beloved binary code as we
endeavor to launch a sophisticated
social media platform taking category 5
TV out of cluttered website status and
into the future with powerful Ajax based
content and a brand new interface some
notable improvements you'll notice right
away are things such as a much more
integrated video experience and improved
overall design and the ability for
viewers to submit video testimonials not
to mention will be giving our viewers
many new ways to win free stuff if
you're already registered insider your
account will automatically be moved over
to the new site if you're new here make
sure you register on January first for
your chance to gain some bonus category
5 viewer points the new category 5 TV
will lunch at 1101 this Saturday morning
don't miss it get the full stories a
category-five TV news room the category
5 TV news room is researched by roy w
nash with contributions from gadget
wisdom guru becca ferguson and are
coming
viewers if you have a new story you
think is worthy of honor mention email
newsroom at category five dot TV for the
category got five newsroom I'm Kristi
Burton bednarik Burton accept that you
said category category dot five mmm
that's that's that's ok people know who
we are that was good well at least I
didn't even say they call it is at the
last station i work for that was tough a
it was really tough ever yeah it's my
home phone by my radio station calling
yeah what's so good to see you thanks
for thanks for coming on and yeah yeah
it was it actually this is category five
technology TV and we're online triple w
category five dot TV nice to see you
used to see I glad to see you here comes
Eric welcome back grab your coffee I got
snowballs I didn't get coffee he went
and got a snowball and no copy
unbelievable I went and got young
christy is snowball cos we were talking
about snow it still hasn't completely
melted thank you thank you all right
lots going on tonight what is happening
here frost we're just experiencing some
interference but oh we have good time
you know you could know it first I'll
sit on my head what do you think know
Christie's she's such an adult she's
taking it out to throw a he's acting
like such an addled she's taking the
snowball outside throw it at your car
okay all I I'd love to if we've got any
more questions if you if you have a
question for me in the chat room
category five TV I've got time for
probably one more question before we get
looking at virtual box four point oh
well we have uh oh here's another one
from run do guy you're on the gay
Ron hi Robbie thanks for your help
regarding my computer that was slow to
boot hey no problem you gave me lots of
very good information on how to solve my
problem in the end it he changed out the
hard drive and I'm up and running faster
than before thanks again so I ended up
being a hard drive failure or something
along those lines you know I think
sometimes you'll find that with a hard
drive it'll get a little slow or
anything yeah what is it what is it and
then suddenly you have imminent failure
yeah well you know what can happen is
that if for example if you've got a
whole bunch of bad sectors and there and
those sectors have to be moved to a safe
location right if there aren't any more
sectors to move those bad sectors to AA
or to log those bad sectors then we can
run into some problems so but hey that's
fantastic yeah okay let's take a look at
VirtualBox let's do it it's a nice view
of air okay here hey worry buddy this is
the virtual Eric alright so virtualbox
org is the place you can pick up the
Oracle VirtualBox four-point-oh software
which we're still not used to saying
being that the software was developed by
sun microsystems however oracle is
adding their two cents worth to the
software and it's certainly a worthy
addition we're getting lots of new
features and I'm really starting to feel
pushed VirtualBox is working its way
towards the server market and that's an
exciting thing because vmware is always
a house VMware em where's held on to
that with ESX server and the cloud and
with you know all the software that
they've they've done having released
vmware server as a free application
several years ago but now VirtualBox i'm
finding you know with the addition of
things like I skazhi concentrator
support well who else needs that but a
server environment really we're talking
about
massive amounts of storage so it's
certainly not for their focuses is kind
of seeming to go towards the server
other notable features that are being
added to four-point-oh or that have been
added to four point oh of course the GUI
has been completely redesigned which is
fantastic they've got some new features
such as the automatic thumbnail that
refreshes itself and doesn't actually
take a lot of overhead so if you're for
example you're installing an application
in your virtual machine you can have
that virtual machine minimized and just
see a little thumbnail that allows you
to see if the if it's prompting you for
from further input because in carry out
and be doing something else you'll be
doing something else that's just one
example but it's kind of nice to have
that right now as well and you can
disable it if you are concerned about
the resources that it takes also the
ability to hide the virtual machine
pop-up menu you know that menu at the
bottom of virtual locks that typically
when you're in full screen and can get a
little bit annoying when you go to point
at the bottom and all of a sudden the
menu pops up you can actually disable
that in full screen and quick and quick
switch now so that's a really good
feature of the new virtual box that gets
my vote definitely they're doing things
a little bit differently with the new
extension pack in order to get USB to
point out support pxe booting from
network and remote desktop for the
virtual box and the things that is
coming through an extension pack which
we're going to be installing in just a
minute to show you how it works and of
course lots and lots of bug fixes but
the other thing that kind of seems to be
pointing them towards the server is that
you can throttle the CPU and the band
width of the guest operating system in a
server environment that's fantastic that
you can say okay the exchange server is
only allowed to take you know ten
percent of overall CPU usage for example
so being able to throttle that is is
something that seems to be pushing them
again towards the server market but that
said we've still got our support for 3d
hardware acceleration which is always
improving we're seeing lots of bug fixes
that are going to push things even
further along and for the desktop user
as well and certainly it's looking
looking really really good so a virtual
box of course you can if you're using a
boon to you can get it real easy and
install the latest version using perfect
boom to available as a free download
perfect
category five TV if you're on any other
operating system or distribution of
linux of course VirtualBox runs on
multiple platforms including Linux
Windows Mac OS 10 right solaris so you
can get it from virtualbox org by
clicking on downloads we're going to go
through with the VirtualBox
four-point-oh for linux host download
and i'm doing this on a boon to but i'm
not going to use perfect 12 because i
want you to see how this is actually
done and you'll see that there are
pre-compiled packages for various
different distributions right you can
download those if you want but of course
using package manager such as apt-get
for a debian package you'll be able to
get the updates with DKMS so as new
versions of virtualbox come in you don't
have to continue to you know they will
automatically update itself along with
your other system updates that said you
you may have found that virtual box
that's a really good built-in updating
system you turn on VirtualBox and it
says there's a new update click here to
get the update but the problem with that
is it's not done throughout gets so you
have to kind of do it yourself it's a
little bit different so we're going to
do it through apt-get so we need to find
out I've scroll down on the Linux page
here we need to find out which line we
want to use we're not going to copy this
whole thing because you'll see that each
one of these lines is in fact a
different apt source based on what
version of debian you're using so for
lenna for a boon to i'm going to be on
hardy and trepidation to juggalo by like
that well there it is Monty right so
there if you were on John T there's the
line that you want to add to your
sources.list file ok but how do we tell
what distribution we're on or what
version of the distribution we're on
we're going to jump into our terminal
and i'm going to type in cat / ET c / LS
release
I thought it was
what was it again do you know well I
don't know uh why am I blanking I
thought no cuz LS obviously is not in I
did it earlier from the top of my head
eliz be release that's what it was I
love linux history because when I got it
right earlier it remembered it okay so
typing cat / ET c / LSB dash release
you'll see that this trip code name is
lucid so I'm actually running lucid on
this computer 10 point 0 for the latest
LTS from ubuntu so knowing that I want
to grab this line here okay because this
is the apt line for lucid I'm going to
copy that and I'm going to go back to my
terminal sudo let's see G edit for my
gnome editor ET c apt sources li st it's
going to ask me for my password what I'm
doing there is pseudo become a super
user G edit bring up my text editor and
then the file is / ET c / app / sources
elle EST that file contains all of the
repositories that ubuntu or linux is
going to use in order to get updated
software through apt makes it absolutely
simple free to get your software this
will allow you to access it right
through synaptic package manager for
example i've created a new line and i've
pasted in what I've got there for lucid
and I'm going to save that and I can do
that because I'm pseudo for that command
if I forgot that sudo I wouldn't have
the authority to overwrite this file ok
so now I want to go sudo apt-get update
to load the new list because now I'm
ready to go once that's done and doesn't
take long
sudo this won't hurt did it no sudo
apt-get install this is the command to
install an application using apt-get
VirtualBox dash four point oh it's going
to prompt me and say you've got one
newly installed one to remove and you've
heard me say before any time that apt is
going to tell you that it's going to
remove something make sure it's not
going to be something that's breaking
your system so observe what it is that
it's actually going to be removing and
you see up here the following package
will be removed virtualbox 3.2 because i
already have the older version of
virtual box installed is telling me to
take the old one out and put the new one
in so I'm going to approve that because
that's exactly the what I want to do say
yes and let that go so with apt gap this
whole system with using the Debian
package the repository and editing your
sources.list it's actually going to
download that software the latest
version that's currently available in
that repository and it's going to update
my computer to the latest version of
virtual box we're going to be good to go
it's at thirteen percent says we've got
two minutes to go this is category 5
technology TV we are updating VirtualBox
3.22 version 4.0 tonight and now we're
going to get to see some of the latest
features alright this is probably a good
time to just point out the canada beat
the czech republic in the air and junior
hockey tournament today 3727 that oh I
just thought we had a little good for
you later yeah yes indeed so that's 2
and 0 for Canada to took Russia
yesterday okay just you're not following
the hog you Robbie not I haven't been
following the hockey recently I just
been too busy oh my goodness no I I'm I
was part of the arrangement when when I
got married was okay
just don't ever they just don't start
you don't want to start the hockey
because then you know that you can't get
out of it it's like I'm fortunate
because she loves Star Trek cuz had I
gone into this marriage and her not love
Star Trek I would have been in big
trouble but if I got into hockey now
there's no way I'm taking taking her to
Noah see hockey yeah hmm I gotta watch I
can't imagine John man dog is asking me
in the chat room have I ever heard of
synergy well that's kind of like when
you and I together yeah exactly that's
what we have handoff synergy is a great
application to allow you to use your
mouse between multiple computers and
that's actually what i use here so my
laptop here is controlled by the same
mouse and keyboard as our broadcast
system and that is using synergy plus
that's a fantastic application which
spans all platforms so if you have a Mac
a linux computer and a windows computer
here my broadcast system is windows my
laptop is linux and i'm sharing the
mouse and keyboard between those two
computers with two monitors it's very
very good
hey amudha says not all Canadians or
puck chasers nope not all blowing a
skate as slowly as I oh this is uh this
is getting there we're almost there look
at this it's already stopped virtualbox
kernel modules getting ready to remove
VirtualBox and moving through its
unpacking my new newly downloaded
VirtualBox four point oh and if we're
fortunate now we've only got three
minutes left to the show but I think
we're still I think this is going to
happen in time that we can actually
bring this up on our screen here we go
here you go uninstalling the old DKMS
modules and installing the new ones
that's a good thing in case you were
wondering dkms is the tool that allows
it to keep itself up to date and
recompile the kernel modules which is
necessary for virtualization
automatically we may run out of time
there and if we do we'll we'll take a
look at our extended the the new or what
are the new extensions pack at a later
date but what I'll show you back at
their website as that's finishing its
install I'm going to go back to the
downloads page and for all platforms you
see VirtualBox four-point-oh Oracle VM
VirtualBox extension pack you can just
click there and save that file okay very
very quick file to download all right
that is going to be necessary in order
for you to have additional features like
your USB 2.0 or support now that said
I'm telling you to click on it but we do
need to observe the licensing that
surrounds that that is licensed for
personal and evaluation use so if you're
going to be using that in lynn in a
business environment than it is for
evaluation use only and if you want to
take it further than the evaluation you
will have to purchase a license from
oracle that's just that one final that
extensions pack so that's fully done
installing and so you can see even
though we're pressed for time here with
only a couple minutes left of the show
it's so fast to set up that we could do
it even with that little amount of time
so you see I brought up VirtualBox and
it's now the latest version of virtual
box you'll notice immediately that there
are it's added new features to your your
system including we've got like I said
we've got the new support for different
controllers and things now I need that
extension pack to get the I scuzzy
concentrator to install our extensions
pack we're going to go into preferences
and do this real quickly go into
extensions okay we're going to add the
extension pack it warns you about what
it is you're about to do read that
there's our license agreement okay do be
mindful of that especially if you're
going to be using this for commercial
use it's for evaluation only and that
quickly we're up and running with
virtualbox full version so it's just a
little bit different the way that
they're doing it now with the fact that
USB 2.0 port and everything has to be
done through the extension pack so we'll
be taking a look further at that over
the next couple of weeks but in the
meantime it's been really great having
you here you can email us a live at
category 5 TV and do remember that we
are launching our new website at 1101 on
january first 2011 so make sure you
complete with a bio from the Shrek I
said you decide you right category five
dot TV is the place to be make sure you
check it out january first have a great
week see everybody and happy new year
happy new year bye bye
you
