for those who prefer Linux or are simply
curious about linux and other open
source technologies this is category 5
technology TV broadcasting from Barrie
Ontario Canada get ready for a unique
and interactive viewing experience have
a question call 2545 cat5 TV or email
live at category 5 TV and now here's
your host Ravi Ferguson what would never
sewed number 261 of category 5
technology TV it's Tuesday September the
18th 18 12 hey Kristin Robbie are you
doing oh I'm good inside yeah you had
enough of me this week I've seen you do
often we've been busy you don't give me
a chance to forget what you look like
this is like not the problem the end I
can't delete it from my mind all the
shiny glare hmm nightmares that the
vignette kind of helps with the glare
doesn't know it doesn't bet he actually
it's a little more help good that's very
good that's why they put it there folks
that's the magic of TV now we've been
busy because this is literally the last
regular episode of category five season
five next week is our I know already
it's exciting so very much looking kinda
good be party hats that's a good idea oh
so there weren't there weren't but
Krista always comes up with the greatest
ideas those little annoying things that
you blown agobooks I got a marathon left
over from eric's birthday oh that might
be kind of cool well suffice that's good
yeah if this is your first time watching
category 5 technology TV welcome and
nice to have you here if your local if
you're from Barry or the area we hope to
see you next week tuesday night we're
going to be at this very time about
six-thirty we're going to be opening the
doors at bury Free Methodist Church on
Kendall's road east and we've basically
got access to the auditorium there nice
big gymnasium with stage and we're going
to be set up with krista myself Eric
will be there Hillary Sasha Abigail and
also Erica and and also carry web is
going to be joining us which is exciting
shoes here four seasons one and two so
Carrie web fans don't miss next week we
got lots and lots of prizes to give away
at our fifth anniversary party so that's
something that's so you best be there
you best be there yeah I'm really
excited about it though because it's
kind of a landmark for category 5
because 5 years is a pretty big deal for
any type of anniversary I do you want to
say company but you know we're a
volunteer organization is a volunteer
here at category 5 so it's a little bit
different how we structure things but to
have been on the air for five years
every single week for 261 weeks is is
pretty unheard of as far as you know any
kind of TV program usually you get about
20 20 to 30 episodes per season we're at
full 52 episodes sometimes 53 in the
course of five years nice to see our
chat room and yeah some familiar faces
there make sure you invite your friends
next week we've got prize it's not just
for the in studio audience but also for
those of you who are watching from home
if you're unable to be here physically
in person we regret that you can't be
here actually you know to shake our
hands and we have that meet and greet
time after the show that really looking
forward to meeting some of you but if
you can't be here for that aspect of the
show I'm gonna love having you just
joining us in the chat room joining us
as a viewer from wherever you're
watching as well anywhere in the world
cool absolutely very know I know let you
kind of tell us what's coming up in the
news tonight I think I mentioned is a
viewer question extravaganza that's when
we go through your viewer questions
we're going to kind of wrap things up on
you know go back to our grassroots here
at category 5 what is this show it's
really about that interactive nature of
the show being able to ask your
questions and and hopefully we give you
good answers as well so so we're going
to be taking your viewer questions
tonight also I've got the cat phone is
is opened up for if you want to give us
a call tonight feel free to give us a
call just to tell us what you think of
the show it's your chance to say hello
as we kind of wrap up season 5 mm-hmm
well cool would you like to hear the
last of season 4 News teaser that's what
i meant lat season 5 no no this is the
last season 5 this is anniversary rings
in seasons see it's it's confusing right
fusing to be even season one happens
lasted seven five season one happens
before the first anniversary by the time
versuri happens we've already been on
the air for one year so that means
season two is beginning so now we're
actually ending season five with our
fifth anniversary which is where it gets
confusing and then season six begins I
get it done thanks for tonight yeah I
know hoping that if I was confused maybe
other people were confused too so I'm
not all mathematically a kiss baby yeah
and if not then you know no one said I
was smart I'm just here Oh but for the
news let's have a lose oh look at what's
coming up in the newsroom folder mm-hmm
so if you as patents are a sign of
things to come Microsoft is working on
immersive virtual-reality one sounds
impressive ebook sales in the UK our way
up nice apple shares have reached nearly
seven hundred dollars per share I new
laser injection system could replace
needles with Star Trek like injections
okay that sounds awesome anything that
starts off like you think it is just
peachy keen just amazing yeah what else
can we do this Star Trek like um
let it be in the past let it flutter
away forget about it forget about it is
that Star Trek forget about it I don't
know I've never seen Star Trek captain
but I forget about not join a quote I'm
telling you know that's in the past that
was the wrong show Krista also coming up
in the newsroom we got more I do are you
serious yes well you know just kind of
like what a news do think you can talk
when I heard Star Trek not like it's
your show this is my thing I gotta put
the camera on both of us you know mm-hmm
I heard tappable we're not done here
okay no just you wait folks although on
today's to-do list su facebook when use
the money to fund a fund a competing
social network good idea stick around
these stories are coming up later in the
show good work for somebody well who
wouldn't want to yeah yeah absolutely
well also I feel obligated to like
mention not obligated but that i should
mention right now i always forget to do
this what but i should mention at that
category 5 TV it is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
and the international association of
internet broadcasters have you ever
forgotten to do that I think a couple
times oh no yeah and I just watching I
just like phase over and I'm like oh
it's too late oh well you know it can
happen you know to even the best of you
I guess I'm the best views then and also
I'll cover that we got this fancy little
snail mail post war here snail mail nice
yes oh that's how look it is from Robert
unit ick hey Robert says I was getting
very slow responses from your server so
I'm writing you a postcard Oh a little
ironic there's an idea like your server
is so I will put this in the mail post
it that'll get there quicker like it's
funny yeah mm-hmm oh and then he's dated
it okay so what's a eight is August
August 27th 2012 okay so that's actually
weeks to get here Pacific
time daylight time I guess it's my
server still acting up I would like to
be a member when you when you do live
video interview what service do you use
and how do you connect it to telestream
nice i like how that went from your web
host stinks too i would like to join I'd
like to be a part of your wonderful
community of you it must not be that bad
here's a question I'd like you to answer
for me that's very sweet to send a
postcard we don't get enough postcards
we love getting we love getting those
cards let's take a look at what we have
here in Atlanta from the glorious hand
cam look at that a bonsai tree I ran it
even took three stamps to get here and
and here it is and there's our address
we'd love to receive a postcard from you
category five TV at postal box 29 009
Barrie Ontario Canada l4 n7w 7 at the
candid shot right there that's the up
your candid up the nose shot yeah hey
the cat phone is open to 545 cat5 TV if
you want to give us call tell us what
you thought about season 5 we'd love to
know where you're calling from and also
you know let us know how you've been
enjoying the show what you've really
enjoyed about the show mm-hmm and we'd
love to hear from you at any point
throughout the course of the show
tonight this is your show so welcome
nice to have you here also just to note
if you are using a mobile phone mhmmm
just head on over to mcat five dot TV
and get I understand I didn't know what
he's doing because I think are you doing
that to me they look the screen I was
like oh CGI confuses her I was going a
little strange in his older age older
age thanks for that had a birthday this
year didn't you I did have a birthday
this year I wasn't it wasn't a milestone
birthday though it was a birthday it was
a birthday have some of those two yep
yep all right folks so get your
questions in live at category 5 TV or in
the chat room christos watching the chat
room I've got the chat room up in a
couple of screens here in front of me
and and we'd love to hear from you and
don't forget about the cat phone open
tonight to 545
cat5 TV if you would like to give us a
call we'll be right back after this
quick break at eco alkalines we believe
you should be able to trust your
batteries not just here but here here
and here but with one exception you
should also be able to trust your
batteries here Eco alkalines of the
world's first and only certified carbon
neutral battery manufactured to the
highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco outlines provide performance
the rivals leading national alkaline
battery brands at a comparable price
find out more about the Eco alkalines
difference eco alkalines calm are you in
or near Barrie Ontario or feel like
making the journey meet the on-air crew
of category 5 technology TV in person on
Tuesday September 25th as we celebrate
five years of bringing you free
technology TV the live show will be held
at bury Free Methodist Church on condos
road east and bury an admission is
absolutely free there will be prizes
during the show for those who attend as
well as a meet and greet following the
live broadcast doors open at six thirty
p.m. and we hope to see you there don't
miss this time of celebration with the
on-air crew from category 5 technology
TV both past and present Tuesday
September 25th at 630pm for more details
visit category 5 TV this is category 5
technology TV and our website is triple
w category 5 TV you'll find all of our
info info down there at the bottom
category 5 TV on on twitter we'd love to
have you follow us especially if you're
new to the show it's a great way to find
out kind of what's going on in the world
of category 5 technology TV we're going
to be seeing some really cool stuff
happening over the next little while as
we start up season six one of the things
that we're really really working toward
is being able to do more on location
broadcasts really looking forward to
getting some some companies involved in
hosting the show you know where we can
sit down and have a live in studio
audience and next week is going to be
one of those fantastic shows at the
anniversary show Krista we've got some
spectacular prizes to give away we've
got a couple of zion's units so that's
that HD device that we can hook up to
your TV
and it's hdmi out 1080p cool gives you
Netflix gives you basically an android
screen up on your TV so you've got
access to internet you can surf the web
plug-in a USB keyboard or wireless
keyboard if you want just sit on the
couch very cool or put your like you
know 32 inch LED TV right in front on
your desk and run it off of the the
syosset that with a simple keyboard and
mouse might be a little bit of fun we've
got those to give away we've got a year
worth of phone service your long
distance for Canada in the US we're
gonna be giving away a couple of
magicjack plus devices those are the
really good the new gen magicjack device
is everybody sort of magic jack but the
next gen is the magic jack plus which
doesn't require a computer oh so you can
actually wire it in you've wired into
your home phone system as far as you
know being able to plug a phone into the
phone jack that's something we're going
to be looking at in season 6 and it's
basically it's phone service through
your internet connection and you can
call anywhere in Canada or the US
absolutely free and we're going to be
giving those away you've got a gift
basket from Ellie I electronics inc
worth over 130 dollars lots of great
prizes in that basket and basically were
setting it up for you so that everybody
who attends the event next week is going
to walk away with something fantastic
yeah something tangible and and then
we've got those great kind of door
prizes as well so it's a free event as
the commercial set there but we're
really looking forward to having you
there if you're if you're planning to go
please invite you know all your friends
family staff members customers
absolutely everybody we want to pack out
that auditorium and like I say we've got
some great prizes gonna be an awesome
event and it's absolutely free to come
join us so cool wonderful yeah well what
do you think question what do I think
that's a big question watch out that's
it there goes ok ok on a limited view
point would you like to uh you know yeah
sure here's some question yes ok yes
that's all I want to know alright
alright well starting off there was a
question last week from Dave hey Dave
and just to reorder reiterate it so
everyone knows what we're looking at he
said I'm looking for a simple HTML know
PHP or database just HTML website right
for my consulting business probably no
more than five pages can you recommend a
good site to find some website templates
that I can edit to suit my knees I
remember that question I think it was a
couple weeks ago and I didn't really
have the really great answer but I knew
the garvey wouldn't because garvey is
really into you know he knows a lot
about those kinds of sites being able to
download that kind of stuff so but he
wasn't in the chat room that night so
you tell so he did actually send in an
email here Thanks garvey and he says
that should scroll down in response to
someone was asking for plain HTML sites
he says for the first one here you can
check out themeforest at triple WM force
net themeforest dotnet okay and just a
note that i will put links in the show
notes for episode number 261 so
everything the Christmas I'll be there
actually include that in the links so
you can go to category 5 TV go to the
episodes and 261 is the native the
number here good was it theme
themeforest dotnet dot net he says here
it's from the people at avant OU where
people can post their templates for sale
all right for once for content
management systems to plain HTML or even
the PSD yeah wordpress site templates
marketing content management systems
joomla drupal other e-commerce solution
a little bit of everything it yeah what
a great resource so that's themeforest
dotnet i like the idea that it's all
different designers to kind of reminds
me of the like istock idea where right a
lot of different photographers putting
up there you can submit it to their own
ya light boxer or a kind of area so i
could buy ten folders off of i stalking
its it's from given the photographer
yeah yeah very cool thanks Garvey ah the
second one here you may also want to
look at something like Twitter's
bootstrap at Twitter github
dot-com / bootstrap hmm it is a full
framework which makes building web pages
awesome yeah as you get more and more
advanced I think that becomes something
that would be you know a reasonable
thing to check out not sure if if Dave's
looking really for that kind of thing
but good suggestion nonetheless
definitely says I hope when these
resources will help you out and PS
please consider at least a little of
some kind of server-side language to
handle the layout itself so you only
need to worry about each pages content
Robbie's web development series is all
you would need to make a site super easy
to maintain even using static files
right that's Robbie and Krista's web
development series so long ago cat five
dot TV / web dev that's when Krista
actually started with us what are your
thoughts on that one of the things that
I had mentioned today to David masters
when he sent in that question was
basically not to be afraid of using
server-side languages because really
these days it's even if your site is
fairly static as far as appearance goes
it's nice to have the ability to do some
dynamic things in the back end yeah no I
agree and even just um sometimes just
the simple things like just PHP includes
a stuff oh yeah things that will make it
so much easier where if you use I've
having to change it on 50 pages or
however many you just change in one spot
and rosanna Klee and it's it's so simple
it's just yeah so no need to be scared
of that kind of stuff yeah and even
that's a great example PHP includes
David if you go back to our web
development series cat5 TV / web dev a
great opportunity for you learn about
some of those introductory PHP server
side things and I believe you actually
licensed under Creative Commons the
design that was done for that so so you
can actually download Krista's design
throwing your own graphics and make it
work for you that's a great idea so
garbey thank you also for making that
mention as well nice nice to
cross-promote some some older
productions here at category 5 too so
that's the thing after 261 episodes you
tend to if something's come a little bit
boy they cover their technology or
yeah where I yeah it's been so long ago
abeta yeah I kind of forgot I mean it's
there it's great but that's great thanks
to oh here is another question from Lee
bullis Hayley I have an old laptop that
has a bad hard drive I cannot seem to
find the oe/oe em hard drive no can I
run mac pop on a flash drive as long as
a long-term solution Mac pop yeah cool
um it's like a puppy linux kind of
branch off or fork that kind of looks a
little bit like mac OS so you love it
but it's it's super fast and it's very
very lightweight and it runs all in like
entirely in memory so on an old computer
because it's not really utilizing your
hard drive for swapping back and forth
and stuff in it runs really really fast
even on an old system I'd like to know
though even when you say that you can't
find an oem hard drive that's oam means
original equipment manufacturer or in
this context it means that that he's
gone into the store looked on the shelf
and can't find a hard drive to replace
the one that's defective right and so
I'd love to know why you're having
trouble sourcing that if you can't find
it in a retail outlet then I would say
get on to just you know any website I'm
sure there's some suggestions in that in
the chat room but tons of different OEM
hard hard drive reads and retailers
online even going to something like
Amazon as as a you know an option
anyways that's there so what you'd want
to know though is if it's ide which is
the old kind with all the pins or if
it's SATA which is the kind of newer
standard that has just a couple of
little in a little I don't even know
what you call them interfacing things
see the block in technic gather info
yeah no pins oh but you know that's what
you need to know is what kind of drive
it is ide or SATA and then just order a
drive that's compatible with your
computer but wondering why you can't
find one because you should be able to
find a hard drive very very easily these
days ide though if it's really really
old might be hard to find
I probably have some old ide hard drives
I cannot just you know splitting yeah
yeah I mean they're just kicking around
because you don't really do anything
with the money to anymore and they're so
small as far as capacity goes so but
yeah as far as Mac pop I would give that
a go on a flash drive the only thing
that I would be wary of with that old
laptop I think it was a laptop yeah hmm
so I would just be very careful and I
just worry about having that USB flash
drive just kind of sticking out of the
back of the laptop or the side of the
laptop right because if that's going to
be your operating system and that thing
sticking out this far and knock sorry
knocks it or you break it off then you
know there's so much for data recovery
on something like that but also you know
keep a backup all the time right that's
inevitable but as a net terminal you
know making it something that you just
access cloud-based stuff like using
Gmail for your email for example or some
other webmail service I use yeah i use
google for the calendaring system and
everything that's pretty handy and it's
free so works pretty well don't expect
privacy but it's it's there and it is
accessible and it would run really
really fast but my worry is that USB
sticking out of the side I'd look for a
USB Drive just a cheap one that's really
really tiny you can get them that are
you know about this big now you know so
get one of those and make sure it's
enough capacity but use that and then
that way you don't have to worry about
it sticking out too far from your laptop
and getting broken off good suggestions
thank you very much for your question Oh
another question from rev do Jake hey
Reb D Jake that's right yeah ah this may
not be the best honorary question ooh
maybe I should have filtered it horrible
but having just reviewed show number 260
and watched the h+ last week web show
interview something came to mind what if
once every three months for example you
invite someone from the chat room to
help host the show ah since most viewers
are elsewhere than Barrie Ontario the
co-host could participate through a
monitored presence you could give your
cohort host a vacation day especially
for Eric Kidd as he came in once on such
short notice I don't think that the
co-hosts need a vacation I want in what
do you I think we're overworked yeah
underpaid that check is still lost in
the meal somewhere oh you didn't get
that huh the question there from Reb D
Genk reminded me of there was another
question on the postcard about how we do
interviews because Reb DJ mentioning
that well can't you get somebody to
skype in over the chatroom and host that
way and that reminded me there of your
postcard the question was how do we do
that because I guess you know they saw
it happen and of course it happened last
week with h plus when we had John on the
show when do you when you do video
interviews what service do you use and
how do you connect it to telestream that
was the question there and typically we
use skype video it works very very well
and it supports HD output from what's
called desktop presenter and that allows
us to stream the screen of the skype
computer over to wire cast directly
audio goes out from the audio output
into our mixing console reason we do
that is because then it goes through the
compressors so if somebody is very very
loud on the skype end of things or if
something happens that it's really
really loud it's not going to clip
because it goes through the same
compressors that are microphones do so
it keeps everything level so that's how
we do it as far as getting people to do
it from the chat room Reb D Jenk
we're definitely working on creating a
much more you know we're always about
the interactivity of the show and that's
something that really excites me about
category 5 TV because it's it's so much
different than television because when
you sit down I mean here you are you're
asking us a question right here on the
show so you can't do that sitting in
front of a television set with you know
your channel changer it just doesn't
work that way so so we love that
interaction and that's one of the things
we're really working on improving one of
the things we're working on revenue jank
is something that I'm really excited
about really stoked about when you ask
for help with your computer we want to
be able to actually remote into your
computer and bring it up on the show and
be able to demonstrate visually your
screen and how we're able to fix things
for you that's one of the things we're
working on in season six you'll even
notice if you go to cap 5 TV / ask
there's a little checkbox that says you
like Robbie to remote into your computer
to help with the problem so that's
something that we're developing over
season 6 and really excited about as far
as Skype interviews go and like you say
about giving the the co-host vacations
the way that we've been able to
establish that and you can you can you
you would have a better understanding of
whether or not this has been working but
you remember back I mean even when you
started you were basically here every
single week yes and that's a huge
commitment as a volunteer I mean it's a
lot of fun to do the show I got to admit
and I think all the the co-hosts would
agree even if they call me names all
this cancer but it's a lot of fun so
it's cool but but it can be a pretty big
commitment when you got to be here every
week so so what we did is we started
bringing in more co-host so that we can
have can rotate it's like yeah that's a
rotation so so Krista's here you know
once or twice a month kind of thing and
and and so is everybody else so and now
coming up on season six we actually have
a couple of people who are joining us
Sasha and Abigail and and so Sasha will
be here once a month and Abigail will be
here once every two months and so that
will that will actually give people a
little bit of time off as well but in
such a way that where everybody's still
very involved in the show it's not that
but but so there is already something in
place to make things a little easier on
people like Krista so there's no
stressful I know it's so tough
you get here you know before the show
and I'm just yelling out orders and all
the things that we need to cover tonight
I know sometimes there isn't fresh water
here for me really did I do that too you
know I'm sorry no I don't think he does
I squeezed I was trying to think of
something wrong filtered oh I had to
think of something great for my laundry
it's fresh yeah so getting people on
from from the chat room we'd love to I
mean if you if you have a topic and you
want to talk to us on the show and you
want to present that to us and then let
us know I don't think we would ever
replace a co-host with somebody in the
chat room that's not how category five
works we are very much presenting to you
from our studio here in burien and we
welcome you as guests on the show but I
think there's a really cool dynamic when
we've got a couple people here actually
doing the show and presenting from here
it keeps things easier that makes Robbie
look like he has friends it does it
helps a lot with that my self-esteem you
know no I think for me what it does is
it revenue jank is is to have somebody
else like Krista here helps me to keep
tabs on the chat room because it's hard
for me to keep up with everything on my
own and even somebody over Skype
wouldn't be able to provide the same
kind of interaction with the chat room
and and everything else that the crista
and the other team of the team members
provide to you and to me so there you
have it I hope that that clears things
up yeah Dennis Kelly definitely my man
our community is basically our friends I
mean we've been a lot of you have been
here for a long time John I know was
here for our second anniversary you know
and and lots of you were and you know
that's going back now we're coming up on
five years shot can you believe that
it's been that long so how exciting is
that a
yeah it's a long time that's longer than
a lot of sitcoms a lot of sitcoms who do
it 20 episodes a year and we're doing 52
so yeah it's pretty cool pretty exciting
I'm gonna get you two we're gonna jump
back into your questions but we're going
to just touch on the news tonight sound
like you've got a lot of really
interesting tasks talk about fantastic
things she says folks so so stick around
and and check out what what Krista has
for us tonight all right great takeaway
mm-hmm here are the cops right in the
category 5 TV news room details of an
immersive video games display system
that projects images of the titles
environment around a player's room have
been revealed in the US patent belonging
to Microsoft the Xbox maker describes
extending graphics beyond edges of a TV
to make the experience more realistic a
spokesperson said he could not comment
about what a product might be released
hmm that sounds pretty cool and judging
by the patent diagram I mean if you are
a ninja like this guy we're all ninjas
are you got it man I'm a ninja you can't
see me can you ha certain okay I'll give
you that one there you go see how fast I
am I move like a ninja and continue
enough she's like as he is he done I
don't I my mom told me if you can't say
anything nice don't say anything at all
that's worth a huge increase in the
value of digital book sales in the UK
has been announced by trades trades
organization the Publishers Association
the value of digital fiction sales in
the first half of 2012 was up up a
hundred and eighty-eight percent on the
same period in 2011 Wow physical book
sales saw a drop in value dip in point
four percent year to year industry
experts said that while the figures were
healthy other areas of the industries
such as bookshops continued to struggle
financially sales of digital children's
books were up 171 percent while
nonfiction titles increased by a hundred
and twenty-eight percent
wow it's a it's neat to see how
technology is kind of changing the way
we do things mm-hmm but we're still
reading so that's good yeah I can't do
it though I I'm definitely one of those
I've got to have a book in my hands I
know I like the tangible book I like the
feel of it but I know it's a silly kind
of thing but then people have agreed
with me but the smell of a book maybe
it's yeah I mean I buy a lot of books
from used bookstore so you really get
that old kind of balance the garden
whiskey smell on the burger and whiskey
yeah i like when you can look at it /
humidor and you can see like oh I'm
halfway through or you know like you can
see where you where am I in this kindle
exactly no idea yeah but not any it's
cool but yeah I'm kind of a plus I like
to have them displayed on my shelf so I
automatically look smarter when people
come over you just have a kindle no no
my bed bugs did you imagine I think they
like you think about cds and music and
how that is kind of evolved into yeah
mp3s or iPods for those of you who use
Apple products but wouldn't you say that
it's kind of a similar thing where you
know we wanted to be able to flip cds
and I yeah onto that we won't be able to
look at like the I had the sleeves I
mean I took them to concerts and have
the band sign them everything so that
were important to me and then when all
of a sudden that's not so now they just
item they just sign your iPod or you're
here whatever know and then you know
like what do you do it just here's my
tablet can you use your finger to my
science sign on my note app you know
there you go but that's kind of the same
sort of thing but I think the neat thing
about them is that you can put you know
hundreds thousands of books in a device
mm-hmm for traveling is kind of reeling
that's you but then when I'm traveling I
don't I don't tend to read so
well then yeah apple shares closed at a
record high dove open of almost seven
hundred dollars oh you want the firm
race you two million pre-orders for its
newly unveiled iphone 50 most will be
delivered to stores later this week but
due to high demand surprise spies some
customers will not receive their new
handsets until October ouch I was in the
Roger store and there was somebody in
line in front of me waited in line to
put their name on a list no oh said I'm
here to to buy and I iphone 5 like
inside on the news and thought that they
were ready and you could pick on the
driver yeah really quick on the drunk
not so much yeah it didn't it wasn't
possible isn't that crazy though 700
bucks a share when you consider mm-hmm
what 11 years ago fourteen fifteen
dollars a share mm-hmm and there were
people who bought up thousands of
dollars of shares lucky lucky you woohoo
I just on our way buy apples from the
supermarket and then I do that you know
eat them that's my investment oh boy but
700 bucks a share that's huge man so it
makes me kind of look at things like
research in motion and wonder our people
thinking that that's going to happen
again but could anyone ever roll a Steve
Jobs again maybe once I don't know you
know maybe after several more years but
I don't know don't know the research in
motion is the one to do it but would you
go out and buy a bunch of shares while
they're dope but down that's exactly
what happened 11 years ago to them maybe
hmm thinking yeah a laser device for
less painful injections has been
developed by South Korean scientists the
system could replace traditional needles
with a job as painless as being hit with
a puff of air the laser is already used
in aesthetic I knew that was coming
using aesthetic skin treatments the name
now is to make low-cost injectors
injectors for clinical use it's not
necessary no I look at the image Star
Trek yeah that's I am actually pro this
have you ever been to the dentist and
they have that big shiny needle and all
you see is like I think you do so do you
do and you're like oh this is gonna hurt
just how you see it that kind of makes
sense though I mean think about clinics
and stuff and and the sanitation and the
waist mm-hmm the sanitation requires a
lot of waste when I get you know
hospitals and stuff that are injecting
needles and syringes and everything else
how do they do it like oh it's a laser
like a lady that that puts a little
pinprick of a hole that's so small you
can't even feel it and then somehow I
don't know if you use this pressure to
send it in it's almost sounds like a bad
idea though doesn't it if someone could
do threw a laser it's hard they could be
like sitting across the street with some
kind of like like bacteria or something
in it just like Oh Chris you know I just
say you know when she gets stealthy like
like with that kind of stuff and it just
gets a little bit scary what was that
wind I'm just saying something to think
about always sat on the worst-case not
all sunshine and lollipops people hey
there's some bad people out there and
lastly lastly but not leastly is that a
word loosely you made it up so it is now
a word oh tyler and cameron winklevoss
famed for their legal dispute with
Facebook are reported to have invested 1
million in a new social network the
twins sued facebook founder and owner
Mark Zuckerberg alleging the billionaire
had stolen their idea the wall street
journal reported the Twins had now
backed some 0 a site aimed the fine a
site aimed the financial community it is
the first investment made by wig levis
capital a firm set up using money from
their sick
85 million dollar settlement Wow get the
full stories at category 5 TV / newsroom
in category 5 TV news room is researched
by Roy w Nash with contributions by our
community of viewers if you have a new
store you think is worthy of honor
mentioned email us at news room at
category 5 TV from the category 5 TV
news room I'm crystal wells thanks
Krista and thanks also to Roy Roy wh a
lot of people don't realize how involved
Roy is in the newsroom faithfully
sending us new stories every single week
all throughout season 5 and that's just
a really big helper for for us here at
the show and we appreciate everything
that you do rice so thanks for being a
part of the show and also i want to
thank our sponsors quarter e electric
there are official electric company a
category 5 TV and you find out more
about them on your screen there but of
course also a quarter eee electric com
if you're listening to this in audio
form you can give them a phone call at
70 5326 2179 also would love for you to
get a free one month trial of netflix
you can do so by going to cap five dot
TV / netflix that little quick link is
going to automatically hook you up with
one month free trial it's about eight
bucks a month after the free trial has
expired and of course if you're for any
reason unhappy with the service while
you're in that trial you can cancel it
at any time but I don't think that you
won't be because it's fantastic it is
amazing mm-hmm we actually ended up
canceling all other television services
and just sticking with how we're
thinking about it yeah I hardly watched
like actual cable TV or like digital TV
anymore yeah hardly I love no
commercials brilliant I love that it's
readily available and one of the things
I really love about netflix unlike every
because i had a computer hooked up to
the TV and we would watch our shows that
way through websites and everything but
the problem is you always I always
forgot okay well what episode were we on
oh right right we fall a couple weeks
behind you know so you think you can
dance's up on Fox calm and we're trying
to follow along and we
were three shows behind us okay we'll
click on this one no that's not it and
you're standing at a computer and mouse
over my the TV and it's frustrating so
Netflix though on the remote shows your
programmers hmm where you are not only
by the episode like as far as progress
like if I had to stop at halfway through
an episode I can resume but also it will
remember what episode i'm on the box oh
yeah which is great for when we're
watching these old shows like sliders
because we're in you know about I don't
know if we're season four or whatever
and and so you know it remembers we're
on season 4 episode 9 so next time I
start it it automatically starts at that
episode no having to think a lot of it
now having to take notes we used to keep
a notepad looks to the TV it's great
love it yeah Andrew Jameson saying
netflix is great if you want old TV
shows but they're slow at getting some
new movies and shows actually not so bad
anymore yeah I think that's a little bit
of a steak stigma if you will about
about the service there are great old
shows but it learns from what you like
and then starts presenting with new
stuff and you can search and there is a
lot of good stuff in a lot of new
release movies and and lots and lots of
old release movies as well but all the
best and it's pretty much like the best
of walking into a movie store and that's
the best of that's Netflix in a lot of
ways other than all the vampire stuff I
said a lot of vampire stuff on there
that's kind of dumb there's a lot of
vampire stuff fun I'm time general yeah
yeah once you've seen one you've seen
them all I guess I don't know invincible
mutant does make a good point what about
Star Trek what about Star Trek don't
Star Trek what about it that's what we
need to petition netflix for Star Trek
oh I kind of liked it without it to be
on any better with ya would it hey would
anyone like to send in your questions
via the chat room we'd love to hear from
you we've got more viewer questions as
well and don't forget if you would like
to give us a call I know it's you know
if you don't want to call us you don't
have to but do give us call if you
wanted to let us know what you think of
the show how you've enjoyed season 5 of
a category 5 TV we we rarely open up the
phone lines and so I just thought I'd
give you that opportunity tonight if you
would like I know you've got some
questions I'm kind of well guru sent me
an android phone a couple of weeks ago
and I really fell in love with Android
and I've got this tablet now and so I've
got the the chat room up and this is the
tablet for me sir it's the iconia tab I
think it's called a 500 and it's just an
old tablet but the the neat thing I
think about tablets these days is that
they're starting to well time has gone
by we're no longer in the ipad one
generation rare that's all there is in
there 600 bucks in yeah everybody has
one now every company has women yeah
this is this is ice cream sandwich on
here and the fact is is that because
we're in a time where they've been out
for a while this is an older tablet
technically but it's got hdmi 720p
guaranteed output and I think there
there's a flash version that you can
affirm where I should say that you can
install to get 1080p and there's other
things like a USB port so I plug a USB
flash drive in there you don't get that
on an iPad and I can upload photos
directly from the USB so there's a
couple of neat things about it but
because we're at this time we're tablet
have been around for a little while is
200 bucks mm-hmm I was like that's
pretty good this is a fantastic paid
we're seeing that kind of thing happened
and I think with Android now being as
awesome as it is and we're going to be
looking at it more and more on the show
but without taking away from gurus show
I would encourage you to check out
android buffet calm and I'm going to be
doing the same wednesday nights ten
o'clock eastern time I believe it is no
but check out his is his site and yeah
I'm kind of loving it mm-hmm you have a
tablet I don't oh you don't know I would
like one mm-hmm but I don't have one
right but you know such as I'm waiting
for the new one so i can up Robbie you
don't need the new one though this is my
point is that now there's so much
available out there you just find one
that meets your needs and it will be
shinier but that I'm different because
i'm not i think the Apple mindset is
that you always want the biggest best
fastest highest resolution pictures
everything has got to be the best that's
that is the mindset of the Apple fan hmm
well it should be to be fair if I were
to get a tablet would be to showcase my
portfolio so high resolution is and a
good picture yeah I suppose there is a
kind of what I'd be going for us I mean
I'm not I'm not dissatisfied with the
screen and you can hook it up via HDMI
to the TV in the presentation room so
you don't get that on my iPad unless you
buy a separate adapter for 50 more bucks
okay and the device itself is five
hundred dollars more but we're just you
know if you're like me and you and
you're just like I just want something
that lets me you know got the chat room
up i'm able to watch the show i'm able
to get facebook and twitter and my email
and netflix even on the tablet which is
kind of cool then yeah there's a lot of
options out there now school yeah i
kinda I'm kind of liking it and the end
to see from this side how many screens
are going on it's kind of a kind of cool
impressive so there's the tablet there
yeah
good times yeah so what you got for me I
have more questions all right obviously
let's take some questions this is
category 5 technology TV and our website
is triple w category five dot TV just
another note again we've got about 15
minutes left of the show tonight if you
would like to give us a call to 545 cat5
TV if you have a question for us and you
want to call it in as opposed to in the
chat room or by email you can do that as
well Collin do it who's calling I don't
know how do you if you're watching
Collin Collin oh here's a question from
archaic reality hey Artie reality I am a
brand new viewer and a beginner linux
user I have always wondered what the
actual differences are between the
myriad of file managers and terminals so
would it be possible to do an in-depth
analysis as to the differences Thanks
well I don't know i mean is it's really
it boils down to there's different
flavors of stuff right and and they're
made by different groups of people i use
nautilus and no might like it and that's
what i use and i kind of that's that's
cool but if you use que te then you use
them using something else so and you
know it's kind of the same as you know
in Windows you've got my computer or
explorer and Mac you've got finder and
you know it's just a different way of
interacting with your hard drive and the
way that you you get around your files
but what's neat about linux is you can
install multiple different pretty much
anything so if you want to try different
file managers go ahead and install
another one now that said if you install
a file manager this design for KDE you
might be then adding some KDE libraries
to your gnome desktop with that's okay
and and it should work but but do be
mindful that it will probably install
some extra stuff that perhaps comes with
that package or is a dependency to that
would we do a review of individual file
managers I think we could I think it's
probably
it's a bit of a you know I mean we could
look at even distributions that use
different file managers in this kind of
the same sort of thing we've looked at
some different distributions here but
never with a focus directly on the file
manager so but unfortunate i don't have
any you know really installed on here
that I could show you tonight I just use
nautilus and it works really really well
and what that is this is Nautilus right
so it's just how I access my file system
so if i go into terminal and actually
type nautilus there it is yeah it's just
like your my computer on windows if you
want so but yeah perhaps you viewers in
the chat room let us know what your
favorite file manager is and that we'll
we'll take a look at them on a future
show absolutely for our viewer that
those asking their archaic reality and
thanks for watching the show thanks for
checking out linux and category 5 TV and
hope you really enjoy both your Knight
Commander John is saying that's a little
different well how about another
question yeah please great great oh this
is from I gwg a guru the Guru hey buddy
dear Robbie and insert co-host name here
Krista that's me hmm as you are probably
reading this as a testimonial Oh or not
but we now it's a testimonial ladies and
gentlemen we have a long resume soon
another testimonial hear from the
captain gadget was in wisdom guru for
Robbie and Krista please take away
testimonial okay it is Tuesday September
18th I'm completing my celebration of
the rosh hash oh I'm so sorry hashanah
the jewish new year and we should just
say like I mean sometimes we don't get
the pronunciation right but I will
absolutely do respect guru but
we don't know all the words yeah oh I
have that's the funny everyday words
everyday words yeah where is Chris Reich
too busy drinking are we that bad the
accounting Ledger's of the world are
made up the fate of all for the coming
year is determined there are then 10
days for appeal before Yom Kippur when
those Ledger's and the Fate are all
sealed is somewhat fitting that the eve
of Yom Kippur is next week sorry next
week coincides with your anniversary
celebration which is the beginning and
the end of something as well it is the
beginning of another cycle on a project
for which you and your co-hosts give
generously of your time and often your
money I have no doubt that when accounts
are added up there is a large number in
your column for all that you give of
yourself choosing I am sorry I cannot
join you for your celebration but may
you your family in the category 5 family
merit many pleasant and good years from
the Guru thanks guru appreciate it very
very much perfect sounds good and then
this one is actually a question ok it's
not a testimonial this time it's the
real deal folks is it yeah oh this is
from dave tach hey Dave ah it says you
Robbie one you are my only hope Oh could
you please say like Leia no help me rob
you on you are my only hope ladies and
gentlemen crystal ice sorry see Star
Wars I like I should let's not get into
this art so sorry for the Star Wars
reference we're adults adults on the
show with toys toys on this side it's
all good oh I am looking to convert an
old windows 2003 server into a linux
server at church for our internet TV
crew I would like to be able to connect
several windows windows 7 pcs to it so
that the staff can log in with their
credentials on any of the windows pcs
which is about five computers and print
to a printer attached to the server
information how to do this exactly seems
to be very scarce on the
the only solid information I have so far
as that I need to use SI MBA for samba
yeah I'm sure but there are little or no
instructions available on how to use it
I know that turnkey Linux has a domain
controller drop in PVC replacement but I
don't know how to use it I tried setting
up in a virtual machine and God through
all the guided setup and settings on the
web interface it but I couldn't get a
windows 7 machine connected to it help
love the show yeah well I hope that that
I can help you there for sure so I think
it comes down to understanding what each
of those different things are so you
talk about a domain controller that's
powered by turnkey linux and domain
controller allows you to set up a
Windows domain but it's not necessary to
be able to print to a printer if you you
know for you don't need a domain to do
that Samba for is file sharing so that's
being able to access files through a
network on a specific server on the hard
drive so what what I think you're
probably looking for is what's called
cups or see ups that's included in your
linux port 631 i think it is so if you
go localhost colon port 631 let's take a
look localhost colon 630 there is so on
my system one point four point six you
can you can set up your printers but
essentially it taps into your already
existing you know your printer system
because when you set up a printer here
it's actually doing it on cps as well so
if i add it here see what happens it's
gonna you know i'd be able to find all
you know my printers that are on the
network CPS is the the linux printing
system and it's going to allow you to
share that printer once you've set it up
so on the server you could set up it
could just be a boon to linux by itself
I would go with maybe the server Edition
and then throw a desktop on top of it
just so that you've got a familiar
interface that you can you can use and
then you can log out even just install
something like a light desktop or
something
so regardless you get see ups it's
already installed in your system you've
got a ubuntu server running you set up
the printer just as you normally would
and then you simply share that printer
and then all of your computers on the
network can print to that printer just
by IP address you just add it as a
network printer to each windows box
that's one option I don't think you need
to have a domain controller
realistically unless you really need to
be able to control group policies and
things like that sounds to me like
that's not what you're looking to do and
again Samba is the secondary thing that
you would that you would put in there
which samba server probably I'm not sure
if it's included or you may need to
activate that just by right clicking on
a folder and tell it to share and Ubuntu
will automatically install sound before
you but that is where you can create
let's say a folder on the raid drives in
the server and you can set that up as
you know Z drive on all your window
systems and everybody can save their
stuff to that so that it's on the the
raid and the server because I hope
you've got a raid in the server like a
raid one or something like that a stripe
set something that has redundancy and
then from there you know you've got a
way to save stuff on the server and then
from the server you back it up so you
don't have to go around backing up each
individual term but again you don't need
a domain controller to do any of that so
lubuntu with C ups and Samba will give
you see ups gives you printing let's
share and you'll be able to share it
over Samba and Samba gives you the
ability to share files as well so
hopefully I mean that's not a how-to
that's just a those are what the
technologies are and and the chat room
is active as well check out the chat
logs for episode number 261 and and
Linux of course for those of you who
aren't familiar with it is an
alternative operating system to
Microsoft Windows and as our viewer is
mentioning nice to be able to install
these different things and create a
windows network without having to
license a windows server product because
that can get really really expensive
you've got your windows server platform
the operating system itself plus user
cals and you know you've got to pay for
the licensing on a regular basis for
those things
+ antivirus plus all the other stuff
that comes from running a Windows Server
and the headaches of administration as
well so yeah I think that'd be good just
invincible mutant mentioning that zombo
will share the printers but you need to
have see you PS in order to you know in
order to add that printer but of course
that comes with your linux distro so
does that make sense I hope so just
really really quick I've got a folder on
my computer i right click on it because
I've got no min stall so this is like
ubuntu desktop is the package name and
go sharing options share this folder see
what happened there you go that's
exactly what happens sharing service is
not installed do you want to be able to
install it so you click on install and
all of a sudden lo and behold I've got
sharing service on my computer on my
ubuntu system so now my windows seven
systems can access it via IP address or
hostname if you've got the host names
all set up correctly but IP address will
definitely work for map it is a network
drive access the printer I hope that
helps cool I hope so yeah I hope have we
got anything real quick that we can come
in the last few moments of the show as
we wrap up technically as we wrap up
season 5 here at category 5 technology
TV oh this one might be ok you not go
quick let's do it ok from j/p ah anyway
says well Robbie I did it I went 1am 10
I am oh I am sorry hun represent Linux
what are the number one so I am using
Linux Mint 13 cinnamon of the names I
got to his two questions how do I get
comp is to work that might be a longer
answer but to how can i change my mouse
pointer love the show I just didn't know
that that was made you left off his
laptop he asks you and all oh sorry all
the co-hosts rock and drop it said Andy
and me thanks dude thanks Hank okay so
one hundred percent Linux dude
congratulations that's a big step and
like I was saying Linux is a way to save
money but also to have a really good
user experience on your computer because
it becomes your computer and you it's
like the difference between an apple
tablet and an Android tablet you have
freedom with that android tablet really
to make it your own customizing said
about similarly linux let's do that and
to be on a percent linux now is is
really really good and did you notice
how I offended her right at the last two
minutes of the show on purpose pretty
cool huh but yeah I would say try compiz
dash dash replace jumping the terminal
or hit alt f2 comp is space dash dash
replace that look at comp is active for
you then get comp is config settings
manager installed from your synaptic
package
it might be abbreviated as ccsm and that
program will will allow you to configure
it so you'll be good to go all right
give that a try folks that is all the
time that we have for this episode
number 261 of category 5 technology TV
been fun having you here thank you so
much for joining us tonight crystal
wells ladies and gentlemen thanks for
being here Thanks yeah yeah hope to see
you not as soon next time yeah well I
think we're you know we're on for you
know a few more days this month it's
been busy we had a photo shoot on
saturday for the was a Saturday or
Sunday this weekend you know this past
weekend we had our photo shoot for
season six so we've really been you know
working hard to get ready for season six
for you so hope that you all really
really enjoy yourselves as we go into
you know our anniversary special next
week don't forget if you're in the berry
area please join us it's gonna be a lot
of fun and visit our website category 5
TV for all the details including the
prizes that we're going to be giving
away absolutely free at this free event
so I hope to see you next week thanks
everybody for being here and join us
from home and we'll see you next week at
our fifth anniversary show sounds good
see you everybody yeah
you
we hope you enjoyed the show category 5
TV broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven p.m.
eastern if you're watching this on
demand or through cable TV check out the
local show times in your area at
category 5 TV and find out when you can
watch live and interact in the community
chat room category 5 is a production of
prodigy digital solutions and is
licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada we'll see you
next time thanks for tuning in
