welcome to new every day we're thrilled
for a second week in a row to have our
special guest Leno Samuel with us here
today
oh you're gonna hear more about his
calling to ministry and the supernatural
provision of God to enable him to
satisfy that call this is new every day
with Jeff Weston and Alliance cruise
[Music]
welcome to new every day
we're continuing our wonderful
discussion with leno Samuel if you
missed last week
don't don't miss it go back and hear the
amazing story about calling a feeling of
provision and you're gonna catch a good
part of it again on this episode how are
you today Lynn oh good thanks again for
coming and joining us on new every day
thank you for having me here yeah it's a
delayed I think I enjoyed last week so
much that couldn't wait to do this one
again and who knows we might even have
you on in the future as the Lord leads
but it's been so good to hear your story
so where did where did we leave off last
week oh I think we were talking about
how you you started a new minister yet
yeah in your home Provident home
province of Kerala is that how you say
it
yeah Kerala Kerala in India in the
southern part of India and you had
knocked on the door of a family who
thought that maybe life wasn't worth
living
yeah and boy did God ever changed their
lives that day you introduced them to
Jesus Christ who is Lord and Savior and
the one who died to forgive us our sins
and Lynn oh it's my understanding they
asked Christ to be there yeah that's the
Christ to me I I believe that the does
the scripture passage which we were
talking with that families the Tjader
want to harm himself and Peter into
prison when God got released yeah and
then he was telling don't hang yourself
yeah that is the passage from which we
have encouraged them and then they were
asking that family the whole family is
asking what we do now and the Peter is
telling that no accept Jesus into your
life call upon the name of the
and you will be saved believe in those
of you and your household will be saved
what I could be encouraged friends you
might feel like you've just at your
ropes end but you don't know it might
just be a situation I don't know what
else to do
Lynn oh we can equally say a call on the
name of the Lord God is there to give
you hope in a future that's what the
Prophet Jeremiah told to a people who
had rebelled against God even and yet
God said I'm not gonna leave you that
way he has plans for your life yeah and
whatever you are going through in your
life that is not the end God has brought
you this far not to give up because he
has a greater plans for your life and he
will bring that plans into your life and
he will fulfill those plans
this is just wonderful Lynn oh I love it
so this family came to Christ they were
the first one yeah yeah they were the
first of all and so did you stop
knocking on doors then or did you carry
on uh yeah we have carried on and so
there were few positions which we have
waste but still God God's grace was
there upon our lives and then after
serving for I think so 6 or 7 months I
left from there to pursue my theological
education okay Wow six or seven months
of helping establish yeah this church on
the authority of God's Word on solid
living and that's proof that you did a
good job because it's still there yeah
praise the Lord
so there's a stirring like what made you
think that you wanted to know the lot of
questions that I tried no I was freezing
while we were visiting the families some
of them were theological and something
related to apologetic kind of questions
which I felt the need that now I need
more theological education because we
have to defend the faith yeah that which
we are well that's a smart way to get
motivated start doing the work and
you feel you don't know something yeah
you were probably very motivated to
learn okay yeah so it wasn't like you
were falling asleep in class
no so six oh seven months later then
where did you have to leave home yeah I
have to leave home again and went to not
on part of my province which is near -
ahem you might have heard about
Himalayan mountain or Himalaya yeah and
the fruit in the foothills of the
Himalayas there is a place called
Dehradun and I studied in any new
Theological College which is an eventual
college ok yeah and you enrolled and
like how long a program I guess it was a
four-year program Bachelor of theology
oh okay so I can wrap my mind around
that I have happened to have my
bachelor's degree in theology yeah and
it was a four-year program it's probably
very similar for most of you who are
watching as well and so you did four
years away from home oh four years away
from did you come home at all sure yes
sometimes in my semester break but God
started to use me even in that campus
and even during the semester break we
used to visit some of the parts of India
where the gospel has not yet reached we
used to go as a team and we used to
reach the people did you yeah now what
people obviously Indian yeah and so
mostly speak their language yeah most of
them are Hindus oh yeah who are from the
Hindu faith and we also have addressed
to some of the families who are Muslims
okay yeah and so you would go and share
the gospel yeah we have you yeah so any
Muslim will allow you to pray even you
get into their house and if you ask no
would you mind praying with us they will
surely pray so they would welcome you in
their home yeah some families will
welcome us in home some families will
say that no and you'd say hey I'm here
to tell you about Jesus yeah so yeah we
we start to make a relationship we just
have a casual talk from there we will
get something in their life that they
are
- from there we will share the gospel
the gospel and some of many of them yeah
where it was it many many would let you
pray yeah many would like to let us pray
beautiful now I remember
I confess I would have thought that
would never have been allowed and I've
heard from others as well yet no people
who practice the Muslim faith are more
than willing to have someone pray with
them yeah and that way that's good for
me to be reminded of that and that's
good so many of them received you in the
head yeah many of us many of them
received then I think so in my second
year we had a Youth cams that were
happening in several places of Norton
Karnataka which is very much hostile to
a Christian faith and there was a lot of
persecution that is going on our motive
was to equip the youths to reach out in
their community with the love of Jesus
Christ and it was such an amazing
reaching which I will never forget in my
life the kids were kids were filled with
the Holy Spirit how old were these kids
as you're calling them um it is 10 years
12 years of age and so and it's in a
hostile environment house Thailand and
you and your team you preach the gospel
you present Christ and then they receive
yeah yeah and tell me about that again
you were yeah so these kids and
especially in India what I have seen is
that the people are so hunger for the
word of God and they even we have seen a
lot of miracles that were happening in
such kinds of meeting the people are
full of faith and they were just drawing
the anointing from us miracle yeah
you mean physical physical miracles like
like like for example like blind people
see oh my for there's Mustang and even
the people who are not able to walk
completely paralyzed the people are know
healed oh and what did what did the
other people looking on seeing this dude
what did it change the yeah they change
it to change the atmosphere and many
people were coming for that meeting
No and calling upon God to have not that
kind of any wine experience in their
life and so you started off I believe by
saying oh I remember it like I'll never
forget at these yeah yeah yeah kids yeah
and kids were like they were just
calling me there in tears and just want
to experience a lot in their life and
when you pray him to God like that know
how like in the gospel we can see that
Jesus Christ is telling that now if the
earthly father if no if a son ask for
food whether he gives yeah yeah the
bread he whether he gives the stone to
no no for if he no asked for fish he
doesn't give the scorpion to them if
they have if the earthly father doesn't
do like that what about our Heavenly
Father and these kids cried out yeah for
the bread of life at the bread of life
and God filled them yeah oh you know
Lynn oh I was age 10 yeah when Christ
came into my life when he came and took
my sins away oh it was December 18th
1977 and boy did God ever changed my
life and I too as a young boy I was
desperate to need the presence of God in
my life and I don't I never was
I didn't know anything about theology I
didn't know anything about church I
didn't go to church often in fact I
don't I think I had only been to church
once before that but God and His grace
came and reached and he made me aware
that I needed a savior and I too like
you said I began to weep and I was
worried I had a friend with me and I
thought what's he gonna think and but
you know my need for a savior was
greater than
what I my friend and what he would think
of me I said God I'm reaching out to you
and a man named after the great
missionary Hudson Taylor his name was
Hudson Hills Dhin he made a call for
those who wanted to be born again by the
Spirit of God to get out of their seats
and come to the front of the church and
I did that and I was weeping and he led
me in a prayer and it was on that day
that Jesus came and forgave me of all my
sins and praise the Lord
yeah every time I tell the story I'm so
thankful for it well friends this is
here we are with Lynn o Samuel and we're
going to talk about the supernatural
provision and friends you don't want to
miss what God's got for us in the second
half of this episode don't go away we'll
be right back stick around for more from
new every day
for a limited time get your hands on
limited edition shirts from the
category-five TV network these
high-quality shirts are manufactured by
teespring a fundraising website and your
purchase will help support the shows we
produce get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap five dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today count five
dot TV slash shirts
well we are back after a fantastic break
I've just been having a good shot with
Leno oh my goodness
strap your seatbelt on for this half of
hearing about the supernatural provision
of a holy God we're here with Lynn Oh
Lynn Oh Samuel God love you man
tell us about how God has been your
provider yeah yeah as I told you I felt
the need of more training I went to the
college and I joined in that college and
in the during the interview time they
asked me that what about your financial
things you haven't filled that form I
said that I do not have anything in my
hand to give but I have a passion to and
one of the professor's sitting over
there as he went to my eleventh and
twelfth grade marks and academic
excellence awards he said that okay we
will take him in somehow he will pay the
fees and so that is what I got the
admission into that College it was one
of the top most to Theological College
in India and as there I was doing my
studies classes had started and from the
financial financial department not from
that office the people have called me
and they gave me that know you have to
tell us about your how do you pay the
fees and now we want to hear that and
then during those days no I used to
spend much time in the presence of the
Lord and late night 2 o'clock I'm coming
from my prayer room and entering into my
room there is another person my roommate
he is holding the phone and giving me
that phone and telling me that there is
someone know who wants to talk to you I
said that who will called me at 2
o'clock in the morning early in the
morning and here is that the person on
the other end he said you know that is
lady she said to me Lin oh you came to
this Theological College to do studies
and the Lord is giving inside my heart
there is a student in India you have to
pay the fees and so this is the way God
gave that revelation to this lady and
this lady calling me and telling me that
how much is your feast the no I took
that phone has given by another brother
because I didn't have a mobile phone at
that time so then that lady was telling
that how much is your first ear fees not
even first semester the two semester
combined how much is your fees I said
that oh this is the amount and then she
said that tomorrow by morning it will be
in this persons that the person who gave
me the mobile phone in that person's
bank account pay the fees and do your
studies this no it is such a miracle
like till now I haven't seen that person
face to face you've never seen a person
just heard the voice only oh my goodness
so you don't you never met her before
no no so this person my roommate knows
knows knows that I am studying over
there to that yeah sure yeah yeah yeah
so yeah so no see not know so you know
but this lady I never met you ever met
you've met me so I mean this is God
providing their knees yeah the people
are asking you hey how are you gonna
provide finances you don't have it yeah
have any were you worried I was not
worried and this is what when I stepped
out of my home this is what I said Lord
Here I am stepping out looking unto you
I will never look unto the people but I
am looking unto you you will provide for
me you will take
my needs and I would say that as a
father even now he take care of
everything in my life yeah oh there's a
song that we sing in church
he's you're a good good father yeah
that's your testimony isn't it yeah we
serve a great God friends do you agree
he is our Father who art in heaven the
Bible right in the King James Version
holla would be thy name is he your
father he's my father
yeah and you know the same God that has
provided for Leno like I can't stop
smiling with the joy of this story the
same God who still is your provider and
took care of Leno's every need like like
I'm calling him in healing him in his
finances and study like it's not about
one area or this it's about God taking
care of his kids he's your God - what's
your need today is it healing is it
direction is it a God make my my calling
sure do you need some more money all a
lot of people say yeah like you
understand this isn't about money this
is about a great God who loves to take
care of his children yeah there is one
more incident which I would like to say
that as I ran for my Master's studies
no I paid almost of first semester fees
and I was waiting for my second semester
and I do not know read how to pay
because the India we cannot work and we
have to engage with our studies at that
time we cannot work and so the principal
huff that seminary just called me what
is happening with it and the next day's
my examination and he called me just a
day before and said that you have to
clear off the fees - right
okay so now it's crunch time yes they
say right so yeah here my all my friends
are studying and I'm also studying and
bit worried Laden from there just a few
hours left in the late night just few of
us left
but the tomorrow morning from the
financial office they called me I
thought that okay this is the end where
they are just holding me back by not
right I'm not making me to write so how
many years have you been in college at
this point now it was my fifth year in
the college I graduated from my
bachelor's and came for my master's oh
my goodness you skipped over that part
oh okay so you're super naturally taken
care of for your bachelor's now you've
enrolled yeah in a masters and you're at
the at the conclusion yeah your fifth
year yeah 50 oh and your mmm the taxman
as they said here the bagman the money
guy is saying hey we need to settle some
accounts and not being angry yeah not
angry toward you but just keeping in
accounting yeah yeah okay and now it's
the 11th hours yeah oh yeah that's true
oh and a little bit of worry maybe
somebody maybe we're speaking to someone
today maybe your situation is that
you're facing a financial need some need
it's the 11th hour and you need God to
come through Leno tell us yeah so but
God was encouraging me and telling me
that no thus far I have taken care of
you do you think that for this need I'm
not enough in your life I said that Lord
you're more than enough so he ministered
to you yeah he talked to you yeah and
you quickly were able to work yeah and
blessing yeah
God you've always been more than
and I do not know in natural way how I
will pay my fees but I just prepared for
the next day examination and morning I
took my shovel and just waiting the call
from the office you know please come I
thought that okay they are just holding
me back from not writing the exam and if
it was me I'd be saying I just did all
this studying yeah
were you ready to write the exam yeah I
was you're ready you were anxious to get
there like let me write this thing and
you thought they were gonna say sorry
yeah listen you haven't the bill hasn't
yeah yeah yeah so yeah so I just went
there and I looked and there the person
is giving me the received and I just
took it and you know yeah it is it's
received and how much did you owe when
he gave what was left to pay when he
gave you that receipt um it was almost
to put it in Canadian dollars it will be
somewhere around thousand thousand
dollars yeah yeah and you mean when he
gave you that you still had to pay a
thousand dollars no no no no it was desk
somebody has paid for me even now I do
not know who was that person compared my
fees and cleared of that yeah was it
paid in full yeah paid in full oh my
goodness what provision yeah that is no
any no we are the children of God and
there is a father who takes care of us
yeah there is a father who takes care of
us
and no same light no when we look into
the last story or also it was the last
moment
no he just showed up who had freelancers
there for lives of us like no Jesus just
showed up and said that no where have
you laid Lazarus
there's a question like where they have
said that no Lazarus will not rise
Lazarus you know someone is here is
facing their 11th hour you want to speak
this word I would say that the same
thing that had happened in the life of
Lazarus know Jesus was there no was
there at the right time humanly speaking
Mary and Martha thought that not that's
the end and it's all finished but jesus
said that it's not finished glory of God
is going to be revealed in your life I
would say that the same thing happened
in your life too if you're trusting on
Jesus and you say that okay I have
trusting on Jesus I've been praying
nothing is working for me here
everything has gone but I will tell you
that at the last moment when you think
that everything has finished that's the
time where God takes that opportunity to
demonstrate his glory in your life you
know what a privilege to have you on the
show today and last week thank you
friends you can see I've just met this
man for about a year maybe a little more
and we just wanted to share a great man
of God with you and to be encouraged as
he has been encouraged we bless you
today and reach out to the lord call
upon his name and he'll continue to meet
your every need according to his riches
in glory god bless you
catch a new episode of you every day
every Friday morning at new everyday TV
we're also on roku Kodi Plex YouTube
Google Play Music podcasts and news book
or if you're in Southern California tune
in every Sunday morning at 6:30 on kbdb
TV channel 33 television for the high
desert
