welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Rob you
Ferguson welcome to episode number 225
of category 5 technology TV it's Tuesday
January 10 2012 nice to see you I'm
Robbie Ferguson I'm Hillary Rumble good
to see you thank you now you're going to
be here I am I'm sorry I don't mean to
interrupt hello ready time just like I'm
so excited and and why is that Robbie
you know I just wondering why
congratulations are in order big-time
congratulations getting married get
married I'm getting married huh pretty
crazy so the question is is he local
like he's not gonna take you away from
no I'm not moving to like China or
anything crazy okay I'll still be around
excellent look just as a different last
name there you go oh you have to change
all your photographic now it's somebody
else there you go so yeah that's my
that's my big news that's probably why
I've been a little m.i.a lately has been
that's huge news at the night well I
mean you were scheduled to be here what
two or three weeks ago yes Diana well I
got something coming got something come
up that couldn't make it in so Eric Kidd
filled in for you thank you Eric yeah
fabulous filling on such short notice
but so then I heard that you're getting
married and it's like okay good excuse
well thank you sorry everyone I'm here
now though I'm here and that's good to
see you thank you good to be here get me
back excellent so now we've got a bit of
a different setup tonight so we're
working with them quite a different set
up those of you who are watching
backstage pass you know that things are
quite different here tonight and it's
nice to have you joining us but so we're
getting used to looking at different
cameras and stuff and so if I'm not
making eye contact I'm doing my best and
we're realizing just before the show
that you know we're yeah we're having to
sit at different places in the desk and
stuff so it's it's rather interesting so
as we grow here at category 5 it's a
learning experience oh sure sure very
cool always movin and shakin hear me
tell you this is our first night with
these new stands and everything so yeah
ya know what you think well this man and
this show is gonna be awesome firstly I
agree second best show in a long time
you know it is what it is hmm you know
and that's all I can say about that but
part of the reason why it's gonna be
such a rockin show is because there is
tons coming up in the newsroom you do
not want to miss for instance crystals
from space show that quazy crystals can
indeed form in nature just not on earth
bhuntu TV has been unveiled at CES 20 be
a boo to TV how interesting oh I want to
hear about that we shall see and could
the first step to interstellar travel
being here ah you're just going to stick
around see additionally Samsung is
creating future ready Smart TVs and
lastly Ellie I is promoting their
eco-friendly products at CES 2012 very
different round because these stories
are coming up later in the show it's
nice that they're getting that kind of
exposure with eco alkalines and oh yeah
the official battery at category 5 TV
that's fantastic place for them to be
mm-hmm very cool greetings to people in
the chat room popy great to see you Oh
akimoto hubba bubba and John we've got
lots of tons of people joining us in
Jannah want to thank those of you who
have sent in your viewer postcards we're
starting to get a fairly good
accumulation of them and I'm and I'm
starting to consider you know do we do
we I think tape them up to the brick
wall because when we do so well look at
this bad boy Hey look at this haha
coming in to us from
spain / good read hi Robby and friends
thank you for category 5 TV you make it
look easy this is a card from Spain keep
up the good work and all the best from
Spain from Gordon Gordon cheers thank
you for setting up says groovy postcard
check this out it was written in English
not in Spanish yeah case your orgy did
you translate that as it is masters many
skills i'm also something Spanish yeah
making skills people people have
mentioned you know wouldn't be cool to
have like a visual interpreter on the
show so like that you can do that well
you have yes you have friends probably
perhaps that are watching the show even
right now that that are hearing impaired
yes and I find that very interesting and
I hope that that you find that I'm easy
to read but how is the experience as far
as watching web TV for somebody who's
observing like lip reading more yeah I
think a lot of it depends on like the
continuous stream like I know like if it
were to glitch like yeah but that
difficult for lip reading in general
you're probably easy to read your lips
because you don't have a mustache
hanging down covering them you
articulate clearly not not pointing any
fingers or any particular color I'm just
saying definitely not you it's
definitely not Krista or Rachel Oh who's
that other one anyways but no okay no
seriously in all seriousness with lip
reading in general typically if you
don't have facial hair covering the
mouth it was easier to read also I guess
depending on their background I know
that my one friend she can identify when
somebody has an accent comparable room
Canadian accent for instance a British
accent she can identify because she has
a harder time Jody was talking like
this it might be you would understand
that I am speaking with different jacks
and perhaps maybe but um ya know
interesting things like that's really
intriguing they can
lip reading is definitely a very intense
acquired skill but some things make it
easier or more difficult cool oh yeah
very cool now you're a little bit
smarter I well I wonder where technology
is going to take you know TV as you're
mentioning their that it seems like CES
is just all about these smart TVs right
now but that is going to mean more and
more web broadcasts more and more online
content and cloud-based content so I'm
curious as to where that's going to take
things as far as accessibility if you
are an accessibility user i'd be
interested in even hearing from you with
regards to how the experience that
category 5 is for you and we definitely
want to make it as easy as possible if
that means Eric needs to shave then that
you know I'll have that chat with him
least get a little trim just after him
around him out so you can at least see
his lips yeah oh yeah interesting stuff
very cool mm-hmm we are excited that
it's shorty time again sharda the shorty
awards the fourth annual are taking
place and you can nominate us just visit
cat five dot TV / shorty and i'm glad we
captured that URL for the shorty awards
before it got taken for some kind of hip
hop track or something sorry your day
mmm mobile cat five Don TV if you've got
a mobile device check that out scan the
code will take you right to our hmm I'll
help you hold it up its mobile cat five
TV if you've got a mobile device and
that can be a tablet a smartphone
whatever you've got that's going to give
you our mobile ready website very easy
to use with touch screen you'll
definitely want to check that out and
we've got live dot cat five dot TV is
our new page for actually watching the
show that gets you away from our main
website because what happens is
sometimes you know during a live show
there's so much traffic on our website
during that live one-hour
that it's it's a lot of bandwidth to be
pushing out of the server so people get
slow response time from the server
during that time things like that so we
created a very basic lightweight page at
live cat 5 TV should load very very
quickly for you very reliably and gets
you away from that problem of having
10,000 people trying to load the same
site at the same time so very cool all
right we've got lots of your
testimonials coming up as well tonight
we've got some exciting stuff i'm gonna
be showing you how to use free GNU image
manipulation program the GIMP we're
going to be showing you how to use that
to change your photo background it's
kind of a more advanced tutorial you're
going to want to stick around we're
going to be able to do some really cool
effects so stick around for that we'll
be right back after this they're getting
the road or the dusty trails liquid
image Canada captures the action with a
true point of view HD video camera
directly into a high-quality MX goggle
it records every bit of the excitement
exactly how you see it
if my octane isn't your thing take a
relaxing underwater adventure and
capture it forever in high definition
video with a high quality underwater
camera mask from liquid image Canada
perfect for the enthusiast snorkeler or
the deep sea diver check out the entire
line of camera masks for every sport
liquid image canada.com this is category
5 technology TV and you'll find us
online at triple w category five dot TV
we're going to look at viewer
testimonials down to about Christmas I
think because I it's been a couple of
weeks since we've looked at them and we
certainly appreciate it when our viewers
send in of your testimonial it's a
another way for you to let us know that
you appreciate the show and what you're
really enjoying about that so lots of
them have come in we don't open a little
while so hearing from you we love it
yeah Joshua rights to us saying category
five is amazing there's always stuff to
learn and there are funny things to like
that guy that visited on episode 2 22
hmm birthday him right now but you
should have him on more often of course
there are many more funny things as well
and I'm not putting that down of course
oh and I and I know that with this
testimonial I'm sure to win yet another
pogoplug always something to gain on
category 5 Thank You Josh for that yeah
thanks planet calypso um yeah thanks for
sending us that in i'll let you hit
another one there yeah sure up here this
one is coming to us from norway from yon
saying hi Rodney I wish you a Merry
Christmas and a Happy New Year thank you
for a great show the first time I try to
bhuntu I felt lost I've tried another
linux based on KDE and I liked it I
liked the old ones but when they changed
it I think that they made it worse then
I discover in your show and I started to
watch it at first I thought a boon to
was not the thing for me but after
watching your show for a while I felt
that I learned so much and I might as
well install it now i recommend ubuntu
to other people you have shown me so
many great software techniques use with
a boon to thank you so much for the
pogoplug i won for the first time when i
joined the live chat i will recommend
two others to join this live chat
because they too can win great prizes
that's awesome yawn thank you very much
for the test tomorrow I've got one here
from Paul who writes I find category 5
to be the perfect mix of information and
entertainment your show is truly a
pleasure to watch and much appreciated
thanks from Paul thank you very much sir
Oh got another one here from Dennis
Kelly from Michigan hey Dennis saying
this show rocks I look forward to the
show every week robbie gives great
instructions on how to do very
interesting things with computers thank
you for all that you do and thank you
for your crew of co-host awesome show
from dennis those co-hosts are awesome
good man they're pretty good this one
comes to us from robert gorsinski from
Melbourne Australia who says great show
love the fact that it deals mainly with
linux I would like to thank you for
helping me out with a few of the
problems that I have had recently
answering my questions on the show I've
been able to watch the live broadcast
for the first time on December 27th keep
up the great work thanks from Robert
more greetings sent our way from leland
saying you have answered so many
questions from each family or each of my
family members her show promotes
personal computing confidence carry on
very cool a couple more Robert Reed from
Aurora says watching for off and on for
some time now in fact from bc they call
it which is in brackets before carry
that's funny very cool so that that
takes us back karrie webb was my first
co-host back in season one so you're
going way back we're in season five
right now robert goes on to say i've
been using linux for some time starting
with red hat for but now i am using
ubuntu i'm testing a boon to 12 point 0
4 Alpha now and trying bash programming
as well that comes to us from Robert
thanks for the viewer testimonial well
and lastly coming to us from East
Afghanistan which is pretty water and
cool from Phillip hi Robbie cast and
category five community hey fellas y'all
are amazing I've been watching on and
off since 2007 when I was first
introduced to a boon to I love seeing
how much category 5 has grown and
changed for the better I'm
austin texas but i'm currently serving
in afghanistan don't worry i plan on
sending a postcard not cheers look out
for that mm-hmm and with the help of
category 5 i've been introducing you
boon to to my fellow soldiers two of
which have ditched windows and now we're
on to 11 point 10 now we're talking we
watch the show via RSS when we can not
often enough as it takes an overnight
download session to download one episode
due to the horrendous satellite internet
we have overall we just want to say
thank you and keep up the good work
coming to us from spc greagle philip and
the soldiers of the 236 engineer company
in the Texas Army National Guard oh you
for that that's great thank you for the
viewer testimonial specialism speaking
of getting the show via RSS and
understanding that ok yeah you'd have
some pretty serious trouble getting the
show certainly live and trying to get it
quickly via RSS I'm going to actually
jump over to our RSS feeds it's a cat
five dot TV / RSS and when I'm there
let's take a look here you'll see that
there there are a few different RSS
feeds that are available to a specialist
and mp4 is probably going to be a
smaller file than SD or certainly HD HD
is typically going to come in it's 480
yeah 720p actually the HD feet so that
one's coming in about a gigabyte per
episode SD is coming in a little bit
lower than that we can actually find out
how small that's coming in quick little
way let's see this file here i'm going
to copy that i'm going to go into my
terminal and just jump over to temp and
I'm going to W get that file and I'll
see that that file look at that is only
321 Meg's right so that's not so bad for
a for a one hour show so that feed there
is SD h.264 comparatively let's look at
the portable mp4 which is the lowest
quality that we offer I'm going to grab
that same episode
w get that and you'll see that one is a
little bit smaller 251 Meg's so it is
indeed the smallest feet as far as size
goes so if you're looking to just get
the show as quickly as possible I wonder
if perhaps updating to a different feed
might expedite the the arrival of those
files for you here's hoping so just a
little tip for you using our RSS feeds
are great because you can subscribe with
any aggregator if you're using iTunes
you can go to cat5 TV / itunes if you're
using mural internet TV you'll find us
there or of course any aggregator at all
just go to cat5 TV / RSS and this can
actually get the current episode of
category 5 every time it's released so
like this episode that's going forth
live tonight on a Tuesday night is going
to be available in all of our SS feeds
by Wednesday afternoon so the next day
yeah that's pretty cool very good yeah
but just to reiterate it looks like the
mp4 feet is is the smallest feed hmm we
also offer an MP three feet did you know
we were available in audio only Oh super
small like 40 50 megs I think or 70
Meg's I don't know if you can put it on
yeah you can just kind of listen yeah
cuz I have that sweet soothing voice I'm
gonna have to start talking like that
for those who are listening on mp3 like
you're watching I mean you're listening
listening to category 5 okay uh rated
the work that's interesting to it very
cool to receive that testimonial thank
you so much yeah that's awesome thank
you for signing that our way and also
thank you for sending your questions our
way in fact we have a question right
here wonderful are you ready you ready
to rock it we already learn yeehaw I'd
like to learn something please okay
dokay this comes to us from Franklin
saying um I saw the show 222 live and
you all rocked I'm glad you enjoyed the
music i sent you I was in the chat room
but i did not know how to speak I did
not oh maybe okay yeah when the student
ready the teacher will appear I shall a
euro I will shall answer your question
with a question this email is laden with
riddles and things written ok how am I
to catch the horizon cheers from
Franklin I must miss this episode I
don't know what's going on in this
question 222 is when we were learning to
install pie tile Christa was here and
but what what caught my attention there
is that Franklin was having trouble
using the chat room ok so it almost
seems like I feel like I need to kind of
address that ok sure if I may and
Franklin I'll just give you a quick
little rundown on our website category 5
TV there's that or there's also cat
live.com 5 TV if you're in Firefox
you'll be able to all this can cause
some cool video feedback myself if
you're in Firefox you can go show chat
and it'll do it here I can't because I'm
in chrome and it's not compatible
unfortunately just yet we're just
developing that but on the main website
during a live show you've got the chat
room here and all the time you've got
interact chat room and when you click on
that you're going to be able to sign in
so you got that far that's no problem
i'm just going to leave it as guest fill
in this form here angelus s Stewie de ok
connect here we go and we're into the
chat room so here's here's what you need
to do Franklin you'll see here's here's
all the people that are chatting away ok
hey jot so now if I go way down to the
bottom here right there there's a cursor
and I can so say well hello there and
hit enter and that actually puts my
message right in the chat room ok so
that's pretty straightforward it sits
nice and lightweight it's browser based
so this allows you to participate in the
chat room without having to set up any
application on your computer from any
computer from anywhere in the world so
very cool stuff but that's you do you
want to be able to type right so just
down right at the bottom there
cool hmm there you have it so wait what
did he mean by how am I to catch the
horizon is that what do you men how I
don't know that's some kind of riddle i
guess like wow we don't control the
weather or the the tides contrary to
popular opinion okay well thank you for
your question thank you so much foot and
we hope to see in the chat room soon yes
and hear from you in the chat room no
excuses now typing yes okeydoke well I
got another question here coming to us
from Robert say Robert going back to
some web development I've been currently
working on a site with a friend and we
would like to incorporate into the
joomla base site a facebook like box
like you have on your site we would like
to know how to incorporate this into the
site code and roughly how to work out
where to place within the page okay hide
regards from Robert there's our Facebook
so this is what he's referring to with
the like button and the information
that's posted on our wall so this is
actually what's neat about about joomla
or any contact management content
management system i should say is that
there when there's a community when it's
open source like joomla there are tons
of available plugins modules and all
these things they're called extensions
in joomla skates that are available for
you and quite often free of charge and
what you're actually looking at there is
one of these modules that's available
for free so just knowing where to get
that is is what's important so what
we're going to do is we're going to
extensions joomla org is the website
okay and you can browse through this
it's a huge repository of various things
that are available for your joomla site
what I'm going to do though is I'm
actually going to search because I'm
going to tell you the top secret name of
our ITP Facebook no space alright like
box try to say that ten times fast ITP
facebook like box enter and you will see
there it is compatible 1.5 native 1.6
and 1.7
okay click on that and you'll see here's
the first thing that I check is whether
i need to pay for it or not this one is
non-commercial that means it's free it's
licensed under the GPL okay so here you
can see a demo you can download the the
module and you're good to go okay so now
as far as placing that within your
actual Joomla website we need to know
your module positions right so I'll show
you a little trick if you've got joomla
1.5 point x or under and certainly even
some of the newer joomla at depending on
your template but most templates do have
this if you go up to your website
address okay just go ? TP equals one and
hit enter and i remember that by
remembering toilet paper whatever
whatever helps whatever works and what's
going to happen here is it's converting
my template over into module display
mode so that i can actually see my
module positions just taking a moment to
load but and this is exactly the seeing
this there we go that's why we've
created live cat five TV it will load
but we get a an error if there's too
many people all at once so if you're
having trouble getting onto the chat
room and things go over to live dark at
five dot to give you check it out and
that raises the whole issue of why we're
moving away from joomla because of the
heavyweight nature of the system when
you've got tens of thousands of people
accessing it all at once it becomes
impossible so let's see if I can get one
but that is going to be your your your
get command just ? TP equals one and
that will that will show you your module
positions so you could that's that's so
you know whether it's going to go on the
left area if it's going to go on the
right I wish I could show ya
let's give it one last try one last try
anticipation the anticipation safe
loading let's business coming it's comes
going good we're golden yeah Oh access
denied all right you get the idea ting
GP on ? want or ? TP equals 1 okay
that's going to show you it's going to
create a red box and give you the title
of that module position and then when
you create the module you'll place it in
that position and you'll be good cool
Cheers well thank you for that question
troubled area thank you all good and I
think we got we got time for another
question I'd say all right yeah this is
coming to us from john AKA lone star hey
John hi Robby trying to get synergy
running but for some reason I can't can
you tell oh he's got a screenshot can
you tell from the screenshot what I'm
doing I'm doing everything you suggest
in your tutorial but doesn't like having
much luck so he sent us a screenshot
here fine yes you can um yeah the
screenshot here I can't really figure
out what's going on but I know someone
who will know well hopefully obby let's
take a poo back so we shall see but
thank you for sending us the screenshot
that is helpful rather than just words
visual to visual pictorial word
representation just as I'm loading that
Rob Gore wants to give a shout-out to
Garvey says that Garvey was very helpful
in the in the chat room the other day
getting them set up with his cameras so
very cool it's always it's wonderful to
see that our community you know hangs
out in the chat room and helps each
other out and even through the week when
I'm unavailable there they're still
participating in in the show which is
very very cool so let's take a look at
what's actually going on here and and
unfortunately see this is not going to
give me enough to go on because this is
quick synergy right so you've created
your screens and I see that you've got
three screens set up
basically computers one of them's an IP
address the other to use like either a
hostname or just an alias so really
tough for me to see without knowing you
know if you've got the IPS working and
what the actual problem is that you're
having from what I can tell okay so John
1pc is right of chief chief is left of
John 1pc I would change the sea on chief
to lower case just in case I'm not sure
if that's the actual hostname or what
what you're using and IP address is
always a good idea as well I i always
use IP addresses only for my synergy set
up just so that if for some reason the
host name is not resolving internally
then it will still work chief is left of
John 1pc so that looks fine as long as
that's the orientation but i would
change chief to lower case and i'd like
to see the other screens like if you
highlight chief and hit edit I'd like to
see what you see there and also know a
little bit more about about the symptom
as to what's what's actually happening
okay sorry I can't be of much more help
with that well and the only other thing
to consider like I see I want to know
also like the computer that I'm looking
at in the screenshot is that g4 is that
John 1 DC and in that case is it running
as server or client and vice versa on on
the other computer so it's just making
sure that everything set up so one of
them has to be the server configured as
the server one of them has to be the
client if your client is Linux it's real
easy because you can just you can set up
the let's say Windows you use synergy
sorry I said quick synergy that was
synergy on Windows 7 if you if you use
synergy to setup the server end and then
you run it on your Windows computer then
on your linux computer you can just go
synergy c4 client space and then the IP
address of your of your Windows machine
and that will give you a connection and
at least then you can you can look at
the you can bring up the stat
window and see what's going on if it's
trying to connect or whatever also on
windows 7 there are some pretty strict
firewall rules you might try just as an
experiment don't leave it this way turn
off your firewall entirely try to run
synergy and can get your connections and
then if it works you know that it's a
firewall issue you need to tweak your
firewall don't don't necessarily leave
it off because I want you to be
protected but that's just a way to test
just to see if that's part of what's
causing the problem for you ok good luck
please let me know and we'd love to hear
from you and know if you're able to get
synergy going I I I really the synergy
such a tough thing because it's it's so
different from every single computer to
computer to computer but once you really
get into it you really understand how it
works it's it's not problematic at all
and it's actually quite an amazing piece
of software synergy is what allows me if
you're watching backstage pass this
computer here is the broadcast system
this computer here is my on-air demo
system everything the you see on-air
happens on this computer and if you're
on backstage pass again you can see this
this one here is windows 7 running the
stream and this one here is zorn OS
which is the Linux distribution based on
ubuntu so those two are of course
sharing the same keyboard and mouse so
that I don't have to use two keyboards
yeah yes that's right you can see the
keyboard for this computer is actually
kind of pushed back there and the mouse
is way back there I can't even reach it
and it's not necessary because synergy
lets me do all that so it's a really
cool piece of soft toe tily but you're
gonna get a get it working I gotta get
her hooked up gotta get it going it's
important totally alright well it is
half-past and we've got lots of news
stories I know so I'll let you take it
away okey doke here are the top stories
from the category 5 TV newsrooms
examples of a crystal previously thought
to be impossible in nature may have come
from space study shows Kwazii crystals
have an unusual structure in between
those of crystals and glasses until two
years ago Kwazii crystal cruises that's
a tongue twister Kwazii crystals had
only been created in the lab then
geologists found them in rocks from
Russia's quarry Koryak mountains in pnas
p penis sorry my reading today my
goodness in penis journal a team says
the chemistry of the russian crystal
suggests they arrived in meteorites
Kwazii crystals break some of the rules
of symmetry that applied to conventional
crystalline structures they also exhibit
different physical and electrical
properties a team of researchers report
our evidence indicates that quazy
crystals can form naturally under
Astrophysical conditions and remain
stable over cosmic time scales canonical
has given the first demonstration of a
boon to TV the latest piece of the
company strategy of shifting the linux
based OS away from his traditional focus
on desktop computing mm-hmm at this
stage Canonical's TV for human beings is
mostly an aspiration to see if
manufacturers incorporate the software
as a part of their smart television
developments to bind together TV PVR
cloud and content stream from the
internet and smartphones all under one
interface creating a device able to cope
with these demands is easier than it
sounds because it turns TV into
full-fledged computers the software
complexity steps up steps up a level
from anything in use today where vendors
simply do their best and usually fail to
integrate proprietary technology the
company will offer TV makers of vanilla
version of the unity interface and its
forthcoming to Boone to 12.04 that
vendors can then adjust reflect the
underlying hardware as needed and why
would they be interested in off well
because a boon to is ready to roll right
now and will be open to all rather than
just one vendor seeking competitive
advantage oh that's cool in Canonical's
view that sort of proprietary approach
is restricting in the longer term
chuckles John Bernard blog that Ubuntu
TV is a vision of how TV will work in
the future with no cables no boxes no
hassles the goal is to uncomplicated
asian for the average viewer while
delivering to him or her all the
services and options that they are
becoming used to hmm whether
manufacturers or users will be
interested in these while larger
arrivals like Google Apple and Microsoft
have their own internet TV ambitions
remain to be seen very cool yeah I love
that this is putting linux at the
forefront of that device oh yeah oh yeah
the pentagon's premier research agency
has chosen a former astronaut to lead a
foundation that is designed to take
humanity to the stars the defense
advanced research projects agency darpa
and NASA are sponsoring the project
known as the 100 year starship very cool
yes and I must add that apparently it is
sponsored by tetrus he decided just like
may gems Jemison the first
african-american woman to go into space
was notified last week that she had one
according to a copy of the DARPA letter
obtained by the BBC since leaving NASA
jemison has been involved in science
education programs and is known as a
space travel enthusiast and a longtime
Star Trek fan hmm the goal is not to
have the government fund the actual
building of the spacecraft is destined
for the stars but rather to create a
foundation that can last a hundred years
in order to help foster the research
needed for interstellar travel yes and
smart TVs seem to be the highlight at
CES this year so now that TVs are
becoming more like computers what
happens when the internal components
become obsolete well Samsung thanks they
have the answer revealing their new
smart internet-connected television that
has the ability to have its Hardware
upgraded every year it has an expansion
slot allowing a new kit to be added to
boost processing performance and
introduce new features now the
innovation may help reassure shoppers
concerned about their screen becoming
outdated in a
to its smart evolution capability
Samsung has also added gesture voice and
face recognition features to the es 8000
model Samsung's president of consumer
electronics and build their flagship LED
television at the consumer electronics
show in las vegas noting that his firm
currently sells two televisions every
second big biz Wow and a team from le I
Electronics Inc have made their way to
the consumer electronic show again this
year with a focus on their eco alkalines
batteries as well as or other
environmentally conscious products that
they're carrying in 2012 their
frontrunner eco alkalines are the
world's first certified carbon neutral
alkaline battery le I also introduces
the entire line of free play radios and
flashlights which are powered by human
and solar energy le I will also be
promoting their 100% compostable bags
called beg to nature if you're visiting
CES this week make sure you say hello to
le I Electronics Inc in the sustainable
planet section for more information
about their environmentally friendly
products and their full line of awesome
tech gadgets visit cat5 TV / le I you
can get these full stories online at our
website at category 5 TV / newsroom the
category five de tu newsroom is
researched by roy w ash with
contributions from our awesome stellar
community of viewers if you have a story
you think's worthy of on-air mention
send us an email at newsroom at category
5 TV for the category 5 TV news room I'm
Hillary rumble thanks Hilary tonight's
episode of category 5 technology TV is
brought to you in part by garden gate
farms com for certified organic broccoli
sprout and wheatgrass juice visit them
at garden gate farms com also plan a
Calypso cat5 TV / clip so you can
download the free massive multiplayer
online role-playing game at cat5 TV /
calypso and pogoplug at cat five dot TV
/ pogoplug you visit that website you'll
get your free 5 gigabyte personal cloud
check them out cat5 TV / pogoplug also
some fantastic hardware that they that
they make so
cool cool stuff this is category 5
technology TV and you'll find us online
at triple w category five dot TV nice to
see you aha lots of people you know lots
of people joining us in the chat room
tonight I see lots of familiar faces
lots of guests joining us in the chat
room I'll leave it to the chat room to
let them know hey you can actually
assign your own name if you like oh ya
know who you are so you're not just a
random number like uh 47 988 if you get
the reference then i will give you 50
viewer points all right don't google it
no Google I just thought of a random
number or did I neither know it or you
don't mm-hmm invincible mutant good to
see ya I'm signed off I'm just me in the
chat room hey so we've got now we were
talking about our viewer postcards yeah
and receive we've got a growing
selection I've got tons over here and I
would just encourage you to send in your
viewer postcards it's easy to do just
grab a postcard of your local city or at
least somewhere that's nearby you and
mail that to category 5 technology TV
postal box 29 00 9 in very Ontario
Canada l4n 7 w 7 and we'll give you a
hundred viewer points in order to for
you to do that and we want to receive
that from you soon so send in your
postcards that it would be fantastic
mm-hmm tonight we've got a really cool
feature we will be looking at GNU image
manipulation program I love it when we
look at tools like GNU image
manipulation program AKA gimp and it's
just it's so fabulous when you realize
that there are free tools out there that
are competitive with very expensive
commercial applications yes give you the
feature set that that you need in order
to do some really cool photo
manipulations so GIMP is of course
available at gimp.org and it is a free
download for Windows Mac or Linux so
you're not limited to you know you're
seeing me using Linux today
but if you are on Windows go to the very
bottom you'll see downloads for unix
which is Linux or I shouldn't say that
unix / linux windows or mac OS 10 so if
you're on Windows you can choose that if
you're on UNIX or Linux you can choose
that or just get it from your
repositories even easier if it didn't
already come with your ear distribution
so what we're going to do tonight here's
here's the scenario took my son in and
and we had a little portrait session and
I thought oh it would be so nice to get
some some cutesy photos of the kids this
year for christmas and why not and it's
great but he just cut the cutest little
picture oh there he is for his christmas
shot for this year love it i love the
picture i'd love for it to be on my desk
at all times but the problem is it's
it's got that big old christmas tree in
the background and here we are it's
january 10 and what do we do with a
photo that has a big old christmas tree
in the background so I thought well
here's an opportunity to show you how we
can use free software and we're gonna do
this live on the air I think we've got
almost enough time we can to do this
yeah and all i'm going to do is I'm
going to right click on that image in
you know Here I am in Linux if you're on
Windows you can you can do that as well
I'm not sure about Mac you probably have
to do a key combination of Mac key /
double triple click the single now spot
yeah whatever we're going to load the
picture into GIMP and there we go okay
so I've got this great picture of my son
but again it's got that Christmas tree
okay then what I did or what I would do
is I'd bring up Creative Commons search
engine that search dot creativecommons
org and you can do a search here for
things that are licensed under Creative
Commons so what i would do is i would go
park bench and i'm going to search
flickr because i know that those are
images and because it's a Creative
Commons search that of course is the
licensing the category 5 is licensed
under creative commons attribution 2.5
canada it means basically that the the
people who own the copyrights to these
documents these images they're saying
you know it's okay
if you use these as long as you give
attribution if you say that hey this was
actually category 5 TV that originated
this content or whoever owns the photos
so you can go through here and you can
pick a photo so what I'm thinking is
taking this photo and noticing that the
camera is in fact kind of looking down
on him a little bit so we need we don't
want a straight-on shot of a bench we
want one that's kind of slanted a little
bit so that we can make it look
realistic that he's actually sitting on
that bench so with my simple search for
park bench you know like this one here
as nice of a picture as that is it would
not work because it's too straight on we
need one with a little bit more of an
angle yeah okay that of course
attribution born 1945 okay just cuz I
brought it up everyone else unit you
know that if my heart is in it and if I
don't mention you it's okay but maybe
people will find you anyways from the
search because they're going to do the
same search Lee right exactly okay so
I'm browsing through and you can see
that there's tons of different angles
here this is like the the opposite of
using like I stock where we're not using
we're not looking for stock images that
we can necessarily you know that we can
buy we're looking for images that we can
use here free of charge without royalty
as long as we attribute them to the
original artist who took the photo right
so you can keep scrolling through until
you find one that you really like it can
refine your search if you like there's a
nice one you know it's kind of cool that
one from matt from london was a lovely
filled on that from London very nice
this one I like because it doesn't have
the text on the back of the bench and I
do like the water kind of thing in the
background this one is from then husmann
okay and you'll notice now i'm going to
right click on this and it goes this
photo has some rights reserved i'm going
to click on that and you'll see you
are free to share to remix to adapt to
make commercial use of the work under
the following condition that you
attribute you must attribute the work in
the manner specified by the author etc
ok so that's basic creative commons
attribution or this is katra bution 2
point 0 generic ok so been husband check
out the the link there if you want to
check out some of his photos how's that
for attribution been alright so i'm
going to right click on that i'm going
to choose view all sizes we want to go
original size where you get that great
big massive original image which is 3735
by 2490 i'm going to copy that image URL
and then i can go back to the gimp i'm
going to right click on my image i'm
gonna go file open location and paste
that URL and hit open and it's going to
actually download that directly to the
gimp without any interm having to save
it to my computer ok so now I've got
that image I'm going to highlight my son
with ctrl a ctrl C for copy and then
paste him into there and he's good now
I've got a floating selection layer I
want to right click on him and go layer
new layer and now I've got a layer there
and a layer there I'm going to click on
this cool tool up here that allows me to
scale the image and I'm going to
highlight the pasted layer the top layer
there which is my son and I want to
scale this by clicking on the scale tool
I want to set it proportional by using
the chain link so that now if I scale
down one proportion you know width or
height it's going to scale down the
other one accordingly so now if i drag
that it's going to allow me to scale it
down so i'll scale that see how how that
looks ok move the picture onto the bench
and he's massively huge for that bench
ok so keep scaling ok
and we can be more precise than this we
can use other factors I could use
reference points and things to see that
I'm being accurate you can see that the
the actual shape of the bench is fairly
accurate to what he's sitting on so this
is your name I think this this photos
going to work very very well for this
yeah good proportion so now using the
GIMP here's what i want to do I've
clicked on this free select tool i call
it the lasso just because it looks like
one and i'm going to use the plus so my
shift button and my plus key to get a
really nice zoom on that image this is
where the GIMP is going to stand out way
above photoshop is when you're doing
something like this i'm going to pick a
point like this on his hair and look at
okay now I've got this thing and I can
keep clicking on point okay here's where
Photoshop fails us watch what I can do
photoshop users you know what i'm
talking about i'm going to take this i'm
going to go down here and move look at
that magic see so now what I'm doing is
I'm getting just a little bit inside of
his hair so that I'm completely cropping
out the Christmas tree I'm putting a
basically a border around my son's head
okay i'm using the scroll wheel on my
mouse in order to move up and down i had
that one out a little bit so i can
actually click on the circle and move it
in okay when you get good at this i'm
just using my mouse you can move along
pretty quick watch what I can do so I'm
clicking on points to get that in as
tight as possible without cutting off
any of him but certainly by getting
around you know I want to get that tree
completely out of there okay sometimes
you'll you'll be able to do longer ones
like that when there's a lot of curves
you want it to be fairly short because
it's going to give you a better smooth
edge for rounding basically okay so I
keep going around him
here we are questions comments in the
chat room of course we welcome them lots
of dialogue about Photoshop versus gamp
yeah possibly with some of our chat room
regulars and possibly with some other
co-hosts debate oh yeah yeah sep tional
debating the efficacy of these tools
Rachel X who possibly could be related
in the sense of co-host yourself is
saying that Photoshop users know there
are better ways than the lasso tool oh
yeah there are tons of different ways to
do this but what we're looking at here
is we're looking at a very easy way for
somebody who has no photo manipulation
experience hmm right and you'll see what
is happening here is I'm clicking on
points i'm not using the equivalent of a
photoshop drag hold your mouse button
and hope beyond hopes that you actually
get around the actual edge what i'm
doing here is completely different than
what photoshop's lasted tool go it does
because i'm clicking on basically points
here fight whoops I've clicked up there
what do i do right now I can go up here
and I can drag that and move it to my
proper point this is not the equivalent
of a Photoshop lasso where you're
holding in that Mouse and hoping beyond
hope that you're getting it within you
know that you're tracing properly don't
let someone tickle you on Photoshop
you're done yeah that's funny here we go
getting down to his legs here this is
good okay what we're going to do is
we're going to create an image mask and
that's going to allow us to revert and
manipulate this very very easily here we
go and we're at the bottom of his photo
there's his leg okay
scroll there we go okay so you'll see
look at all those points that I've
created yeah see the difference there I
can move any one of those points I can
change them I can do whatever I want but
what will do for now is I'm going to
highlight everything up to that point ok
so now I've got this marquee that's like
that and I'm just doing this to expedite
the process for the viewers i'm going to
right click on my layer and I'm going to
go add layer mask from selection and add
that so now what it's done is this
removed the portion that is outside of
my highlighted marquee ok so now the
photos starting to look like this right
so there he is sitting on a bench in
this park and it looks pretty good so
now you're going to want to get in you
know get into all of the different areas
i'm going to want to do the other side
of his head and i will do that but i
think that we probably won't have time
on the show but i'll finish this before
and i will upload the xef file so you'll
actually be able to see hey yeah how
this is done yeah okay because I've
already created a layer mask here so
what i can do is i can right click on
that mask and I can go mask to selection
and then I've got my selection back ok
so now I can resume where I left off I
could save that XD a fan I can just use
that mask as a selection now and I can
continue on I can go here I quickly hit
my shift key so that I'm adding to my
marquee see that there we go
around his ear notice I'm not zoomed in
quite as close as I normally would be
because you want the accuracy of a
fairly close soon that's with my plus
and minus keys on the keyboard yeah so
what this is going to do for me is it's
going to give me a copy of this photo
that I can then put onto an SD card or
something like that or a USB thumb drive
take it to the photo finishing lab and
print out a little four by six that I
can put on my desk at work and it's this
great picture of my son laughing and
it's gonna look really really nice that
I and I'm so pleased that I'll be able
to take this photo and use it for the
entire year year round and everyone will
be like oh where'd you just go on
vacation yeah and any hope that you know
it's not recognizable is like hey there
we are in a Grand Canyon yeah see you
know and choose your pictures wisely but
you can also that is similarly you could
use another photo that you have taken my
I had contemplated going to Barry's
waterfront for example and taking a
picture of a park bench at the
waterfront but it's that time of year
where it's just it's too snowy out for
the fact that he's not wearing that coat
and hat so it just wouldn't make any
sense yeah artistically so but in the
summer you might consider doing that if
it if it's appropriate to the photo so
let's see see what happens I'm almost
you know at that point where we can get
this done people are at rumor saying put
them on the Great Wall of China that
works it's not really all that great
it's gonna be all right Wall of China
Rachel say I'm surprised he didn't put
him on the enterprise well I already did
that once okay all right so
we go going to finish off that Marky I'm
not sure where the top of my marquee is
there we go but you you guys get the
idea that's what we want to do and I was
me yeah well you know it does look
really good actually so then the next
step if I had removed all the other
stuff there cuz i kind of i accidentally
undid my marquee Oh which is fine I can
redo it but what you want to do now okay
once I've got that tree out of there
right is you're going to see that his
legs only go that far so it doesn't
really work yeah but you can crop the
image there okay and now you know if I
do that right his feet come down there
and it just looks like you know he's
sitting on this bench just to just to
give you that basic idea right so yeah
it can be pretty cool and you can use
that kind of technique for anything I
want I want you to learn to use layer
masks though instead of just cutting
things out of your selection masks are
very cool as I said you can you can
revert back to your selection right you
can get your selection back you can
remove the mask and watch what happens
it puts everything back the way it was
because you're not actually deleting
anything from the photo it's very cool
that is cool mm-hmm so I can use this
technique to change people's faces
put-put happy happy brother in a family
photo and take out sure could yeah
brother yeah we're gonna be there like I
could I could take a photo of each kid
and put them all on this bench together
even though they're three separate
photos yeah right which is kind of cool
that you can do that and and do it in
such a way that is really quite
realistic as long as you are you know
fairly accurate with your clicking
that's why we zoom in yeah right and the
next step is just make sure your
lighting is good like the photo of him
is a little bit brighter than
the photo of the bench so what I'll do
is I'll go into colors and use my levels
to bring up the brightness just a little
bit over here on the right bring down
the shadows and then tweak the middle
there so that it's a little closer see
so now all of a sudden it's a little bit
closer in hue to the to the photo of my
son right and then you might add some
shadowing and things like that which you
can do easily enough use your paint
brush and a nice little feathered brush
for example create a new layer I'm just
kind of yeah we shouting and stuff okay
add some shadows right and then change
that to say an overlay right so that it
doesn't have that stark black and and
you can lay that kind of stuff in figure
out what works and then give it a good
blur there's so many different things
that you can do yeah
it's quite amazing what you can do yeah
this is category 5 technology TV and you
can find us online at triple w category
five dot TV we're just about at a time
for tonight it's hard to believe how
quick the night always goes by here we
are Daisy yeah and if we didn't get to
your question tonight I know there are
some questions that were we were unable
to get to but we will review emails and
you know email us live at category five
dot TV and and we'll we'll hope to take
care of you soon well yeah and also I
just wanna I just saw a little something
something in the chat room mm-hmm in
regards to the postcards an individual
said he's made his name's Harry and
about two shows ago I sent in a picture
of my Island which i forgot to say its
name and it's from Puerto Rico Puerto
Rico there's a post-party there that
came in so barry's bay was incorrect
ah-ah from Puerto Rico alright close so
yeah anyways send your postcards that
that was a little bit of a segue send
your postcards cuz not only will we be a
bubble of not only will we identify you
we will identify your home and native
land yes bringing spotlight to the place
in which you dwell and it just is cool
for us to get it yeah we also just love
snail mail that's basically what this
comes down some about today like I just
I don't get it anymore it's like its
bills and that's it and nobody sent me a
Christmas card in the mail and I
insisted I know I just like all just all
this pick a novel let's drop it off her
he's like no I'm gonna send in the mail
and I loved it cuz I love so much more
fun it's better it's way better so there
you have it so send us some snail now
not that your email photo of Puerto Rico
was not awesome I'm not so yeah we love
that too we love the world and we'd love
to learn more about it I'm postcard form
mm-hmm I'd like to know where our
viewers are from check out map dot cat
five dot TV yes do it now the show's
over you can all hit it all at once I
won't mind won't slows down or anything
yes it is luckily it's for
a cool it's very cool so but that's all
the time that we have great to see ya
congratulations again q yeah glad to be
here back with my posse back in the same
hot seat see you next week be fun take
care have a great week
