Brittany Marie hey Brittany Marie has
said okay so read the following from
Wikipedia which describes the design
intent for the Raspberry Pi so this is
in relation to the Raspberry Pi killer
oh yes last week exactly and tell me if
you still want to call the Odroid the
Raspberry Pi killer the Raspberry Pi is
a series of small single board computers
developed in the United Kingdom by the
Raspberry Pi foundation to promote the
teaching of basic computer science in
schools in developing countries
I just find the term killer to be a poor
choice considering the PI's target
market and its immense user develop a
developer hobbyists community should
still think that that fits don't get me
wrong I love the Odroid and I'll
probably order one there's still a bunch
of things that we would still be running
on PI's in my house oh sure absolutely
and the whole Raspberry Pi killer is a
tongue-in-cheek comment Brittany Marie
you know that's true and really what it
boils down to I mean it's the power it's
the strength of this thing so if you
know if you put David against Goliath
you expect Goliath is the the the one
who's gonna win even though it didn't
quite work out that way but in this case
no but okay Raspberry Pi is a completely
different market I look at it this way I
want to build stuff I want to tinker I
want to do I want to build things that
do things that's what the Raspberry Pi
is to me that's what being a maker is to
me I want to be able to develop I want
to be able to try new things I want to
be able to change my mind go back wipe
it and start over
so the Raspberry Pi does that and does
it well it's perfect for that
educational get your feet wet all that
okay now when we as makers get to the
point where the Raspberry Pi is no
longer powerful enough and it is behind
the times you have to admit Brittany
Marie it is behind the times as far as
technology goes because they haven't
built a new one in too long and and so
the technology has shifted it doesn't do
4k right
well I'm not sure I think it might but
but the technology itself as far as
processing power Ram those kinds of
things are far behind it the fact that
it has a very very slow USB to
controller with a SD card on that
controller it's very very slow that way
as far as throughput goes for but it's
great for so many things so don't get me
wrong the PI is amazing the pi3
especially but if you're if you get to
that point brittany marie where it's no
longer sufficient power wise and
strength wise and then it's time to
bring in goliath and say you know I want
something that's got more power I want
something that's got more RAM I want
something that runs faster I want
something that does away with SD and
switches to emmc and has USB 3.0 and
Gigabit Ethernet so so Raspberry Pi
killer know that's that's
tongue-in-cheek because the Raspberry Pi
has this place it's a very cheap SBC and
it definitely is is good for a lot of
stuff a lot of stuff and does a lot more
than you'd ever expect it to do yeah I
actually I have to raspberry PI's that I
use I have one at work that we use just
specifically for playing music oh yeah
yep and then I have one at home that we
use the retro pie like just going to use
it for retro gaming like yeah and the
thing is I love them both so much yeah
absolutely there's definitely a place
for it yeah but when I want to build
something that has a RAID controller and
is able to render 3d video out of
blender in a reasonable time and has
eight cores and on its processors yeah
you know you know what you know what I'm
saying yeah yeah yeah there are other s
pcs that are like I'm looking at the the
fit let to which we were gonna be
reviewing coming up and it is so
incredible like the the specs on it I
think it's got 16 gigs of ram and a 64
gig em - I believe it had I mean we're
gonna be reviewing this in the in the
coming
in the coming weeks so but there are
some devices that are coming out that
just blast past the Raspberry Pi 3 but
they're different use cases absolutely
different use cases thank you very much
for your fun
[Music]
[Applause]
you
