hello guys today we are back in the
mansion and I haven't I thought that I
kind of wanna I kind of want to pay my
my neighbor a visit and I found
something that I need to show you
blows ins diary don't read or else day 1
in the mansion ah ha ha I've read your
diary that doesn't say very much
all right then slowly back away anyway I
would like to go see our neighbor
[Music]
let's go outside because we haven't
really paid her a visit in a while and
usually she has something neat to say I
know it's a bit strange that she's
invisible and I'm going the wrong way
I'll just jump down knock knock come in
hello welcome dear I've been waiting for
you to come what is it I discovered
something about the secret room in the
mansion you know about the secret room
of course I do I know all the things
about it I want to tell you about the
most amazing secret of it what is it you
know there is a rainbow block into the
in the secret area if you go to the
rainbow block then break the two notes
underneath it we will find a secret room
then you will find three diamond blocks
in order to find the very secret room
that you want to find you must break the
correct diamond block if you break the
wrong one you will fall to your death is
that true I wouldn't lie all right
I've gotta go check that out
let's go
I don't recall seeing any - um rainbow
block let's go check that out let's go
down the long long long staircase
and she's right there is a diamond blah
I've rainbow block sir there is a room
behind it it's amazing let's patch this
up and there are three diamond blocks we
need to choose the right one I'm gonna
choose eenie meenie miney moe then and I
just do it now let's go no I chose the
wrong one I am mystic
alright let's do that again shall we
this one is wrong so fast that one let's
try a mini manual let's try this one no
why I always choose the wrong ones
let's try that one last time and get to
the secret room that she told us about
patch this up and good
it is the right room what is this it's
like some sort of magical throne and is
this a sacred cup
drinking glass what it's the sacred cup
let's go back to
all right please
let's go back and let's put that in our
bedroom I think that we should have a
chest full of them mate full of an item
from each adventure we have here so one
with a cop one with a soccer ball from
that from that soccer tournament that
didn't turn out as well let's go into my
room and let's get ourselves a chest
instead of a filing cabinet loathing you
can have that I am going to find a chest
now we have a chest where we can put all
of our amazing items from different
videos I think that we should go back
into that room and find some more things
to add to our room I've gone back down
here in look I have found something but
what is it there is a telephone one of
these thingies a power outlet this like
some sort of gate that's a bit random
let's go see if there's anything else in
here I don't think there is but I think
I can we want a piece of bread to eat
num num num num and let's go back in
here I think that we should Dec we
should make this or a secret hideout
so my plan is to make it like our very
secret room where no one else knows how
to get to it because they'll fall in the
lava they'll give up though they're too
scared so we want to make our very own
secret hideout
inside of the house that no one else is
allowed to come into all right let's try
to expand this a little bit more so that
we have more room legroom and look at
all these goodies we've gotten copper
block diamond blocks rainbow blocks gold
blocks miss crystal blocks mess box and
or key blocks this is going to be the
best room secret hideout in the world
okay let's expand this with two more
blocks out and then we can start
decorating it I can't believe I I don't
know how that invisible lady knows all
this stuff about my house I kind of feel
like she's been inside before I mean how
would she know about a secret room all
right so my plan is to make the entire
wall out of these blocks so let's
destroy this
there we go
didn't take too long and let's make the
entire ceiling out of these blocks there
we go now what block should we make the
floor let's clear all this out and find
a good block for the floor
it's just foot through and let's find
the best possible block I think that the
giant mushroom stems would look really
cool I know that I have some in my house
I'm for the flooring there so it might
suit everything have it matching the
mansion shouldn't take too long
yeah
the last blog is complete and wow we got
a full hot pair of blocks from that now
what should we make the walls notice
let's make them out of clay this clay is
a really nice block to use oh I just
stepped into the other place I'm
thinking to put a TV down here
everything you need a kitchen a bathroom
it's gonna be the best secret hideout in
the world
I won't tell Dad about it cuz he might
steal it because he he tends to steal
stuff like once in our old house I found
this little at the attic and I started
making my secret hideout there but then
he said that's too dangerous and then I
had to give it up so this time I'm gonna
keep it a secret
this is looking nice and that there's
that random marble piece that I put in
there and it's just about done just got
about a while and two blocks to go and
I'm really sorry but I didn't go
prepared for the names for the cats I
did see one comment though that appealed
to me so I will talk about that one but
I didn't see any other so sorry if you
commented all to probably show them in
the next mansion video and yeah so now
we've got this room complete and let's
grab a door let's grab a steel door so
other people can't sneak their way in so
we so let's find something that would be
really neat to use so I think why does
it keep going into door okay let me
search up core strange okay let's find
the home decor section
and use it to decorate as really new
places sponeck for a dog
hmm here we are so let's grab let's grab
a couple armchairs just put one no let's
make them longer get rid of that longer
ones here somewhere you grab no let's
just keep going
grab them when we find them so let's
grab an alarm clock clock a bed it's a
little pile of trash some beer
even though we're not allowed to drink
beer some wine some chairs coffee just
for Luck's desk lamp Oh blow a fan desk
dartboard some cutlery set
dishwasher um a tumble dryer fish tank a
DVD player a DVD and ok let's get rid of
that a flower pot a grandfather clock
ironing board kitchen cabinet microwave
a lattice Lantern kitchen faucet
medicine cabinet
I was trying to fill up the entire
inventory let's use a little locked one
instead and paint a couple paintings to
use some bookshelves an oven let's get
rid of one thing the pickaxe can go and
grab a refrigerator you know I'm gonna
have to get some more stuff afterwards
as soon as I've used these items hold on
they'll be searching fridge because I've
obviously missed it
here we go
all right so now we can get to work on
our secret base I think that we should
have a double bed here let's trash stuff
once we've used it a a kitchen cabinet
here let's put the kitchen cabinet stuff
here an alarm clock here B everything
there one of those put in the dishwasher
put in let's get rid of this could've
used it actually I don't think we need
bare Dewey we're not allowed to drink
beer so there's no point and let's grab
the dartboard put it above there
actually let's put it above our bed um
then let's get the oven put the
Frigidaire in the oven there get rid of
the that get a beat get some of those
bottles actually I'm pretty sure you can
get a bunch of bottles
yeah you can so let's get a mixture then
let's put the coffee the coffee maker
and then the locked microwave this is
not turning out too well but I mean I'm
not the best builder to grab some of
this stuff let's turn that on let's get
some tables and I might have to do this
in the next episode because there's not
enough time but this was a very
interesting adventure I mean I never
would have expected that there was a
sacred cup in my bed and in my house I
mean who would have here's our table and
let's just wrap it up by finishing up do
it by putting in some chairs putting in
some food and that'll pretty much wrap
up the video for today
if you're watching it don't come into my
secret base it's mine I was wearing
armor before that's a bit strange but if
you like this video then please like
subscribe and forgot something I need to
get back into the mansion there's
something I have to do very very quickly
as fast as I can patch that up patch it
up with diamonds and I need to name that
one cat that I saw a comment of I didn't
see any other comments I'm really really
sorry I'll name them in the next mansion
video which will be soon I'll quickly
find the cat there was a specific cat
that needed this name
let's find him where is he he's gone
he's been stolen
all right and this is a cat that I have
chosen named for he is kind of black and
white but I couldn't find a black and
white cat and his name will be Snoopy
from a comment that I saw said to please
name him Snoopy so his name is gonna be
Snoopy I'll try and use a name tape for
him but I can't do that today cuz we've
run out of time but this is Snoopy so if
you like what you see and please
subscribe like and comment comment some
more we want those names for them cats
but someone stole our cats so I had to
get a new one oh my goodness
look you found out my secret anyway
please subscribe like and everything
thanks for watching goodbye
