welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode number 508 it's
Wednesday the 14th of June 2017 nice to
have you here we are a week away from
our Debian release celebration because
Debian stretch is going stable this
weekend make sure you you plan to join
us next Wednesday night tonight we are
going to be looking at the world's
largest USB flash flash drive and you
want to stick around sasha is going to
be doing some field work as well and
talking to people in the in one of the
very malls about what they think would
be the largest you must be flash drive
think about it what do you think it
would be Sasha over in the newsroom what
do you have for us well here's what's
coming up in the category 5 TV newsroom
Boeing wants to make your passenger
airplanes entirely autonomous Amazon
Kindles book charts are being badly
skewed by BOTS and it's hurting authors
bottom line a battery powered by trash
is now a proven reality and the new Mars
rover it looks like something Batman
might drive stick around the full
details are coming up later in the show
this is category 5 technology TV our
live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream wire cast and nimble
streamer tune in live every single week
on roku cody and other HLS video players
for local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the text
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 TV slash PPN and the International
Association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash ia IB welcome to the show I'm
Robbie
please help me welcome Sasha drew made
it laughs Henry Billy Brown
how you been hope you've been happy to
do great week
tonight we are setting off to answer the
age-old question what size is your flash
drive pretty small actually so don't
judge it by size yeah I - small - I feel
like I got mine in a three pack combo oh
yeah okay so I stack it up your USB
flash drive what was the first one you
ever bought oh this is a bad one for me
you know Robbie yeah when was the spot -
fancy back in like 2008 I think it was
like super fancy 500 megabytes of
Awesome 500 megabytes what about you
what was the the first USB flash drive
that you ever bought Lyndon said 64
gigabyte 64 gig yeah that was fairly
recently for me I would I would think it
might have been a 32 megabyte oh my god
possibly a 64 megabyte do floppy disks
count it's kind of very tender tiny but
it also it was very expensive right I
mean I know that the chat rooms were a
while the FEU had 128 megabytes 128
megabytes that was big at the time yeah
for free in a swag bag just they
congratulate all the Word docs you could
you could store them that all those text
documents just ten out of ten what would
you think Henry is the largest just off
the top of your head what's the biggest
USB flash drive the up until today when
you came into the studio and saw well
honestly I thought it was something like
128 because you 28 gigs
yeah because it's just like you have
your standard okay 16 32 before and
right now like especially with phones
and stuff I think of like 128 you think
about the incremental and maybe maybe if
you're like super rich you might have
like a terabyte one if you're super rich
yeah because like you said even seen a
terabyte USB flash no I've never looked
it eriously things fit in your pocket
right yeah and it's just like why is it
terrible yeah and like I never I've
never seen one before
that's the size I think it would be what
do you two carry with you
oh I mean I always have flash drives in
my pocket
I have them linked together so I you
know each one is for different purposes
I might use it with you
I might cute I'm showing off my kick
guys mine is a cute little 128 gigabyte
a data you just push the button and it
slides out there sliding action yeah oh
yeah typical of the a data yep
drives yeah yeah what do you have this
is a 128 gig ue 700 and I bought this
good because I do a lot of video
production there you know I've got the
so I needed a faster Drive and then I've
got a data traveler 32 gig for just
general files hey look nice and right
but the definitely the the a data was
faster oh yeah so that's why I opted for
that but 128 gigs so that's the biggest
one that I carry around in my pocket hmm
Sasha do you carry I don't carry one on
me I have a couple at home um I don't
think I have anything bigger than 32 I
actually don't think I was I think
probably X is pretty big I think I might
have in my car yeah in my car in the
dashboard there is a port for USB so
good we have a low profile
SanDisk 32 gig card and I like it
the only reason I went with that one is
because it's low profile it's basically
flush to the - okay so can you put like
music install fonts just full of mp3s
look nice we can play it by by voice
activation on the new Van Van Van
bring on the tunes own wheat so you know
we've got this kind of plethora this mix
of various brands and various capacities
what do you actually use so I mean
there's there's one thing to say what's
the biggest USB flash drive what is the
you know the first one that you bought
but what's the one that you carry with
you and that you wouldn't be seeing
without that's really the question I'll
quarry you in the chat room as well you
know we look at all the various brands
and one brand is always cutting edge
when it comes to capacities and that's
Kingston Technology Kingston is the
forerunner at huge capacity solid-state
media
okay now we've seen this with the data
traveller one
terabyte USB flashdrive can you imagine
a USB flash drive that fits in your
pocket like this terrible and it's a
terabyte capacity that's pretty much
like your entire like personal life on
the average person but not more we're
going to get into it tonight what we
could possibly do with the kind of
capacities that the Kingston is bringing
out in the small media market and before
we do that Sasha you had a bit of an
adventure this week I did yeah what were
you up to well I was at the mall yes
and I been shopping till you drop
shopping till I dropped and I was
walking around talking to people should
we check in and see a show all right
let's head over to the georgian mall
here in Barrie Ontario here Sasha I'm
Sasha dramatis from category-five
technology TV and today we are showing
people their first look at Kingston
technologies biggest flash drive in the
world
Solomon do you use a USB flash drive for
your files for your storage I use a
couple of them yes awesome what size do
you
depending for school I like to use 32
gigs pre-sold size anything else that's
like just songs and stuff like that 8
gigs are typically okay for a quick
movement okay that's awesome what is the
biggest size that you could imagine that
they have 4 USB flash drive 2 terabyte
awesome yes you you're in the loop not
very many people know so we're just
letting people know that Kingston has
unveiled a 2 terabyte flash drive for
sold it's amazing I look at it yes I'd
from the general bulk it actually is
pretty nice we couldn't link my backpack
and I've got no issues Jude can I ask
you a couple questions
yeah do you use a USB flash drive for
your storage of your bra's file
yeah I use a 256 gig I might put music
on it and bring it in my car
nice what's the biggest flash drive that
you can imagine um I don't know maybe a
512 by 512 megabyte okay so what if I
told you that Kingston technology is
just unleashed data traveller that is 2
terabytes
what I never even heard a thing like
that that's huge pretty amazing act yeah
how much do they run for Wow that's
incredible but I mean for somebody who
needs it you know I wouldn't be too much
if their reasonable business pretty
incredible act yeah that's nice I love
it Nathan do you use a USB flash drive
for storage for files no I don't I have
you heard of them yes I have alright
what about is the size you would guess
they they would be 100 gig 100 gigs
Andrew do you use a USB flash drive for
your file sometime time ok about what
size is it a couple gigs like I don't
really move a whole lot around so what
would you imagine the biggest one would
be 500 gigs I don't know 500 gigs ok so
what if I told you that Kingston
technology has just unveiled one that is
four times that size that's pretty crazy
let's not get terrible later this is 2 2
terabytes Wow incredible I can't believe
that come on take a look at it doesn't
look a whole lot different from your
average USB Drive I guess pretty cool
Alex I'm Sasha I'm just here to ask you
a couple questions oh ok so Alex do you
use a USB flash drive for file storage
or for everyday use I do not you do not
have have you heard of them ok ok so
what size do you think is the largest
size that you can imagine that they
would have for USB flash drive I would
say 256 gigs
256 gigs well what if I told you that
Kingston technology has unveiled a USB
flash drive that is eight times the size
that would be incredible
if your mind blown loan you want to see
it that is super cool
two terabytes wow that is pretty cool so
you're giving them out is that we're
just blowing people's minds oh okay all
right Connor do you use a USB flash
drive for your storage for your files
and devices not since I was in school
that's awesome post-secondary okay so
when you were in post-secondary in
school what size USB flash drive
approximately did you run 32 gigs 32
gigs okay so what size USB flash drive
do you think is the biggest flash drive
don't you terribly you think 2 terabyte
yeah I think that's pretty accurate I
don't know well I'll tell you you're
absolutely right hélène kingston
technology has just unveiled its newest
greatest USB like USB Drive well it's
big but I suppose it kind of needs to be
the store everything inside 2 terabytes
that's really cool it's incredible and
that is it's good if you're obviously
the business person or anything like
that we are consistent either on the
goer but not we have like all these
files you need to kind of keep with you
anytime hey can I ask your question
Brian do you use a USB flash drive for
your storage for your computer in files
for loop a USB flash drive to use a US
moment I know have you heard of
functional you've never heard of them
I'm old school
Oh my name is Sasha what's your name
Milan man nice to meet you nice to meet
you too do you use a USB thumb drive
splasher ah ah occasionally occasionally
okay so what size would you imagine the
biggest USB flash drive would be ah I
don't didn't know size also name okay
what storage size I mean it's toys
yeah one terabyte one terabyte what if I
told you that the biggest flash drive
was just unveiled by Kingston
technologies called the data traveller
and it has double that size so it's 2
terabytes Wow that's that's amazing
you want to see it yeah man so what do
you think looks cool
yeah like I almost are Drive hard right
yeah
meat does it have any cloud storage or
any functionality or just storage its
storage it's reading right so it's 300
megabytes a second for read and 200
megabytes a second for right okay that's
cool yeah how much girls asking
well I'm not I'm not telling you it
retails for about it's not in the market
right it's just unveiled so so now let's
head back to the studio where Robbie is
going to give us the technical info of
the Kingston DataTraveler to Terra bytes
flash drive you want a fast runner
because you just got back here you
change just like that
so fan fan Wow so that was a lot of fun
thanks for doing that
nice to get some folks on the show that
otherwise may not may not be here and if
you're watching hey thanks for watching
and make sure you say hi in our chat
room or send us an email let us know
that you're hanging out with us ok so
this is the data traveler ultimate GT
it's a USB 3.1 drive and as you saw
there this is 2 terabytes capacity let's
jump on here so that you can get a
closer look at this and this is how it
comes in the kit so here's the drive now
one of the things that you may encounter
is that maybe a you know blocks the
ports on the back of your computer
because it is a little bit larger than
the standard USB draw we see so Kingston
has thought about that they've included
just a little tiny USB cable this is
going to help you if you want to plug it
in to your ps4 something like that you
want to plug it into the back of a
computer and your bezel on the chassis
is going to be blocking that that's
going to work for you
what else is in the kit we've got a nice
little bag there you go
for carrying it in your pocket or
whatever but here you go I'll pull this
out here so that you can get a good look
and there is the data traveller ultimate
gt2 terabyte let's get right up there so
yeah so this is a 16 gig data traveller
to move down just a little bit sore on
the frame and you can see the comparison
there just a wee little bit larger a
just a bit it's basic chic like and this
is a nice
I suppose it's aluminium it's a metal
body nicely made nothing but the best
from Kingston and so you know the the
question becomes well what on earth
would you do with a to here right let's
back this up really good what's fit on a
2 terabyte I just need to like imagine
reefing everything right like every
movie ever
well you figure a movie in is like like
a full-length movie would be anywhere
from about 700 to 1200 mega Giga bytes
megabytes 1.2 gigabytes say ok so you
could have like to to have it we need we
need it 1000 mm let me bring up the
calculator here because I'm really gonna
fly Mac oh my gosh okay so we've got 2
terabytes let's just say that's 2000
gigabytes and my first drive was like 64
megabytes so this is about 31,000 of
those drives that I originally bought
plugged into the back of a computer like
it's not it's crazy
and yet awesome so if you're a business
person and you need some space to keep a
backup that isn't very highly portable
one of the things about a backup Drive
is that they're not always portable
right there oh yeah they're inconvenient
they they get left behind places because
you've got to set them down because they
don't fit in your ear
your bag or whatever you're carrying
purse and so this is something that you
can literally disconnect it fit it in
your pocket
with two thousand gigabytes
all right orage and it's nice and nice
and well built as you say so
looks like something that would be in a
spy movie a spy movie
now we're getting all something let's
talk about that you can actually check
out now I'll just mention there's a
reason that every time someone asked
about the price we had to sort of change
that in the interview and that is
because this is brand new to the
Canadian market so the pricing in fact
since you were there on like last
weekend yeah has dropped $400 oh good
like that that's the how things happen
because it's brand new to the market
they're starting to get stock in into
Canada and so we're starting to see you
know the price kind of find its spot in
the market they are not inexpensive but
for what they are for what this dying
such an investment that's worth it
absolutely yeah they're fantastic
solid-state device so this is not got
any moving parts well that's a wonderful
part like even for a backup right to
keep your files like it's an air gap
right so even if you like you have
family photos or something and you don't
want to invest on like a whole like raid
system or anything else so what would be
the problem then as I think about
putting all my family stuff on here or
my business stuff or whatever it's
confidential it's stuff that I don't
want other people to have access to
Sasha you know what have we covered
recently that would be applicable to
something like this that would really
help us to protect our data so if
someone were to steal this from me and
it's got all my family photos right all
you would do is you would encrypt it yes
absolutely you spy movie there you go go
back to the so on our website category
five dot TV check out episode number 506
507 for the two-part series or just
search for excel yeah Luke stump is a
great value pay SD u MP do a search for
that and I find it all about encryption
well so you know if you were to you know
the other risk that you would run with
something like this is it stores so much
data I think this is my biggest fear
when you know if I were to hand this off
to someone and say here you go yeah our
temptation is wow that's that's got more
harddrive space than my desktop computer
if you walk into a super store and buy a
computer chances are this is this is
more space right if you've got a solid
state hard drive in that computer so if
that's the case I'm gonna be tempted to
put a lot of stuff on here that is
nowhere else
so I therefore done away with redundancy
and this becomes the only copy so yeah
and so like any storage we need to make
sure that we have redundancy so the when
you get into two terabytes of Pocket
storage we need to make sure that this
is a copy or the various redundancy
somewhere by two when you go by one your
nards
please use our affiliate link yeah I put
one in a safety deposit box what would
it really boiled down to to me so we
understand this the capacity of this
that's pretty that's a no-brainer this
is literally the largest capacity how a
USB flash drive that has ever been
created now as I say that I think about
some of the Alibaba sales and the and
these knockoffs that you see for $10 and
yeah immediately know that they're fake
but do be mindful a bay is known to and
they already have had a lot of stock on
something that said that's two terabytes
is not Kingston obviously those are not
real so what someone does is they hack
into the firmware of the drive so that
it reports that it's Tutera okay and
it's really only like 128 gigs or
something like that thank you so as you
put your data on it it works great oh
this is fantastic until you hit that 128
gig actual physical limit and then you
lose all your data so this is by
Kingston technology this is legitimate
this is the first and largest but it's
also very very fast right you had
mentioned about 300 megabytes read and
you reckon and 200 megabytes right 200
right so great I wanted to put that to
the test because understanding the
capacity thing what I really want to
know is is it going to be faster than my
traditional USB hard drive my last drive
I should say because this is what I use
when I need to put something on a drive
and take it with me
usually I'm in a hurry quite often I am
I want to plug that in copy a video file
and get away from there
like the spy movies your kind of get in
get a laser okay so you see in Alec work
do you want to wait for it by super spy
or do you want to be able to store more
in less time now your cue from legacy
button okay
so the little old data traveller to this
is adt 101 g2 it's a 16 gig drive this
is one that I typically use for just all
kinds of miscellaneous stuff because 16
gigs is nice and small small enough to
be quick format and reuse
yeah but big enough to be able to store
larger files so this one came in what I
did is I used USB flash speed comm they
have a benchmark tool that then creates
a website that shows the benchmarks and
it compares it against other people
running the benchmarks so this drive
plugged into the bus on my my best
window system came up with twenty two
point eight nine megabytes per second
read okay and just two point five one
megabytes per second right so you can
imagine as I'm copying files to this
drive it's brutally flow if they're
reasonably large keep in mind this
benchmark tool does average things out
so it tests all different file sizes and
it doesn't four times each to make sure
that you get the accurate averages so
this is that this is the average there
so now if we look at the data traveller
ultimate g2 two terabyte this one in the
same test plugged into the same bus gave
me a whopping two hundred and thirteen
point eight eight megabytes per second
average read that's a lot that's nice
now
never had a USB flash drive that is
super super fast for this type of media
hard drives like the internal SATA
components on your on your computer can
be a little bit faster than that mine
run about five hundred and fifty
megabytes per second but for a USB 3
device is something that just plugs into
the back of your computer or the side of
your laptop this is the fastest that
I've personally yeah
amazing fast writing because I do a lot
of video how's it going to perform our
average was one hundred and twenty seven
point five seven megabytes per second
megabytes not bits bytes so it's very
fast so then you know so we know
comparison wise this is significantly
bigger significantly faster than our
average you have a flash drive but
really the proof is in the pudding how
is it going to perform for me in my use
case so let's put them head-to-head
let's plug these two in together and now
I've got about three point two gigabytes
of video files from last week's show so
if I just copy those well let's just
bring up the properties there I know my
my screen capture isn't perfectly clear
there but it's about 3.2 gigs for this
handful of files I'm just going to copy
that to my clipboard and I'm going to
paste it to both of those drives we're
going to show it simultaneously now this
was done and recorded at a different
time there is the data traveler ultimate
gt2 terabyte moving along at the bottom
right look at the one in the top left
it's it almost doesn't seem to be moving
this is real time this has not been sped
up this is about 3.2 gigabytes of data
being copied over the USB bus to that
Drive Wow
boom it's done it took only twenty four
point oh nine seconds now the other
drive continues for another twenty one
minutes oh my gosh every live subject
you to it but you've all been there
you've all seen that window that just
keeps on going and keeps on going keep
in mind this is exactly the same data
set
while you are seeing them on the screen
at the same time I actually did them at
two separate times so that I could plug
the drives into the same box yeah and do
an accurate test and then just use my
software to edit it together 21 minutes
it took versus the data traveller which
was 24 seconds I think so the difference
between plug it in transferring and
going and go and plugging it in drinking
coffee for 20 minutes
relaxing yeah and then going is my life
like analogy in my mind and I'm like man
I do whole like gunfight in that time
yeah a lot of advice it's put in that
time frame yeah that's the whole movie
right there so there you have it that's
the data traveller from Kingston it's
the ultimate GT watch for it go over to
our website cat5 dot TV slash big flash
and you'll be able to check that out so
that is it that's I'm just like imagine
because I'm I retropie right so you
imagine if I had that gay how many games
how many games I would plug right in as
Barry the guy I've been thinking about
that because like again because like
last week I mentioned like I want to
like make a cloud storage device out of
my PI so plug that in two terabytes to
it and just instead of paying for
Dropbox Pro it does have everything
stored locally at home not imposable not
the most economical ways yeah I know but
I thought up I still but you would be
the envy of geekdom engine yeah just so
for that where this is where this to me
works really really well is in that
portable backup solution yeah that
redundant copy that I absolutely need to
be able to keep with me but also being
able to transfer an entire database of
video files and and take them with you
to the cottage that kind of stuff and
not having to worry about space
restraints for video producers for folks
that need to have redundant copies of
their files the data traveler ultimate
GT is the perfect solution
Wow 2 terabytes goodbye 2 4 4 terabytes
why redundant redundant there's one
thing I've ever done see I feel like
we're really dating ourselves on this
segment though because like remember 150
megabytes is like super large are we
gonna go there I feel like 10 years now
we're gonna be looking back and it's
like oh that's cute as to terrifying
right no it'll be like it'll be 2
terabytes but look how big it is because
you care might still be like this it is
true and Kingston knows this they you
know look at Kingston's micro SD cards
mm-hmm and like 128 gigs is not you know
that's that's what they are yeah is like
that easy right so 128 gigs on a thing
this big the size of your ear some nail
and that's that's how it looks oh yeah
what will these look like in in 10 years
time but that's incredible just amazing
I was working with rll hard drives back
in the day 30 megabytes was the biggest
drive that I had and they and they were
this big the drink walking around in
your pockets was like it literally was
no it was in you put it in the chassis
but it was hue Wow
it was what it took up the same space as
two cd-rom drives or blu-ray drive in
your computer I just remember back in
high school how like we are like the
last generation to like really utilize
floppy disks now you ask kids nowadays
they don't know what they are isn't that
interest but back at our old uncool you
know we still have they still have it
like the same older computers like the
big slots for the floppy disks right and
no one knows what they're for isn't that
funny that's kind of scary as well but
it's like yeah I could bring in your old
floppy and just as a side note it was
interesting wasn't it to find that the
younger generation and and older as well
but definitely we found with the younger
generation because they're so cell phone
centric so smartphone centric that's
their storage oh yeah that's true yeah
Wow
yeah threw them all when I talked to the
younger ones
yeah teenagers teenagers actually they
did not have anything but their cell
phones like ever
it makes sense right and then they just
started a cloud I guess I guess so yeah
yeah but for me I would still want
redundant copies right who is the cloud
what you know how do you know you got a
cloud you're just trusting something out
there no I want something I can put in
my pocket right that's just me
all right we have to take a really short
break and when we come back Sascha
you're made us has got our news stories
your top news stories with a slight
Linux bias
don't go anywhere
[Music]
this is category five technology TV
welcome back and speaking of Debian not
to make reference to one of our
commercials but next week is our Debian
stretch release celebration and I hope
you can make it now we actually have
free tickets if you'd like to join us
here in studio all you have to do is go
to category 5 TV and click on tickets
we're located in Barrie Ontario in
Canada so certainly if you are nearby
it's something that you want to come and
be a part of and if you're watching at
home of course we'll be broadcasting
live as well or just a heads up Debian
stretch the latest version of the Debian
Linux distribution is going stable this
I believe it's Saturday the 17th
Saturday I believe so coming up somebody
else usually for me Sasha over in the
newsroom what do you have for us tonight
here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
Amazon Kindles book charts are being
badly skewed by boss and it's hurting
authors bottom lines a battery powered
by trash is now a proven reality and the
new Mars rover looks like something
Batman might drive these stories are
coming right up
don't go anywhere Jeff Weston Gellin
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website what
are you alright you're terrible actor
what that's where acting comes into play
I don't know where our thing you're
supposed to act okay fair enough
building a really cool website are you
building a really cool website you need
hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
it's true how much harddrive space do
you have how many email account how many
domains can point to it well we've got
an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are going to get
unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the roots of your own
calm guys to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine
sign up cat5 GV / DreamHost still peddle
of papers on it just don't do it but hey
it's a great deal folks best deal you're
going to find five dollars and change
per month go to cap five dot TV / dream
host
I'm Sasha dramatis and here are the top
stories for the week of June 14th 2017
the days of listening to the casa
speaking on a flight might be numbered
according to Boeing the aerospace
aerospace giant has been actively
working on the pilotless
technology and has already built an
automatic takeoff and landing system
into its newest model the 787 Dreamliner
the industry is also facing a severe
shortage of pilots so Boeing is looking
for a high-tech solution Mike Senate VP
of Boeing responsible for future
technology says the basic building
blocks of the technology are clearly
available there's going to be a
transition from the requirement to have
a skilled tech and skilled aviator
operate the airplane to having a system
that operates the vehicle autonomously
if we can do that at the same level of
safety he goes on to say that's a really
big if the gold standard he explained is
to build an AI flight system that can
replicate captain Chelsea Sully
Sullenberger z-- 2009 landing of a
crippled jet on the Hudson River in New
York losing no passengers in the process
the captain was praised for choosing his
unusual landing spot rather than trying
to make it to an airport which as was
later realized was highly unlikely to
have worked however getting a computer
to make the same decision as a challenge
Sinnott said we are not smart enough to
pre program all those things the machine
has to be capable of making the same set
of decisions if it can't we can't go
there I will take a moment to say that
that captain Sully I'm like amazing
decisions you made I don't everybody
remembers this I'm certain but to have
the the level of requirement like the
computers must be at least as smart as
you buddy it released be able to make
decisions yeah well here's the thing
like being somebody in aviation like
aviation management that's my program in
college and I'm a pilot
I actually don't see this technology
taking over the commercial space for at
least another three or four decades
believe it or not because right now in
aviation we're still using radio
navigation which sounds what's that
we've been using that since like World
War two
right so like radio beacons and things
like that we're still getting used to
GPS in aviation right so if you think
about that imagine the ability to have
no no one in the cockpit like in
aviation that's a weird thing is that
these technologies take a longer time to
get and like used to because they might
have safety involved especially like if
you're talking about the FAA so America
Transport Canada you have to get it all
certified everything else right sure and
what if there's a power outage what if
there's something else right right so be
personally I'm not sure if I can see
this being implemented for like another
few decades but if there's like a heart
attack or like if there's something else
right it's sort of like the autopilot
sort of situation but if you have that
as a backup yeah like a learning
autopilot or it happened though where
instead of just jumping right to hit
this plane flies as well so it already
lands and takes off by itself it already
has autopilot so could it not become
more well I guess left it less of a
skilled position to be a pilot because
being a pilot yeah you have to be really
focused and in tune with what's going on
around you well not even not because
nowadays has really come down to pushing
a button right because as soon as the
airplane takes off yeah they're on
autopilot that's saying at what point is
the pilot needed it's when the
decision-making comes back exactly it's
the human element right so God being
said can you fly it like it's your own
somewhere else right or yeah that's
interesting going to quit could the
pilot if we so would say it continues to
be pilot but could they be less skilled
and just be a decision maker and the
autonomous nature of the plane is able
to take the decisions made by this
person and implement them and so as I
say you know we're not going to make it
the computer may not be able to realize
we're not going to make it to the
airport mm-hmm we need to land on the
Hudson River yeah could I not say to the
computer that's what we're going to do
and the computer just obliges and
doesn't think well that's the thing
right I think it's going to be a slow
movement into this right so like if we
are going this direction we might see oh
maybe we'll let the systems do their
thing but we might have somebody there
like a pilot that has
that there for me all right that's why I
see a nightie right like just I wonder
if there's a shortage of pilots maybe
having something like this fly the plane
will increase the pilot hours because I
know that's a thing you can you can be a
pilot and you're only allowed to fly a
certain number of hours because how
taxes really if you're feeling right but
if you have a program that's flying the
plane for you maybe you can fly double
the hours
sorry pilot Mo Money Mo Money month it's
not I want a career come on man I want
to keep my hours up so do you want ten
hours a day or twenty exactly
all right so fake story fake books
powered by clicks arms are gate-crashing
Amazon's charts and despite being aware
of the issue for well over a year Amazon
and thus far failed to resolve it first
of all it's important to understand that
the author's share a lump sum pot in the
money of in Kindle unlimited program the
progressively big issue with this is
that scammers have been raiding the
Kindle unlimited pot using a simple but
effective trick they usually pilfer the
content first of all
pilfer the content first of all by
stealing legitimate authors work and
running it through a sonata miser and
then uploading it to Amazon thus
avoiding the automatic plagiarism
detectors they make sure the book is as
long as possible but as they're
enrolling the title and Kindle unlimited
they keep it under the programs limit of
3,000 pages these thieves make the books
free for a few days and then use a
variety of banned methods to generate a
huge and immediate surge in downloads
generally suspected to be BOTS or clique
farms or dummy accounts or some
combination thereof these fake books
then suddenly jump into the top 20 of
the free charts displacing authors who
have gone to a considerable effort to
put together an advertising campaign for
their work when authors and readers
report these fake books to Amazon no
action usually gets taken until the
following Monday by then it's often too
late and these titles have returned to
the paid listings and the subsequent
boost in page reads which normally
follows a free run enables them to grab
a huge
chunk of the Kindles unlimited the
Kindle unlimited pot which is the same
shared pot that all authors get paid
from man I know this firsthand because
Becca is an author and she's not Amazon
she's on Kindle she oh yeah
so we we run these promos Wow for you
know we want to give away the book for
free for seven days right right so if
someone does something like this and it
takes away from like revenue from that
and the amount of countless hours that a
true author puts into it's heartbreaking
you know it really is not only that I
didn't even realize anonymizer is a
thing but could you imagine somebody
taking her book running it through this
in autumn Iser which I guess is just
replacing every word with another
synonymous work yeah and then reaping
the benefit of the work that she's done
with no effort at all I bought Becca a
book Chesterton book while ago I think
it was for Christmas or something and it
was off of Amazon but it was a it was a
paperback so it probably came from
Kindle direct or something like that
yeah and when she read it she commented
about there's a lot of weird like the
terminology is weird and then it hit us
as we were as we learned about this
story could that book have been synonym
eyes synonyms into my minimizer you know
why cuz then people are able to sell
this book and make revenue from it and
this was a physical book the Kindle
Direct press allows also a printed book
well that's the thing right is that I
think that this is going to be a huge
field especially when we're talking
about like AI and machine learning
because there's so much potential for
business there especially because like
you know YouTube has the auto flagging
feature for copyright yeah so wonder if
somehow these companies are going to
integrate like AI machine learning into
when it scans a book like you know how
it has to that's why they have to change
all like the nouns and verbs and
everything yeah but yeah I wonder if
that's an application for some kind of
artificial intelligence Wow becoming
bookworms just heartbreaking is crazy
gentleman pursuing more efficient
sources of renewable energy has led many
Tim
many iterations of the battery but
researchers had just brought a really
interesting new version to the table one
made from potassium ions and trash the
scientists started with a rusty recycled
stainless steel mesh and used a
potassium ferrocyanide solution which is
also used in red wine production and
fertilisers to dissolve ions out of the
meshes layer of rust so I'm totally just
like why one for you one for me one for
you battery me okay those ions including
iron and nickel then combined with other
ions in the solution together they form
the salts that clung to the massive
scaffolded nano cubes that could store
and release potassium ions the movement
I know the movement of potassium ions
allows for conductivity which was
boosted with an added coating of
oxidized graphite lithium body batteries
have been the go-to version for
renewable energy storage but lithium is
expensive and exists in limited amounts
plus Philippian batteries have had a
troublesome history of exploding sodium
ion batteries have been suggested as an
alternative because sodium is plentiful
and cheap two qualities that also apply
to the potassium ion views in this study
so this battery was just a
proof-of-concept study for the
researchers it has an impressive result
the battery has high-capacity discharge
voltage and cycle stability its use of
recycled materials makes it an
especially appealing possibility because
good news the good news always makes me
so happy to make you think of Back to
the Future doc Oh garbage into the
hockey
yes sure Marv I guess Marty you're doing
this Rick and Morty so cool so every
Komori reference stick by Parker
Brothers concepts the same florida-based
custom vehicle shop that built a tron
inspired electric motorcycle has now
designed and built a new NASA rover for
humans to drive around on Mars the
result looks like something Adam West
would be proud to drive around the
server
of the Red Planet at two to three times
the size of the Mars Curiosity rover and
weighing in at over three times heavier
it would not be easy getting this new
concept vehicle to Mars or landing it
all in one piece it would be well worth
the attempt the scientifically themed
Mars rover concept vehicle operates on
an electric motor powered by solar
panels and a seven hundred volt battery
the rover separates in the middle with
the front area designed for scouting and
equipped with a radio and navigation
provided by the Global Positioning
System the back section serves as a full
laboratory which can disconnect for
autonomous research it's doubtful that
this vehicle will ever leave earth
however some of the ideas represented in
it might be incorporated into future
Rover designs including the upcoming
large 2020 mission that is awesome hey
your face Batson sigh I'm like oh yeah I
was just thinking that I don't wish yeah
I tried that moment of silence for sure
yeah I would totally drive that to
school I'm thinking hey if they can't
get it to Mars okay good drive it around
I believe somebody to category five
movie talking about getting you a ride
if I'm driving and that I also want
self-lacing shoes perfect awesome thanks
for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category-five TV newsroom I'm
Sasha tomatoes thanks Sasha this is
category 5 technology TV and you'll find
our website at category five dot TV it's
nice to have you here please don't
forget that we have a contest underway
and we're collecting ballots right now
all you have to do is email contest at
category five dot TV when you do that
just tell us what you love about
category five what keeps you coming back
and what we're going to do is we're
going to cast your name in a ballot in a
in the box of ballot yes we're going to
do a draw and the winner is going to be
able to go into our treasure chest
what's this very yard tell us some stuff
in the Cheshire Cat and it's always
growing
we've got a treasure chest of great
prizes and when you when you qualify
when you win you'll be able to actually
choose which prize you want because I
guess what happens right so let's say we
do a drone giveaway and somebody wins it
and they they don't fly drones and they
don't care to fly drones right it's like
man you know whatever I don't even I
want yeah I won don't knock it away or
wha so what we decided is hey here's a
really neat way to do this
yeah we've got a drone in the box we've
got a whole bunch of other cool things
in the box so you actually get to pick
the prize out of the treasure chest that
you would like to win and then that's
going to get sent to you do I get to be
part of this if I can I write in you can
write and read about yourself we'd love
to hear yes I won't
I won't actually take the Friday reading
on the air um Josh is the baggage is
only because recently my brain has been
like leaving me and I feel like I could
use some of those Chipola Zing's Sao
Paulo are great yeah tracker devices
that that I need your stuff I need to
put it on me where am I
so you know very my in life where am I
find yourself what now darn good logo
you'll find yourself oh boy
well I guess like that's we had some
technical difficulties off the top of
the show but that's generally all the
time that we have for tonight but
everything's been going well and it's
nice to see you guys
nice to see you nice to see and you I'm
excited about next week just because
Debian is going yeah that's a big deal I
hope that you know stress you know you
do have a whole week's worth of like
warning and so if you are on the other
side of this planet I would get here
this is reaching the fourth wall it's
like like on the other side of the lunge
you're like here's something I've never
done before in my life gone to Barrie
Ontario Canada you go
I don't want occasion
you know yeah come and see Debian so we
have a new clock at the waterfront whoo
yeah we were very artistic our see artsy
fartsy yeah here and very a lot of
artwork because that goes up super
randomly this clock on the waterfront I
don't know if you know of it Gary it's
kind of has a steampunk --is-- yes the
Barry Rotary Club put it in and so over
Christmas they were selling like
plastered in rotary logos well they were
so here's the thing they were selling
bricks so it was a donation right so I
did this this is how I know so you
donate to the rotary and then you could
choose what you want inscribed on the
brick okay so for Christmas for Dave I
got him when it's a davelis Asha right
so now this this clock is off and it's
surrounded by now I have to go hunt for
our brick which also is an Indian law
but I like one so it's going to be
really neat because you can go and look
around this whole clock for whichever
brick we didn't know that yeah so no you
know now you should come and check out
the clock the new clock to find a brick
find my brick - brick you tell us if you
find it okay I will take a picture of it
terrific that's all the time that we
have folks it's been nice having you
here thank you so much for joining us
don't forget check out cat5 dot TV slash
what do we call it big flash big flash
there you go selfie from kingston and
thank you to Kingston for sending that
to us for review as well so have a
fantastic week and we'll see you next
next Wednesday night good night
