hi guys today we are doing another mind
test video where today we're going to be
doing another video in the survival
world but today we're not going back to
the start the survival horror sorry but
today we're going to be doing the first
mod showcase for this on youtube series
today we're going to be doing a mod
called the more ores mod it's not a very
big mod but it's got quite a few new
ores to offer and some new tool sets and
things like that so it's a really good
quality mod the ingots have these have
good textures and everything these are
the oars this one isn't quite the or but
that's what you need that or you need to
cap this one because this one's an o um
like this kinda or you can craft you
know what I mean and we're going to get
right to this so this first order is
called the copper or it doesn't have
much it doesn't have a toolset but it
does have the copper rails sorry but I
do not know how to craft this copper
blocks which you can be crap which can
be crafted by nine copper ingots that we
have here in the crafting grid once more
hold on for a sec which you can get
copper and gets by smelting copper lumps
and apprentice and the next door we have
is bronze which can be crafted by
putting one copper ingot and when steel
and get which steel ingots are made from
smelting iron ores in the furnace to get
a bronze ingot then you can make the
bonds block with nine bronze ingots and
there's a tool set with the bronze
pickaxe you just need to stick swear
watch where I'm clicking two sticks and
then three bronze here to make the
bronze pickaxe the bronze shovel two
sticks and one bronze ingot the bronze
sword one stick and two bronze ingots in
the bronze whore ho two sticks and two
bronze ingots
there is an axe which is crafted with
two sticks and three bronze ingots but I
couldn't find it in the creative
inventory the next one is called tin
which doesn't do much tin block which is
crafted by Tenten and gets which are
made from smelting tin lumps in a
furnace and that's how you make tin box
then the next one is one of my favorites
called me throw you need um which is
found from this or no good broke it duh
there fixed it so it's really nice or
it's a nice blue kind of or so this is
the it's really nice my favorite you get
my thorough lumps from breaking or which
are actually quite rare rarer than
diamonds so they're really good but
they're really good and to their tools
are amazing also the mithril block which
is made from nine material ingots in the
crafting grid which is smelted from MIT
alums and you can get the natural tool
set and oh my goodness i forgot the
shovel but there is a shovel then then
last but not least or silver the silver
ingot which is made from silk which is
made from smelting silver lumps in a
furnace you can make silver blocks in
the silver toolset which is the same as
I just showed you and that's really most
of what what this odd hat mod has to
offer and yeah this is this may be a
really short video but I really hope you
enjoyed because this is kind of it's a
simple mod it's a good model because it
may not look like much but you can bring
in a lot more things to your world for
more ores in the ground and more box to
display your home with so if you did
like this video and would like to see
more mods showcases in this world then
please subscribe and leave a
big fat like and tell us in the comments
how well you liked it or if you have any
improvement for any way that I can make
this better and one last thing to show
you these pedestals but you can this
doesn't come with the mod but every time
I have a mod I'm going to put the main
items to the mod on and pedestal to
display so that we never forget what
wonderful my showcases we've done thanks
for watching goodbye
