hey welcome to category five technology
TV episode 546 great to have you with us
it's gonna be a very very exciting
episode tonight we are talking crypto
currency I want to talk about turtles
turtles we talk about turtles the
chocolate there's a new one called
turtles we're gonna learn out of mine
that yes how to set up a wallet all this
kind of cool stuff we're gonna learn
what it is and basically how to get
started on crypto mining because it's a
little overwhelming and we're gonna
simplify it for you and make it fun
crazy easy how we do it around here
stick around
this is category five technology TV
[Music]
art live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology provide your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit our website
category 5 dot TV category 5 TV is a
member of the tech podcast network if
it's tech it's here cat 5 TV slash TPN
and the International Association of
internet broadcasters cat 5 TV slash IAI
be welcome to category 5 technology TV
it's so nice to have you here I'm Robbie
and I'm Jeff and I'm Sasha tonight we've
got Rachel planned for you before we get
into it just a little bit of
housekeeping last week we looked at Plex
pie yes and I mentioned that Plex pie
1.2 was coming and it arrived Friday
night I was there uploading it to drive
and it's up one of the things with Plex
pie and while we were demonstrating it
that was like a better version that I
was demonstrating of 1.2 I said I really
wish we had time to show you how to
install the category 5 TV network Plex
Channel right on your plex PI server and
then when I built the final build I said
yeah we didn't quite get around to it so
I built our channel into Plex PI so now
when you install Plex PI 1.2 and higher
you actually get the category 5 TV
Network channel built into Plex PI wow
you make things so simple it's already
pre-configured it's ready to go you can
watch all the shows without having to
download them you know it's funny I
remember I think last season you made a
comment about wanting to have more out
of box software for this kind of stuff
and I love that you're rolling it up
because it does make it so much easier
for somebody's like oh I love that oh I
love cash 5 well n Plex PI was one of
the it was birthed out of the fact that
we did a demonstration on how to set up
place and people had trouble and new
Linux users people who are brand new to
Raspberry Pi and tinkering had trouble
and so I was fielding a lot of questions
like I did this I followed the steps but
I can't get it working I can't get my
drives to mount yes and there's nothing
wrong with those kinds of questions I
helping them out but there comes a point
when it's like I've answered this ten
thousand times what can I do better and
that's what Plex PI came out of was
saying you know what why don't I just do
this and release it as a build and I've
got a lot of experience doing distro
releases with NEMS Linux so it was a
good opportunity and I think hey if you
haven't tried it yet Plex PI comm turns
a Raspberry Pi 3 into a plex media
server and you can watch episodes number
five 44 and 545 of category 5 technology
TV to learn all about it
mm-hmm so there is that ok totally just
liked there you totally just blank
I'll just take over all righty go for
all right so we are extinct it away some
copies of dead Effect 2 VR nice we still
have the contest going here's how you
enter you email contest at category 5 TV
and let us know where you're watching
from how you're watching how much you
love us nice to know who you are too I
think that's important tell us your name
in the chat room that would be helpful
mm-hmm did you mention the email address
I did ok contest oh maybe I maybe I did
that category 5 dot TV if I did not
brilliant okay good luck to you young
one are you ready to get into it
absolutely I I've been waiting for this
topic I don't even want to take a
commercial break we're just gonna jump
right into it yes so tonight we're
talking cryptocurrency yes
he's excited I am couple of you just
went oh really cryptocurrency why we're
gonna we're gonna make this fun for you
you just set it before the show we're
gonna we're gonna have a lot of fun with
this we're gonna make it easy for you
yes so we're just gonna get right into
cryptocurrency okay now out the gate I
need to mention we're not giving
financial advice tonight this is just
wrecked our own opinions and everything
that we're learning to do I'm looking
forward to doing some crypto mining
for free and hey we'll see why not we'll
see what happens with that but no
financial advice here tonight it's just
strictly that's not my forte and to be
honest with you I'm new to crypto you're
new to crypto yes
Sascha how much crypto is in your
portfolio a zero all right so we're all
pretty much crypto noobs yes and so what
we're doing here tonight is not the de
facto here's how you do crypto currency
no it's nothing like that it is however
what we've learned so far and we want to
share that information with you as share
that knowledge with you so that you can
get excited about what we're excited
about as well now before you get into it
though I'm sure there are some people
who have heard all about cryptocurrency
but they don't know what it is so really
quickly what is cryptocurrency
basically two really dumb it down it's a
digital currency so monetary value to
this digital coin or digital
they're called hashes so it's it's just
digital digital strings that are stored
on a network of computers right so it's
not stored in any one place like your
bank right it's stored on thousands of
potentially thousands and thousands of
computers it's called a blockchain and
that blockchain contains information
about the currency that exists whether
it be Bitcoin or Manero or a theory
amore whatever that might be
this digital data is stored within the
blockchain and that's shared between all
these computers so that hey if one of
them disappears the blockchain still
exists and you don't lose your currency
right and the more people that are using
it minding it whatever the catch phrase
is and the more it grows oh yeah and the
harder it gets to mind yes you think
about and we're gonna get it let's talk
a little bit about because I don't there
are some questions that viewers may
bring up that would drive us to these
very conversations yes and and I think
in particular you know what is stopping
me from getting into cryptocurrency
what is stopping me from not investing
but having a cryptocurrency portfolio
can you think of any examples well I'm
the first one and what this would be
what stopped me
yeah is that it's complicated I mean
when when I first started hearing about
you know this you know exponential rise
in value for Bitcoin I'm like okay
what's cryptocurrency so I'm looking
into and try to research it and I want
how in the world do I make this happen
because I'm hearing about software
that's being you know back-end loaded
onto computers to mine so that you know
they can hear about these crazy rings
it's ridiculous so it was super super
complicated they tried to do some
research myself and it my initial
assessment of it was this is
gobbledygook I have no clue what I'm
doing because I walked away yeah I
really did I mean I was envious but I
walked away because it was so
complicated all right
so tonight we're gonna learn with a
piece of software how to start mining
and it will take about five minutes to
setup on a Linux was super yeah so
really really easy to get started we're
gonna learn all about that in a couple
of months anything else between the two
of you that you can think of that might
keep you from mining cryptocurrency or
becoming involved in cryptocurrency
everything I would like as far as like I
would picture to mine cryptocurrency I
would need this big huge expensive crazy
rig that's running all the time and you
know right you know that sort of thing
you gotta own your own server farm yeah
you see these guys that have like GPUs
just lined up yes used racks yeah yeah I
mean one of the things I mention at the
beginning is you hear about people
installing it maliciously in the back of
people's computers and I think legal
usage like now again we'll get to that
but let's touch on Sasha's comment first
right okay so illegal usage is a
completely unrelated but definitely good
a good a good comment as well when it
comes to the rig Sasha yes here's the
thing so we mentioned that it gets
harder and harder to mine as the
cryptocurrency gains popularity so
Bitcoin if you were around when Bitcoin
first started up people were mining it
and getting Bitcoin and building their
Bitcoin portfolio and it wasn't worth a
lot so then when Bitcoin took off now
you know being worth ten thousand
dollars today and you know sixteen
thousand dollars yesterday and
fluctuating you know between I've seen
it usually were fallen between eight
thousand nine thousand to twelve
thousand dollars it has of late per
Bitcoin so if you mined in the early
days and you happen to have a portfolio
or a wallet of Bitcoin then it's worth a
lot of money even if Bitcoin falls seven
percent or whatever right it's still
worth a lot more than you put into it
which was mining so what has happened is
now that Bitcoin has gained popularity
and it's susceptible to machines that
are built specifically for mining
cryptocurrency specifically for mining
Bitcoin of that
so there are hardware devices that cost
thousands of dollars that are working on
Bitcoin and mining cryptocurrency and so
for the little guys like you and me who
have just a basic computer we try to
mine Bitcoin and we don't get any right
because our systems are not as powerful
as the next guys and the next guys
getting all of the cryptocurrency
basically to really make it simple right
so for me I remember we built that that
computer for Dave yes is that big enough
and powerful enough to mine crypto
Bitcoin no no Bitcoin no because bitcoin
is now at the point where only those
machines that are in like I'm not
talking about really great gaming rigs
I'm talking these are specific machines
that are built for mining cryptocurrency
they cannot do anything else their chips
are built specifically to figure out the
hashes of Bitcoin yeah so because those
exist and because those have taken over
that network now there is and because
the mining basically the coins have
become more rare because so many of them
have been mined already and there's a
finite number of them available so just
like mining if there's a limited supply
the value goes up right so also the
difficulty to find it goes up okay so
bitcoin is very very hard to mine
because it's rarer because it's already
been mined and it takes a lot more
hardware power in order to decrypt to
find the hashes so the key thing is is
to find and there are what's called alt
coins which are alternate coins to
Bitcoin so anything that is not Bitcoin
but is cryptocurrency is called an
altcoin
so that is Manero aetherium like coin
turtle now and and hundreds of others
yes so it's just finding the legitimate
ones that are low in value right now
because they are so plentiful in supply
because they're so plentiful in supply
they're worth nothing or next to nothing
but as but they're easy to mine yes so
now Sasha your gaming computer can mine
something like Manero okay so you can be
mining the narrow which is only worth
like 300 dollars per coin and you can be
gaining monaro in your portfolio and it
is on its way up and again not giving
investment advice or anything but we're
talking about just using your existing
computer hardware so then if there's all
these alt coins available are you really
just taking an educated guess out which
ones are going to grow or is it just
that they're all going to grow know some
of them are fake some of them are going
to crash right down to zero because they
you know they they people do invest
people do rather than mining maybe they
don't want a mine and they just want to
buy coin so they'll buy coin hoping that
that's the one and then that one crashes
they've lost all their money in that
investment so yes then somebody gains
from that so yeah it is a bit of a
Russian Roulette because there are so
many out there and some will crash and
some will burn and some will fail so
that's where okay Minero seems really
trustworthy and like it's going on the
up-and-up mm-hmm but there's this new
one called turtle coin that is also now
it's worth nothing next to nothing one
Satoshi today which is the very very
smallest decimal point of a Bitcoin
that's what a single turtle is worth
okay can we just name them like shall
not can one turtle join via shell sure
so how many shells can we get so and
we're gonna get a little bit in the
turtle coin tonight because that's the
first one that we're gonna start mining
with because it's in such plentiful
supply right now whether it will fail
and be worth nothing or whether it will
go up in value it it doesn't really
matter to us because it is basically we
were able to mine it and it's really
really easy to mine right now because it
is in plentiful supply there are a
couple of other things about their
network that is unique like it they
generate coins every every half a minute
okay there are like blocks come out
every half a minute so there's always a
flow of coin going through the network
and because it is in such a massive
supply it is easy to mine okay being
easy to mine also with turtle coin
there's only two decimal places to the
coin just like our dollar versus Bitcoin
which has several decimal places so in
order to get one Bitcoin you actually
have to get thousands and thousands of
individual little pieces yes now with
turtle coin there's once you have a
hundred of these individual pieces it is
one turtle coin right so there are some
advantages there now you asked about
legality yes yeah and so I mean there's
this perception that because of the you
know we're hearing about these malicious
ways that people are hacking into
systems to have miners background
installing it in viruses yes so people
assume ooh cryptocurrency it's it's
illegal it's not you know but that's not
necessarily the case I mean it's somehow
yeah it is yeah I mean so you've got
Algeria Bolivia Ecuador kersek Stan
Bangladesh Nepal Cambodia those that's
been deemed illegal so if you are
trading cryptocurrency in those
factories yes illegal that everywhere
else at present it is legal to trade and
some countries it's not legal to buy
with cryptocurrency but trading is legal
or mining is also legal so where the
misconception comes from as you
mentioned it's illicit Lee installed
mining software
right so if I install a program on my
computer we've heard about JavaScript on
websites so I was a website and all of a
sudden my computer is mining
cryptocurrency now the newspapers
website that I'm visiting who can no
longer sell subscriptions to the
newspaper has to find a way to make
money they can't put ads on their
website anymore to generate revenue
because people are using ad blockers so
now they have to find a new way to
generate revenue so what do they do they
get a hold of this JavaScript that runs
in the background on your computer while
you are on their website and it's
generating crypto coin for them it's
going into their wallet
now what's shady about that is and what
makes that illegal practice is that they
are doing that without your
authorization right okay so the practice
itself the capability of mining crypto
code in crypto coin that is not the
illegal practice the illegal practice is
doing it on someone else's hardware
utilizing their resources without their
express consent right in our case we
want to mine cryptocurrency
ourselves yes whether we donate that
cryptocurrency to someone like category
five TV or whether we collect that
cryptocurrency for ourselves it's up to
us we have decided and we have
authorized ourselves to use our computer
hardware to do it right so it's
perfectly legal unless you're in one of
those countries where it's been deemed
illegal make sense this practice itself
is legal right so I mean we've looked at
a couple reasons why but I think right
now we should take a quick break because
I want to get to showing people how to
install a miner oh yes so when we come
back I mentioned about being able to
support category five TV through crypto
mining I show you a piece of software
that you can install that I've put
together that just makes setting up your
crypto mining also easy easy I'm going
to show you all about that don't worry
we're gonna show you how to mine for
yourself as well that's all coming up
right
this Jeff Weston Gemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what are you
you're a terrible actor
what does where acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host welcome
back to category five technology TV
tonight we are talking crypto currency
we're learning we're getting there I
know are you ready to install our first
yes miners so easy now we're doing this
on Linux tonight okay I'm gonna head on
over to cat five dot TV slash miners
it's as simple as that that's gonna take
you to our github page for cat five TV
miners now it's pretty straightforward
and you start looking and you're like
hey this looks like a whole lot of code
I don't know how to work that all you
need to do and that I'm sorry if that's
exactly how you sound that's how I sound
you scroll down a little ways it's gonna
tell you a little bit about how this
works it's gonna explain some things and
I want to explain some things well CPU
versus GPU yes that's the first thing
that I explain here on this entry cat
5.5 TV miners the CPU the central
processing unit of your computer is
capable of mining cryptocurrency not
Bitcoin because
we mentioned earlier it's just out of
reach for our consumer hardware but
things like Manero and things like like
turtle coin now we've got the capability
to mine that with CPU GPU a graphics
processing unit this is your video card
if you've got a really good one sasshi
you've got a really good one so we're
expecting good things out of that I
think it was a 1070 GTX 1070 so it's
gonna do pretty well with four gigs or
something like that overclocked at that
so your graphics card has so many cores
and so much power to it that you can
usually get a really good hash rate now
I picked up a $200 graphics card and I
get about 350 hashes per second okay so
that's enough just from that one video
card to generate revenue for me just by
mining on that GPU so CPU versus GPU
your GPU if it's a good one is going to
give you a better hash right then a
standard CPU but something like a Xeon
will get a killer CPU rate hash rate so
it really boils down to trying it try
the CPU miner and see what kind of hash
rate you get try a GPU miner and see
what kind of hash rate you're gonna get
and what's interesting about it because
they're two different chips CPU versus
GPU you can run both simultaneous lists
so to maximize your hash rate which is
to say to maximize how much of these
crypto hashes your computer is able to
handle and and decode and figure out and
send back to the server the higher your
hash rate the better you the the more
revenue you're generating essentially
and when you put me on to the software
the other day yes I downloaded both yeah
I had both of them running and it was
interesting for me to see cuz I thought
I had a great graphics card I couldn't
tell you what it is because I don't
recall now it's sure you know a couple
years old and my dad is probably a great
graphics card but it may just not have
crypto mining right abilities and so
when I had the GPU running I think I was
getting about a hundred and seventy
hashes on GPU yeah well that's not yeah
it was good really good I flipped to the
CPU and I'm pulling out of consistent to
a 98
what and I was like on a CPU on a CPU
Wow I was like okay yes so you're
getting like 400 hashes per second on
this rig it was about that yeah so is it
an Nvidia or an AMD card I believe is an
AMD okay so as your since I built it as
an AMD card you can actually install
their blockchain driver I love that the
blockchain driver apparently gives you
better hash rates that's just a
different alternate driver because
you're on Windows yes now I also have
that installed on my Linux machine yes
the card I bought was an AMD card
because apparently there they mined more
hashes per second than Nvidia apparently
I did so yeah I I that's just what I've
heard I haven't put them head-to-head
cool yet we're gonna see on sashes rate
cuz she's got an Nvidia ten said yes so
GPU versus CPU it really comes down to
start with CPU because it's easier to
get up and going yes you can be a little
more complex but if you can get them
both working together then you're gonna
get the best hash rate possible from
your computer and again we're not
building computers we are simply using
the hardware that we already have so
there's no perceptible cost involved
we're just installing a program and
letting it run so on this site you can
learn more about it how much bandwidth
this is gonna use basically none it's
not an internet thing it's a CPU GPU
thing you'll notice that there are
several options the automatic minor is
the one we're gonna focus on tonight
there's also specifically Manero mining
turtle.turtle coin mining and Bitcoin
CPU mining which is really just proof of
concept but probably don't run it cuz
it's not actually going to generate any
revenue so automatic miner for Linux
what's cool about our automatic miner is
that it automatically cycles between the
different currencies so it'll do a time
of Manero and then it will stop that and
it will do a time for turtle coin and it
will rotate between them so that we're
kind of maximizing the portfolio in
right we're getting a little bit of coin
from each so that if it's monaro that
takes off we're good if it's turtle coin
that takes off then we're good as well
but we're not investing our hashing our
mining on either
on one currency right it rotates so
that's where the auto miner comes in and
that is currently available for Linux
but also will be available for Windows
as well so on Linux I'm just gonna copy
this line that's I've made it as simple
as I possibly can to get up and running
so jump into your terminal so we're
gonna actually see in real time how hard
it is to get a crypto mining application
running on your computer here we go
paste enter your password and now let
her go so it updates apt repositories
because it's added a couple that are
needed it's going to install
dependencies these are applications that
are required in order to mine so even if
you don't want to use our software it's
prepared your system now to mine so it's
installed all the dependencies that you
will need in order to set up X and rig
for example so you can see it's getting
some ok it's getting some headers now
it's got the thing the the application
and it's compiling it already so it's
currently compiling what's called Manero
- CPU which is the Monaro miner to use
the CPU and that's what I'm installing
automatic miner is currently only CPU a
GPU version will be coming out as well
keep in mind the information that I've
already provided now it's moved on to
installing turtle coin mining on the CPU
again it's gonna rotate between them or
you can if you decide you can just use
one or the other right if you want to
set up a particular wallet and get up
and going and start mining for yourself
you can use the cap 5tv miners software
to mine for yourself as well by default
see here's what's unique about cap 5tb
miners when you install it and start
mining it will be mining to our wallet
which is a way of supporting category 5
TV so any crypto currency that's mined
with the software out of the box is
going to go into the wallet that
supports category 5 now as soon as
you're ready so that's a good way to get
up and running and see if your computer
is capable yes because you can run it
and you don't have to set up a wallet
and all that stuff
once it's up and running you can create
your own wallets and change the wallet
user that it's called a user name but
you can change the wallet in the
configuration file and boom you're
mining to your own wallet right so to
kind of because this is an introduction
to crypto mining just so you're aware
there's a there's a little bit of an
intricate e to the way that it works in
that when I'm mining I'm not mining
directly to my wallet I can do that
that's called solo mining but when I do
that I have to achieve the entire block
myself so where rather than sending a
bunch of hashes to a pool and then
getting rewarded for my contribution I'm
having to get the entire block it might
take weeks and weeks if at all so you
will see no income whatsoever from your
mining efforts unless you get a block
and the chances of getting a block on
your own are pretty rare so instead what
we use is what's called a pool so a pool
is Jeff your computer is connecting into
this server me my computer is connecting
into the server Sasha your computer is
also connecting into this server and
it's called a pool so now the power of
all of our hash rates is working
together and finding all the hashes and
collecting them and then finding the
blocks and once we find a block it Divis
it out here's a bit for you here's a bit
for you and here's a bit for me so much
much quicker quicker I start to see
cryptocurrency showing up in my wallet
and once I hit the threshold that's when
it's expelled to my wallet right until
then it's in the pool yeah so when you
sign up for a pool you'll see things
like 1,000 coin threshold that means
until you have mind a thousand coins you
will not get it in your wallet okay so
with turtle it starts at about a hundred
coins and so you probably be seeing two
or three payments a day no wow so it's
really really good right now
this has finished installing so I just
want to show you quickly how we can do
this so the the commands are here to
begin mining run this command and so I'm
just gonna copy that and paste it into
my terminal and if all went well there
you go
it's mining turtle boom turtle mining on
my laptop and then in fact I'm in
VirtualBox so in a virtual machine
mining cryptocurrency let's see what
happens here so I'm just waiting so
what's happened it's connected to the
pool and it's looking for jobs so it's
got a job but I have yet to complete
that job so my computer is essentially
figuring out the hash right the the pool
is saying here's the problem here's the
math problem my computer saying okay I'm
gonna work this out and then when I work
it out I send it to the pool and it's
all an automated process you can see the
pool has now sent me a second problem
and it's determined you can see that the
difficulty has gone down to 3000
so it has determined automatically that
hey my CPU running in VirtualBox that's
not really all that powerful on this
laptop I I won I had won accepted there
you go so one of my hashes was found and
accepted and is a good hash there's
another one so I've now both of those
jobs that I was sent my computer has
figured out the hash sent it back to the
pool and the pool continues to work now
I start to see my hash rate sixty seven
point eight hashes per second so that's
what I'm getting on my laptop so that
gives me a bit of a gauge as to the
performance in crypto mining on my
laptop right that gets us up and going
the command to stop mining you see here
on the website is to be run in a
separate window don't just push ctrl C
because then when the timer goes it's
gonna start up again with the next miner
right so instead open another terminal
window terminal and then paste the stop
see the stop command which I've got in
my clipboard from the github there and
you'll notice that it is now stopped
it's in a cig hub and we're done so now
we've stopped mining I can go about
doing things now while it's mining I can
still use my computer mm-hmm if you've
got a decent computer like Jeff
obviously yes sachet your computer you
could still be working on that computer
and not even notice the difference
because you've got enough cores and
enough power that it's not going to
affect you GPU mining on the other hand
because it really grabs ahold of that
video card you're probably gonna have
very low frame rates and games and stuff
while it's running so you can kill off
the GPU mining and just do CPU mine
yeah okay yep and I did notice that I
mean I I was mining in the background
with my CPU and you didn't know what a
setting yeah I use it all the time it
was great just because before we take a
commercial break Jeff I know you're
eager to take a quick break because the
question is going to arise
you'll notice that auto mine - CPU is in
the folder user share local share cat5
dot TV miners so I'm just gonna change
directory to that and do an LS and you
see that there are SH files so when I
said you can change to your own coin
just do a nano turtle coin CPU and
you'll see the user name if you just
kind of scroll over here there you go -
you so see the user name as my turtle
address for category five just change
that to your own and then when you start
your auto mining it will be mining to
your own wallet instead right okay I
have a question from the chat room
awesome the foo wants to know whether or
not or how does mining impact SSD
lifetime so solid-state drive lifetime
well I don't know that there is much I
owe you suggesting
so what are you doing now I am
installing what's called Io top okay
which shows me the IO usage the input
output the data transmission and
reception from my IO so I'll be able to
tell if there's a lot of usage great
question
XM rig okay I saw it there XM rig is
currently using 0% it jumped up to a
little bit 99 percent now remember I'm
on a I'm on a virtual machine right so
my i/o is you know easy to max out so do
that on your system and see of course
that you can store it anywhere I don't
think that there's a real impact no I
don't think there would be I haven't
hurt because what it does is it loads it
into memory and it loads it on GPU it
actually uses the the memory on the GPU
itself so that's why you can't mine for
example Manero on a one gig card because
the hashes are like two gigs so and
those are not actual numbers but that
just to give you an idea because your
GPU if you don't have a four gig card
you can't mine it because there's not
enough memory in order to do it so that
would be one thing I would check so I
see like the occasional 14 kilobyte
write happening but that's not much no
so good question good question
okay so let's take a commercial break
and then we're gonna come back and tell
you how to set up your wallet nice good
job
now here's another great way you can
support the shows you love from the
category 5 dot TV network by shopping
gearbest
that's right Jeff cap 5 dot TV slash
it's an online store for the geek streak
in you or the loved ones of course I
mean especially your loved ones right
because cap 5 TV / gearbest quite
frankly has all of the greatest tech
gifts that you could ever hope for at
rock-bottom prices to their cellphones
you betcha
cap 5 TV slash gearbest has a wide
assortment of unlocked Android cell
phones and tablets
what about compute consumer electronics
those make a great gift absolutely from
high tech watches to action cameras
headphones even virtual reality headsets
cat 5 TV slash gearbest has you covered
they literally have it all Jeff
literally really it's like a superstore
right from the comfort of your own chair
at your computer through the interweb
yeah I there's no way they have it all
it's true it's just a bunch of random
electronic Sesame
what about clothes yep both men and
women fashionable apparel at rock-bottom
SuperDuper prices kinda like this well
look at this coat what do you think it's
a slimming mock leather jacket I love it
it's available for less than $30 plus
free shipping at camp five TV slash gear
best yeah all right you kinda got me
there
Wow any other questions for me Jeff
now that the winter is past flying
season do they have any good deals on
savers oh my goodness
well check this out dude they have
everything check out over 500 various
drones and not only that they're
available marked down by about 32 up to
63 percent off the regular price love it
what's the website again well you're
gonna find gearbest on our partners
pages for any of your favorite category
5 TV shows like new every day
category 5 technology TV the pixel
shadow but of course if you want to shop
absolutely right now and you want to go
straight to the site all you have to do
is visit cat5 dot TV slash gearbest so
that's easy tech 5 dot TV slash your
best that's right happy shopping all
right welcome back so we have covered
setting up the minor yes and now we're
gonna talk about setting up your wallet
we've shown that you can actually do it
on just general hardware - yes 60 Plus
hashes per second on an old laptop in a
virtual machine which is that's not a
Jeanette on your actual computer I'm
really excited about this portion
because I have struggled this week with
setting up a wallet okay and making it
work properly because there was a lot of
back-end stuff that I didn't realize it
was a simple well I've got a wallet but
they're right or to it now there's a
there's a caveat here now I'm gonna be
right straight up with you please do the
temptation is to find the easiest
solution to setting up your wallet yes I
fell into this temptation I made this
mistake and the easiest way is to find
an online service that you can just go
to their website and generate a wall and
you're done
oh that makes sense right and you can
still access it and everything but
remember until you have mined to the
threshold it doesn't expel to your
wallet right so if I create a wallet
online that is not in my control but is
in the control of an online provider
then I have to mine until the threshold
if I want to ever get cash out mm-hmm if
I don't so if I mine for two weeks and I
only get halfway to the threshold then
basically I've wasted two weeks worth of
mining power because it will never find
its way to my wallet right okay so
instead I'm gonna recommend that you
create your own wallet locally something
that you control that you are not
Society you're not leaning on any online
service in order to provide the wallet
service the wallet feature okay now what
it comes to wallets yes just want to
take like 30 seconds for this you can
like Robbie's mentioned you can get an
online service to provide a wallet you
can do your wallet on your hard drive
like remotely you'll also fall it is in
the blockchain yes the information
itself is in the blockchain right you
will also hear about paper wallets that
is where you're literally recording your
information on a piece of paper and so
depending on the research you're doing
you're gonna hear about what just safer
which is better in a nutshell what
people are saying from my research and
soon correct me if I'm wrong on this is
that with online services you have the
greater risk of your information being
stolen because of potential attacks if
it's on your hard drive and you haven't
done locally it's a little bit more safe
provided your computer itself is safe if
provided your wife doesn't throw it your
hard drive well that too you know but
obviously the most secure is paper but
that is the most cumbersome so you know
what papers a great backup so when you
create your wallet on your computer
which is really just to generate a
wallet private keys and all that kind of
stuff so these keys are required in
order to
transact so anyone can send me currency
if they have my wallet address right but
they can't open that wallet they can't
remove money from that wallet unless
they have the private keys so that's
where printing that information putting
in a file folder lock and key is a great
way to have a backup so that if somebody
throws out your hard drive that contains
those private keys you still have one
that you can sit there and tediously
type in yes okay so that's a bit of a
failsafe but realistically as long as
you've got a good backup and nobody else
has access to those keys then you're
you're good as long as you've got a copy
of it cuz it doesn't matter my hard
drive could crash it doesn't matter as
long as I've got those keys right
whether they're on a paper copy or a
digital copy I just don't want anyone
else to have access to them unless I die
yeah you don't because if I died and my
wife didn't have my keys to open my
cryptocurrency portfolio that money has
gone forever nobody will have access to
that ever yep okay so keep that in the
back your mind okay so we're gonna learn
about turtle coin turtle coin is a lot
of fun and that's why I wanted to focus
on it tonight turtle coin is a new coin
that's worth one Satoshi right now it's
fluctuated up to three Satoshi over the
past couple of weeks and it's brand-new
like it came out in December and really
started to make to get noticed within
the past month or so it's been on a
couple of podcasts and and we've been
hearing about it Kevin Rose had it on
his new cryptocurrency podcast and the
what really strikes Kevin and what
really strikes me is that the community
surrounding turtle coin is awesome yeah
like when you go into their discord
which was a chat you get to know people
and you ask your questions and they're
very helpful yes they're instant yeah
you never get the impression there that
people are like oh I'm so sick of
hearing this stupid question no they're
like oh let me help you oh here's a link
to the documentation to show you here's
the download and and there's a lot of
community kind of helping each other to
gain
the capability of doing turtle coin yes
so turtle coin right now worth nothing
essentially but it's worth something I
mean I've been mining it for two weeks
and I've got like 14 dollars in US
Dollars currency so I mean it's
something and if that ever took off then
you know guys would they say it'll go to
the moon who knows but again not
financial advice because we're not
investing anything we're not spending
any money we're just mining stuff so
we're gonna get a turtle wallet tonight
so we're gonna go to turtle coin dot lol
that's a meme coin and you know you can
learn a little bit about the creator's
and and how you know fun love and they
are just by looking at their website
it's a cheeky site it really is cheeky
so go to download and you can choose
Apple Windows or Linux we're gonna go
Linux and you've got the CLI download so
this is kind of the precompiled stuff
and you've got source code and
everything else I wanted to show you
that but we're not going to use it
instead what we're gonna do is we're
gonna compile it from source tonight
because we want to have the latest and
greatest version we want to have all the
latest features and we want it to be
compiled for our computer so this is not
mining software this is specifically to
create our capability of having a wallet
locally and to create our own wallet
offline so I'm just gonna click on
turtle coins so we're at github comm
slash turtle coin slash turtle coin and
here are the instructions in order to
compile it yourself so first thing we
need to do is grab this first line to
download oh well if you're on sorry that
is for Mac OS or ubuntu 16.04 you can
just do it with one fell swoop easy
peasy
copy that line you're done I'm not on
Ubuntu I am on Lynne spire so instead
I'm gonna scroll down to my
prerequisites here we're gonna build it
ourselves and copy the first line which
is to install the dependencies so we
jump into our terminal and paste that
line and that's just going to go on to
now I have already done an apt update
make sure you do that first sudo apt
update and it tells me that everything
is already installed and ready to go
so that's good that means that I didn't
need any of this like build essentials
Python and that kind of stuff is already
installed on my computer great you may
not have that so that's an important
line to paste now I'm going to paste
this line which is over these three
lines which is adding a repository to
the PPA and then it's updating apt and
then it is installing rocks DB here it
goes that one's not going to take long
don't worry about if I'm not found and
stuff that's just my package manager all
right and there we go oh and it's
already the latest version on here as
well so you may not see that so it's
still important to paste this even
though in my case it was all good now
I'm gonna grab this I gotta jump into my
CD / TMP and I'm gonna run these
commands and this particular process now
the initial like cloning the github
repository making the directory see
making and everything doesn't take very
long but the final line that make line
takes about 35 minutes to build the the
software Wow so because of that I wanted
to make I wanted to pre do it and I've
accelerated things for you so we've
pasted that into my terminal and now it
is running through super super fast
because I've accelerated this from 35
minutes to only 48 seconds so that's the
magic of television folks we learn from
our mistakes when we try to install
things live on the air isn't that right
guys no I've never tried to install
something on air before that takes three
hours new while we're live okay so there
you go looks like we're just about done
yeah it's done
and once it's finished you'll know and
everything compiles just fine so now I'm
back on my live system we're no longer
on pre-record and you can see that what
it's done is its created a folder turtle
coin zero point and remember I went into
temp first so in turtle coin 0 3.2
here's all the files now there's a
folder that was created called turtle
coin and in there is where everything
was built so I want to actually I don't
want that in temp because if I reboot my
computer having created my wallet I'm
gonna lose my wallet file right right
because temp gets cleared out so I'm
gonna move that to my home folder so
move which is MB and Linux turtle coin
to tilde slash and now if I go into till
the slash which is my home folder slash
home slash Robbie it's the same you'll
see a folder called turtle coin and if I
go in there it's what I had in temp
previously so now if I reboot its
persistent now if I go into the source
folder
I should see something called simple
wallet there it is but let's see I want
to go into build instead and then in
build are you following me here yeah are
you following me here camera guy I'm
just selling snake oil so I'm in tilde
slash which is my home folder turtle
coin slash build slash SRC that's where
the built version is and I can run now
simple wallet now when I run that Jeff
the first thing it does is it asked me
you know what do you want to do you've
never run this before I want to generate
a new wallet address I'm gonna press G
and hit enter what do you want to call
your new wallet I'm going to call this
Robbie wallet enter give your new wallet
a password this should be super strong
remember anyone who has this password
and this file can get your private keys
yes so I'm gonna use test one two three
varies having said that okay so now I
have created a wallet it says that it
cannot connect
to the blockchain because we have not
synchronized the blockchain right we're
gonna talk about that in a moment but it
is created on my local file system so
now I've got my spend key my view key my
pneumonic seed which is words that I can
use to recover my wallet if I ever lose
my keys and I've got my actual turtle
coin wallet address so this is where
people send me coin and that's where I
mind to that's where I sent my pool the
point that's the address itself for
public consumption that's where I accept
payments and donations right now if I do
balance 0 dot 0 dot 0 of course and I'm
gonna type exit so you'll see another
file here called turtle coin D if I run
that what's gonna happen is it's gonna
download the entire blockchain to my
computer that's gonna take a couple
hours at least and once it's there I
have to have turtle coin D running all
the time if I want to open my wallet
because it needs to be able to
synchronize to the blockchain all making
sense yes the blockchain is thousands
and thousands of computers all
communicating the wallet information and
currency transfers and everything and
the blocks themselves all to one another
so now rather than doing that today it's
a good idea to do that from a network
standpoint because then you are building
the network by adding one more daemon to
the network and here's another copy of
the blockchain
it adds redundancy and it adds you know
it's it's better for privacy and things
like that to have it running but in our
case because of the sake of the TV show
we don't want to download something
that's going to take two and a half
hours and instead we use the public
blockchain so I'm gonna type dot slash
simple wallet and please note here on
Linux I type dot slash simple wallet on
Windows just type simple wallet on Mac
it's gonna be dot slash simple wallet as
well so the commands are the same
regardless of whether you're on Windows
or Mac just that the installation
process will be a little bit different
so in order to use the public wallet
what I'm going to do is I'm gonna go
first of all I'm going to assign my
wallet file which I called well if I
could type Robby wallet
ok file equals Robby wallet
and or no I don't eat an equals I just
need a space don't I Jeff sorry there we
go you ready for this cuz this is
something that you were looking for yes
here's the key thing Damon - - Damon -
host and we're gonna go Damon dot turtle
dot link and then - - Damon - port this
is the port for the Damon one one eight
nine eight hit enter enter the password
for my wallet test one two three and now
it's opened my wallet and it is syncing
the blockchain with my wallet and it's
communicating with that blockchain
that's publicly hosted and then it's
going to share that block information
with everyone else so now I can start
accepting currency on my wallet my
wallet is synced to the blockchain okay
yes so confusing and yet so easy once we
get our head around it so the steps are
if you want a mine you need a miner but
you need to have a wallet if you want to
mine to yourself and if you're using a
pool you need to know that threshold is
when it will flush that money that
you've mined in to your crypto currency
wallet so if you're not seeing something
coming into your wallet right away check
that threshold maybe you haven't met it
yet yeah that's all it's finished it's
loaded up there you go it's also done
and done I didn't have to sync the
blockchain that's just a quick way
around it anyway right so find out more
go to cap five dot TV slash miners to
grab the category 5 TV miners which is
going to help support the shows that you
love here but it's also gonna get you
started with a prebuilt ready to go
version of the mining software that you
need in order to mine cryptocurrency
mm-hmm now while you are doing your
review there of how to install it we had
a question in the chat room a few months
ago you did a tester and electricity yes
has anybody tried running that no to see
how what the I haven't yet but even
though there is that I mean people can
can say well mining uses electricity
that's true your computer has to be on
24/7 now when I'm sitting at my computer
anyways I'm working away it's it's hard
I'm using it but
you can do that you know test the
electricity if you there's so many
different perspectives to it again this
is not financial advice so but know that
yeah it's gonna cost money to mine in
that you're using electricity when your
computers mining but the idea is the
hope is that that turtle that I'm mining
today if I can get ten thousand of those
and then all of a sudden they become
worth a dollar each Oh free electricity
not that it's gonna happen not that I'm
promising anything but if it did and if
not it's a cheap form of entertainment
exactly and I mean for myself the idea
of starting with something as easy to
use as turtle coin it's helping me wrap
my head around this and work through the
bugs within my thinking of how this
works and so I've enjoyed him turtle
coin dot lol and part of it Jeff as we
get into crypto mining is that community
yes so knowing that if I am stuck if I
need help I can get into discord and you
can find that on their website as well
and it's easy to get help
mm-hm and people are willing to help
yeah and it's cool I've enjoyed a lot of
fun it's a lot of fun yeah it is thanks
everybody
Sacha Rickman how are you I am great I
am ready for the news are you ready I am
we are ready over here in the studio
over here here are the stories were
covering this week in oh maybe I'm not
ready do you need to pee alright here we
go again here are the stories were
covering this week in the category 5 TV
newsroom a floating windmill farm off
the coast of Scotland is generating
energy quite efficiently a DDoS attack
of
precedented scale is taking place thank
to thanks to an exploit in memcache P
Levi's is switching to lasers in an
effort to cut down on the chemical use
an effort to cut down chemical use in
the manufacture of denim and driverless
cars are raising some big questions in
UK courts as the Law Commission aims to
adjust British driving laws to
accommodate a future filled with
autonomous vehicles these stories are
coming right up
don't go anywhere whether you shop on
ThinkGeek gearbest B&amp;H photo video eBay
or Amazon or even if you want a free
trial of audible you'll find the best
deals and support the shows we produce
by simply visiting the shopping sites
you already frequent by using the links
on our website visit category-five dot
TV slash partners for the full and
ever-growing list and help us create
more free content like this show thank
you for shopping with our partners and
thank you for watching this is the
category-five TV newsroom covering the
week's top tech stories with a slight
linux box i'm sasha Rickman and here the
top stories were following this week the
world's first commercial floating
offshore wind farm called high wind
started sending electricity to the grid
last October
since then the six turbine 30 megawatt
installation has been working really
well in fact high wind has had at least
65% capacity factor over the last three
months according to statoil the
Norwegian mega corporation that built
the wind wind farm off the coast of
Scotland a capacity factor of a hundred
percent would mean that the wind farm
would be sending 30 megawatts of power
to the grid every minute of every day
high winds capacity factor exceeds the
average capacity factors of many sources
of electricity onshore wind
installations in the US for example had
an average capacity factor of about 36
point seven percent last year Solar
averaged 27 percent
and hydropower generation was only
around 45.2% comparatively comparing
high winds 65% capacity factor in the
winter when winds are blowing at its
hardest in scotland to the average
capacity factor of other renewable
installations over the whole year isn't
quite fair we can assume high wind will
have a lower capacity factor in months
when the winds are milder the company
says it hopes to bring the cost of
floating offshore wind down to 40 to 60
euro per megawatt hour which is around
50 to 74 US per megawatt-hour
by 2030 so so I want these everywhere
sure the windmills right I want but I
want to know because the the onshore
ones have had a bad reputation for
flight disruptions for birds whether or
not seabirds would be affected oh yeah I
mean birds birds bird whether it's on
land or at sea it's there's still a
potential disruption but what I was
actually thinking is what happens if
you've got extreme weather like a
hurricane rolling through how does that
impact it they actually stop spinning
they lock themselves when the weather
gets too bad okay and they're self up
writing so that they won't capsize but
when it comes to the wildlife you're
right like I've heard that birds can be
killed by these things right and so I
had to look into that because it seems
to me like anytime I've seen them these
windmills they look like they're just
like this yeah and I didn't realize but
you know centrifugal force or whatever
it is but these things are huge
yes and so at their tip at the tip of
this thing even though it looks like
it's moving really slowly because
they're so big and because it's at the
tip it's moving at more than 120 miles
per hour really yeah so if that hit
wildlife it's not likely to survive
guarantee so
when it's in a field they can measure
that they can see okay there are X
number of dead wildlife at the foot of
this thing yeah to some degree because
scavengers come and take carcasses and
things but so in the water would that
would they lose the ability to measure
that and the ability to my concern the
yeah the evidence of this I would would
float would I I would say though I guess
to counter that is if we could switch to
greener energy yes we wouldn't be
killing as much of the earth and and
wildlife as a whole sure but we might be
killing some birds that's an argument
that I've heard too is you know is it
not it will probably kill less birds
than fossil fuel right right because of
pollution and habitat destruction and
things like that are the winds stronger
off sure than they are like I only I
feel like how is it that big of a
difference well I mean if you think
about if you've got a wind farm onshore
typically there's other Oh structures
and yeah that would block the wind you
could have buildings you could have
trees whatever whereas if you're in the
water yeah nothing like that winds gonna
blow we're here in Canada so we're
pretty shielded but yeah hurricanes and
things come and they're huge you know
it'll be a category five do you like how
I knocked that I dropped that it'll be a
category five out on the water but then
as soon as it hits land it drops to a
category three right so yeah there'd be
much more wind on the water thinking of
the birds though I'm like will they
follow that wind well the birds be
following the wind right that's the only
thing that keeps me from really loving
this like I want them everywhere some
kind of a gauging system or some or
something that scares them away with
some kind of shrill noise I don't know
must be a way a new technique is abusing
poorly secured servers and fueling
record-breaking denial of service
attacks along with notes demanding the
targets pay hefty ransoms if they want
the debilitating flood of junk trash
to stop memcache d.a database caching
system for speeding up websites and
networks lets ddos vandals amplify their
attacks by an unprecedented factor of
51,000 that means a single home computer
with a 100 megabit per second upload
capacity from its isp is capable of
bombarding a target with a once
unimaginable five terabytes per second
of traffic at least in theory following
the discovery that DDoS vandals in the
wild we're abusing open memcache D
servers researchers last week predicted
a new round of record attacks
two days later DDoS mitigation service
at Akamai prolix reported that reported
the 1.3 terabytes per second attack
against github just slightly topping
previous records set in 2016 on Monday
researchers from a separate DDoS
mitigation service Arbor Networks
reported a 1.7 terabytes per second DDoS
that also relied on the newly documented
memcache D app amplification method
researchers are also reporting that many
of the potentially paralyzing attacks
are accompanied by a ransom demand
presumably so that data that the data
flood will stop some of the attackers
who are abusing the servers to deliver D
doses are including the words pay 50 XMR
along with the address to a wallet as
the screenshot below demonstrates the
message is repeated over and over in the
payload delivered to targets in an
attempt to exhaust the network bandwidth
they have available at current prices
for the digital currency known as Manero
50x mr is valued at about eighteen
thousand four hundred and fifteen
dollars if providers everywhere deployed
measures that prevented spoofed UDP
traffic on their networks and shut down
all publicly available memcache these
servers they hosted the new
amplification technique would no longer
be available the new record-setting DDoS
reported Monday demonstrates that a
significant number of providers have
to adopt these common-sense measures so
Robbie can you make a little bit of
sense of this one form well I mean it
often comes down to server admins who
you know we've set up servers and we
trust that it's just working and maybe
it's fallen behind or out of date or
there's you know in this case it's wide
open to the web and the exploit exists
in the wild and now now that hackers
know about it if you will
they create scripts that look for this
exploit and once they find it then they
exploit it and use it as part of a
botnet in in this case so if I'm able to
send you know light through a magnifying
glass and it suddenly can burn through
paper it's it's you're maximizing the
effects right so if I'm able to send my
attack through one of these susceptible
servers and it becomes this massive
attack because of the way memcache D is
being exploited then there's no limits
to the damage that they can cause taken
down servers and things like that see
what bothers me about this is I feel
like this is a weekly occurrence there's
some sort of attack happening and for
some reason a lot of individual
companies who have provides server
service are not taking the precautions
to update their systems I mean this is
where the argument comes in why is your
hosting so much more expensive than the
one up the street who's selling it for
six dollars a month right because the
one for six dollars a month could
potentially just not be caring yeah to
update the service on a regular ongoing
daily sometimes hourly basis but I mean
we are in a world of internet driven
everything you gotta take care it just
as a service provider especially yeah
you've got to watch out for your users
it's bugging me that this stuff is
falling through the cracks and it's so
simple I just I kind of have to shake my
head and go if you're a server admin
update your servers please let's get on
some mailing list that that revealed
these exploits like I use WordPress on a
lot of customer website
and so I am very actively watching word
fences blog word fences newsletters and
things like that so that I know what is
happening as far as exploits go on
WordPress yeah - I'm going to throw it
back to you
Levi Strauss is introducing a digit
digitizing technique that uses lasers to
ethically create designs on schemes in
place of manual labor called project flx
which stands for future LED execution
the technique will cut out harmful
chemicals and reduce labor-intensive
steps in producing gene finishes from
between 18 to 24 steps to just three
Levi is also planning to scale across
scale this across the companies denim
supply chain the lasers use infrared to
lightly scratch designs into the top
layer of the jeans surface creating the
faded outlines and tears Levi says for
the past 30 years the clothing industry
has generally used hand finishing and a
chemical process to create the worn and
faded designs on denim the company has
committed to achieving a zero discharge
of hazardous chemicals by 2020 and says
it will reduce the number of chemicals
used from thousands to only dozens
during the denim finishing process with
this laser technology as part of the
project
Levi's designers are also using a new
imaging tool to create different
patterns and finishes on jeans using a
tablet to create a prototype the
platform allows designers to tweak
colors and control the design of rips
and tears while this isn't new Eureka
labs reportedly tried to make the 3d
graphics more realistic prototype jeans
are usually created by using chemicals
and manually ripping tearing or wearing
down to a down a physical pair of jeans
the company states that this new digital
tool will cut development in half from
months two weeks and sometimes only two
days those digital files created can
also be sent to the laser machine to
create a prototype or even to a vendor
for large-scale manufacturing Levi's
anticipates that the digital platform
will be fully implemented in 2020
Wow okay so this is another really great
situation where people obviously are
suffering every day with all of these
chemicals and all of this hard manual
labor and technology just comes and
saves the day with lasers ripping your
jeans for you there you go yeah I think
it's great when technology improves
lives and there are two sides to it I
mean I don't know all the intricacies of
it you know the question that Jeff
probably is thinking do do Jobs get lost
by robots okay
I know I I I'm sure you've seen some of
the clothes I wear in the show I'm not
very fashion minded I like fairly simple
outfits why do we ramp a sweater why do
we make clothes to ruin them so we can
sell them new clothing actually is more
comfortable I buy I would say 97% of my
clothes secondhand because I like the
comfort of old clothes and also I like
the money savings of used Club sure so I
really just loved the idea that I
imagine if you walked into the building
where they are chemically deconstructing
mo Lian's like it must be a stench
beyond imagine and that'll just be
cleaned right now we were talking just
before the show even about how I took
the kids to an indoor waterpark and yeah
the chlorine was just like burning your
eyes and you know you you shower it off
when you're done but yeah I can see that
being the case so if the technology is
able to improve the lives of the workers
and and really that needs to happen
because in the news you hear about how
poorly the conditions are for some of
these workers so you know I'm all for
anything that will improve things for
absolutely I'd say go for it this is
great no issues with it I just don't
understand that ruining clothes you
don't understand fashion I don't
understand I'm not fashion my the Law
Commission in the UK is to conduct a
study into British driving laws with the
of making sure humans can still be
blamed for road accidents caused by
driverless cars as well as criminalizing
hackers who target autonomous vehicles
the Department for Transport said about
the planned three-year review key
aspects will be adjusting traditional
laws to reflect the fact self-driving
vehicles of the future will not have a
driver perhaps not even a steering wheel
like traditional cars and also consider
some of the criminal offences involved
insurance companies have already told
the government that they will refuse to
pay out if autonomous vehicles run up
speeding fines even threatening to pull
their all-important support from the
autonomous and electric vehicle bill
currently before Parliament if they were
made liable in such cases the law
Commission will look at how to allocate
civil and criminal responsibility where
there is some shared control in a human
machine interface as well as the
creation of new criminal offences for
novel types of conduct and interference
in other words the hacking of driverless
cars cyclists have in all seriousness
suggested prosecuting developers of
driverless cars car software for making
errors if a cyclist gets squished by a
self-driving vehicle and academics have
also questioned whether insurance
companies would pay out in a mass
driverless car hack scenario normally
the Law Commission issues public
consultations to inform its work and
then publishes a paper summarizing both
the responses and its recommendations to
the government no announcement has yet
been made about the motoring law
consultation Wow so I never even thought
of that when I was thinking about
autonomous cars but I ride my bike and
what if there was an issue where the car
didn't see me yeah you kind of trust
that a human driver is gonna see you
right well we've already seen from I can
say was about two years ago somebody who
died while their plane was at Nintendo
we know they were watching oh they were
watched Harry Potter a potter yeah
that's yeah well yeah I mean
you give humans the ability to chill out
a little bit they're gonna go I mean
already in the chatroom or salt driving
cars equals more sleep time yeah like
Hampshire hey I honestly like when I'm
crossing the street I make eye contact
at the cars like that not the cars the
people behind the cars to make sure they
see me crossing the street now I'll be
walking across the street
trusting cuz they can't make eye contact
with an autonomous vehicle that they
aren't gonna go
I think the autonomous vehicles can be
programmed in such a way that they will
follow the rules of the road regardless
but then it becomes the bikers yes issue
that oh well I just expected them to
stop I've had pedestrians just walk
right out in front of my moving vehicle
yes because they know that I the human
driver will stop now that's arrogance
and that needs to stop because if we're
in a world where autonomous vehicles are
driving they may not stop in time I have
a real problem with the insurance aspect
of it in that I don't think that
insurance companies are insuring me
personally so much as I'm paying to have
my property insured I'm paying to
protect those around me so that if I
caused damage to someone else's property
they are covered so that you know if I
bump into your car you're not out the
money for repairing it that's my that's
what my insurance is for if I'm not in
the car if the car is driving itself I
think my insurance should still foot the
bill for whatever occurs right they need
to revive their law their rules in order
to accommodate autonomous vehicles not
the laws accommodating the insurance
companies who don't want to pay yes an
accident happens that is a super valid
points yeah I agree completely so do i I
mean I because I work in a major city
the likelihood of a car accident as for
myself has gone up I mean in the four
years that I've been working there I've
already had one car written off and
another one shop now both times they
were not my fault right but my insurance
company their stance is hey not your
fault we get it will pay for the repair
we're going after the other insurance
company right so why wouldn't the
insurance companies
look if it was you know human error in
this case where you were sent me in
control of the car even though was
driving for you and you were negligent
we got to eat those costs I get it but
if if there was a programming error or
there's a hack the insurance company
should be going after whoever created
that issue so I don't see what the big
concern is not great I'm not an
insurance agent I'm not assurance broker
I don't get it
I'm not part of that industry but I mean
the whole point is we'll pay we're going
after somebody else so why couldn't the
same here I mean if if you know you've
got an autonomous car that you know that
has a systems crash also you know yeah
nail hackers in that in that case yeah
why wouldn't they go after the company
that made the car that if that's a case
and say you have some liability Asha I
know that we're out of time for the
story and I know you want to wrap up but
the Albuquerque turkey does raise a very
interesting point in that okay I'm gonna
expand on Albuquerque Turkey's comment
here and say look Sasha oh you're biking
yeah okay you're walking to and from
wherever you're going yeah you're
probably into fitness right okay you
probably are wearing what do you got on
your wrist there girl I have a Fitbit
you have a Fitbit okay and and probably
most people these days that are biking
or walking or day I'm tracking my steps
with my phone you're tracking your steps
with your fit bets why not have a
pedestrian transponder within those
devices that will protect me from
autonomous vehicles so that the
autonomous vehicle now doesn't just see
me as a person but sees that digital
footprint there's a person there there's
someone there I recognize that that is a
Fitbit signal and I need to stay away
what do you think of that I actually
really love that it makes me feel a lot
safer because I really would love the
idea that we could all just have
autonomous vehicles and we wouldn't have
to rely so much on human judgment in
driving when we're all so tired and
distracted yeah so I love it thank you
big thanks to Ray W Nash Senor wences
and our community of yours for
submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom i'm sasha
rickman Sasha thank you so much this is
category 5 technology TV we've had a lot
of fun tonight learning about
cryptocurrency how to start mining how
to get involved in in the whole crypto
process I hope that you've enjoyed it I
hope that you've had fun let us know how
it goes for you let us know your hash
rates that'll be a lot of fun yeah and
and where you hope to see your crypto
portfolio go if anywhere yeah if
anywhere I'm cool with it either way I
just record of the fan load the minor
support cat5 that's another thing you
can do too thank you it's all the time
that we have this week building sasha
over there on the brick wall we'll see
you buddy have a great week everyone
we'll see you next week
