those who prefer Linux or are simply
curious about linux and other open
source technologies this is category 5
technology TV broadcasting from Barrie
Ontario Canada get ready for unique and
interactive viewing experience and now
here's your host Ravi Ferguson welcome
to episode number 267 of category 5
technology TV it's Tuesday October the
30th 2012 nice to see you hey everyone
hey spider girl spider-man how you doing
great good help a little sore I've been
working out you know get eight hours a
day very nice little ripped fantastic
stuff hey we've got a great show for you
tonight tonight we have a very special
guest anti-malware man is here on the
show joining us from malwarebytes org
stick around we're gonna be talking to
him in just a few minutes time what you
got coming up news well coming up in the
newsroom several new york-based news
sites went offline in the aftermath of
Hurricane sandy have you shopped at
barnes and noble lately you might want
to call your bank nintendo's new Wii U
console will be sold at a loss the
playstation 3 master key has been left
leaked by hackers and google's new nexus
10 tablet beeps apples retina display at
300 DPI stick around these stories are
coming up later in the show excellent
thank you sir just was in miring the
physique
hey if you've got a mobile device mine
isn't working 22 well tonight I think
it's broken or it might be the spidey
fingers I tried using my spidey sense it
doesn't really it's not responding and
Jeremy believing but if you've got one
and you're not wearing these crazy
gloves visit mcat 50 for our mobile site
very special site that allows you to
watch the show through your mobile
device check it out very cool stuff also
we love to receive your postcards snail
mail postcards letters spider-girl how
can they send those in they can send
them in to category 5 technology TV
p.o.box 2900 nine Barrie Ontario Canada
l4 n7w seven exactly here welcome
spider-man yeah alright well we've got a
like I say an awesome show tonight we've
got some stuff to give away stick around
we've got stuff for you in the chat room
as well I'm gonna how am I gonna work
draw bad I didn't even think about that
i can use my fingers it's kind of like
yeah okay I'll show you I'll show you
what to tap all right hey right there
there and Oh jot very John yeah you see
a lot of people in the chat room there
Andrew Jameson is joining us Garvey nice
to see a gwg chosen see Davis gee pop 7
a couple of guests in there as well hey
if you're a guest make sure you rename
yourself somebody in the chat room will
teach you how to do that but it's
important that you do that if you'd like
to participate in our prize giveaways
tonight so do that up alright and we
will be right back we've just got to
take a quick break and after the break
we're going to be talking to mount
anti-malware ma'am and yes it's not
malware man this is the good guy
anti-malware man fighting malware we'll
be right back after this at eco
alkalines we believe you should be able
to trust your batteries not just here
but
here and here but with one exception you
should also be able to trust your
batteries here Eco alkalines of the
world's first and only certified carbon
neutral battery manufactured to the
highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco alkalines provide
performance the rivals leading national
alkaline battery brands at a comparable
price find out more about the Eco
alkalines difference eco alkalines calm
oh you are watching category 5
technology TV category 5 TV is a member
of the tech podcast network if it's tech
it's here and the International
Association of Internet broadcasters
thanks alpha Adam Kujawa is joining us
tonight he is anti-malware man Adam it
is so great to see you hey how are you
sir I'm great how are you excellent
thanks for for being a part of the show
tonight anti-malware man fights the evil
malware that is out there afflicting our
computers are internet slowing things
down stealing our info stealing our
identities protecting the web I'm all
about the web being older girl I got do
it let's talk about the web and how
malwarebytes is able to help protect us
great to have you on the show Adam ear
so one of the things about the the
modern web is that obviously it is just
it's a wasteland of danger out there
malwarebytes is one of the best products
in my opinion to help protect Windows
users from some of the vicious malware
that's out there we have a lot of Linux
viewers what what do we do and and is
there something that we need to do our
their threats out there that can affect
us well the biggest threats to linux
users and all users of all operating
systems is our phishing scams which are
basically just electronic communications
center users that trick eat normal users
into clicking something or typing in
personal information and stuff like that
they appear to be coming from legitimate
sources like your bank or a video game
or airline but in reality that is Matt
that are used by these cyber criminals
to steal your information and they send
these through through email you'll see a
lot of them on Twitter on Facebook
sometimes even see the video games like
runescape for people try to go the
people to click on a link to wrestle a
certain special something in the past
for their
I've received emails in the past I'm
sure sasha probably seen them you've
probably seen them at home where it
looks like a legitimate paypal email or
a legitimate email from my bank or my
phone provider UPS is another one that
we see a lot of here in Canada are
shipping provider there there are lots
of those kinds of things that go around
why what makes people create these
emails what's in it for them that they
would create a fake version of paypal
for example well it really depends on
how how intricate the scam is it could
be from just a normal user who wants to
see all the people's passwords and
usernames to inspire some criminal
organizations that want to steal your
money they want personal information
your credit card numbers social security
numbers anything they can to sell them
on the black market wow it's a dangerous
dangerous thing is so for those viewers
who are not familiar with fishing what
it is basically is it's like Adam is
saying a way for you to get tricked as
an end user into providing information
that gives them ways into your accounts
ways to access your data your bank
account information maybe your social
media accounts and and one of the
dangers I think Adam is that a lot of
people use the same password across
multiple platforms and so if I am able
to hack Joe blows website where i used
my same password as I did on Twitter now
all of a sudden they've gone access to
my Twitter account as well Zach and
they'll use that account to spread even
more other scams say they hijack
accounts on facebook on Twitter and they
use them to spread even more power now
what do you do as anti-malware man it
helps i write this obviously there's
there's letting people know and go
coming on shows like this and and just
education public education understanding
what the threat is because it affects
mac users add effects linux users it
affects Windows users but what is it
that that you do to help to protect end
users information is probably the best
against the size of attacks fishing has
been around for almost 20 years
and it hasn't changed a whole lot and
how it's done except the different
mediums it isn't and that means that
cybercriminals our office obviously it's
working for them and and that's a
problem and and because it seemed export
of vulnerability and an operating system
it it exploits the human mind and it
tricks people and if people fall for
their homes and it's been happening for
years I'd say almost the entirety of
human existence that people have been
fooling other people to give them what
they want so being able to patch that
from from an answering our point of view
is to just try to teach people as much
as we possibly can about how that goes
how to correct the families and that
usually involves being a bit paranoid
but never really trusting anything
unless you are absolutely positive and
even still in some cases that doesn't
matter anymore because there are ways to
to mask an email to make it appear but
it's coming from a legitimate source
right your look like it's the gym
especially with the shortened down URLs
that you see on Twitter and things like
that it's really hard to tell exactly
going when you click that link um so the
best is to some look over proud if
there's a link involved so that you
scroll where it's going pay attention
well makes that it looks legitimate
always look for a security certificate
and things like that don't trust
anything that asks you to give these
personal information especially you can
ask for it right and at that that's a
good point and I'm sorry we do have a
little bit of audio break up there Adam
and Adam just explaining about the
dangers and how these kinds of things
can trick you into thinking that they're
legitimate for example paypal sends you
an email and it says we're going to be
locking down your account if you don't
log in today and so you see the link and
it says ww or HTTPS colon slash slash
paypal com / whatever and you think it's
legitimate and so you trust it and so
you
con it but it actually takes you
somewhere else is it too late once you
click on it or do you have to enter
information right like at what point so
I puts hands fishing has expected it
when you might see a link like that in
an email or something like that and you
might get taken to a forum or some sort
of page audacity formation a lot of
times what we're seeing lately it will
take you to a page with an exploit pack
attached to it but a little vulnerable
ax t in your browser especially for
Windows users and infect your computer
with mouth especially for Windows users
actually fools but not out there so
right at the beginning as soon as you
click and it that's on social media as
well like on facebook and on yeah yeah
but the flashback malware that was going
around for max not too long ago it was
the same way of spreading it would
exploit people's commuter all right give
the single things like that it's it's
really simplistic and how it's done and
it's very scary and very real right so
the the danger or the way to test these
things isn't to click on the link
because then that might actually already
have exploited you installed something
like a keylogger that all of a sudden
can track when you type in your credit
card or banking information so by
mousing over hovering over you know when
you hover over any link it will pop out
a little text that shows what the actual
link is the full length link so if it's
HTTP colon slash slash wwd something
calm / paypal calm to make you think
that is paypal it's not actually paypal
right okay that's kind of one of the
ways that they tend to do it scroll
don't click yeah that's poppy building
or the copy the URL for the link and put
it into a into Google or something like
that it's someone else has already
fallen for this and said this is a fish
site where of it sure oh that's a good
idea so copy the link and then you get
the actual link not just don't highlight
it and then copy ctrl C because that's
going to copy the text
which is the fake link what Adams saying
here is actually right click on a copy
the link location that's going to get
you the real link don't paste it into
your browser but paste it into google
and see if it comes up with any results
of somebody saying oh I did this and now
I got locked out of my bank account and
my dog died and my wife left me and and
this and that mm-hmm I done jack the
truth is the truth is your bank will
never email you right correct I mean
there never is there what's this hmm
they'll never ask you to plug in their
credentials or anything like that yeah
that's that's one method that's still
going upon has been going on since I was
a kid and so it but obviously it works I
mean people are still falling for it
it's it's really surprising but but said
ash human brain I mean you can try to
teach and you can try to inform but
these days people are even more trusting
than it used to be with the social
networking and Buddy really cares
anymore so that's why these cyber
criminals are doing if they making lots
of money they're succeeding in there
they're fishing exploits and as far as
an hour by attention our users if you
own the pro version we have a web
blocking feature and that's that's
updated yep multiple times a day with
current phishing sites and exploit sites
and things like that so even if you
click that link and you're using our
product it will block you actually going
there getting exported or getting your
information stolen that's good astok now
yeah so it boils down to education for
users who are not on the Windows
platform just understanding the safety
and what you need to do to protect
yourself because even if you're not able
to get those executive all windows
exploits if you click on a link that
looks like Facebook and they do they
look exactly like Adam you sent me a
document that you've written that has
some some great examples of these types
of sites and if you don't mind I'd like
to pull that up on my screen just to
demonstrate to the viewers how closely
these things resemble
all these different websites yeah they
got very good back in the day you might
remember he mails that were slightly off
they might have the wrong you know
punctuation or spell things incorrectly
and spot those is Ben this is not right
this isn't real this is a scam yeah
these days they cute is copy and paste
the source code and just in an email or
on to a web page right I think as well
we live in a world now where everyone is
raised with the internet and so we've
all essentially seen you know we all
kind of have a general and I don't mean
all that's a generalization but a lot of
people grow up knowing how to do basic
web design knowing how to look at the
source code of a website and steal the
code and then build a website that looks
exactly like it it's dangerous stuff so
I'm just easy sorry oh that's that's the
easiest part of it that's why it makes
it possible for or anyone like high
school or junior high kids to to be able
to this and it works right we have two
sharp nose ya know and that's the thing
but the biggest concern for me with my
with our viewers is just the fact that
you're you're just really risking having
your information you're pretty or your
person your banking information on
everything stolen I really want to bring
this up but just give me one moment here
because I hope to find this in an email
that you had sent me a little bit
earlier
here we are unfortunately didn't have
this up on my screen at the time here we
are ok so this document that you sent
here Adam just provide some exceptional
information is this what is the
licensing of this fishing 101 document
which I'd like to bring up on the screen
is this something that we can post for
our viewers as a resource oh here its
except on our bikes unpacked our Bauer
bytes official blog and I wrote that up
let's just sign it on and everything
like that but feel free to suppose and I
think it's a dark valuable resource I
wrote it with the intention of our users
and anyone else out there to read it to
learn about the threats out there and
learn how to protect me great Thank You
Adam I appreciate that what we're going
to do is we're going to actually put
this up on in the show notes for episode
number 267 this document I mean it's
it's excellent what Adam is provided
here but one of the things that I really
wanted to point out is just how real
these fake websites can can look look on
the left there and that's actually the
real Tesco website and over on the right
here it's asking you to login to Tesco
but this is a fake website ok so you
enter your username and you log into
that website and all of a sudden they
have your actual user name and password
and they're able to log into the reel
web site so it's scary stuff and these
days it looks so so real the scary stuff
for me was the information about
facebook when you scroll down and you
hit like if you like something and all
of a sudden i mean i i've done that at
times because i really do like the
evening it looks awesome but i'm going
to like that so i have to like a lot
less so what can our viewers do I mean
if you're certainly if you're on a
Windows platform we're gonna absolutely
recommend malwarebytes check it out
malwarebytes organized felt byt es i'll
put up on the on the screen there for
you malwarebytes org and links in the
show notes for episode number 267 so we
know that the product is going to
protect you quite well against phishing
malware what's the difference with
malware and phishing for those viewers
who are not from
with the terms um as a method of act it
can include malware and more often I
you'll see you'll see fishing involved
and just trying to steal basic directly
from the browser directly from you but
there's plenty of phishing attacks that
also employ now we're either with the
drive-by exploit was talking about or
that actually attached an hour to the
email recently we saw an email that with
it strolling around that look like a
British Airways itinerary little exactly
like one and it had an attachment that
said this is the itinerary for you to
save and print out or whatever and when
he clicked on it he opened it um it was
my that's the a botnet malware that was
similar juice or spy I so it was it was
pretty dangerous and it was pretty you
know pretty stinky and virus scanners
don't often pick this stuff up right
because there's a different
classification of malicious software
virus is a virus and malware is a
different a different type of thing well
our malware and virus can be tingle hand
in hand sometimes but now are usually
involves a lot more than just just what
a virus could do but the malware
involves things like like ransomware now
where that a little hijack your whole
computer and make you pay a fine or fate
spot fake anti spyware type program they
might tell you that you're infected with
things and if you pay them then then
they'll get rid of it for you when a
reality you're not infected with
anything they're right how's the very
software that's that's where that's
where the malware comes into play as far
as protecting from fishing from a
software point numerous products out
there that have said we can block
fishing and things like that and the
best thing to do if you can categorize
them as spam or batteries something
that's a lot it's very helpful but
really it just comes down to being aware
of what you're clicking on and that's
that's probably the biggest to learn and
it's not just email anymore like i said
it's facebook it's in skype like we're
using right now on recently an hour was
spread via spike
but those methods they use who said
Lowell is this you ? in a link yeah and
you see that one on facebook and twitter
as well if i see that my instinct is to
click on that to make sure it's me or
not me yeah and if I did that I'd get
exploited by malware and is there an
easy way to go back or once you've
clicked that you're done yep like it's
if you're affected your infected luckily
our products we do have updates almost
every few hours I mean so quickly we we
find malware we categorize it we make
definitions for it and we get us as
possible there's been plenty of
occasions when malwarebytes and an hour
has as detected what we call zero hour
an hour which is just brand new nope
leave a signature we wrote something
else and I think that's part of what
makes malwarebytes you know it gives you
such a great reputation is the fact that
when everybody else is looking around
trying to figure out oh I got it I got
this infection how do I get rid of it
you're already there with the fix and
that's just fantastic so now you
mentioned that fishing 101 was a part of
a blog is that a blog that we can share
with our viewers because that sounds
like a fantastic resource for those that
were interested in learning more about
about phishing and malware its blog
malwarebytes.org it's called
malwarebytes unpacked I'm the main
contributor for that but we also have
other of our research people of our
business then developers do right on
there and in right post pretty much
teaching anyone about about the commuter
security world about development about
our company we have we have posts on
there about fishing about ransomware
about remote access Trojans which you've
made a lot of a lot of toys lately
especially in the international cyber
crime world so we write one every single
week sometimes more and it's a resource
to keep yourself informed and updated
with what's what the new thread is or
how to protect yourself from old threats
that's what she'd be I don't know how to
do well so bookmark that its blog dot
malwarebytes.org
I'm so you can see malwarebytes.org down
at the lower part of your screen there
just add blog dot the beginning of that
Adam thank you so much for being on the
show now we love your product we're
going to give a couple of copies of the
product away one to our chat room we've
got some ballots for local viewers as
well that we're going to do that thank
you so much for coming on the show
anti-malware man thanks for sticking up
for us novice users there you go
protecting the web just like a superhero
would do that's right Adam is Adams in
the chat room and if you have questions
for him and you're watching live feel
free to chat with him there but also pop
us an email and and we'll be able to
forward on your messages to him Adam
thanks a lot now and all the best
malwarebytes.org check them out and
definitely want to go grab yourself a
download of that there's a free version
and the professional version as he was
saying the free the professional version
offers you some exceptional real-time
protection as well so all right so we've
got a couple of copies of malwarebytes
lifetime professional licenses to give
away if you want to grab that bin of
ballots there oh here we are all right
so get your ballots ready if you were at
our fifth anniversary show here you go
this is your chance to win a free copy
of malwarebytes which we were just
talking about with anti-malware man oh
right the wheel is 865 684 all right 865
684 you are a winner of malwarebytes
lifetime license and we're going to also
give away a copy to our chat room just
before we step into the news here as
well if I can work this with a look at
the skills here to work an ipod touch
with be used by D fingers that's using
spidey senses right there that's right
alright so chat room get ready make sure
you've got a name and now if that was
your ballot all you have to do and for
those of you who are in the chat room
right now and about to about to qualify
for this all you have to do is pop us an
email live at category five dot org dot
TV pardon me
live at category 5 TV and we'll take
care of you I was typing dot-org at the
same time as I was as I was saying our
website address can't do that excellent
well I get a free pass now there you
guys mess up in the news all right chat
room here we go draw bot is entering the
chat room here we go and our winner
tonight is drumroll mmm gwg joining us
in the chat room tonight congratulations
you've got a free copy of malwarebytes a
lifetime license thank you so much to
our guest tonight Adam kujawa who is
anti-malware man from malwarebytes org
stick around we've got lots coming up
tonight we've got your viewer questions
just after the news we're going to take
a quick look at what that what is going
on in the world of news in just a moment
and I'd love to see your questions in
the chat room pop us an email live at
category 5 TV and we'd love to interact
with you and we'd love to see you there
here we go are you ready I'm ready
excellent
so here at the top stories from the
category 5 TV newsroom Americans
affected by Hurricane sandy were unable
to access some popular news and
commentary websites as power cuts in
lower Manhattan knocked several offline
sites such as The Huffington Post
gizmodo and BuzzFeed along with gawker
media sites were affected the websites
went down early Monday evening as the
storm hit most turned to different
methods of keeping their readers
up-to-date such as using Twitter or
their blogs the largest US bookseller
Barnes &amp; Noble says shoppers may have
had credit card data stolen after
keypads in 63 stores were tampered with
oh yeah the chain said that a
sophisticated criminal effort had
planted bugs on one pad in each store by
the fourteenth of September Barnes &amp;
Noble had disconnected all keypads in
its almost 700 stores the firm says
purchases made on its website and on
Nook it's ereader device were not
affected but if you have shopped at
Barnes &amp; Noble retail stores this year
be sure to contact your bank to see if
you were affected ouch Nintendo has
confirmed that it will lose money on
every sale of its Wii U console a lot at
launch their president Satoru Iwata
revealed the news after the firm cut its
profit forecast they hope to ultimately
make money through add on sales and by
cutting its manufacturing costs at a
later stage but it certainly marks a
change in the company's business
strategy yeah I'll say yeah oh yeah boy
now is the time to buy Chris on the
other exact opposite side of the scale
yes three of em ice cream crucial
security information about the Sony
Playstation 3 has been leaked online
access to the inner workings of the gain
access to the inner workings of a game
console like the ps3 means people can
utilize its huge computing power without
restrictions put in place by the
manufacturer for example the United
States Air Force has networked 1700 ps3
s to create a powerful supercomputer
but often the unlocking called
jailbreaking as seen as a means to allow
users to play pirated games the hackers
behind the publication of the decryption
keys say that they decided to release
the information after it was leaked and
fell into the hands of hackers who had
planned to charge a fee for the code so
here you go such altruistic pressures
yes they're so nice google has announced
that Nexus 4 handset and Nexus 10 tablet
go on sale in just two weeks in time for
Christmas the handset can be used as
game controller when wirelessly
connected to a TV and Google said that
the screen of the Nexus 10 tablet has
the world's highest resolution display
what yeah better than Apple's impressive
Retina display yep we the Nexus 4
smartphone has a new panoramic camera
tool called photo sphere which google
claims is unlike any panorama you have
ever seen they say on their blog you can
snap shots up down and in every
direction to create a stunning 360
degree immersive experience what that
sounds awesome yeah in addition users
will have access to Google now which
flags up flight alerts hotel
recommendations and package tracking
based on the user's location and the
contents of their previous email
messages so and are you ready for this
Nexus 10 will be able to manage multiple
profiles meaning that the tablet can be
shared between more than one person in
dice yeah that's a huge downfall of the
iPad as far as I'm concerned that's one
of the things that drive my wife and I
nuts with the ipad is that if she has
facebook i can't use facebook on the
ipad because it's her account i'd have
to sign her out we end it just doesn't
work so there you go intuitive at all so
it's almost 2013 so we'll say it's about
time definitely no word yet on how
scared Apple is but we hear that they
fired some of their key staff so keep
watching the news
get the full stories at category 5 TV /
newsroom the category 5 TV news room is
researched by roy w Nash with
contributions by our community of
viewers if you have a new news story
that you think is worthy of on-air
mention email newsroom at category 5 TV
for the category 5 TV news room I'm
spider-girl thanks Sasha tonight's show
is brought to you in part by quarter eee
electric visit emic quarter e electric
com for more information there the
official electrical company of category
five technology TV even through
hurricane sandy we had no brownouts or
power outages thanks to quarter electric
they take care very good care of us also
get your free trial of netflix it's a
one month free trial and you'll get all
the movies and all the television shows
that you can absorb in a full month cat
five dot TV / netflix cancel anytime
give it a try that is netflix hey that
is awesome all right this is category
five technology TV i'm your host
spider-man Robbie Ferguson and I am Oh
co-host Sasha Who am I spider here huh
yeah it's tough you know having split
personalities for an evening and and I
have no periphery vision none right so
I'm like opping the cameras so if I'm
like this you'll know why it's tough
it's tough being us thanks for 29 I hope
you're having fun tonight join us in the
chat room I love seeing everybody there
hey chat room you've got some viewer
questions I'd love to but I'm seriously
and my periphery is nil ah chat room
there you are nice to see you excellent
okay I do have some viewer questions um
okay so I
have hey Adam dear boy 58 joining us in
the chat room as well I amour amour I'm
it's hard to tell when there's no
punctuation Chaz Linux it's great to see
you again I have you al sorry oh just so
many wonderful there are family faces
Toby good to see you as well Robert I
Gorp sanski who is Robin krasinski Rob
gore in chat room and chat room mom has
a question so hi Robbie and Sasha um I
was hoping you could help me with the
situation sorry it's going to be a long
one she loves to receive long emails so
loving yes absolutely especially if they
have interesting um like short forms oh
yes like acronyms and every names that's
all right like hdd's and s STDs and SSDs
and yeah I haces and that's right here
we go all right here we go I have a
friend who is starting a new business
which I will be helping him out with on
the computer side of things okay it will
involve three windows 7 pcs which over
time will need to have a lot of data
backed up okay initially I was thinking
I was thinking of using an ass to back
up and store the data the main problem
with off-the-shelf NASA's getting any
with more than four drives is very
expensive so then I thought why not set
up a pc as an ass server which will
allow for more than four drives and may
end up being cheaper than an
off-the-shelf nass ideally this NASA /
would run linux and most likely user on
OS six and the window the windows type
mode I love that he typed Zoran and and
it was rather way it's Soren OS but that
just sounds amazing i love it oh well
there you go zuhr it sounds like another
sweet jairo night
right superhero rotten save the planet
then master ever will need to have
redundancy and be able to do automatic
backups of the data stored on each of
the three windows pcs also we need to be
able to do backups to external hard
drives or dvds at the end of each month
these would be kept on site ok on Zoran
what are you backing up to every DVDs ah
yeah d please we're gonna have a talk
about that too um backup to the cloud
would also be nice but not practical for
the amount of data that will need to be
stored but you're saying DVDs yeah so
what do you suggest I use software wise
for the backups and which is easy to use
now so make recommendations with regards
to hardware well the next question is my
thinking totally wrong and do you have
any suggestion no no I'm not hinting
that I'm just but you know dvds for
backups it's it's so time consuming that
I just fear that it doesn't happen it
what's the one thing was really really
true about your backups as if it's
difficult if it's time-consuming either
of those things it's just not going to
happen backups need to be easy-breezy
super simple super fast effortless and
if they're not those things they're just
not going to get done it's true human
nature that's what's that's the truth of
it yeah it has to be just like second
nature it has to be part of your routine
and has to be easy that's it or it
doesn't get done but can you do that
within a budget can you do that within a
budget within a small budget I mean you
mentioned that a 4dr NASA is going to
get pretty expensive which it is but but
what is your data worth and as it is it
worth it so I think it's just taking a
little bit of a different approach
because what we're talking about is
setting up one massive server to back up
to so I've got my laptop I've got my
computer I've got the computer you know
the kids computer in this computer and
the business computer and if it's a home
business you've probably got all
assortment assortments of personal and
business data and you know once you
start intermixing personal data it
becomes digit
pictures digital videos you know
pictures the mum centers that are up on
facebook and you save them all this
stuff becomes a part of that mm-hmm so
the different approach now see what
happens then is you've got 5 10
computers all backing up to this one
central point which sounds fine but it's
still on site so you have a fire and it
was the point right yeah I mean any of
those a flood that short-circuits stuff
and you know there are times when a
solar flare will just cause the knee MP
strong enough to cause trouble with all
your hard drives right I think that a
different approach we will see because
my fear there is that you just got
you've got nothing if a fire happens so
off site is a good idea but you're
already backing up on site why are we
backing up on site when we should be
backing up off site so instead we set up
a server that is a storage server not a
backup server necessarily it's a collie
it's not a copy it is the master data
okay but that server has redundancy so
now you've got the ability to use
smaller hard drives in your computer's
because you don't store anything really
on your computer's you just use the
server mm-hmm everything's there and
there's redundancy so what happens if
you're backing up your computer's to a
server on site and there's a fire you
lose everything if you are instead
saving your data onto a server that has
redundancy if a hard drive crashes you
still have redundancy which means you
just take out that hard drive put in a
new hard drive and you're good to go
okay sundin so redundancy means just
another copy of all of the information
mmm more like a fail-safe so that if
something happens with the hardware you
don't lose anything okay so then we just
need to get it off site if that makes
sense does that make sense for that much
well how much data are we talking DVDs
just don't strike me as the right with
the right option in any case because
it's just too much work it's too
time-consuming too unreliable you have
very little way of knowing
that your dad is actually good and that
it's going to have longevity I mean DVDs
degrade over time they're certainly
susceptible to heat and cold and things
like that mm-hmm do you have a
recommendation well what if instead Rob
we had a server on site I'm just tossing
around ideas because this is something
that you as kind of like an
administrator have to kind of assess
what is the best situation so you've got
a server on site that has a few hard
drives we did a feature on what's called
unraid the free version you can put in a
few hard drives and you don't have to
pay anything for the for the software
you can buy commercial commercial
license for it and you can add more hard
drives I have eight hard drives in my
server and I've got a parody drive that
allows it to be redundant so if one of
those hard drives crashes I still have
my data I don't lose anything in my case
I'm actually backing up that server now
to a pogoplug device which allows me to
have that off-site backup but in your
case it may be large data may be slow
internet whatever the case is what if
you just got a two terabyte single Drive
or three terabytes single drive external
hard drive you probably need two of them
realistically and just set it up so that
you have an incremental backup happening
from the server once a week so you have
one hard drive that you connect to that
server incrementally so that it's it's
basically looking at the image and
saying okay these are the files that
have changed since the last time I ran
back up all the data from the server and
all the data on the server is all the
data of your network so that's your
documents your pictures everything is
stored on the server not on the local
computers because computers are too easy
to steal computers are too easy to to
you know a single hard drive failure it
zaps everything so now you've got a copy
on this Drive what do you do you take
that to your safety deposit box or mom
and dad's place or whatever and put it
into a safe place bring home the other
one and connect it you've got two drives
remember so now the one that is current
up until today is off-site you've
brought home the other one you've
connected it and it's running the backup
one week later you take that one and you
switch them out don't ever have both of
them on site have that kind of process
you're taking it off site bringing back
the other one plug it and let it run a
backup the semantics of how to
accomplish that are not too tough with a
linux server you can set up something
like an hour diff backup which would be
fantastic so that you always have
redundancy at home or redundancy in the
office and an off-site copy that is not
the work of dvds and is not the
bandwidth and the price of the cloud
essentially okay that's that's probably
how I would approach it alright let me
know your thoughts robin and maybe
you've got other you know thoughts about
how you'd like to do it and i'd be happy
to help direct you in the right
direction i was mentioning on raid go to
our website category five dot TV and on
there you'll see the show episode matrix
and scroll down you'll see episode
number 103 somewhere in here yeah it's
really hard for me to see your clothes
is that you are 103 103 unraid server
it's gonna warn you that it's an older
episode but the data is absolutely
relevant it's going to load up on your
screen there you're going to be able to
actually watch that episode that gives
you some good information actually built
a nun right server on the show al gives
you a really economical way to build a
storage server that has single Drive
failover redundancy there you go rob you
have homework uh-huh good luck I have a
question here from Valentin all right
hey Valentin so it says hi Robbie during
the last show I was the one who asked
about live streaming for Nash thanks for
older yeah okay thanks for picking up
the question I only noticed a day or two
later that I'm not able to watch live I
didn't mean Nash with the standalone
player but the Debian package browser
plugin Nash which is able to show
youtube flash videos but fails in many
other situations it doesn't seem to
support swf v10
and i'm not sure if it would support
streaming at all so would it be possible
to stream older flash formats that
hopefully work with Nash with your
existing providers and your equipment
also you said that you could stream Oh
Ciara ography or OGG Theora um or web M
sure different formats different codecs
for web streaming okay so what is
happening here is he's using an
open-source alternative to flash okay
flash player you know flash there that
lets you watch things like category 5 TV
mm-hmm online okay the problem is here's
the issue and the technology is a little
different right because what Nash has
done is they've reverse engineered flash
so that they can create something that
is freely available in his open source
that's my understanding I mean it's the
GNU project and you know they do great
work but the fact is is is still not
flash so when you say that it's not
compatible with swf 10 that's the
version of Flash version 10
unfortunately I've just ties your hands
I mean to think that you're limited to
something that's only compatible with
version 9 or below mm-hmm I do I can't
stream anything in version 9 anymore I
don't have providers that will offer
that to us YouTube is great because as a
fallback they offer html5 so if you
don't have a player that will support
their version of flash it will play via
html5 and it's it's golden it auto
detects and plays the the proper one our
website does the same if you have flash
is going to play it through a flash
player if you don't it's going to play
by html5 our mobile player plays all
h.264 so that it's compatible with your
devices III think that the tough
situation is I mean I don't know your
scenario your situation why you're
really keen on wanting to use Nash and
only Nash but the fact is I'm not the
kind of person I I do my absolute best
to support open source to use open
source and
to to keep with you know the the
mentality the community aspect of open
source software but I'm also realistic
in that adobe has provided the Flash
plugin and it's available for free it's
not that you don't have to pay for it
it's not open source but it's available
much like the nvidia drivers and things
like that so if unfortunately the open
source version doesn't have what I need
I'm really limiting myself if I don't
just say well I hate to do it but I'm
going to install the adobe flash plugin
non-free which is what i would do in
that scenario and i know some people are
really really keen they want only open
source but but sometimes it can be
limiting and that's a choice that you
make and unfortunately it's not
something that i have the power to
change because you're using something
that's limiting you to an old software
the old version of flash and everything
is version 10 or 11 so that's that's the
scenario so you can watch the
pre-recorded but watching live you're
limited to our stream providers which
are justin.tv and ustream TV which i
believe both require Flash version 10 or
better hmm that's that's the scenario
sorry man all right I have a picture
here from a rapper a better here you see
me with the Eco al alkalines I one in
your five-year anniversary awesome
thanks again for the nice show and keep
up the good work I got to bring this up
bring up the picture all right I'm
getting there all right there it is real
life known as River here we go saving
your picture now bringing it up we go
rapper was in the chat room draw bot
said you know what I like Rafa I'm gonna
pick rapper today congratulations there
you go excellent from germany i believe
did he mention he did he say where he's
from dude did you do rapper and
real-life known as multi that's what he
said
not there you go the eco alkalines one
year supply sent out to our our viewer
wrapper so great to receive that thank
you so much for sending that him and
it's such a such a pleasure to see so
many viewers from all over the world
have you brought up our viewer location
map lately it's so intriguing to see
where everybody's watching from it blows
my mind I have you guys are all amazing
I mean we're sitting here up in Barrie
Ontario Canada and it just blows our
mind that okay this is our live viewer
location map so this is this is the
United States wonderful to see everybody
even through the storm that oh you have
experienced this week people are still
tuning in we have anybody in Jamaica I
would like to be in Jamaica this is why
I asked you can test my geography where
do I actually so south of here um no
really no SI aqui we can't there's
people in florida it's where we go
florida i could go there how far south
do we go for Jimmy who I can go visit oh
there we go there it is oh there we go
so we have one viewer or at least one
group of yours in Kingston Jamaica so
wonderful about here excellent I'll come
visit you heard her but that's what it
looks like folks and you can see that on
our website category 5 TV that's our
viewer location map this is accurate
data for the last 30 days and just
awesome to see everybody are growing
viewership in these China as well Wow
even South Korea I mean just fantastic
we love to receive I mean we mention
your our postcards we do love to receive
postcards we love to receive your emails
even if you just want to say hi and let
us know what you think of the show what
you're at what you're getting from the
show and if you haven't already done so
register on our website as a registered
viewer one of the very very cool things
is being able to participate as a
registered viewer you are collecting
viewer
points that are going to be visible to
you very very soon which allow you to
participate in contests that are not
available to non registered guest
viewers wind stuff wind stuff we've done
contest such as click race where the
viewers you you have to sit there
clicking your mouse click click click
click click and it's a race live on the
air of viewers and we can see the
progress and whoever clicks the most
times wins the prize I love it so you've
got to be a registered viewer to
participate in that kind of crazy thing
register everybody behind the scenes
bloopers all that kind of stuff it's all
for registered viewers and all you have
to do is go to our website category 5 TV
up here go to log in or register and
click on register now and it's just a
quick little form we don't spam you know
we don't share your information our
privacy policy is listed on the website
but we'd love to have you as a part of
our registered community and then we can
continue to provide some really
interesting and exciting things
specifically to our viewers are our
photo gallery is another thing high-res
photos that we post on a regular basis
do we have time for some more questions
I think we have time for perhaps one or
two okay I have a question from Carol
hey Carol Carol says I'm trying to print
this calendar from Firefox with a little
print icon on the page but it doesn't
look the same when it prints how can I
get it to print properly when there's a
link there is a link let's take a look I
still got email open that's perfect okay
okay there ok so I'll load it up so it's
a it's a calendar and she said she's
clicking on the icon and that's printing
out the calendar for you so there you go
so I don't have a printer connected here
but what would happen is you get your
printer dialog in Firefox there are a
couple of different things that could
cause printing to be a little bit off
from what you see on your screen the
first one and most obvious to me is that
by default Firefox is set to not print
back
brown colors oh and background images so
when you look at something like this you
see that it has like a brown kind of
background each event has a different
color that you've color-coded so if you
want to print that in Firefox you
absolutely must turn on background
printing and this goes for other
browsers as well internet explorer
chrome chromium make sure you turn on
background printing if things are coming
out if it just looks like a grid that
would be the first thing that I would
check and that seems obvious to me right
off the bat and the other thing of
course is that printer scaling just make
sure that it's print set to fit to page
which is a very very cool feature of the
modern browser because back in the day
we used to have the trouble we're okay
if the calendar was this big and my page
is only this big it's gonna get cut off
remember spreadsheets were dreadful
right tape them together yeah so now
with exactly is like you need one of
those printers with the with the
corrugated paper yeah so now you can use
fit to page in your browser which is
amazing because it will take that if
it's a little bit too big or a little
bit too small it will scale it to reach
the the margins that are available on
your printer so those would be the two
things that I would double check so you
can print up your calendar post it on
the fridge and know what you're doing on
to serve baked watching the show that's
right of course where else can you see
this spider-man and spider-girl hosting
category five technology TV for episode
number 267 can you believe her season 6
wowzers I know six I'm one more quick
question all right yep stir from Hayden
Idaho hey jeffster says hi Robbie and
spider girl on episode 266 you showed
how to make a mount point for samba
share which I set up right after the
show shiny then I tried to set up my
document that was he sang shiny like
awesome or was he calling me shiny ah
isn't my regular hairstyle shiny so so I
set it up shiny like that's my new
nickname I like it shiny it is
from now on everybody no more Ravi tiny
man all right then I then tried to set
up my documents folder as a share with
no luck can you show me where I went
wrong so okay only he's got a line from
his FS time yes i can see i see i can
see sashes screen here so it's unfair to
you because you can't see but let me let
me bring up the email again did I close
it this time wouldn't that be funny I
think I did let's bring it back up
doesn't take long I pick good question
because I love to help jeffster want to
give you a hand here okay so let's grab
the line I'm going to paste this
Jeffster into my let's paste it into
like a text document here again just
just to hide your email address and this
is what the show if you're not familiar
with category 5 technology TV and I know
that it's a little bit goofy because
we're kind of dressed up tonight happy
Halloween but the show is really about
just helping you with your viewer
questions we love to receive your
questions you can email us live at
category 5 TV whether they be Linux
related or we're talking a lot about
malware and phishing scams and things
like that tonight with our friend adam
from malwarebytes org there are all
different types of topics you can be
asking questions about if it has to do
with technology this is the right show
for you just send in your questions we'd
be happy to help so Jeb stir here has
created this FS tab line ok so the
server that he is mounting from is 192
168 dot one dot 4 / Jeffster is the
share and there is a folder called
documents make sure that that folder
actually has a capital D keep that in
mind home / gym / documents with the
capital D is correct because that's the
default in Linux is the mount point that
you're trying to use Samba file system
is good and we know that you already
have sm bffs installed because you said
that it worked for the other mount point
you've got your credentials file and
everything and I presume that that's all
that all this stuff is copied from the
working line that you have in your FS
tab so we have to look at this stuff and
figure out okay what is going on so if
you can go to SMB colon slash slash 192
168 dot one dot 4 and then browse to Jeb
stir and browse to documents and
documents does indeed have a capital D
then you know that that line is okay all
right next one we have to look at is
slash home slash gym / document so that
line tells me that you are logged in as
the user gym and so you just confirm
that that's correct if you bring up
terminal it will tell you what user you
are bring up your terminal and the first
thing you see in your terminal there it
is demo ad demo so demo is the name of
my user and the second demo is the name
of the computer how creative I was when
I set up the demo computer so Jim if
that's correct then you've got documents
with the capital D that is correct but
here's the thing if you bring up
documents so you go places documents C
is C me I've got some stuff in there do
you have things in there because if you
do it cannot be used as a mount point a
mount point is an empty folder that's
been created that has nothing in it so
if that's the case if you have stuff
there and you want to be able to mount
you turn it into a mount point you need
to move all that stuff out of there pop
it you know maybe move it over onto the
server if you know that the servers
reliable never move anything until you
do so then when you're done that when
you when you think you've moved
everything off of the documents folder
so now the documents folder looks
absolutely empty hit ctrl H which is
going to reveal hidden files because in
your documents folder every time I open
a text document make some changes and
hit save it creates a backup that's
hidden from normal view but linux is is
great that way and that you have a way
to revert but so with ctrl h you'll see
if there are any hidden full of files
that are within that folder in documents
so then you can probably safely just
delete all those or you can move them
off of that folder and then once it's
absolutely empty try mounting it again
try your mount dash a with sudo cecil
sudo space mount a with space between
now and dash a and that should work for
you ok let me know it's gonna be
brilliant because you reboot your
computer if the server is available you
are going to have your documents
actually pointing to the server it's a
very very good scenario very good way to
have yourself set up because if your
server has any form of redundancy at all
you're going to have a constant
redundant copy of your documents all the
time how perfect is that all right step
thank you everybody for your questions
Sasha spider-girl thank you so much lots
of fun having you here thank you so much
for having me I I will come back next
Halloween everybody now that I have this
there you go there we go oh but what
could we be next year that's right
always have to see I need ideas now get
it straightened them in folks hey
speaking of sending them in again live
at category 5 TV if you want to get your
questions into Sasha and that will be a
good way to do it pop us a note in the
chat room will be hanging about hanging
a boat for just a little bit after the
show next week Eric kid is going to be
joining me on the show don't miss it it
is always a blast having Eric here and
really looking forward to at to November
already and we're looking at our
schedule for November's so I'm going to
be shoveling and if there are all these
guys here chatroom talking about how hot
they are 30 degree weather you have no
idea yeah okay these are 10,000 watt
lights all right this is a quilt sewn to
my chest and a very thick one at that
toasty in here so you don't complain
okay thank you also to Adam for jawa who
joins us from malwarebytes org tonight
he's still in chat room if you have any
questions about about his product but
certainly visit malwarebytes.org that
bites be why
yes thanks everybody and I hope you
enjoyed the show will talk to you next
week don't forget to register on our
site this week and then you can
participate down
hope you enjoy the show category five TV
broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada
tuesday at 7pm minister the fair watchin
is on demand or through cable TV check
out the local show times in your area at
category 5 TV and find out when you can
watch live and interact in the
chatter category 5 is a production of
prodigy digital solutions and is
licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada we'll see you
next time thanks for tuning in
look like they're hanging yeah I can
talk that's true it's all like this
you should probably help your head like
you're high anymore yeah
framing good good
which one
I want to make sure that you don't see
that
found my path
I think it's further back
like a zoom thing there we go
Oh like you're hanging but I don't know
how to get you in this side without
getting you know I need without getting
the side Stefan I knew
