it's Tuesday februari 16 2016 and hear
the stories were covering this week
Google Chrome web star wanted that all
non-encrypted websites are unsafe and
AT&amp;T is beginning test for 5g
implementation offering extremely
extremely fast wireless internet at
gigabits per second oh that fast russia
plans to ban windows on government pcs
and adobe they screwed up and deleted
files from users max when they updated
the Creative Cloud and lastly the UK
government plans to introduce measures
to keep children off foreign sites and
that could be forcing all users to
register with their credit cards to
verify their age these stories are
coming right up don't go anywhere you've
got mad skills now hone them learn new
skills or improve your existing ones
with online video tutorials and training
from Linda calm through our special link
at cat five dot TV / Linda learn
software technology creative and
business skills you can use today to
help you achieve your professional goals
join today and start learning will give
you this chance to try it absolutely
free with unlimited access to all of the
courses sign up now for free cat5 dot TV
/ linda hey i'm jeff watson if you're
just joining us and you're wondering why
am I not in the studio if you remember
watching the category 5 episode a few
weeks ago where we covered my weight
loss with the Garmin vivofit watch
you'll know that one of the features I
talked about was the fact that the watch
tells me if I've been sitting for too
long by the end of that episode I was
sitting for too long so I've decided I'm
going to take the news on the street and
walk at this point we're going to be
able to find out whether I've got the
lung capacity for walking and talking
and reading in the cold so yeah should
be fun so here are the top stories were
covering from the category 5 TV news
room it was Google who finally put the
nail in the coffin for internet explorer
6 and when they put their foot down as
far as the dead technology and now
they're once again putting the foot of
Google down this time though
on non https websites we've seen it
coming since they announced it in 2014
at that time they announced we that
chrome security team proposed that user
agents gradually change their UX to
display non-secure origins of
affirmative non-security what we intend
to devise and begin developing a
transition plan for Chrome in 2015 the
goal of this proposal was quite simply
to make it clearly displayed that users
that HTTP provides no data security
could this be the end of the line for
non secure HTTP web sites no I'll have
to find out google plans to lead the way
and start developing browser warning
messages that interrupt the flow of a
visitor potential users could be driven
from a site because of fear of security
issues in addition Google and other
search engines could penalize what they
see as non secure sites and drop them
down in their search result pages if and
if Google initiates this move the other
main browser provider such as Internet
Explorer the edge Apple Safari Firefox
and others they could be forced to
follow all is not lost though for those
of you who run your own websites one of
the linux foundation's collaborative
projects let's encrypt org is a new
certificate authority and it's free
automated and open it's a bit technical
of course I mean why wouldn't it be
we're talking about websites here but if
you're familiar with the Linux command
line and basic server administration
you'll do okay and if not there's a
number of growing web hosts including
our partners at category 5 TV who
already have it integrated as a free ad
on let's encrypt org when public beta in
December AT&amp;T they're testing an early
version of its 5g network this year and
they're saying it's going to be 1 or 10
to 100 times faster than LTE and might
be used for internet home service an ATT
spokesperson told Ars Technica an early
use of 5 G's underlying technology could
be delivering broadband homes and
businesses and it's possible that we
could have limited commercial
availability this year
depending on the trials this sounds like
it could fit in with the 18s he plans to
provide fixed wireless internet areas
with good without good wired broadband
AT&amp;T is announcement on Friday so the 5g
network will rely on millimeter waves I
don't even know those existed which are
30 gigahertz and above and require
line-of-sight connections 5g will also
likely use the spectrum below 1g to
connect to areas that can't be covered
by the extremely high frequencies with
speeds up to 100 times faster than
today's average 4G LTE connections
customers will see speeds measured in
gigabits per second not Megan it's
latency will also be lowered to about
125 milliseconds the company set
Verizon's also planning 5g trials this
year faster internet like for streaming
gaming I love it it's exciting I want to
see it happen okay somebody who doesn't
want to see things happen there's a
Russian government why well as I fixed
my earphone I'm just going to let you
know they're famous for not being so
open to foreign technologies and now
they want to take it a step further as
the government allegedly plans to ban
windows from government computers in
addition german club menko Putin's new
number one advisor for internet and
technology who was appointed six weeks
ago for your political junkies that
weren't in to know he stated that a new
campaign which is looking to increase
taxes that American tech companies like
Google Microsoft and Apple would have to
pay companies would have to pay up to
get this eighteen percent more in taxes
if this campaign is accepted by the
Russian government now reportedly the
purpose of this campaign is to support
local companies like Yandex and mail.ru
to be better accepted by the Russian
people the most radical change being
proposed in replacing windows on
government pcs with a linux-based
operating system developed by Russia
flamenco also stated that there are
already 22,000 22,000 municipal
authorities ready to replace windows
with their own operating system while
the government prepares for the big move
windows is still the dominant operating
system on people's computers as 93% of
cop computers in the country still run
Microsoft's operating system so we'll
see if the Russian government will even
try to convince people to switch to
another operating system or if it's
going to stop at maybe its own pcs okay
Adobe they have patched its creative
cloud apps that people noticed the
software by people notice that the
software was deleting Mac user files
without warning after customers create
updated Creative Cloud can access their
hard drives and deleted the first folder
that appeared in alphabetical order due
to file naming conventions on Mac
computers the bug off to deleted hidden
system folders or backup data files
adobe issued a fix for the issue on
Sunday many people though in creative
industries have reacted angrily on
social media ya think the problem came
to light on Thursday after her back
blaze which makes data backup software
started receiving hundreds of support
requests from its customers the firm
software detected that some of the files
it uses to perform its duties have been
deleted and staff discovered that
Creative Cloud was responsible after the
designer installed Adobe's update ha
take a breather clearly this walking and
talking thing is a bit of a challenge
for me the issue was president in the
creative cloud version 3.5 point zero
point 206 on the Mac and on Mac hidden
files and folders are prefixed with
period which the opposite operating
system places before a in alphabetical
order the flaw interfered with back
blazes software by chance because the
backup software places a hidden folder
called dot B Zedd vol on the hard drives
it indexes this happened to be top of
the list on machines without the backup
software installed a different folder
may have been deleted instead in a
statement adobe said on the twelfth of
februari we were notified that some
customers had an issue with an update on
the Creative Cloud desktop application
we removed the update from distribution
and deployed a new one which addresses
the issue that's a pretty lousy
explanation let alone apology Adobe
pretty lousy indeed did you find
everybody's files for them
anyway the UK government wants to
introduce a law which may in one example
force users to enter credit card info if
they want to access pornographic content
online the new restriction will apply to
any sites that contain pornographic
material and will receive an eight and
would receive an 18 if they were
formerly rated the new law is being
introduced in order to force users to
identify themselves in an attempt to
keep children from using pornographic or
otherwise inappropriate websites
companies that run the websites will
have to put checks in place to ensure
that only adults are viewing them or
face having their sites shut down those
that don't comply could have advertising
band or be forced to have their page is
unavailable in the country it isn't
clear exactly how the companies will
verify the age of those visiting them
but one way is that it states that that
the sites will force people to sign up
with a valid credit card to ensure that
they are at least 18 something that
already happens on gambling sites the
government said that the new effort was
part of its plans to keep children safe
online the internet safety and security
minister Baroness shields that's an
awesome name says just as we do offline
we want to make sure children are
prevented from accessing pornographic
content online which should only be
viewed by adults the final decision on
the new rules will be decided on April
twelfth question is what do you think
does this move restrict Internet freedom
or is it a viable tactic for protecting
our children you want to know your
comments post them below big things this
week's 20 fcl Ronnie cat on twitter roy
wa ash and our community of viewers for
submitting stories to us if you found a
news story that you'd like to send
e-mail at the newsroom at category 5 TV
for all your tech news with a slight
linux bias visit category-five TV / news
room or the category 5 TV news room at
category newsroom category 5 TV for the
category 5 taught TV news room from the
road walking not letting my Garmin
vivofit yellow me I'm Jeff Weston
