what you're about to experience is a
free worldwide interactive broadcast
from Ontario Canada we broadcast live
every tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time
get your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host where
I'll be ferguson welcome to episode
number 178 of category 5 technology TV
yeah how's everybody doing nice to see
you all right it's tuesday the 15th of
February's 2011 happy day after
valentine's day yeah so let's see yeah
there we go just checking our levels
there we just seemed a little bit quiet
there we're ready to do a show now
category 5 TV was it you it was me oh I
see him reach down and turn on his
microphone Shh welcome to the show nice
to have you here tonight we've got a
that chance for you to win a copy of
wire cast for absolutely free so stick
around we're gonna be telling you how
you can win that also we're gonna be
learning how to create mosaic images
from your photographs that's kind of a
cool thing so and if you're not familiar
with mosaics it's like the tiles so we
needed a day with little tiles and yeah
we're gonna actually do some cut and
paste tonight we've got our paper here
and a couple of pairs of scissors and
we're just gonna start cutting up
photographs super we're not really going
to do that but we are going to use the
free software that's available
on lakhs only so uh and that's that's
really where we're at tonight we had
lots of viewer questions and and I
realized tonight as I'm getting ready
for the show that that we want to try to
get through as many of your questions as
is possible what what's up I was getting
a little flock for trying to turn off
the wireless on my phone just as the gun
started somebody caught me he was doing
well thanks John he was actually turning
it off yeah well we know he wasn't
tweeted hey what I send out a tweet or
two did ya not many you're right not as
many not as many as you could no known
as many so you've got a blackberry torch
here you could be you could be you know
I could be as annoying as the rest of us
but you I'm sitting on the bus I don't
have any time to say I'm little tweet
I'm standing still I don't treat like
that most of my tweets are reasonably
interesting yes yes see there twitter
com / Robbie Ferguson and you'd be able
to find out if my tweets are up to Eric
standards but ok ok hey yeah i'm gonna
try to behave myself tonight the cameras
are on we're in HD aren't we r OB we are
sir I should probably over haha that
more time in makeup alright i have to i
actually upgraded my razor this week
because of the fact that hey we're HD no
that's not really why I did it but hey
you know it makes for a good story right
it's ok well maybe that get bored sure
no no not like me
okay look we're mom we have a fun job
your are let's uh let's take a look at
what's coming up in the news shall we
all right greetings everyone coming up
in the newsroom this episode a new cheap
version of the Apple iPhone is in the
works a major windows phone 7 upgrade
will offer mobile users ie9 and cloud
support guitar hero is being axed by the
company that publishes it after nearly
six years and global data storage has
been calculated at 295 exabytes stick
around for the latest news from the
category 5 TV news room Thank salary
yeah look at these notes hey Hillary had
last week was talking about Reuters and
you you've heard me talking about Eric's
attention to detail is my personal note
these are your notes my notes are like
important show stuff like today we're
gonna be giving away a copy of wire cast
for that's that's important note okay my
first note last week was am i reading
the news tonight cuz I didn't see
Hillary for sure and what's your second
note oh that's over yeah okay so John
this is this is what we're putting up
with here guys this is when Hillary's do
in the news and this is the note that I
am just gonna say anything above you're
saying Reuters it's fine it's fine there
you go so just in case we were wondering
this is what Eric's writing during the
news thanks buddy for all your input
he's a good guy oh my god we let him
away with a lot the anal retentive
sidekick I guess this is what I am line
I start my own show can you say anal on
the air there you go that's how he does
things
oh my goodness it's medical we're gonna
talk Freud perhaps not Oh dear me I can
take a taxi to get over here tonight
thank you a Nazi nice to me yeah okay
you got some questions there we'll hop
in I have lots of questions like good
good why are we here no no that's it's
not the bigger question than you can
imagine okay well we have one here it's
from I am it go with fee ha if he huh uh
femi yemi ok females ok hi Robbie hope
everything is okay with you I'm
preparing my home video studio for
podcast and some live streaming ok as
for now I own a license of looks like
vid blaster com yeah good blaster um I
like this more than the other one it's a
cheaper offering HD streaming good video
switching effects etc have ordered HD
pro wed webcam c910 one maybe later made
by one more ok ok so like an HD webcam
yeah sure and his podcast microphone is
from blue mic com Yeti those are good
yeah and owns a license for pinnacle
studio 14 ultimate plus effects and
corel videostudio pro x3 will check
which is better also running macbook pro
13 inch dual boot boot camp windows
seven eight gigs of ram 256 gigs are
driving 2.4 gigahertz intel dual core is
there any tips how to have your own live
video streaming server that i could push
from home without going to ustream etc
hmm regards from me how much bandwidth
do you have my friend and it sounds like
you're getting into some a pretty good
setup there yeah and i shopped around
when i was shopping around for stuff i
looked at some of those products as well
as you know we're using Wirecast here
and just absolutely love it
never regretted that decision that's
that's been fantastic for us and that's
you know one of the reasons that you
hear us talking about it these days is
because it's such a great piece of
software but the stuff that you're that
you're going with should be should be
good too what I find out just let you
know those HD webcams because they're
USB they tend to be pretty heavy on the
cpu and you're using the macbook there
so it should be it should be pretty
powerful as far as that goes but just a
heads up once you start getting into one
two three HD USB webcams all of a sudden
you'll find that the CPU time is not
enough to keep up so so just be mindful
of that that's why we use a lot of
external stuff going into capture cards
instead because the the overhead is a
lot lighter and that's also why in the
past we used firewire on the SD cameras
but and that's one of the reasons that
we went with wire cast as opposed as
opposed to vid blasters because of the
better handling of the firewire as well
as far as streaming yourself that gets
to be pretty heavy on your bandwidth
I'll be honest with you would love to
know kind of what what you're thinking
is like what along the lines you know
where where you want to go maybe to get
rid of advertising that you see on
Justin and stuff like that truth be told
the reason that we use things like
justin TV and Ustream the reasons a lot
of broadcasters are using those services
is because they have a lot of bandwidth
to spare and they're able to provide a
massive amount of bandwidth with only
one upstream to their servers so for
example right now I'm streaming 926
kilobits per second and Eric can see
that so at 926 kilobits a second that is
my requirement to send to the servers so
if I were to host the stream here on our
internal server for example I would have
to take 900 and it's spiking up to as
high as 982 kilobits a second I would
have to have as many so if I had 10
people watching it would be 10 times
that amount of a
with that's only for 10 people so we're
talking now we're up to nine almost nine
megabytes per second nine megabits per
second i should say which not a lot of
people have your talking that's fire
fiber optics if you want to have you
know say 50 viewers you're talking 50
times the amount of bandwidth so the
advantages to using something like
justin TV or ustream far away the cost
and the and the limitations of both the
hosting it yourself that said because
you're asking i'll say one of the most
common ways to do it is through flash
like we're using here for the live
stream and the reason that we use flash
is because it's probably even though you
know a lot of people aren't too keen on
flash these days the fact is is for live
streaming it's probably one of the
better options as far as quality to low
bandwidth ratio and quite frankly and
pretty much anybody who wants to watch
live video has the ability to do so and
if they don't like for example through
the ipod touch or iphone or the ipad
where they can't actually watch flash
there are apps that you can install that
will allow you to use like justin TV and
Ustream so that's one option is flash
media server that's that would be
something that you could install costs
start at about a thousand dollars for a
license so not the best option as far as
G this goes from there there's wowza
which is about the same price if you
want to get into a commercial license
pardon me but they do have what's called
a I believe it's called a developer
license which is free but i think it's
limited to something like 10
simultaneous connections for the video
stream so it is quite limited and then
of course you've got the windows end of
things you could instead of going with
flash you could go with WMS windows
media services and that is free as long
as you have windows server so they say
it's free like it's free download but
because you have to have a windows
server it
it's really not that free which as we
know is not free it's very expensive to
get that operating system if you already
have a Windows Server you're golden as
long as you can dedicate it to to that
product so those would be the three that
I would say look into but again I don't
think any of those are the best option
for a startup broadcast i would get
started with third-party options such as
you stream or justin.tv and then if you
really want to get into spending money i
would go with the cloud-based solution
something else that you know doesn't
have the advertising but still allows
you to tap into their bandwidth so that
you're not having to up and up and not
your own bandwidth which you could get
very very expensive alright so I hope
that answers your question family I let
us know be cool and writers let's see ya
Cal hydro in the the chat room is
wondering about installing libre office
it doesn't show up in ubuntu 10.2 in
software store no cuz in a boon to 10
point 10 it's still Wow alright you can
hear that right hark I'm just waiting
for the foots the footsteps comes Becca
LibreOffice is basically like a fork of
openoffice so being that open office is
in the 10.04 and 10 point 10 of a boon
to you're not likely going to see that
there you'll probably see that in 11
point 0 4 but you can download it off of
their website my goodness they can hear
it in Texas libera office but that's
what Greg in Texas indeed LibreOffice
dot org download they probably have they
may even have a repository that you can
get it directly from apt download the
source
there's tar files let's see there are de
be files so that's so that's probably
the way that you're gonna have to do it
for now I haven't you know honestly I
haven't installed it myself I'm just
using whatever is comes pre-installed
which in my case is open office at this
point it was heard in Christchurch New
Zealand too ah yes oh my goodness I love
my family hey I love the kids there
brother house they are and i was gonna
say happy better yeah really sound too
happy yeah all right Oh Texas ss1 log
kid okay let's get your hearing at
second hand through a directional
microphone that should have heard it
from our perspective still got the
twitch all right so well here's a
question from Dennis yes he's running
lucid I guess I wasn't clear in my email
about cloning a virtual drive and using
it as the virtual disk on another
virtual machine that's right we're
completely sure I'm sure about the
question was here's what I'm trying to
do using VirtualBox i created a linux
virtual machine and virtual hard drive i
installed the mini version of ubuntu
10.04 and set it up with the software i
wanted i want to create a number of
different Linux virtual machines set up
exactly like the first one to do
different things using clones of the
first virtual disk that have already set
up when I copy the first VDI to a second
vdi and use vbox maj a vbox manage could
be managed okay where I'd like to buy a
vowel to change the uuid it works fine
in the original Linux virtual machine
when I release it from the original
virtual machine and attach it to any of
these subsequent Linux virtual machines
everything works except the network the
network settings are the same on all
virtual machines how do i get the
network to work you mentioned something
about this on the episode about changing
the uuid with vbox managed but didn't go
into how to fix it hmm Dennis now i am
not sure what i might have mentioned at
that point but you're right in that if
you copy a virtualbox hard drive you
have to change the uuid because it
basically is like it's a virtual hard
drive so you if you had two different
hard drives and they both have the same
uuid which is the unique identifier it's
not going to work because the like the
same hard drive but so he's changing
them so that's the right track but why
the network isn't working one is it on
at the same time as the others that's
what I'm think so probably you need a
new cid or something because there's a
conflict on the network this is what I'm
thinking but is there they must be
running at the same but if they're only
yeah but if they're running uniquely it
shouldn't I mean well it depends do you
have a dhcp server because what about
your mac address let's suppose your host
name maybe trying to I don't know you
want it you want to do basic networking
you need to first of all I'm curious
Dennis if if the computers the virtual
computers are both on at the same time
if that's the case even with the
separate uuid probably have the same
mostly society yeah and that can be
determined just type hostname at at the
prompt I like terminal a little program
like new cid that resemble about without
working on a virtual well it's just
Linux right so you can just change the
hostname on the Linux box is necessary
but I wonder also about your mac address
depending on when you say your cloning
the hard drive I'm not I guess it would
depend on whether or not we're actually
trying to run the same computer virtual
computer or if it's just the hard drive
I'm gonna bring bring up a virtual box
here real quick and just right-click on
machines and if I go to network I
mentioned this last week that you need
to make sure that it's set to bridged if
you want to be able to access the the
network properly or have the network
access you so you double check on that
under advanced you're going to see that
it is you know what type of network
adapter but then also the mac address if
you're actually cloning this computer
you may need to change the mac address
to match the original virtual machine
that's just a virtual mac address of the
network interface so tough to tell
though really if they're running
simultaneously make sure you change the
hostname on one of them what else could
it be any suggestions and put me in the
chat room mmm
just trying to think and I'm sure you've
done some troubleshooting sounds like
you pretty much know your way through it
all but with Network going down it's got
to be that either the virtual hardware
or the configuration of your network
itself because if it's bridged your dhcp
server is going to see each virtual
machine as its own physical hardware so
if they both are sharing the same
hostname it's going to be like having
two computers with the same hostname on
the network that just won't work or if
you're using static IP addresses for
example within the virtual machine
you'll get IP address conflicts if you
try to boot multiple systems at the same
time
and the mac address is the only other
thing i can think of changing that
georgia is the mac address generated
it's automatically generated when you
create the virtual machine MAC address
being like every Network device has a
mac address so your network card and a
physical computer has another day yeah
just wondering virtually is there
there's a new one for virtually
virtually it creates a new virtual
network card which is unique to the
virtual machine that you've created not
to be hard drive of that virtual machine
it's a it's the physical virtual network
adapter did I say physical virtual you
did another virtual that was an oxymoron
it's kind of an intangible tangible
isn't it mmhmm yeah stop okay did we get
any answers I know not like I hope that
one of those things is going to help you
Dennis I'm sorry it's it's one of those
it's it kind of could be so many
different things but i hope that work
steering you in the right direction but
do understand that your virtual machines
appear to each other into your network
as if they were real computers as long
as you're in bridged mode not in that
mode on that network interface so if
that's the case keep in mind that normal
limitations and rules for networking
apply and that's where your DHCP server
comes in that's where your host names
come in your IP addresses come in
everything has to be configured
correctly as if they were to physical
computers yeah actually so I mean in the
Bluetooth system you could have
different virtual machines on yes and
because he's cloning but are all on at
the same time so very well could be a an
idea on the network kind of a con
yeah that's my exactly at the dhcp level
like at the at your roses I was only
using one at any specific time maybe
only interacting with one of any
specific time but right there actually
up and running in the background then
there could be conflicts on the know
definitely alright so hard to guess so
hard to guess here is another one from
Dennis or d man hey Tina ok Robbie where
do I start to learn about building a
computer I have a limited budget don't
we all oh sorry that wasn't in there and
need to use some of other hardware that
I have but other hardware that he has
but still able to upgrade when I can I
have low sized ide hard drives nvidia GF
8600 GT you pci he thinks has decent
cases so he's just looking for a
motherboard and processors that i can
upgrade to i was thinking of a
motherboard that can handle ide and SATA
sada so i can upgrade to say to as i get
the money to upgrade hmm ok well it's so
he says pciii that I think we know those
pcs III think with their space after the
OAIC in the eyes you read it right get a
space between the eyes right so those
old I ide hard drives yeah you're smart
to get into a scenario where you've got
both the IDE and the SATA I'll say SATA
ok you said it now what about sorry on I
digress I last night push after we're
done with this question all right yeah
anto is suggesting you go on youtube and
say how to build pcs but this is you
know this is a good resource here as
well like if you have specific questions
and that's cool but it sounds like you
you kind of know your where you're going
with this you want online ability and
check the specs of whatever whatever
motherboard yeah you're gonna see what
yeah but because it's based on ok so
we've got we've got the hard drives
their ide you're a decent case so
assuming the
power supply is going to handle what
every frozen yeah that's important as
well you've got a cheapskate GPU there
with a t600 and video card so really
it's just because your needs right now
are so basic it's looking forward and I
think you're already at that point where
you realize that's important you know
that you want to be looking for
something that has both ide and SATA
that's wise you want something probably
with to ide channels because you're
going to be running your hard drives off
of ide you don't want to slave your seat
your optical drives off of that same
that same channel on the ide channel
because it's going to slow down your
hard drives and then you've got to get
into slaving and stuff like that as well
but you could get an SATA optical drive
as well and then just use the ide
channel for the hard drive so that's
fine too but if you have specific
questions asked in the chat room there
are a lot of people mentioning in the
chat room some of the things that you
can you can do as eric was saying make
sure you've got a good enough power
supply you want to make sure that you've
got plenty of wattage to carry carry
your stuff and like whatever peripherals
you're putting in there your needs are
probably pretty basic so even like a 450
500 watt power supply will probably do
you well let's stay away from the really
dirt cheap ones because they tend to you
know if they fail they take everything
with them and you don't want that to
happen so something a little bit better
quality so
alright does that help no no I think
that's just awful all right had a
question in the chat room wondering
about a good external drive for video
storage / video storage is that what
like just about the video on and plug it
into your pogoplug canaanite yeah
depends okay so depending on what you
want to do it really depends on whether
this is going to be for redundancy or if
it's going to be for multimedia or if
it's going to be your only copy if it's
going to be your only copy that I'm
going to recommend that you get
something that has a raid one type unit
there are many different kind of
external chassis so you can get that you
buy two hard drives and you pop those in
and even in some cases you'll have three
hard drives and you've got redundancy
don't fall for the four seeing that the
you know if a unit has two drives it
doesn't necessarily mean it's a raid one
sometimes what they'll do they'll put
two drives in it and there will be 2 500
gig drives and they'll call it a one gig
one terabyte external unit so what
they're actually doing is they're
they're striping for spanning from one
drive to the next and you're not
actually getting any redundancy what you
want is redundancy there that's if
you're going to be storing your stuff on
there if it's just for you know to be
able to view multimedia files and you've
already got a copy elsewhere then you're
fine to just get a cheap you know
external hard drive plug it into your
USB and then take it around to any
device but if it's your one copy if this
is your family videos and everything
else that's that's precious to you keep
it on something with redundancy in the
drive and then also have a backup of
that unit as well and that could be to
your computer to a server to another
device that you keep in a locker
somewhere just make sure you always have
redundancy that's important but these
days I think you know with USB 2 and USB
3 now and
ESAT a is another good option for you
three gigabits a second the speed of
those devices have become quite quite a
bit faster than they used to be so if
you've got the option of es a TA or USB
3 than those are your fastest options
and below that would be firewire and
then USB to which these days you're not
going to see anything less than that so
has some clarification on that question
it's for us being video player so all
right so the external drive is for ya so
any any drive but keeping in mind that
just like I said if it's if it's going
to be your only copy there has to be or
if it's going to be the main copy you
need to have redundancy there or at
least have a secondary drive that you
keep you know at work or somewhere in a
drawer that's off-site I would always
recommend like because when i think
about videos i'm thinking about the fact
that i use a digital video camera and
all of my family videos are on digital
media and if I ever lost those that
would be absolutely devastating so if
that's you and if that's the case and
you want to just be able to transfer
these videos to your player by plugging
in a USB cable it can be any device it
can be any USB Drive but you want to
make sure that is something that has
redundancy so that if one drive fails
you've got a secondary drive and that
that would be the best way to go you
might pay a little bit extra for that
but it's worth it size-wise it depends
on how much how much data you're going
to hold but a 500 gig drive will hold a
lot of video you consider that you know
as standard home video at an hour would
would be you know maybe two gigabytes if
if you had it in like eight HD kind of
quality good quality I think give or
take so so you get a lot on something
like that a terabyte drive would be even
bigger but more apt to fail should point
out that you know although a raid is
great redundancy and you're probably you
know up one drug
you're still gonna have your files but
it's not it's not as good as having a
backup it's not the same thing not even
though we're even close because you know
is that you these are things that
complement each other yes right just
thought I'd throw that yeah no
absolutely it's a good but seeing that
were you know the whole unit was toast
yes because we remember that this device
okay if it's got two drives in it it's
not just a hard drive that could fail
what if the circuit board fails and zaps
both of the hard drives and you'll lose
everything there has to be a backup of
that drive plain and simple but if it's
going to be your main Senor main storage
have redundancy in that unit so that
ties so that you've got a little bit of
extra protection so now if it's just
stuff you've grabbed from some torrent
somewhere you know who cares if you lose
yeah cuz the police are coming to your
house it anyway you're so makes your
very mortal order and flush it down the
toilet very quickly and on that note
head over to the newsroom and see what
sister yeah something circling around
the bouquet there you go all right take
it away from the category 5 news
we were reports that apple is developing
a new lineup of smaller iPhone battle
with Salva cellular telephone carriers
for about half the price
because they do cheap iphones will be so
inexpensive the carriers could subsidize
most or all of their customers costs
bringing the iphone into the price range
of competitors products you may be
surprised to find that Apple currently
sells its iPhone devices too curious for
an average of about six hundred
twenty-five dollars each the reason
you're able to get them for much less is
because carrier is typically subsidizes
the price so customers can buy them for
as low as 1 99 if they sign up for two
years for cell phone service so carriers
will be happier users will be able to
get an iphone funk and get the
functionality for cheaper and Apple
rejoices as they take over another
demographic altogether putting the
iphone in the hands of non fanboys
microsoft CEO steve ballmer announced
that a major Windows Phone 7 WP 7 update
coming later this year will add internet
explorer 9 more third party multitasking
Twitter and SkyDrive cloud computing
functions Ballmer characterized the
improvement of the way to please
consumers wireless carriers wp7
developers and even existing hardware
makers such as Samsung and HTC and light
of Microsoft's new partnership to put
the Windows Phone OS on nokia devices
the new capabilities will be a major
Windows Phone release in the second half
of 2011 although no date was given a
less significant update is due out in
the first two weeks of March which will
add copy-paste functionality and
application improvements the popular
music video game guitar hero is being
axed by the company that publishes it
after nearly six years Activision
Blizzard which makes the call of duty
and world of warcraft series says it's
ditching the franchise because the
popularity of the music themed video
games has faded it's gone the company is
also cutting 500 people from its global
workforce of 7,000 Activision Blizzard
has revealed that other games are being
cut such as DJ hero and true crime the
company says music games are expensive
to manufacture between the licensing
fees for the songs and the cost of
making the hardware such as classic
guitars and microphones while gamers are
sad to see a guitar hero come to an end
band will miss it as a platform to
hugely increase
popularity of their music despite the
end Activision Blizzard will continue to
sell and support his catalogue of Guitar
Hero titles a study published in the
Journal of science sorry the journal
science earlier this month calculates
the amount of data stored in the world
to be in excess of two hundred and
ninety five exabytes which translates to
roughly two hundred and ninety five
billion gigabytes whoa scientists
calculated the figure by estimating the
amount of data held on sixty analog and
digital technologies during the period
from 90 to 86 to 2007 they considered
everything from computer hard drives to
obsolete floppy disks and x-ray films to
microchips on credit cards dr. martin
hilbert of the university of southern
california told the BBC science in
action if we were to take all that
information and store it in books we
could cover the entire area of the u.s.
or China in 13 layers of books according
to the researchers the same amount of
information stored digitally on CDs
would create a stack of discs that would
reach beyond the moon and amazingly by
2007 ninety-four percent of stored
information was kept and digitally so
keep a backup you can get these full
stories online at category 5 TV /
newsroom the category 5 TV news room is
researched by roy w nash with
contributions from gadget wisdom guru
becca ferguson and our wonderful
community viewers if you have a new
story you think's worthy of honor
mention send us an email at newsroom at
category 5 TV from the category 5 died
TV news room I'm Hillary rumble thanks
oh no I was saying the mics are on like
like warning you that hey don't say
anything crazy long come on seriously
have I ever he mocks me off the air hey
nice to have you here now that I'm more
comfortable I may start doing it on the
air cheering this is category 5
technology TV join us at category five
dot TV be nice to have you there this
episode is brought to you in part by
pogoplug at triple w pogoplug com
as well as planet calypso you can
download the free game at triple w cat
five TV / Calypso they're calling me
crazy in the shower no no they were
telling me that I think there's a
groundswell of support for me to get
crazy oh yeah that what it's all about
that'll be the after show all right I'll
try to behave robbery but sure no
promises speaking of getting crazy you
ever drop your cell phone or your mobile
device I know you have I know that's a
rhetorical question I drop it I stepping
out a frog oh my god I phonerotica why
don't I stomp on it yeah um I while
viewers who have been watching the show
for a while remember that my sansa fuze
got dropped in a puddle that kind of
thing is devastating I was like a couple
of winters ago dropped it and couldn't
believe and I was talking to the young
lady idea the wireless place where at
this yeah and saying yeah you know had a
friend whose blackberry couldn't swim
I'm just looking at somebody's today and
then he tells me after I've taken it
yeah fell in the toilet that's the story
okay well we got it we got to get some
of these potato okay these these arrived
these are called ringer wraps and these
are these are pretty cool you can check
them out at clever raps calm there's
nothing to incredibly fancy about them
except they're going to protect your
mobile device should you get caught in
rain should you be sitting on you know
on the boat and get splashed really
badly or something along those lines and
they've got three different sizes and
each one is ten bucks and it's there
there are five in a pack so let's take a
look at your new device you've got the
blackberry torch yep so we're gonna go
with the green package this is all right
mall by Green there's also medium for
vertical flip and slide phones so this
is like you know the kind that open up
like a like a whole straggle but not
tricorder kind of thing
okay we're communicator and then the the
large ones are more for you know the
extra-large the guard roles oh yeah and
the ones that that have the sliding
qwerty keyboard and stuff where you
really need that exercise so let's check
this out well this has that sort of
slide of the future little bit let's see
if this is gonna fit as the small one on
the on the blackberry torch so slide
that out yep looks right so when you're
go no it's not really it's not meant to
be submergible right but what we've got
is we've got a zipper seal kind of like
a ziplock baggie seems pretty good
quality it's watertight and then it's
also got like a little sticky strip like
a sticker strip that's gonna seal it
even further so very well if you put
that on your device with the with the
logo at the back just kind of see how
that how that feels what should I open
it up and I've got my ipod touch yeah
yeah not the bag and well after this I'm
gonna ask him to dunk it in a bottle of
water wouldn't do that to you beer maybe
but Oh mmm who's kind of a little snug
going in I think they're kind of meant
to to be a little smile there we don't
want them to be there we go you don't
want it to be sliding around like Rosie
group now you putted that look at this
he's put the e put the logo on the wrong
side there I was sit for alone I know
you said that but I was struggling try
and get it in okay he didn't notice that
you're not seeing your screen it's like
this is weird it has a logo right smack
dab in the center of my screen okay you
can see what we see it is clever raps
com it's really a pretty easy to do i'm
just making it look difficult take my
love with me sorry come on get in okay
there we go i just called stevia i just
placed an emergency call what have you
ever done that with your phone versus
place emergency call hey they don't take
title to it you press it by accident and
it goes directly to 911 all right
and if you hang up they call you back
it's sure okay so how's that look that
looks great so it's just like a bag on
your phone so yeah you can I use your
legs the other 1i marijuana let's find
it let's unlock this so come up with a
fun little picture so it really is just
like a watertight zipper bag the ringer
wraps there 10 bucks that you get five
of them their recyclable so once you're
done with it just throw it in the
recycling bin it's all good to go but i
think you know if you're on the boat
fishin or whatever it's not it's not
meant to make your device waterproof
it's just like an added protection that
if you do drop it in a puddle it's not
going to get destroyed instantly as
you've got a little bit of a chance to
to save the thing and dry it off before
you open the bag kind of thing i want to
pursue she last week and yes indeed it
wasn't above so yeah you can do
everything while it's in the bag now can
you flip it open and stuff and does not
alert you lurk and a little bit of a
challenge I've got these egg I don't
know that I'm gonna get this all the way
over here it's gonna be might have
wanted to open it and then put it in
let's see if what you're meant to kind
of be able to do it so maybe if you slid
it all the way to the other Anderson its
kind of is it that I just loaded
something I don't know yep pictures of
sushi yeah I think maybe if I had put it
in open because because I'm pushing that
the bag but you're not we're gonna do
that though are you probably not I mean
it does have got to be able to kind of
open it up but i guess the torch is a
little bit you know you slide it okay
right slides open like so something like
we're easily right so but it also has a
touch screen and a touch keyboard if
you're there just so you can see a
little bit but i think it might work
better with like an iphone or an ipod
touch or an android device that's just
the touch screen yeah perhaps but well
let's see actually no it fits perfect
fit it's perfect and i can use my
keyboard no and there's a real
close up of some surf clam
all right ok so anyway it was yummy mmm
delicious and as you can see they can't
see that when you turn don't know what
I'm saying you know and that was only
our first plate full Booya a good friend
Dean and I oh that looks good do I
ourselves probably when we go to the
all-you-can-eat sushi so with the pouch
on does it actually I'm pretty hard okay
i use fingernails for a guitar pick and
so I'm scared about maybe a poke puncher
hoping on ya put me on the bag but it
seems fine seems they've seen pretty
good actually I've seen pretty thick
well you can check them out I'll give
you'll take a pack of these and see
maybe over the next couple weeks if they
seem usable and I think certainly that
now there's some demonstrations on their
website and stuff and it just makes
sense to like protect your device from
sand and Sun screen only certain places
you do this I think just on vacation you
know not all right riding into the
office you know probably would but if
you're going on a jog or something and
you and they're calling for rain its
period I think there's a there's a
chance for you to protect your device
and still be able to text as you run
into a water fountain cuz even if you
have warranty on these things not
against water fun she could have saved
her phone if she was using a ringer rap
mayor apps are available from clever
wraps calm here you take that because
that looks like about the right side
that does and let me know over the next
couple weeks let let the neighbors know
if it says well I maybe I'll go camping
this weekend No ten bucks gives you five
good you very cool cool we are learning
about creating mosaic images tonight the
first mosaic that i ever saw was the
truman show poster do you remember that
you remember the truman show oh okay
Wirt jr. a picture is made up of a pile
of little pitch it was a big picture of
Jim Carrey playing Truman yeah and
within that picture if you go close to
the movie poster you realize that it's
not a photograph per se it's actually
thousands of little itty-bitty photos of
scenes from the movie basically meant to
depict this guy's life and that was the
first time I ever saw such a good
example of a mosaic image and thought
wow that's the coolest thing so I set
out many years later and I created and I
and I don't know who owns the rights to
the photos but I did just for just for
family and friends kind of thing create
this image from a whole bunch of images
this isn't obviously a bald eagle but
what I did is I got a free repository
that had pictures of birds and it had
thousands of pictures of birds and from
those pictures i created this mosaic
actually i created it for my
father-in-law as a way to make him
accept me into the family will son work
oh we're it easy he's got it hanging up
in his in his office but so i made that
and and i remember and becca was talking
to me about it tonight she's like do you
remember how long that took to make it
took forever because we didn't have any
cool software tools back when i was
trying to woo my father-in-law so it
took a lot and a lot of work but tonight
i want to show you a tool that is free
to install on your linux computer and is
going to give you basically that same
ability as what i did there you're gonna
find it actually in the repositories in
a boon tune you'll probably find it in
pretty much any Linux distribution I'm
going to go into synaptic package
manager
and once that comes up I'm just going to
do a quick search for pixel eyes spelt
just like that and you'll see that here
it is create an image consisting of many
small images so I'm going to mark that
for installation let that go and very
very quickly I'm going to have that
application installed on my computer
here so it's downloading it through the
internet that's how repositories work on
linux and it's done it's installed ready
to go so tonight as i was preparing for
the the feature i thought ok well where
am i going to come up with thousands of
images because you know it took four
thousand images to put together that
bird picture well right so where am I
going to come up with images that I can
use that are royalty free so i said well
i got screenshots oh my
lots and lots of screenshots you do and
some of them are more lovely than others
so this directory is it loads here I
think has and all something like 3,000
different screenshots and this is the
thing when you're making a mosaic is
understanding that the software needs to
essentially replace any pixels of the
photograph with similarly colored pixels
from your actual photos that you want to
comprise the photo up so if your photo
has a lot of red in it and none of the
photos that you're going to comprise the
image of have read all of a sudden
you've got a problem where it's not
gonna be able to color match because you
don't have any red photos so that said
having at least a thousand photos is
always a good idea for a reasonably
sized mosaic and the reason for that is
because then you're going to get a lot
of colors you're going to have a lot
you're going to be able to basically
work a lot of photos into the the
picture so these are just straight
screenshots from the show first thing
I'm going to do is get rid of just the
black title sequence at the beginning of
each show and they may come in handy
well but I want it to be I want it to be
all photos right here's a bunch that are
basically from the intro video so I'm
going to get rid of those i'll leave the
Wirecast logo that's fine so I'm just
deleting those
and then scrolling down here I have
literally thousands of photos from the
show I'm going to get rid of these thank
you for watching category 5 TV oh there
we go ok so now all that's really left
is you know photos from the show
screenshots different applications
loaded on the the demo computer there's
a ton of stuff to work with their to
create a mosaic first thing that we have
to do those we need to create a database
of all these photos in order to be able
to use them with pics lies so I'm
actually going to bring up terminal I'll
switch over to to my computer here and
bring up the terminal and what you want
to do is go over to the folder where
those photos are all located so in my
case I've placed it in desktop / images
in my home folder if I do an LS you'll
see all the purple there it's hard to
see on the screen I know but because of
the transparency but they are all there
so what I need to do is I need to use a
tool that is included now that we've
installed pixelized we've got this make
DB and I'm going to go star because
everything that's in this folder is a
JPEG that's fine so you could go star
jpg whatever i'm just going to go star
because nothing else is in here but
photos you need to tell it what fields
to this is actually just creating a
database of all those photographs just
mean so essentially yeah so that when
the program goes to load all the photos
that knows what photos it's allowed to
use right so that's going to go through
it's likely going to take a few moments
because we're we're talking about a few
thousand images we're up to 250 there so
that's pretty cool while we're waiting
for that you at the bottom of the show
to be continued why should hope not okay
so while that's happening okay so that's
happening on my screen here I'm gonna
actually bring up a photograph here that
I've placed on my desktop this is
actually one of those screenshots and I
said okay well there's a nice photo oh
great Robbie and Eric okay so I'm going
to actually open that in the GIMP
because keep in mind that the show is
854 x 480
in this case so I want to I want to make
that a lot bigger keeping in mind that
as you stretch an image obviously is
going to pixel eyes but what we're doing
is we're replacing pixels with
individual images so in this case
because we're creating mosaic we can
actually upscale without losing quality
because we're actually replacing pixel
by pixel I'm going to go image scale
image it's 854 x 480 so you know if if I
wanted to fit a hundred hundred pictures
horizontally into that each one's going
to be so small and not even going to be
able to see it so I'm going to get a
little bit crazy with it and go ten
thousand pixels you changed my
interpolation to sink and scale it it's
warning me that I'm creating a 500
megabyte file and I'm okay with that
that is a biggin yeah so that's going to
scale that to be a massively huge file
and a game this is still working those
images into a database up to 1400 them
yeah so we got lots and lots of photos
to work with and we're going to take all
of those we're going to take those few
thousand photos and comprise this big
photo here that one there is actually
going to be made up of all of those
little screenshots so we're going to see
how this how this turns out this is
category 5 technology TV and we're
online at triple w category 5 TV nice to
have you here I'd encourage you to
submit a viewer testimonial this week if
something that we've said on the show
has helped you out or if you want to
just say hey you can do that right on
our website by clicking on interact and
you'll see the viewer testimonials there
and submit your own be a fun thing to do
john wants me to do a whole show just
letting that list scroll through the
images and we could play some
psychedelic music in the bag yeah
it's actually going pretty good we're up
to 2100 and I don't know what the actual
count is I'd say you know to three
thousand or so but that's actually now
you'll see that while I've been waiting
for that the GIMP has completed resizing
my image is there anything like this for
Windows oh well we're not looking at any
windows solution tonight I know that
there are okay but we're going to
encourage people to use linux today well
I just did one of my friends in the chat
room a snack questions just download
Ubuntu or another flavor of linux and
you'll get it for free there's my nose
at ten thousand pixels there's Eric
sighs so this is max it right I look
like you Jenna I live in half asleep
we're talking we're talking okay we're
up to 2,700 and we can do this
reasonably quickly and you can take more
time at home to really tweak things and
and you know make sure that your
pictures are the ones that you want
there we go 2868 photos and and we're
through that database so there's a trick
here and that is now I'm going to save
that image it's huge okay if you go to
applications graphics pixel eyes okay
you're actually going to have some
trouble because there's no way within
the application to tell it where this
database that we just created is Oh
strange thing but what we want to do is
actually from within this terminal
window because we're already in the
folder that now contains the database
you'll see there's pic DB dot right so
now within this font of this folder ina
go pixel eyes and that's launching the
application within this folder and
automatically loading the database all
right so now i'm going to i think the
GIMP is finished doing that so i'm good
i'm going to close the GIMP and now on
my desktop I've got this massive file
I'm going to open that in pics allies I
gained this file open real
straightforward it's on my desktop and
it's that file there and once that
brings that in there it is okay so same
as you saw before it's a massive massive
image okay but we're going to now turn
that into a mosaic so you'll notice that
the size of image is down at the bottom
there if my dock bar can get out of the
way underneath you can see that the size
of the images is 25 by 25 that is the
actual size that each individual image
in the mosaic is going to be keeping in
mind that the show is widescreen 25 by
25 means it's going to squish them if
you're using your digital camera to take
these photos you don't need to go
through and crop each one but you don't
want it to squish so what you want to do
is you want to make sure that you enter
the correct proportions for for those
images because you don't want them to be
squished you want them to be in my case
wide screen so the way I'm going to do
that I'm just going to open any one of
these photos because they're all the
same dimensions 854 x 4 480 I believe
I'm just going to open it in the GIMP
I'm going to right-click and go image
scale image and i'm going to pick a size
let's say i want it to be
I don't know 45 pixels wide okay then
this shows me that that should also now
be 25 pixels high all right yes well
that's just showing me proportionally
because this chain link is here that
that image if i wanted to be 45 pixels
wide it would also be 25 pixels high so
if i go to my image here and go options
options i want to go what did i say 45
by 25 yeah okay so i actually enter 45
there and hit enter and you'll see that
that's going to fit 223 wide and 225 hi
give or take okay so now i can dismiss
that dialogue you'll see that the if i
bring backup options it has saved that
setting even though it has it reflected
down at the bottom and i'm going to go
options render and it's going to
actually create the mosaic based on
those proportions so this should be
proportional to a wide screen image like
those images are going to remain in
widescreen they're not going to get
squished or stretched out of proportion
or anything like that and this is step
one we want to run it once see if 45
pixels is about what we want because you
want them to be big enough that you can
see the image clearly so that when you
zoom in on the picture when you stand up
to it if you print it you can actually
see the individual images but you want
them to be small enough that if you're
standing back it actually looks like
just a photograph and you and you don't
get the impression that it's made up of
a bunch of little pictures until you get
closer so this is progressing instead
about fifty-five percent and and you can
follow along if you've got Linux make
sure you install this is called pixel
eyes very cool application and makes it
so speedy can't believe that we're able
to do this with the last five minutes of
the show well when you know we're
certainly seriously dad that took a lot
of work that
that was not done with this software
goodwill says he's killed your CP it
absolutely has working with a 10,000
pixel wide images probably you saw it
was 500 Meg's suddenly bad it's him yep
that's loading into memory on my old
laptop here so that's fine still works
it's not crashing or anything like that
it's just working away it's at one
hundred percent now it's placing all
those individual segments into the image
there we go how cool is that
looks pretty well yeah here we go well
this is the close-up of your nose right
I was making the whole picture right but
now it's almost rendered well okay and
here we go now that is rendered it's
going to colorize and there we are so
now quickly I'm going to save this to my
desktop what I'm going to enter here is
mosaic dot ping we want to ping because
that's going to be a high-quality image
and that's going to allow us to then
take that and we can concise it we can
scale it down we can save it as a JPEG
we can do whatever we want but our
master image is going to be this great
big high-resolution really good quality
loss less pain that's what we want it's
going to take a moment to save because
it is a huge image so the original file
was gonna be 500 the original file
what's going to was really small
remember 854 x 480 so we scaled that up
to ten thousand pixels wide
proportionally 500 at that point yeah so
now where will they end up being we'll
see those bigger than that i would think
larger than that possibly because it is
a pain we're saving it in fuller is like
full quality and here it goes
this will be right down to the wire one
winner after the show let's see how it
goes there we go it's saved with one
minute to spare and a close out of all
this stuff and let's check out our brand
new mosaic saved on my desktop there and
double click on that and bring it up
this is gonna be pretty cool I already
think it's cool yeah even though all we
got to see was your face well there we
go so there's a picture that looks like
a picture it looks like it's a little
bit black and white maybe we didn't have
enough red for your shirt but watch this
let's just take a look
don't nice look though
that is amazing there is a planet flip
phone now these are all individual
screenshots that you'll recognize from
category 5 TV and this is this is just
my example but imagine being able to
take thousands of your home pictures and
take a family portrait and turn it into
this amazing masterpiece of family
pictures it's just absolutely awesome
this is called pixel eyes that's
available for free on your linux
computer check it out and only for your
learner's computer handle this is
category 5 technology TV it's been
fantastic having you here this week
thanks for joining us and I hope you had
fun we'll see you next Tuesday night
okay how's the next Tuesday
