welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode number 5:17 for
Wednesday the 16th of August 2017 thanks
for joining us tonight tonight we're
going to be jumping right back into
sashes computer build we're going to be
getting started picking our processor
and getting that shopping list started
for you tonight so we appreciate all
your feedback so far make sure you keep
it coming and also tonight we're going
to be you know as I'm thinking about
that shopping list and shopping on
Amazon and everything but it'd be a
great idea to share with you some of the
big earners for us through our Amazon
partner length so if you've been using
those links hey maybe you'll get
mentioned entirely anonymously but right
we want to tell you how some of the
bills here category 5 are paid through
your support by shopping through our
partner ranks around Eric well you have
well here's what's coming up in the
category 5 TV newsroom special glasses
for viewing the coming solar eclipse
have been recalled by Amazon because
they might fry your retinas a new camera
and absolution turns any dumb fridge
into a smart fridge thanks to a firmware
update blender an automatic over-the-air
upgrade will break front door smart
locks for at least five days no need to
worry the asteroid heading toward Earth
and thought to hit us in October will
miss our planet by a longshot and a
teenager was just awarded $10,000 for a
bug he found in Google's back end stick
around the full details are coming up
later in the show this is category 5
technology TV our live recordings are
trusted only to solid-state drives by
Kingston technology revive your computer
with improved performance and
reliability over traditional hard drives
with Kingston SSDs
category 5 TV streams live with
Telestream Wirecast and nimble stream or
tune in live every single week on roku
cody and other HLS video players local
show times to the category 5 TV category
5 TV is a member of the text podcast
network if it's tech it's here cat 5 TV
slash TPN and the International
Association of internet broadcasters
cat5 TV slash ia IB welcome to the show
everybody nice to have you back this
week and I hope you're doing well it's
been a good week for you so far and
tonight we've got a fun one plant for
you of course we've got some comments
and questions from you guys about sashes
new computer built yes we're going to be
pursuing that tonight really taking it
full force as we begin we're going to be
working on that that shopping list in
just a couple of minutes times so we'll
pretty much get right into that because
it's it's going to be you know a fair a
fair chunk tonight as we decide what
what hardware you want right you get
into that yes I just wanted to
congratulate our winners now we had well
over 300 people who entered a ballot in
order to win my wife's new novel is
Becca Ferguson it's called when the fog
cleared and we gave away a couple of
paperback copies of that book just
yesterday so congratulations to those of
you who won the two people that did win
I'm waiting for the names to come around
because we're just confirming the
winners before we start announcing um so
that's really cool that amazon has that
it really is neat I love it so when I go
to an Amazon product I can actually I
can buy it and then award it in a
contest that is a pretty cool very cool
now Amazon not for other stuff to our
Amazon affiliate links have been really
working very well this year well yeah so
but before I jump into that though if
anyone does want a free copy of that
book there are two new books coming out
this weekend so you can actually go on
your Kindle app if you've got a Kindle
that's great if you don't now I've got
an Android phone you can actually you
can do it right on your Android phone on
your
iOS phone why don't I bring it up for
you yeah Kindle is absolutely free the
software so you can install the app on
your phone and then it's like it's like
having a Kindle on your phone all right
here we go Paris actually I'm going to
put I'm going to go horizontal so that
it fits your TV a little better there we
are so so that's what the Kindle app
looks like on my phone so the attic and
when the fog cleared those two books are
being given away on Kindle this weekend
absolutely free make sure you watch my
Twitter channel my Twitter feed and
you'll be able to you'll be able to
follow that or just get on to Amazon and
do a search for Becca Ferguson and this
about Bek aah incidentally do you
remember Sasha do you remember Rachel Xu
yeah she was a co-host here on
category-five TV for a time and she
co-wrote the Attic with Becca oh I
didn't know that yeah yeah so when the
fog cleared is a Christian romance and
if you're not into Christian romance if
that's not a genre that you're
interested in the Attic is just a
straight fantasy it's like a sci-fi
fantasy thriller with lots of monsters
and cool stuff and a gothic mansion that
they get to explore so it's a lot of fun
you definitely want to check that one
out as well I appreciate as well just
just to show your support I mean it's a
free download this weekend that's the
what is that the 18th 19th and 20th and
so just show your support by downloading
it anyways and that just that just
counts toward the numbers it's free for
you so you know helps Becca climb up the
charts a little bit on Amazon which is
kind of nice for earnest encouraging
especially with all the years of work
that it is to write a full length novel
so very excited you're sorry I didn't
mean to interrupt you though but now
Amazon is it's a lot like it's a great
shop right and it's growing it's always
growing it's always getting better and
better
one of the things that we want to start
doing here at the show is express our
thanks in a more direct way for some of
the products that are really helping us
to pay the bills because we say hey go
to our our partner links and click on
there and go in
if you're going to shop on Amazon or
Ebay or any of our partners make sure
you go through our website because then
we get a commission on each sale and it
doesn't cost you any extra but it helps
us but what better way to express that
and actually share with you well what
does that actually mean in terms of
dollars we thought hey let's look at
some of the you know the top earners for
us if you will over the past few weeks
so so we have well I gas portable
generator it's completely anonymous
folks I don't even know who bought them
or where they went no I know but you
people are cool gas for a gas generator
yeah you can go on to Amazon which was
at one point just an online bookstore
yeah and buy a gas generator know what
shipping would be for that anyway I
don't know but our Commission on that
was what 16 dollars 16 bucks yeah I mean
coming in second go pro karma grip
stabiliser yeah that's the thing that
makes your GoPro like hover just like
jaws know that we had yeah 11 dollars
and 96 cents that's in our pocket nice
that helps a lot cool camera stabilizer
that is a cool yeah I want to see the
video of network cabling kit $3.30
there you go so you buy some tools on
Amazon yeah you know we've done some
features here how to do your own home
networking and things like that and you
buy the kit and there's another four
bucks in our in our toward our rent
Wi-Fi range extender so what that what
that would be like if I had Wi-Fi in my
house and I wanted it to be upstairs as
well typically yeah the cable comes in
and the basement or the garage and
doesn't quite get through the all the
walls so you put a range extender which
picks up the Wi-Fi from the other device
and then rebroadcast it so that gave us
three dollars per and now you can go
into your garage and shop on your phone
on Amazon and get us some more stuff so
keep in mind when you bought that rate
range extender that it's basically like
donating three dollars to category five
TV we're volunteers here we pay the
bills to make sure that we can keep this
free for you and and that's one way that
you've supported us this week so thank
you so more than 60 items
more than 60 items ordered over the past
couple of weeks yeah just like that like
it tapers down and you know some things
are you know a dollar and some things
are as you see 16 dollars to help
support category 5 TV so all the money
that's raised through our partners in
that way is put directly into category 5
TV it pays for our rent it pays for our
internet service and any other kind of
fees that we have that's you know first
and foremost where we put it obviously
you know it's not it doesn't make the
entire amount of our monthly expenses
that's for sure like we write we don't
even approach that but how it does it
makes a huge significant difference and
we appreciate that very much nothing
it'll grow over time especially as you
realize that hey as long as I click on
that link that's all I got to do there's
another $33 in for category 5 very cool
we get conditioned on every single item
that you order to see that's neat yeah
so if you want to buy I know that there
are those of you who buy your coffee on
our Amazon cart that's true K cup coffee
two dollars and ninety cents boom $2.90
usually bought us two cups of coffee
that's right basically how nice is that
your dog treats that gets us an income
here as well again to go toward our rent
and our expenses so neither of us none
of us take a commission off of any of
this it's strictly to support the show
so we thank you very very much okay what
else do we need to cover I wanted to
mention just because I thought it was
wild that Apple is starting to take on
broadcast right they all they've taken
on a couple of Sony Pictures employees
and now they're part of Apple and they
put a budget of 1 billion dollars in
each house active TV shows into creating
original content by Apple that can feed
me I can understand Netflix doing it I
can understand Amazon even doing it
because I'm right but now all of a
sudden Apple so what does that mean as
far as their content
provisioning are we going to start to
see more of that and I know we are
that's you know they know that's where
it's at mm-hmm I don't know how these
folks make money off of this because you
know you figure they're spending a
billion dollars and okay you know
subscriptions of Netflix are not very
much money right they're going up so
they are that they're going out
disappointing you want to know something
really lame
speaking of subscription services I got
an email promoting the new Star Trek
discovery by CBS all access and if I
click here to obtain your one month free
trial of CBS all access but the trial
the the capability of registering for
the trial expired that weekend oh and
it's a one-month trial Star Trek doesn't
start until the end of September oh
that's me oh they're marketing it as
here get your free trial because Star
Trek is starting by the time it starts
if my trial your trial is over yeah so
basically at the ruse to get people to
register right so that they start paying
just before Star Trek comes on right
it's smart I mean I signed up for free
trials and I've just like my Spotify I
sign up for Spotify Premium on a free
trial that I just never cancelled so now
I have Spotify Premium fantastic right
so I'm spending money on that but it's
actually good same with Amazon Prime I
click that do you want to try Prime free
for 30 days yeah mine makes a lot of
sense free shipping free ship I pay so
much on shipping yeah free shipping and
what was the other one that I just
resell Netflix Netflix isn't a Netflix
is a no-brainer no matter what and I
love it so yes those of you who are in
regions where Netflix is going to be
carrying Star Trek discovery I guess you
don't need to worry about it be here in
Canada we are going to have to register
for CBS L access mm-hmm and I talked to
Beckett about it you have to it's a good
business model in some ways but at the
same time I don't like it yes it's
commercially driven I'm talking
on-demand video with commercials
not cool not now so you're paying and
you had anger fell yes
that's weird actually cuz you're
supposed to pay to not get commercial
that was that's that's the thing that's
not dying yeah that's how Netflix is
gone and same with Spotify Spotify you
listen to the music and you can stream
it for free yeah but you have to listen
to commercial doesn't feel like a step
back though in the progression of
broadcasting yeah that said CBS all
access you can pay more to get rid of
the commercials so it's like a
two-tiered
subscription service but come on I don't
like that yeah unless they're really
awesome commercials there's some good
commercials out there I did know it
online commercials it's always
repetitive and you see the same
commercial four times in the hour right
that's true and usually about
medications I did successfully sit
through a Facebook ad because usually
you're sorry i watch you starting to
watch a video and it's like somebody
doing pottery I don't know um you're
like oh this looks like it's going to be
an epod it's targeted advertising
fashion right I get geekery and then and
then the ad comes on and usually to
scroll pass and like I'm not sitting
through an ad turns out those ads are
only like seven seconds oh okay yeah
yeah I have no clue what they're on
about because I just love them like
seven seconds I look away and count to
seven those we have ads on our YouTube
channel and you know there is a skip
this ad button yeah that you can if you
just go a little above it and
accidentally click outside of that and
it might open a website and give us like
three dollars oh but it's good that
would be accidental you wouldn't you
could necessarily do that on purpose you
can skip the ads that's not bad at all
yeah sorry all right are we ready to get
into it because we've got to take a
really quick break and when we come back
we're going to be talking with Sasha
well I'm going to be talking with
fashion you're here with the chat room
if you're watching live and we're going
to be talking to her about her new
computer build we're going to get
started on the shopping list so stick
around
now here's another great way you can
support the shows you love for the
category five dot TV network by shopping
gear
that's right Jeff cat5 TV / gearbest
it's an online store for the geek streak
in him or the loved ones well of course
I mean especially your loved ones right
because cap 5db / gearbest quite frankly
has all of the greatest tech gifts that
you could ever hope for at rock-bottom
prices
- that cellphones you betcha cap 5 TV
slash gearbest has a wide assortment of
unlocked Android cell phones and tablets
global compute consumer electronics
those like a great gift absolutely from
hi-tech watches to action cameras
headphones even virtual reality headsets
cat5 dot TV / gearbest have you covered
they literally have it all Jeff
literally really it's like a superstore
right from the comfort of your own chair
at your computer through the interweb
yeah I there's no way they have it all
it's true it's just a bunch of random
electronics Stephanie what about clothes
yep both men and women fashionable
apparel at rock-bottom SuperDuper prices
kinda like this well look at this coat
what do you think it's a slimming mock
leather jacket I love it it's available
for less than $30 plus free shipping a
cat5 dot TV slash gear best yeah all
right you kinda got me there Wow
any other questions for me gentlemen now
that the winter is past flying season do
they have any good deals and say drone
copters oh my goodness well check this
out dude
they have everything check out over 500
various drones and not only that they're
available marked down by about 30 - up
to 63 percent off the regular price love
what's website again while you're going
to find gearbest on our partners pages
for any of your favorite category 5 TV
shows like new every day
category 5 technology TV the pixel
shadow but of course if you want to shop
absolutely right now and you want to go
straight to the site all you have to do
is visit cat5 dot TV slash gearbest
so that's easy tech 5 dot TV slash your
best that's right
happy shopping welcome back this is
category 5 technology TV and our website
is triple W category 5 dot TV nice to
see you and we're ready to get into it
all right I wouldn't mind going back a
little bit over what we covered last
week now Sasha is building a super
computer a super gaming computer yeah
we'll say super cool super gaming
computer it's going to be awesome now
last week we learned what your vision
was what your budget was what the kind
of criteria is that you're looking for
with the gaming system let's just really
quickly go over and review what we've
established so far so we've got a budget
of around twenty one hundred dollars to
build a super sleek super smashing fast
beautiful gaming computer right but let
me tell you is hilariously similar to
what my entire wedding budget is it's
going to be amazing
ok we're talking Canadian dollars
Canadian dollars yes it's about four
dollars u.s. Hardware criteria here's
what we have so far over the forum cat5
dot TV slash cpu 2017 we are going to go
with a full-size Tower that's fine
we need HDMI output for an existing 4k
60-inch television rack it's got to be
fast and future-ready the chassis has
got to be sleek and beautiful LEDs and
visual appeal or something that are
Malik important to me
ok the chassis is got to have some front
end USB 3.0 ports yeah we're looking at
probably raid one for file storage for
redundancy if the budget allows
otherwise maybe just a single spinning
hard drive and probably an SSD for the
operating system to keep things fast
and talk a little bit about that today
as you start picking out our products
okay it's going to be Linux compatible
because that's what we want on there as
far as OSS go a wireless keyboard and
mouse it's going to be possibly we
talked about now the ability to add
oculus rift or something like that
so maybe future ready enough that you
could add something like that down
exactly might be something for a couple
years or something from now if this
thing lasts our anniversary yeah sure we
do it can be a happy anniversary here
you go some goggles antisocial wouldn't
it if you know DVR yeah but don't we
damn sure there's a way you can do your
casts right you're in the same room but
you're in VR walking through a meadow
shooting zombies that was you kind of
memorable our dad for how I visualized
virtual reality that's what I think it
is ok so software wise we want to go
with something that is Linux based not
too big of a stretch from Windows as far
as the interface goes but some eye candy
would be great right exactly I want it
to look amazing where people who come
over like what is that woman I want it
to be like intuitive enough that right
it's not going to get thrown to a window
nice other than that you don't need a
monitor yeah because you're going to use
the TV correct okay so we got to get
into it it's going to take a little bit
of time as we get into this now it's a
fun series for you if you've ever if
you've never built a computer sash's
actually be doing this with our own two
hands
we never before it yeah well you've done
the Raspberry Pi right that's true I
think one circuit board put it in a case
that the cover on your done son my
computer this will be my smartphone this
is my second computer build yeah you
wait but okay that episode is going to
be a long one we're going to have to
shoot on a Saturday speed things up a
little bit so just how hard could it
really be like heart is not the word
it's time-consuming it's something that
takes patience because it takes
meticulous
to answer this question in the future
for myself but I feel like it's kind of
like everything just clicks into place
like you open it up oh is that how
computers work yeah they're made of Lego
these days kinda you open it up and like
it's very clear we're like this just
slides in there until you hear a click
and then you take the wires from it and
you just drag it over to the next thing
and you just plug it in I'm just
thinking back to our conversation
yesterday where some cables were plugged
into the Raspberry Pi that was not me I
know but I'm just saying just because it
fits fashio
you can't just jam it in there this is
why I'm doing it with a yeah clearly a
lot of witnesses and not just witnesses
but collaborators no part of the fun of
the series folks is that you get to help
Sasha choose what we're going to do and
that's what we're doing tonight okay so
chat room be ready for it if you're
watching this on demand after the fact
make sure you comment below or head on
over to the forum again cat 5 TV slash
CPU 2017 now first the gate Garvey wants
to know if it seriously doesn't matter
about the chassis size like what happens
if it's a couple inches this way or that
way and it doesn't fit anymore
like what doesn't fit the chassis
doesn't fit in the room in the room in
this game spot okay so it's going beside
we should have taken a picture of my
living room but it's going beside the TV
stand right in the corner of the room
it's gotta be is on like a like a a big
open or something it's on like a glass
stand so there's right and it's quite
open in that area and there's like a I
would say that there's like 12 square
feet of space I could take up really
like I'm not going to but yeah that's
how much space I actually have we're
doing a water tank a fish tank computer
built mineral water that I do have a lot
of space I can use so it is okay very
cool and that's good
should we jump on a Linden asked at the
end of the show last week and we missed
it on the air I believe do we need to go
with an i7 or I
or can we just go with an i-5 what is
that that's the processor the CPU that's
the brains of the computer the thing
that does all the work for processing
okay so what would the difference be
between an i7 plus or and i-5 just
slower lives it depends on the model
there's like the K series of the i7 the
unlocked so an i7 K series can be
overclocked so you can get it faster
than the stock settings but essentially
why I would lean toward the i7
especially when they are you know there
are some 97 processors that are going to
be fairly close in price to i5i fives
are in my opinion in my view kind of
they're great for laptops I threes are
great for laptops because they're more
energy efficient they don't they don't
bring the battery as fast because
they're missing some of the features so
the key one with the i7 that I want in
this computer is hyper threading oh and
that means essentially the programs have
more threads to be able to work with
when they're processing information and
doing things that sounds good it sounds
real good and a lot of your your games
and things will probably be able to
utilize that so we I would go that way
just because of that so if the budget
allows certainly I mean we're not going
to do the i9x series that that was just
kind of a joke that would be nice but
you're looking at a $2,000
processor just the one chip right so
we're gonna stay away from that but in
i7k series would probably be a really
good one we don't even have to go
k-series because they may not even
overclock it gives them that option
again thinking future-ready
right so garbage shows it to look at the
HW leaderboard
the hardware leaderboard okay this is
over at PC per duck erm
can I bring that up yeah okay PC / comm
/h w LD for Hardware leaderboard ok so
let's get a look at what what you're
recommending here ok so this kind of
stuff is cool because other folks have
done the work sash right and they've
figured out hey what's going to work
well what's going to play nice
and they've done exactly what we wanted
to set out to do and figuring out okay
well what does a dream system cost all
right oh here I have just a comment in
the chat room I want to just like touch
on because maybe we do it wrong at home
because the food says that they would
never put a real computer in the same
room where they're watching TV or movies
but not like with cooling because right
but I turn my computer off not while
you're watching a movie from it well not
when I'm watching movie from n-no but
then I would turn up the stereo same
with when you're driving over 7.1 yes
yeah okay add that to the feature
request Box 7.1 so but yeah you just
turn up the noise of the TV sure I think
we should probably add to the list that
this baby's got to be fairly quiet yeah
like you know ambien it's in my living
space can't be like and you want it to
be a centerpiece you want it to be out
in the open where you can see it you
don't want to put it in the closet and
then run an HDMI cable to it exactly
I'll be doing it is the piece okay so
quiet quiet isn't it there are fans fans
are much much cheaper than liquid
cooling liquid cooling is going to bump
up the cost but it works very very well
the cooler the cooler your computer runs
the faster it can run right and the
liquid cooling is no noise at all very
little there's a pump and the pump draws
the liquid over top of all the
peripherals and then it goes through
like a carburetor and it's like an air
conditioner for your computer okay so
it's quite quiet so so that's but they
do make fans that are quiet too okay but
fans are huge you've got to worry about
then air flow liquid cooling you don't
have to worry about air flow right and
part of liquid cooling is it can be very
very sleek because you don't have to
have a great big 120 millimeter fan with
a great big heat sink it's something
you're really really tiny and a couple
LEDs on it look at that okay okay so
back to back to this hardware leader
board I love this idea because they've
already done some of the pricing so
3,300 bucks for the dream system which
is going to be an i-9 CX series so what
are they saying that processors worth
I don't know if it shows pricing I nine
basically the top-of-the-line Intel
processor right now I'm not sure where
you see the individual pricing on this
site I'm not familiar with a but I love
the idea Garvey thank you for showing it
to us a high-end system they're
recommending a Rison processor from AMD
I I tend to want to lean toward Intel
I've had really good really good
experiences with all things Intel but I
have had bad experiences with AMD okay
whether or not that's really an issue I
don't know we're going to we're going to
get into that and I want you to give
your feedback what do you think should
we be looking only at Intel the FEU
wants us to look at some cpu benchmarks
right it'd be good oh there goes $2,600
for that particular processor sash you
imagine so if you buy the process after
you get everything else for free yeah
right just have a single chip but you
can't do anything with right until you
buy all the other stuff got it
alright so forget about that all right
let's look at what the Fuu is telling us
to do look at the CPU benchmark so
there's going to be a good one HTTP
colon slash slash CPU bench did I put a
B no bench mark dot net dot some net
yeah okay clatter I end I'll and CPUs
dot HTML feel like a blast from the past
with an HTML extension okay so what does
this tell us
ooh benchmarks Asha faster at the top
equally expensive 2,700 bucks for that
processor so I'm guessing no they've got
the thread rippers here they've got the
I 970 900 X so this is this is current
this is nice nice it definitely and it's
not going to give us everything we need
to know but it tells us some important
information one of the things the foo
said last week is hey you know what a
good starting place to to go is is to
say how much should we want to spend on
the processor you get two three four
hundred dollars and then we're
way around that so if we say it's a $300
processor let's find the best one for
that price and then pick the motherboard
and the other nationals based on that
we're going to pick the RAM based on the
motherboard we're going to pick the hard
drive based on the motherboard that kind
of stuff
so the processor is like the main thing
you build around all brain it's the
brain one chip on the on the motherboard
okay it does all the stinking right so
looking at our benchmarks this tells us
which ones are considered the fastest so
let's say $300 is our budget or there
abouts because our aim is $2,100 to
total and so we need today now the
processor is only one component so I'm
scrolling scrolling scrolling that
benchmark is going down there's one for
358 it's an Intel Core i7 68 50k so
that's the unlocked processor and looks
like it's on par with the intel xeon e5
60 1660 as far as speed goes and it's
$1,300 cheaper so that's good
68 50k which is obviously stepped down
from say the 7900 but $1,000 cheaper or
more so let's look at the Intel i7 68
50k on let's say Amazon so the way that
we want to do that is go to category 5
dot TV and on our website we go support
us shop with our partners and then
amazon.ca is the one that I want to use
and that's all there was to it so you
see what it does is it adds a little tag
up there which is different for each
each click so make sure you don't just
copy it and paste that it's something
that you need to go to our site so I'm
going to paste in there what does that
cost us on Amazon 630 bucks
that's our Canadian dollar folks there's
a big part of our budget
there our viewers also you know when
people on Amazon it shows you like a
list of other things they look at this
and they bought that yes yeah baby
that's one of the reasons I love Amazon
okay so and that's what I want to look
at down here is okay well here's some
other stuff
can I see what other people have bought
having looked at this one let's see I
mean look at the ratings on that hey if
you had an extra budget then that's
pretty sweet
what did people buy does it tell us no
it's not going to give us any options
okay so we're going to have to step down
from the from the 6850 so let's go back
to our benchmarks and see what the next
I 7 processor is why don't I just do a
search for i7 and I highlight the i7 for
me and now I can just kind of scroll
down well there's a lot of them so that
one's 23 56-49 329 4 6800 which I'm not
sure if that's going to be accurate or
not so the little step down from the one
we were looking at 6800 K for 419 so
that's not too far off mm-hmm any
feedback from our chat room hey get on
to their category 5 on freenode SATs
just kind of watching that and watching
the screen at the same time what else
can we do here you find this interesting
section I'm you decided that you wanted
to take on right so yeah and this is the
process the process is figuring out I
love this folks the food thank you for
the benchmark this really helps you to
get a sense because the numbers can be
tricky this is the thing well this is
why I wanted to take it on here with
everybody here helping because I really
wouldn't know I would literally just
will have to walk into a store and say
okay I want to buy a computer and then I
would just buy it and I haven't learned
anything there's not really a lot of
love I mean there's love in the intent
but there's not really a lot of love put
into it you've built you're going to
build a system the 7700 K from Intel
looks like it's a reasonable price
according to that benchmark I'm just
going to punch it in Amazon here Sasha
and see what it says
404 sorry that's you know it's still 400
bucks
so what why don't we and is that one for
a little bit of a better price
hmm no okay so we want the seventh gen
7700 K let's pretend and let's find the
best price we can on Amazon ap 600 vp9
in the chat rooms had any interest in
APU which is CPU and graphics in one
chip yeah we don't need that I guess
that is an advantage to some of these i7
chips but we're going to be putting a
PCIe card in there anyways which is your
Nvidia card okay that's right we don't
need the integrated graphics at all okay
perfect
what is the 7600 K because Amazon says
it's only 279 that's well in line with
the budget so 70 what did I say 7600 and
yeah it is up there with with the i7
3770 not sure is it worth is it worth it
what was the one I was looking at
the i7 7700 K how big of a step down are
those so the 7700 cave oh you know I'm
all like attached to the bigger bars but
what they did to me as a consumer the
big colors bars right they start out
like we all the way across oh my god I
don't know let's move it
okay another hundred bucks for the
bigger bar I need a little mid bar you
know I don't want the mini so without
pain without being at all unreasonable
right let's start a start a building our
shopping list here based on the higher
end of the price range that we're going
for so what I mean by that is we're
going to add the seventy seven hundred K
right now and then build around that and
see what it comes to
if that works then fantastic you get a
bit of a better processor and a fairly
fairly good amount better and if it
doesn't work if it ends up meeting
octave yeah okay let's do that we're not
going to be unreasonable we're not going
to add the i9 but let's add the Intel
Core i7 7700 K and again all of this
stuff is being accumulated and added to
the forum cat v dot TV slash CPU two
zero one seven before we go further can
I read Albuquerque turkey address in a
comment yeah I'm going to take some
notes here okay so it sounds like you're
itching to spend lots of Sascha's bucks
or loonies whichever you guys calm on
current flash computer for session days
a turkey like say the Albuquerque turkey
would have a much sharper pencil be that
as it may just a couple things for you
and session to consider okay please tell
her to carefully measure the computer
they have now we have covered this the
computer size is aligned told to tell
you so carefully measure it I will
carefully measure it okay what if the
super duper new one is an inch wider two
or three inches taller or deeper
tomorrow right that's exactly what we
were saying earlier yeah if the
motherboard is e ay TX size the case
might have to be
into deeper also is a room to have a few
inches of clearance on the rear for
ventilation so a wrist and a couple of
fingers can reach around to add a cable
or gizmo or two I would rather have all
of the gizmos and cables and stuff
loaded in the front end not the back if
it if we can do that like I'd rather
most like just a power cable and stuff
they out the back but I want like any
USB or any connections and stuff that I
would be in a front end okay and hidden
stuff underneath like cable management
chassis would help hide all the wires so
you don't see them that would be nice
yeah okay my only room for the
occasional desk bunny back there
Mike the new computer impinge on the
traffic pattern that could be bad for
toes or shins in the dark of night it's
actually in the corner of the room it's
the the tower where it is now is perfect
I will take a picture lest I forget a
bunch of inexpensive fans would be
wonderful even if you get a water cooler
a large gaming case would likely have
room for two 120 millimeter fans in
front the side panel might have room for
one the back panel might come with an
exhaust fan but it might be a smaller
size a water cooler would probably have
two or three fans somewhere if you have
lots of fans they can run slowly and
quietly that is smart down a true
pessimist like say me would also worry
about the water cooling this is awesome
up there in the Northwoods what happens
when temperature drops to its customary
20 below zero and the power goes out on
a weekend fashion day for a hundred
miles away is a liquid actually
antifreeze like automobile antifreeze or
might if you just plain water it would
freeze easily at -20 fahrenheit that
would not be a good thing my pipes would
burst LLC s is is antifreeze oh is it
hmm oh cool yeah it's like a green
coolant new graphics card the power you
guys have it on terror comes from where
Quebec no problem those Quebecers tell
them as much time as you need a fancy
graphics card can draw over 200 watts or
more just for that one component on the
other hand cost to our power supply as
well yeah okay so it
helped keep the chill off the room in
the 10 or 11 months of Arctic winter and
berries so graphics card heats up the
house so happens I would get an LCS
graphics card as well if we can if not
then something that's got a big heat
sink and some fans they can get a little
noisy depending on what you're doing
okay what are the specs for the 4k
television beyond resolution refresh
rate if the TV is limited to say 60
Hertz the graphics card won't have to
work as hard if it can do 200 for 240
Hertz that would be fantastic but keep
the fire extinguisher handy so if that
matters then the TV specs well yeah
because what is saying it like do you
have a 3d TV or is it just standard like
60 Hertz 30 frames 60 frames a second I
don't know you use 3d glasses yes so
you're looking at 120 frames per second
60 I don't use 3d glasses all the time
yeah but so your TV is capable at 120
frames a second easy so if you want that
kind of quality your TV is capable of it
so we could throw a card on there that
is capable of it as well so I could play
3d from the computer to the TV yeah I
guess you could I don't do other
computer games that use that technology
I guess so I'm guessing so let's say
like if I'm playing a movie or something
could I I don't know from the computer
it's a 3d I've never ever done that I
don't have that kind of television or
power we don't have yeah we don't have
kids what I added here yeah when I added
therefore from Alburquerque turkeys
email was cable management being able to
hide away the wires just because we have
that brief discussion and got me
thinking there Albuquerque Turkey we
should throw a fan controller in there
there's just a cheap little dial that
you can turn down the speed of the fan
that is smart
mm-hmm so you can make it super quiet
while still spinning right if I would
enough to keep it cool doing like
downloading something overnight not that
that happens anymore since I was like 13
when it downloads for one song yes
almond jelly the Creator up okay so we
know where
we're going to start building this thing
around a 7700 k-tel processor so folks
it's up to you to get on to Amazon or
your favorite site for buying computer
peripherals and let's start building
around that so we're looking for a
motherboard
what kind of kingston ram we can throw
at it because I'm thinking we're
definitely going to want to go with
Kingston we want reliability we want
good bang for the buck and you know 16
to 32 gigs of ram would be just fine and
and I was also thinking this week you
know should we go with an m2 instead of
standard SSD like over SATA channel SATA
is the bus or aka the connector for the
hard drive and it's not a hard drive
anymore because that means they're
spinning parts and called a solid-state
drive or SSD okay so I saw the state
drive connected to the same bus that the
old spinning hard drives used was
considered superfast six gigs per second
right okay now you can get what's called
an m2 it does away with the SATA
controller completely uses the PCIe bus
and now you get four times that speed so
the hard drive itself the solid-state
drive is a chip attached to your
motherboard that runs at up to two gigs
person no not two gigs - is it two
terabytes per second a lot something
crazy I don't 2,000 gigabytes or
something like that I don't know my math
sucks today but it's four times faster
anyway it's going to be super super
sleek okay so I'm wonder if m2 would be
the way to go that's what I'm thinking
okay so get your comments in yeah that's
really it a any other comments a sure
that we should bring up as because this
is kind of the final phase of hey next
week we're going to be looking back at
all the notes we're going to be saying
okay here's what we're what we're going
to get we're doing these are our final
answer because it's like crunch time
here the wedding September night not
that it needs to be done by September 9
no because that would be crazy
get your your thoughts in this cap five
dot TV slot
CPU 2017 now I'm doing my best to kind
of grab all your comments from all the
different places where people are making
notes and posting comments but that I
tend to make mistakes if I do that so if
you can put it on the forum that would
be probably ideal because then it
centralizes everything to one spot and
of course that's also where we're
posting all the videos from this series
so you'll be able to follow along
everything thanks everybody
well Sasha you want to jump over to the
newsroom I certainly did okay all right
here the stories were covering this week
in the category five dot TV newsroom
well I don't have my computer thing oh
that's I can order they don't know
mission or anything I am our
teleprompter here folks using a
Bluetooth wireless keyboard computer
things a computer thing as Sasha called
it and now she has it so she can
actually control her teleprompter okay
I'm like how come the words I'm just
clicking randomly in the old right I
don't have my computer thing okay so
let's try that again here are the
stories were covering this week in the
for viewing the coming solar eclipses
into a smart fridge thanks to firm
thanks to a firmware update blender an
automatic over-the-air upgrade will
break front door smart locks for at
least 5 days no need to worry the
asteroid heading toward Earth and
thought to hit us in October will miss
our planet by a long shot
and a teenager was just awarded $10,000
for a bug he found in Google's back end
these stories are coming right up don't
go anywhere
Jeff Weston Jemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website
what are you alright you're terrible
actor what this we're acting comes into
play oh I don't know we're Arctic you're
supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website you
need hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
it's sure how much hard drive space you
have how many email accounts how many
domains can point to it well we've got
an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are going to get
unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name root your own com dice
to put that amazing website that you've
been working on on there if you run if
you want to build a wordpress site fine
sign up cat5 dot TV slash dream host
just don't put a little paper something
just don't do it but hey it's a great
deal folks best deal you're going to
find five dollars and change per month
go to cap five dot TV / dream host I'm
Sasha tomatoes and here are the top
stories for the week of August 16th 2017
on Monday the United States will witness
a total solar eclipse the first for
almost ninety nine years and the likes
of which the world has never seen
it's a once in a lifetime event and it's
unlikely that we'll ever see anything
like it again suffice to say America's
gone eclipses crazy with hotel rooms in
the best viewing locations going for
thousands of dollars a night but to
observe the spectacle without frying
your retinas you need special filter
glasses that conform to the ISO one two
three one two point two safety standards
unfortunately though some folks are
flogging ordinary shades and handheld
viewers with labels falsely stating that
they conform to the standard according
to the American Astronomical Society
these do not block enough of the sun's
ultraviolet visible and infrared
radiation to make them truly safe
predictably men
these were sold through Amazon and SIA
and the seattle-based retail giant is
taking action to recall them KGW News
and NBC affiliate based in Portland
reported receiving and an email from
Amazon explaining of the solar filters
that they purchased were not confirmed
safe for viewing we recommend that you
do not use this product to view the Sun
or the eclipse amazon said speaking to
tech blog the register and amazon
spokesperson said that it decided to
start the recall out of an abundance of
caution the company didn't mention the
scale of the recall whether the recall
had been completed or indeed how it
makes the determination that the glasses
are unsafe i just want to ask a quick
question
if I just glanced at the Sun I'm not
frying my retinas can I just like glance
at the Eclipse and not fray my retinas I
feel like it is the Sun stronger I don't
know does the chatroom know about that I
don't know I remember I watched an
eclipse when I was really young and we
had to do it with a special sure like
thing welding helmets and stuff yeah I I
don't think you can you can't like stare
at the Sun without expecting damage
right but here's the difference is when
you look at the Sun and I'm not a
medical professional okay let's just put
that out there when you stare at the Sun
if you do which is an idiotic thing to
do Sasha let's let's stop okay let's
stop doing that kept your pupils will
close up right to let very little light
in when you protect us right but when
you look at a solar eclipse that is
right so that per touch makes you want
to stare longer which makes it so that
you may not real it's like sunburn on a
cloudy day yeah you don't realize that
you're actually experiencing this until
it's too late
here's what I think it's been a very
rainy cloudy summer all summer and these
hotel rooms that are going for thousands
of dollars a night I'll tell you it's
been a really rainy cloudy summer all
summer I'm just I am going I will eat my
hat if we can actually see this thing oh
my
that would be such a shame I know but
building great pictures of them wherever
the one place on earth can see it the
space station can get itself aligned for
like three seconds yeah I just so far
it's been so cloudy I didn't see the
meteor shower either okay
the world's first wireless fridge camera
goes on sale in the UK next month aimed
at helping household waste by being able
to check exactly what they have in their
refrigerator at any time as well as
taking selfies to be sent to the user
the smarter fridge cam and app will also
monitor use by dates and send out
automatic top-up reminders to buy more
milk for example it will also encourage
people to eat what they already have
typically festering in the back of the
fridge or in the salad box by suggesting
recipes this this device joins tech
initiatives such as mobile apps and
scales that calculate the cost of food
waste which aim to transform the way
people think about what they consume the
fridge can provides a cheaper
alternative to smart fridge brands like
Samsung and Bosch for example Samsung's
family hub refrigerator costs four
thousand four hundred and ninety nine
pounds the fridge cam however turns any
old fridge into a smart fridge for only
100 pounds Wow cool that's not bad at
all
I think it's a great idea I like it I'll
get one hardware company lockstate has
managed to bridge to brick hundreds of
internet connected so called smart locks
on people's front doors with a bad
firmware update the upshot is you can't
use the built-in keypad on the devices
to unlock the door locks eight smart
locks are popular among Airbnb hosts as
it allows them to give guests an entry
code to get into properties without
having to share physical keys lockstate
is even a partner with Airbnb earlier
this week though new software was
automatically sent out to folks 469
dollar lock state 6000i locks one of the
upstarts top residential smart locks
which left's the keypad entirely useless
the crashed locks which connect your
home to connect to your home
Wi-Fi for remote control and monitoring
as well as firmware updates are now
going to be out of action for at least a
week
owners have two choices they can either
remove the back panel of the lock and
send it to the manufacturer so the
software can be manually updated which
will take between five and seven working
days alternatively they can ask for a
replacement which will take 14 to 18
days to ship and then send back the junk
lock the physical key on the lock should
still work but that's going to be a cold
comfort for a lot of Airbnb users who
prefer to keep the physical keys to
themselves and set an access code for
each larger that's stops by oh yeah
that's going to be trouble good news for
those of you who live on earth the
European Space Agency has confirmed that
there is no danger of asteroid 2012 PC
for hitting our beloved planets in
October despite what some panicky
YouTube videos might tell you the rock
was spotted five years ago when a
whizzed past earth missing us by ninety
four thousand eight hundred kilometers
last month NASA reckoned the asteroid
may this year come as close as 6,800
kilometers which is far too close for
comfort in cosmic distances however the
asteroids orbit pass has now been firmed
up and we're going to be just fine it
will skip past our fragile planet in
October missing us by 44 thousand
kilometers the agency said on Thursday
the original observations revealed that
the asteroids next approach to our
vicinity would be in October 2017 but
its orbit meant that it could not be
tracked during the last five years
leaving astronomers unsure on how close
it would come shortly after its 2012 fly
by astronomers lost sight of the alien
object because it was so small and dark
it was picked up again this year at the
GSEs Very Large Telescope Observatory in
Chile even as 2012 tc4 did hit Earth it
wouldn't be an end of civilization event
by any stretch the wrath is only 15 to
30 metres wide and after being worn away
by air compression on its trip through
the atmosphere the final boulder would
be about the same size as the meteorite
that hit in 2013 which hurt 1,500 folks
in Russia when
smashed into our planet but it caused no
deaths what the asteroid which is
traveling at about thirty thousand miles
per hour will make its closest approach
to earth on October 12th
astronomist sir Dearing up for the event
and will be studying the rock closely to
work out what it's made of
it is made of rock it's made of an
asteroid it is a straight a teenager in
Uruguay has scored big after finding and
reporting a bug in Google's App Engine
to view confidential internal Google
Documents
while bored in July high schooler zekiel
Pereira who has all the market makings
of a competent security researcher use
verbs to minused manipulate the host
header and web connections to Google's
App Engine the 17 year olds target web
page is protected by MoMA Google's
employees only portal apparently named
after a museum of modern art normally
connecting to a private staff only
Google service requires signing in via
MoMA however it appears not all of these
services fully checked a visit if a
visitor was authorized to view the
content by connecting to a public Google
service such as a spot comm and changing
the host header in the HTTP request to
say yaks Googleplex com Pereira was
redirected to Google's internal project
management system yaks viewing that
system should have required a momen in
but instead he was able to view yaks
pages marked as Google confidential the
student reported the loophole to Google
on July 11th and on August 4th about a
month before his 18th birthday he was
told the issue had been fixed and that
he had earned a ten thousand dollar
reward from the ad Giants bug bounty
program nice that is good and he can put
it towards college big fakes this week -
Roy W Nash and our community of viewers
for submitting story sauce this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category-five TV newsroom I'm
Sasha der mattis thanks Ashley this is
category
technology TV our website is category 5
TV and just want to say thank you so
much
one for watching tonight but pardon me
also for supporting category five the TV
network and everything that we do here
you do that through our partner links on
our website and do that through becoming
a patron at our patreon page that's a
great way to support us by donating a
small amount for each episode that we do
and and then we also we take donations
and wage share yeah exactly the tip jar
is a you know just a way to say hey that
was a cool show there's five bucks yeah
there you go so thank you very much to
those of you who who do that for us and
of course we offer this show and
everything that we do here absolutely
free for you so we hope you enjoy and I
hope that that you check out our website
I say it a couple times through the show
but we've got so much content there
created is crazy and it's a cool website
so thank you you know I'm really trying
to make it easier for folks to find
content on the right part of that is our
partnership with Al Volia they have
actually built for us the backend for
our search engine and you can have to
get so fast every time you you know you
type something in and boom yeah and it's
funny you don't realize how great a
website is until you go onto websites
that aren't so great and then you're on
your content stuff because search of
video content is ridiculously difficult
very radio it's not like blogs where
it's all text right exactly it can be
tough so hopefully you find it a good
experience that is all the time that we
have sash can you believe it next an
exciting week and we're going to be
accumulating you're in for your thoughts
over the next couple of days please get
your thoughts in because I'm making my
decision based on your feedback like
seriously seriously and ordering like
next week so I need this tell me what
tell me what I should do look forward to
your suggestions folks and then I'll
relay those and I've got my own as well
so you know that's our failsafe that's
right should I want to know because it's
been a while since I built a computer
like a long time oh really
oh yeah
ha I do I can do em anymore right out of
it I I buy HP and Lenovo now and it's
like right but it's fun this way ladies
gonna yeah you say that now I don't know
five small hands and I say need like
small fingers to plug things in perfect
I don't even know ya know that helps to
set water
Jesus solder thing you can solder things
if you want can I have your solder
things the option not to solder solder
two thousand dollars go ahead and solder
into this here's your new processor so
you see all those pins going to solder
each wire into the socket if we could
please not do that okay great well
thanks for watching everybody I hope you
have fun tonight and we will see you
next Wednesday night so take care have a
great week a
[Music]
