what you're about to experience is a
free worldwide interactive broadcast
from ontario canada we broadcast live
every tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time
get your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 PP or
email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Rob you
Ferguson welcome to this episode number
169 of category 5 technology TV I'm your
host Ravi Ferguson and I'm Eric good I'm
Eric it's beginning to look a lot like
Christmas hey you know what I have with
me here tonight I have not sure what
this thing is they're just well builder
you'll see if we can get Hillary to sing
along with I turn to fill out the window
that's very nice
I feel a little more trouble up here in
hello
hello thanks cadwell and everybody else
Oh in all the hustle and bustle of the
season I forgot to turn off my turn on
my microphone Emma you know what I said
was very emotional is your microphone on
you did I said that to my mics on I
believe yes okay fabulous but these are
my opinion this is episode number 159 of
category 5 nice to have you here it's
nice to be here yeah how's your week
going you know it's all right yeah took
my kid back to Peterborough to go back
to university on Monday morning and it
safe driving well I was beside it ran
out there we got there safe and sound it
took this 3 hours and 15 minutes holding
all my tank 22 yeah it's an extra hour
yeah in a corner there's a bit of a trip
but that's okay I'm fine really every
day it's like I'm because I'm shoveling
off two vehicles and you know get get
becca ready to take tally to school and
stuff in this way so first in ontario
they brought in the army to get people
over their cars they're stranded there's
300 cars stranded on the highway oh oh
god helicopter it's what serious serious
stuff since like in real deal people
this is ken welcome to the great white
north where they have to bring in the
helicopters yeah it doesn't look so bad
out there all right no it's kind of it
wasn't so nice days and kind of light
snow it's all right oh we got so much
coming up for you tonight lots of fun
obviously we're having some fun tonight
and getting ready with it you know our
last two weeks before Christmas and
tonight we're going to be learning to
deploy a turnkey linux server swiss out
to you that sounds all sounds pretty
cool we're going to learn how to
basically deploy a linux-based server in
a fraction of the time it would normally
take to do so to do something like that
sounds good Oh Chris Reich oh it's not
actually daylight my friend I would have
just said there's a little jar gether
and being light of the ophtho for tennis
court 0 back no ya don't know there it
is yeah ok what else we got we got oh
we're gonna be talking about where you
can find some great Christmas music free
of charge commercial free oh really yeah
you know it's that time of the year
where you want to be able to turn on the
radio and not have to listen to a whole
bunch of commercials but catch your
favorite holiday hits way to speaking
which you're saying something about you
may you may have brought some holiday
hits with you what it was maybe you know
um we'll see if I can fantastic we don't
have to be in tune welcome to everybody
who's joining us in the chat room at
category five dot TV lots of big news
and technology this week Hillary is
actually going to be joining us right
here in the studio and I told her I
would let you know what she's going to
be talking about at about half past the
hour Matt assay is actually leaving
canonical chief operations officer I
believe he is I guess technically ones
or is as soon no longer to be but
certainly we're going to be hearing
about that also commenting a commenting
accounts at lifehacker and a bunch of
other websites that are powered by the
same commenting service have been
compromised so if you are you a user of
life hacker or any of those services
that that are affected by the hack
attack you'll need to change your
password sounds like good advice anyway
yeah so Hillary's got the details for us
and about a half hour we won't you may
drop gdm as early as the next release in
April also YouTube has lifted its 15
minute restriction which could possibly
mean closed captioning for category 5 TV
viewers
very excited about that stick around for
the details also big news took 33 years
to get there but Voyager ones space
probe has finally reached the outer edge
of the outer limits I guess you would
say we're out of the solar system we're
gonna hear all about that 33 years in
well I'll bet the enterprise could have
made it in a fraction of the time of
course of course Flores gadget wisdom
gurus got his calculator out he's
figuring out exactly how long the
enterprise would have taken 15.4 minutes
no doubt so stick around for the news
from the category five dot TV news room
and of course the newsroom website at
news room dot category 5 TV so well you
got some stuff so how was your trip why
would spin well good yeah it's been busy
like I'm still I'm still kind of coming
still kind of getting into the routine
of like youth so family of five now man
Bob we got Christmas coming up when
we're shopping for three kids which is
exciting it's it's such a joy and what
did you get for Hillary and me did they
probably the same frame we got you oh
sorry well hmm oh yeah why don't we do a
question one final mention Oh little
rich it's a nice your last chance to
qualify for that all in one
multifunction center from Brother Canada
in category five so stick around we're
gonna be talking about that as well okay
you got some stuff for me well that last
question looked really really really
long so I'm gonna go to a little shorter
one okay right here alright this is from
David masters and hi Robbie hey mommy
Eric wonderfully that hi Eric but
wondered if you have an idea about this
one I'm no expert but I look after a
small office network
I says to him before when he first comes
in I'm like make sure you sit forward
because the green screen is gonna absorb
you if you don't and I just caught you
doing that your hair okay no I'll have
to see the hair or flickering arena so
it's all good see I don't have that
problem okay I'm no expert but I guess
sorry Emily somebody asked if that was
just maybe a glow of your dome he had a
son named but that's it's a halo okay
he's gonna hidden fine you know there
you go nice beautiful okay apparently
david is no expert i think i read that
four times but he looks out for a small
again Robin were even okay taking Oh
taking care of a network okay moving to
LA we recently changed ISPs but apart
from that nothing else has changed on
our network we are sometimes seeing
pauses network devices disappearing and
reappearing like there might be
conflicts not sure what or maybe viruses
on infected pcs broadcasting packets and
occasionally causing the internal
network de passe and then come back do
you know of an open source network
monitoring tool that I could start with
to try and diagnose the problem thanks
Dave from Blaxland Australia hmm good I
might well they were those um I think in
a case where you're having some issues
like that it's good to have a some kind
of hardware in between your internet
connection and the computer itself
that's that's connecting to the internet
my router that you saw me set up with
dd-wrt a few weeks back dd-wrt does give
me some amount of monitoring in fact you
can enable full logging of everything
every kind of port transaction that
happens on that river now that can get a
little severe if you've got lots of
computers because you're getting tons
and tons of traffic logs but it can also
you have also help you to diagnose
issues another option if that's not good
enough for you like if that's not
helping you to narrow down the problem
and dd-wrt really does do a good job of
let me see some of the stuff that's
going through the network but you can
also get into a proxy situation so you
could have like a proxy server which
would work seamlessly with dd-wrt if you
wanted to use it as a transparent proxy
which is a little more complex but
because you're saying that you're having
these kinds of problems it might be
worth your while otherwise a proxy in a
small network is probably not a really
you know it's kind of a waste of time
but because you're trying to track down
a problematic issue it can actually help
you out because it logs everything that
goes through and you can put flags on
stuff and then you can block things that
you don't want to be allowed through so
I really stand by d-did dd-wrt because
it allows me to to set up these kinds of
things really really easily I'm just
doing a quick search here
just because the one thing I'm thinking
is how dd-wrt works with the squid proxy
server so if you have like an old
computer around you can set it up put a
fairly reasonable size hard drive in it
and it can become a proxy server which
basically is is a computer on your
network that your router pipes all of
the network traffic 241 based
transactions so all of your internet web
page hosts are like all of the web pages
that you're serving up to your network
with the traditional proxy setup you'd
have to go around to each computer and
tell it use the proxy ripped with a
transparent proxy it goes through to the
router and you you know gets it through
the dhcp server so you don't actually
have to configure each computer
transparent proxy will at the dd-wrt
level or at the router level re-route
all the traffic through the proxy so the
proxy needs to have a reasonable size
hard drive because it logs and caches
regularly used websites so then all of a
sudden your internet gets faster so
there are benefits to it but also it
gives you that additional kind of layer
of logging because you can see all the
stuff that's being that's going through
the server through the internet so you
need a large tower grove what about on a
variety pros awesome notice we pretty
much nail ok yeah it doesn't have to be
anything exceptional at all that's if
you need to go that that far so the
first step I would say get a cheap
router that you can install dd-wrt on or
see if your router is compatible with it
and set that at the point of entry so
because all the communication is going
to go through that router turn on your
ear log in and and keep an eye on it and
see what see what's actually happening
there if you suspect particular
computers turn off the other computers
on your network or disconnect them from
the from the wall and ports and you'll
be able to kind of get a good idea as to
what what is generating traffic
and the firmware on your rotor might be
well ok do wrt replacement the end belt
firmware so a.d.d dash W rt.com can we
sort of reference say okay here's my
rotor cuz that's yeah yeah you can just
check and see if it's good yeah they
have a like a hardware database at DD
wrt DD wrt com like Eric was saying that
dan forget your hyphen yeah and when you
get there there it is but because i'm on
a green screen i just got to do what
people oh yeah oh yeah so here we go
router database I am totally out of
middle right here i'm gonna click on you
know how cool ah yeah so here okay what
i like to do is what is whether support
a device list yeah there's so much we
can do there's so much we can do it's
already there's there's no limits and
there is the there it is well
okay so that's that's does that I hope
that I think but there's got there's got
to be something I mean other than
installing software on every computer
that matter that monitors your traffic
it's it's so much easier just to set
something at the entry point every time
the traffic goes through there you can
log it dd-wrt does a great job and then
you can go from there so I hope that
helps David versus the small office
networks between yeah is bad and that's
why I say Leo wrt it's free I mean other
than the cost of hardware to get a
router that that you can install it on
but you can get those as low as 30 bucks
if your existing router doesn't support
it so and even find some old ones like a
an old linksys router it can be found at
a thrift shop or even a yard sale during
the summer you see them all the time and
a lot of times you hear people that
picked one up for thirty cents and they
throw dd-wrt also heck of a deal with a
voice the price well can be indeed yeah
alrighty well Rogers doing it please
because I was i okay Ron joogay has a
question maybe it's due right but but
running back a little you like that
okay it's not that bad really it's it
does a pretty good job anyways talk
about that after you tell them tell us
what you think of the green screen what
do you think with the green screen
mm-hmm okay Ron you can tell us too if
you like hi Robbie here is my problem
okay very slow boot with fresh install
of 10.04 like eight minutes tried
everything I can think of please help
why why okay history of problem this
computer is a dual boot with XP and
10.04 install ways we should just
clarify when someone says 10.04 that's
Ubuntu Linux oh the the release that
came out in april of 2010 indeed yeah
yes they move pretty quickly with her
the rope raise every six months yeah
well that is something okay so it's the
dual boot with XP and 10.04 ubuntu
installed XP and lost the grub okay
could not figure out how to get it back
so I just decided to install 10 point 10
fresh yes I lost everything but what was
important I put on an external drive ah
he had a backup see if it's worth saving
it's worth backing up right yeah okay
TenPoint 10 boot was slow less than a
minute that is when i noticed that 10
point 10 was fairly new okay right
thanks in october right 10.04 akin with
fresh install do I have a hardware
problem also a WND does not show up on
the screen but if i move the most where
it should be the program name comes up
thanks Ron PS i might change my ubuntu a
drive out to see what happens okay so
sounds like you know your way around the
system run like you you know how to swap
it hard drives and how to reinstall
without
without you know with the luminol
Tuesday but that was your stuff yeah
that last question there about a WND
I'll just hit that first usually if a
WND is a vont window navigator that's
when you look at my computer screen and
I go like this oh yeah this guy down
here it's kind of a lava Mac dock bar
yeah kind of idea you can play with that
and make it do all kinds of difference
beautiful yeah it's really nice I heart
effects click quite cool it helps you to
keep your desktop organized I find two
so it's great you do need a lot of RAM
for some of the effects the biggest
thing is you need a decent enough video
card to have compositing on enabled on
your video card if your video card is
integrated and is not able to composite
or run a compositing window manager
you're going to have an inability to run
applications like a WND because it's
required the way you can tell if you if
your video card is going to support
compositing just a really really quick
way but could we die große but it's part
of the question I know system I think
it's under yeah preferences appearance
and under appearance you'll see visual
effects and it's probably set to none in
your case try setting it to normal or
extra and if it said if it says no can't
do that see how I've got all these cool
effects that's compositing and it's
required that I be able to set that to
normal or extra if it says that your
video card doesn't support that then you
can't enable compositing that's just
just a really really but the dog is
still cool even though bouche but you
can't have the doll you can do that
without Google+ oh there are other
options other software options for docs
that don't require compositing a WND
does so that's that question just to get
that out of the way because that's sort
of separate as for your booting issue
first of all if you do mess up your your
grub boot loader i recommend the super
grub disk
which is super robe disks a free
download I think let's let's bring up
their website i'm not sure if they have
changed the name of modern modern alesis
now so we just got to determine that
you've got the right one super grub to
disk does not fix grub does not fix grub
to boot into many systems okay so that's
not the one you want here's the one hour
maybe this one fixes grub fixes grub too
we're super grub disk fixes grub but
does not fix grub too so depending on
what version of grub you have will
determine which one you want to download
there that would allow you to fix grub
without having to reinstall your
operating system which would have been
perhaps a little simpler when you
installed ubuntu 10.4 up and then you
reinstalled over top of that your ubuntu
10.4 and depending on whether or not you
rewrote rewrote the boot sector of that
drive during the installation process
would determine whether or not you
updated your grub to an older version or
what happened there so you could of
course use super grub disk and reinstall
grub and get it working if you edit your
menu list file and a lot of people have
had an issue with ubuntu having a slow
boot if quiet mode is enabled so that's
like the splash screen that you see when
you boot the ubuntu linux we see you
boom to and then the couple of dots that
that kind of sequence through rather
than the text flashing by on the screen
if you remove the quiet option from your
menu list file and you remove a couple
of options so i'll see which it's like
ro
and it's on the colonel line let's let's
just see here
never is in quiet mode
let's just see what I'll do is I'll
certainly post a link I'll find a forum
thread that that gets you through how to
remove quiet mode real real equipment
nitty-gritty just couple of lines that
need to be removed but I want to make
sure that I give you the right
information because we don't want to
break grub and of course you can always
keep it back up as well see
just doing some quick searches here on
google all right so just talk amongst
yourselves well almost this would be a
perfect time for you to pick up that
guitar and pick it yeah well let's see
what we do here is actually going for
and turn this thing
this guy's pretty good he's kind of
fading into the background but it's
pretty good
you sure you want well I thought you're
gonna
we having fun yet
you
we can sing no your google you're doing
great there okay what I'm gonna do I
will unless sense someone in the chat
room has ro quiet splash that's what we
will remove from the colonel line ro
quiet splash and then after that you'll
see just the word on a loan line quiet
if you remove that and then reboot
you're gonna see all the texts flash by
your screen but it should be a lot
faster on boot well okay and it was a
lot like revelation well hardware is is
potentially an issue i wouldn't i
wouldn't say right off the bat that it's
a hardware issue at all it could just be
a grub issue something about your
hardware some people have said if you
know if they have Wi-Fi of a certain
chipset then that can cause slowdowns
with food as well so it's it's really a
diagnostic to try to figure out which
kernel module and stuff like that it is
but that's probably our most likely case
remove the line ro quiet splash from the
end of your Colonel line and then remove
the word quiet in menu LST okay and I
hope that helps and you may need to
reboot I missed part of that yeah that
the first point was that XP picked up a
virus he was booting her 23 seconds
before that that's what caused all this
grief and then he reinstalled everything
broke up okay it's always XPS fault mr.
GaSe thank you well because what
happened is he got the virus and then he
reinstalled windows XP and that of
course overwrote grub right and then he
tried installing ubuntu overtopping as a
dual boot and then that's when
everything kind of went weird so I've
already got rough with that one yeah
i'll post links to everything that that
i found here and also that includes
super grub disk so and in your case that
might have been risk a tux I don't know
how to say that to be like risk at
rockys like residents there's a little
penguin there looks like who's wearing a
tux and rescue I don't know yeah I don't
know there is just guessing good looking
at all little freaky because I ball and
put a word on his chest but there we
have it all right we're how can we be
almost halfway through the hour already
well because I don't happen so much
exactly let's let's take a quick buat
now a you and I were talking about you
know what's the easiest way to deploy
and a boon to server yeah that has
apache mysql PHP all that stuff lamp
linic everything mysql PHP and what was
the first thing i said we there's what's
the quickest way to install the quickest
ya literature on just now in response to
that Oh immediately I thought turnkey
lenox turkey lyrics yes some dude
turnkey linux org I'll just get you to
pull that up and we're going to we're
going to take a look at this just to
kind of get you
to the point where you can see how easy
it is to deploy a linux-based server
we're not going to get into the the you
know how to actually get everything
configured and you can you can look at
it kind of click through from there but
when you go to turn key linux org you
can look through and they have pre-built
ubuntu based linux servers these are
virtual appliances to be run in a
virtual machine so what we're interested
in tonight is the lamp stack so again
that's linux apache mysql and PHP okay
there's also drupal joomla as appliance
wordpress so what this does for you a
domain controller for example based on
powered by Linux so these turnkey Linux
virtual machines are already
pre-configured it's it's all about the
you know that spirit of community and
giving back to community they're there
for me their mandate is basically save
people time you know make it simple for
somebody to deploy a server because if
you wanted to build on a Bluetooth
server with PHP mysql and apache get it
all configured it's not a lot of work
but it takes more than five minutes yes
for sure so what we can do with turnkey
linux a turnkey a turnkey linux org
there it is there there we go once
you've picked the type of server that
you'd like to deploy and remember these
are going to be virtual appliances so
you can deploy more than one using a
virtual machine or multiple virtual
machines okay in an environment where
you've got you know a business class
server with say a dual xeon system like
two processors or four processors you're
going to have so much power you could be
running so many words where I've seen
roots
real so and that's what a lot of
companies are doing these days we're not
buying a whole bunch of servers instead
we're buying one incredible server and
turning it into multiple servers using
virtualization so I'm going to grab this
lamp stack appliance and you'll see a
brief description this comes with all
the basics to get you started with a
lamp stack computer so there's a
prebuilt virtual machine VM DK image so
that would be compatible with your
VMware based products or you can revert
it over for a virtual box or in our case
we want to grab the ISO image which will
allow us to burn that to a CD and then
we can install that on our own
virtualization platform or even if you
wanted to put it on an actual dedicated
server you could do that as well so now
for the sake of the demonstration I've
already downloaded that and alleged the
television imagine because we know that
we have a finite amount of bandwidth and
we've learned that it's not good to
download a little big iso files no
during the broadcast we've broken things
before heaven we have
168 Meg's get to this thing and it's
it's an iso file so once you've got that
I'm just going to bring up VirtualBox so
i chose the I soap instead of the vmdk
because I wanted to set it up in
virtualbox if you're going to do this in
virtualbox now actually I'll kill this
there's a couple of things that you need
to do first of all remember this is
based on a boon to so when you create
the virtual machine you want to tell it
that it's a boon to virtual machine
because our turnkey Lennox is based on
ubuntu as far as your storage system
I've mounted my turnkey lamp download
the ISO file onto my cd-rom drive and
I've turned on use host IL cash on my
SATA controller now the other thing
that's really important because you want
to be able to access this server from
outside of the virtual network you want
to be able to access this from a real
network from your computer or inevitably
you want to be able to launch it on the
world wide web for your in a case where
you're launching a true lamp server so
in that case we need to make sure
because by default if you're using
VirtualBox your network is going to be
set to net which is basically going to
hide it from the outside network so
you're not going to be able to actually
get access to that what we want to do is
we want to bridge the adapter and set it
to whatever your Ethernet card is now in
my case because i'm using my laptop i'm
on w land on the wireless network that's
fine in your case is probably eth1
something along those lines or eth0 so
now I'll boot up that machine for the
first time and that remember has got the
CD come toward me the CD inserted and
there we are greeted with turnkey
Lennox's
welcome screen so we can choose to do a
live live boot we can install it to our
hard drive or boot from our first hard
disk in this case we want to simply
install to our hard disk oh look that's
what you're going to see after you
disable quiet mode something like that
alright so that's that that's going to
boot right up into the virtual basically
the installer for this virtual machine
you're not gonna believe how quick this
is highly already impressed yeah well
everything's kind of enough it's it's
all in one place it's all there it's all
ready to go well we're just kind of
watching this just kind of going on
here we go this is a demonstration of
turnkey linux and we are installing a
lamp stack server so here it's asking me
what i want to do with my hard drive
just to show you how easy this is make
sure you read the prompts okay i'm going
to go guide it and use my entire disk i
want it to overwrite everything on my
virtual hard drive yoges remember you've
got to have a backup if you're doing
this on a true system that you have
stuff on the hard drive right these
changes to disk I'm going to say yes
this is a virtual machine that i just
created specifically for this
demonstration so there's nothing on the
hard drive that I don't you know that I
I would be afraid to lose it's a virtual
hard drive too so there the nice thing
about virtual servers you can take them
from one physical server to another
right you can back up that whole virtual
machine move it to another server now
what about the hardware on the other
sugar well that's a thing one of the
next it doesn't matter because it's all
virtual hardware as far as the server is
concerned the only place that it matters
is that the host computer the actual
physical server has to have enough
enough RAM and enough cpu power to
allocate ram and cpu to the road rage so
but as far as which computer you're
hosting on as you can see i'm installing
this on a virtual machine on my laptop i
could then take that to my desktop on
windows on linux on any platform it
could be a windows 2003 server with
virtual machine so you know with a
either vmware virtual box installed and
be able to run it on that server i can
then deploy it on any computer that like
it's it's already prompted me just for a
root password this has got to be a
really really strong password that's
your root password I've entered it twice
your mysql root password again make it a
really really strong password i'm not
doing so because this is one of the
cells duration uppercase lowercase
they're doing some specials yeah and if
you're not sure do a google search for
strong password generator well and
you'll be able to just
password just like that those are great
you want to have like special when you
got people on your network from there
well I forget we has really knew when we
forgot it well that's all it was our
servers done Wow installation is
complete you need to restart your
computer let's do it there goes my
virtual server a virtual machine is
rebooting now I've still got the CD in
the drive as far as it's concerned we'd
want to eject that from our computer or
unmount it in my case I'll just boot
from the first hard drive just because
we're live on the air and we'll see what
happens here and literally Hilary this
only takes like two minutes to set this
up so she's like look it's lose time
what's news time there must be a song
for that good a song for everything
so here I am booting up into my new
server for the first time so the first
time it boots is going to you know go
through the configuration is going to
ask if it if I want to install the
security updates which I didn't get in
time it's going to actually install
those so this will take just a moment to
download and install the security
updates we should write a song it's
almost news time blues or something yeah
here we go oh all moan news down oh yeah
Eric hidden hurry
and star on a lamp stack and I let alone
the singing is all done getting updates
from the server that's probably never I
didn't okay we having fun yet fantastic
fun I'm gonna let that install we'll get
Hillary over here and just in case you
just tuned this is in fact category 5
technology TV yes it's almost news time
do you know any what you use to never
person all right yeah let's uh I'm gonna
let that keep going and I'll get you to
switch spots with Hillary so that she
can come all right news and and we
haven't seen Hillary in so long like in
person in the flesh in 30 frames per
second vowels this is a pretty exciting
for sure harmonious and we've got to
monitor out there too and I'll show you
the rest of the okay how this works this
one cool well world hey hell I just
materialized out of nowhere so far very
festive in here looking looking pretty
good sure like it Cheers a lot yeah it's
amazing how things change like even in
the short time you've been away oh I
know what you've done so much like
rearranging and the new HD going on
we're working on skin woman hello should
we did way better than that other
co-hosts been filling in for her he's
pretty awesome he's pretty rad I would
go as far as to say that he is cool
beans no speaking of cool beans I know
that you've got news in your life yes I
do you want to check out your ear cool
beans virtual set oh yeah oh yeah I'm
excited to see what will happen avec la
new new lo green screen okay that was
i'm done with the French I'm excited to
see what goes down dun-da-da-da i wish i
had to play guitar so i could do my own
theme song i'll give you
go beauty from the category 5 TV news
room on Wednesday mattes a canonical COO
announced on his canonical voices blog
that he has decided to leave canonical
the company that makes Ubuntu Linux
assay leaves canonical to join strobe an
early-stage html5 startup that builds
mobile apps in his blog post assay says
that he has enjoyed his time with
canonical and comment on what he has
learned by working with James silber
canonical CEO he writes that he is
greatly missed the day-to-day
interaction with customers and partners
that he has had while working in the
trenches with past employment and that
this is a part of what has made him
realize that while being a CEO all was
good experience it's not quite what he
wants Jane Silber responded with a
thanks and good luck to Matt assay by
posting on the canonical blog site the
commenting server which allows users to
post comments on several popular
websites including lifehacker was in
self hacked hmm this happened on Sunday
resulting in the compromising of all
usernames and passwords used by that
site and a handful of other sites
powered by Gawker on Monday night Gawker
sent an email to all its registered
users alerting them that in fact their
account had been compromised and it is
urgent for each user to reset their
account password in a post on the
lifehacker website the management of
gawker media says we understand how
important Trust is on the internet and
we're deeply sorry for and embarrassed
about this breach of security and Trust
we're working around the clock to ensure
our security and our commenters account
security is moving forward this is yet
another reason it's a good idea to use
different passwords on various websites
if a hacker obtains your username and
password for one site what are the
chances you chances that use the same
one on another popular site like Twitter
or even Facebook keep your passwords
safe people and if you use any Gawker
based services such as lifehacker made
sure to reset your password immediately
to avoid York out being further
compromised currently found in to Boone
tues blueprints for april's release of
the Linux operating system there are
plans to drop the gnome display manager
in favor of light DM
a new multi-platform display manager
according to the launchpad blueprint
lightdm is faster more reliable has a
simpler code base and supports more use
cases than gdm the blueprint is marked
as low priority so while we may not see
it in ubuntu 11.04 we can expect a boon
to to once again shake things up and
providing a fast and flexible desktop
desktop operating system in efforts to
cut down on pirated an illegal content
YouTube at one time limited its users
videos to 10 minutes you'll remember
category fives the meat feature from
those days where our wonderful volunteer
Dave had to spend tireless hours editing
down episodes of category 5 to fit
within the 10 minute restriction what a
ton of work then in July YouTube
increased limit to 15 minutes but what
they didn't tell its users is that they
were watching to see who would be
naughty and who would be nice on
Thursday YouTube pulled out their list
of nice users dropped their accounts in
a hat and selected a bunch of them to
suddenly and unexpectedly lose the
15-minute video restriction the users on
this list are YouTube broadcasters who
have not violated the terms of use or
copyrights and who were selected to be
able to upload lengthy content we're
pleased to announce that category 5 TB
is among the elite to have their 15
minute youtube video restriction lifted
and for the first time ever a one-hour
unedited episode of category 5
technology TV is now available on our
YouTube channel this will open up new
doors for distribution but perhaps more
the one sorry one of the more exciting
features on YouTube will be to have more
accessible versions to people of varying
abilities so in fact YouTube provides
automated speech-to-text closed
captioning for the hearing impaired so
that would be really rad from my deaf
friend who watched category 5 if that
could come into play so you can take a
look at the category 5 YouTube channel
by visiting cat5 TV / YouTube Voyager 1
the most distant man-made object from
Earth has reached the outer edge of the
solar system after a 33 year journey
NASA space probe was launched in 1977
and passed by Jupiter Saturn Uranus haha
and Neptune before veering north it is
now ten point eight billion miles from
the Sun traveling at a speed of 38,000
miles per hour the solar wind a stream
of charged particles spewing from the
Sun has slowed to a speed of zero and is
moving sideways rather than outwards
marking end of our solar system you can
get the full stories at category 5 TV /
newsroom the category 5 TV news room is
researched by Rho W Nash with
contributions from gadget with dr.
wisdom guru vodka Ferguson and our
community of viewers if you've a store
you think's worthy of honor mention send
us an email at newsroom at category 5 TV
from the category 5 TV news room I'm
Hillary rumble
category 5 TV is brought to you in part
by planet calypso this massive
multiplayer online game is available as
a free download from cat five dot TV /
Calypso now once you've got two
downloaded and installed on your Windows
computer make sure you say hi and
there's something for everyone here on
planet calypso from hunting to mining
crafting and just plain socializing and
having fun with your friends you can
download it for free at cat five dot TV
/ Calypso if you're a linux user like
myself of course this makes it worth the
dual boot cat five dot TV / calypso i'll
see you on planet calypso welcome back
to category five technology TV episode
number 169 you'll find us online triple
w category five dot TV I'm Robbie
Ferguson and I'm Hillary rumble back in
the flesh nice to see ya it's great to
be here it really is I've been great
yeah now that I am free from the
impending doom of the snow I was cooped
up for three days and kind of lost my
mind but um now I'm back and I'm alive
and I am home welcome back to bear he
believes fear no man show me no end of
the world type stuff even it's just like
that
our lives are a bad movie unfolding of a
solar system beyond Uranus okay eric
said it's Uranus and I don't like I feel
like Uranus sounds funny but I know your
anus sounds money too so I don't
actually know hmm so sue me I don't know
sorry bitch dinner halley's comet
Halley's Comet you know just tomato a
modern pipeline Catalina you know I
understand I understand that's that's
actually pretty cool that we yeah after
33 years though took us a while but
that's that's pretty did it
accomplishment for the human race we are
one step closer to populating Uranus
Uranus no problem that's what I'm here
for here for the good time good good hey
Eric hey your servers built there we go
oh hey sorry it rebooted and it's good
to go very nice you may access the lamp
appliance by going to 10 dot 0 that's
here about 113 hey let's do that let's
go yeah 10 dot zero down zero not 113
and there we go turn-key lamp so I am
now actually connecting to that server a
virtual server super zippy nice and good
ask me it's going to give me a secure
connection I understand the risks and
add an exception get my certificate
permanently store this exception here we
go we are in to turn key Linux route and
hopefully we remember the past for your
real casserole yeah that's it there we
go so now you're straight into webmin
running ubuntu linux 8.1 8.2 4.3 which i
suppose they'll they'll need to update
to the to the latest LTS but here you go
you're all set servers apache web server
mysql database server even post fix mail
server ssh all that stuff and it's all
configurable right through webmin so you
can set up your virtual servers for
apache and even go through and play
around with this it's really quite cool
all the stuff that you can do with
webmin it's so easy to use it's a nice
nice interface as you can see but that's
that's all there is to it to getting
your very own virtual server setup a
turnkey literally like a five-minute
install really so and then you know you
can figure your virtual servers need it
going you're good to go and that's for
lamp that we're looking at tonight from
turnkey linux org but of course a game
there are tons of different types of
turnkey servers that you can download
and install you can download the
pre-built virtual machine hard drives
and that run them on your virtual
virtual machine system gravy I'd say I
think so I don't have chatham up no I
just noticed that and I was like nah she
can't eric is like I don't know like i
know i just said i never got logged into
the charlie that was up getting memories
brandished if i were a coffee cup Thank
You world here she comes you've been
saying anything I don't know but now I
will be and
ok team an 810 hey everybody hey hey
notes that you've got some stuff going
on Hilary I've always got stuff going on
even from afar I did but now that I'm
back in action I do as well and i just
noticed that there are a couple of
pretty rad testimonials on our website I
think are worthy of discussing first one
comes to us from al ket who is in
Pristina Kosovo ok um and he gives us
four sons and a cloud a cloud yes before
sons is very sunny and i think is great
for tanning anyways alkesh says I just
wanted to thank Robbie Verger's time and
support that he's giving me in the
category 5 chat room even when the show
is off air i recently got a new job as a
web developer and i mean i'm using
ubuntu there i had some issues which
Robbie helps solve for me so thank you
robbie and the category 5 stuff hey
you're very welcome um janna i should
say like i don't i don't always watch
the chat room and I can't always watch
the chat room obviously but if I see
your question come in and I have the
ability at that time to help you I do my
best to try to help I do work full time
and stuff so it's it's sometimes
difficult so I like to say like I can't
commit to always being there in the chat
room but usually there's somebody in
there I know gadwal spends that quite a
fair amount of time in the chat room
it's always nice to see him in there and
helping people with their problems and I
think at any given time you'll you'll
find somebody's in there too to give you
a hand so it's not just the category 5
teen it's also the category 5 community
Sharon's therefore for each of our
viewers yeah very much for the for the
viewer testimony there sorry about the
cloud unless it's like cloud computing
you want that's what I I touched that
ass all right just staying Wow good guy
says um I have another one here five
sons from Calvin T Hughes jr. i watch
category 5 TV live every tuesday when
i'm home or watch the rebroadcast i love
the show and it's a great how to
segments that you have based on the
show's introduction a pogoplug i
purchase one and have been totally
satisfied satisfied with it and consider
it money well spent recently I contacted
pogoplug support with a question and
suggestion they responded in less than
24 hours and took my recommendation as
possible feature upgrade this is the
email that he sent oh no sorry that he
received thank you for contacting
pogoplug support you are correct when
adding folders of photos to a slideshow
they are arranged by date your
suggestion is great not added to our
list a new feature request cool yeah so
you really get that sense of community
spirit and pogoplug even though it's a
closed source kind of service I do you
do get that sense that there's a
community there and that the developers
of pogoplug really want to give to their
community of fantastic service I know
like even with my older pogoplug I'm
constantly amazed that the firmwares get
the latest version so every time on the
show when we mention all these great new
features on the new pogoplug it's also
available on my first generation Pogo
play a little the little bit so it's
that's it just shows that I think that's
really cool that they support their
community so well so but glancing at
glad to hear that you're happy about the
pogoplug as well if you're curious if
you're if you're watching right now
you're not sure what
bug is check out past shows at category
5 check out our youtube channel cat five
TV / youtube and you'll find it a whole
bunch about it oh yeah it's cool we love
our polka plugs definitely um and lastly
actually got another testimonial here
comes to us from robert streets from
Greenville South Carolina hi Robbie I
just want to wish you in all of category
5 a Merry Christmas thanks you too even
though you're way up there in Canada and
I'm way down here in South Carolina I
feel like we're good friends I've been
hanging around category 5 for two years
and I've seen you come from a show with
bad lighting through this and sound to a
well-produced broadcast and I've always
learned more than I knew when the show
was over I don't know why you do what
you do but I'm sure glad that you do I
would have never guessed that I could
use an operating system like Linux
thanks to you and what I've learned
using Ubuntu i've been using debian for
a year now if i run linux if i can run
linux anyone can thanks for an
informative good clean show you are
indeed a good friend truly thankful
roberts street Robert I'm sorry about
Hillary's dirty comments tonight about
the planets forgive me hi dad
inappropriate oh there's a question that
came in by email from from Ashley that I
really loved to address because I want
to ask a I know I know that in the email
ashley is even commented that i was
unavailable in the chat room today and
that's disappointing for them and and
and i want users to know that i am as
available to them as i possibly can be
but I'm one person and and so the
community is really what it's all about
but i do want to maybe we could just
quickly share that and see if there's
anything that we can that we can come up
with for you at least put that out to
the community ashley your questions so
that if there is somebody who could
provide more help i know i already did
try in the chat room but it didn't sound
like my advice was was of help to you
but i'll let you yeah sure they need
that troops hey Robbie Ashley remember
me from a while back when you first
start recording I was watching from your
first episode
those were the days where i could come
on chat and ask any question you would
answer it and basically she said yeah
she's in the chat room and this is her
oh he sorry Jews giving to the problem
at hand here basically i have a dell
inspiron 6400 6400 yeah laptop and I've
been having this issue over and over
again for a month or two now and I
really need to use my laptop anyways
this is the issue um windows XP is
what's running and says hardware
malfunction call your hardware vendor
for support n/mi parity check / memory
parity error the system has halted I
haven't told her many people it's the
memory and to change the RAM so some
have said that it's a hard drive and a
change the hard drive and some people
say just to toss it so tried changing
the RAM he's tried a whole different
yeah changing the hard drive what I
wonder Ashley and people are right on
when they say that it's probably the RAM
because when you get a parity error like
that usually that means that there's an
issue with the parody of multiple sticks
of ram so if you have one stick that's
running at a particular parity or a
particular speed and then you have
another stick that's running at a
different speed their conflicting and
they're losing data when trying to save
to to ram so usually that's what that is
is either bad ram or misconfigured ram
or two different sticks that are
incompatible if that's not the case
because that's what I suggested earlier
today that it sounded like that could be
it I would want to know first of all if
you've hibernated the computer it's
sometimes that can cause some problems
with Windows if you've swapped hardware
around and things like that in
hibernation mode but also have you taken
that hard drive from one computer and
moved it into another computer if for
example you hibernated it in computer a
and then thinking that you know you want
it to save that state and then take that
hard drive out and move it over to
computer be and try to boot up that
computer now Windows is going to say I
can't come out of hibernation because
the
memory that I'm trying to reallocate
coming back from hibernation is not the
same memory it's not the same computer
as that computer a because now my hard
drive is in computer be so it sounds to
me like that's possibly what's happened
here so what I would want you to do if
if that's what's happened is take that
hard drive back out of that computer
that you put it in put it back into the
first computer where you hibernated it
then boot up the computer get it out of
that hibernation state bring it back to
a standard state shut it down completely
properly and then you can move that hard
drive over to another computer now
keeping in mind that Windows XP is going
to blue screen on boot because it's
different Hardware it's not going to be
able to boot you'd have to do a recovery
install of windows XP over top of that
but at least at that point you'd be able
to but alternatively you could also try
reinstall that trouble and there's
nothing on the hard drive that you need
you could also go through the process of
reinstalling windows XP before I would
do that before trashing any any hardware
good guys mentioning mem tests in the in
the chat room there and that's something
that Ashley and I had already
established earlier today that that he
had had already tried memtest and it
didn't turn up anything but if you
haven't run it through a couple of
cycles I would still do that but like I
say it sounds to me like you've
hibernated move the hard drive on to
another computer it's trying to come out
of hibernation on that other computer
and it can't because the RAM is
different that's giving you a parity
error which seems confusing because even
if you're run memtest is saying that the
RAM is fine but the RAM is different so
you can't come out of hibernation in
windows XP long shot guests there you go
that's what I think it is at give it a
whirl good luck let us know either way
if I'm right I will expect a viewer
testimonial if I'm wrong this kind of
send me a private email oh dear good
luck though that's really about all the
time that we have for tonight it's so
good to have you back and your back for
a couple of weeks just for our Christmas
special
I am so gonna be nice remember my webcam
it's a lot frame rate is a little bit
it's pretty cool i like the backdrop you
forgot going on though the purple looks
nice thank you we do have some
connection issues there for sure that
that's all the time we have we do have
that printer to give away we've got a
brother multifunction Center printer if
you're in Canada you will qualify to win
this printer make sure you get onto our
website category 5 TV click on interact
and look at the bottom of the menu
you'll see a chance for you to win that
printer room be given that way next week
all right there's Christmas to you
Lucky's viewer get all the information
is there and and we've got lots of other
stuff coming up to so if you're outside
of Canada and eligible to win that prize
I'm sorry but we can have other stuff I
don't know the company contact me and
said we can only give away in the United
States is that okay say that's perfect
because all of my viewers in the United
States are sad about the permits true so
we do have stuff coming up for you as
well oh that is all the time that we
have for tonight you have a fantastic
week you have a great week thank you
yeah Eric o fire thanks my friend take
care I'll see you next Tuesday night bye
bye
