welcome to category five technology TV
it's episode number 568 and this week my
wife Becca is here hello we're gonna be
checking out NEMS Nagios enterprise
monitoring server we've been developing
it for the past couple of years and it
is awesome
completely biased however I think you're
gonna agree with me by the end of
tonight's show
stick around lots of great stuff coming
up for you this is category five
technology TV
[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 TV slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash iai be welcome to this our
annual kind of cottage special if you
will it's our vacation week so we've
given everyone else the week off and
pre-recorded this week's show so I have
the opportunity of welcoming my wife
Becca here to the studio with me once
again nice to see ya nice to see you
nice to see you again but tonight we're
just kind of going to go over a couple
of things with NEMS Nagios enterprise
monitoring server I think I'm going to
actually do a few demonstrations over at
the at the desk but giving Jeff and
Sasha the week off means Becca and I get
to do the show with you this week so I
hope you enjoy first of all looking at
the news this week we're hearing about
how linux is being pulled from a lot of
government computers and and being
replaced with microsoft windows and it
made me think about you're getting into
your college courses and everything else
and and what is it like for an end-user
who's not like a linux guru to to use
linux because i think that's really
what's happening is that a lot of the
users who have windows machines at home
they go to work and it's a linux machine
and they don't quite know how to use it
and so they've been complaining for 15
years kind of thing and so they're
switching them back to Windows just to
appease the masses but what's it like
for someone like yourself you know
you're starting a college course and
they present you with all the course
curriculum and it's all windows-based
well it hasn't been an issue so far
because I've been using LibreOffice for
a decade right so I already know that I
have to be sure to save it as a doc X
file rather than dot ODT otherwise other
people can't open it if they're using
Windows so I already know to do that I'm
already familiar with it I think for me
it would be the opposite if I had to
suddenly use a Windows computer I
wouldn't be familiar with Microsoft Word
or Excel because I haven't used those in
so many years so it would be the
opposite for me so the cost and the
expense of them switching government
computers from Linux to Windows simply
on account of people don't know that hey
you can just save it as a docx mm-hmm in
order to make it compatible with
Microsoft Office this yeah if you didn't
know that then you'd always be dealing
with well I can't open that phone yeah I
don't have word well does it really
matter like do you find that it's a
hindrance when your professor sends you
a task and says hey do this PowerPoint
presentation well I don't have
PowerPoint right it hasn't been an issue
so far but I do have one course coming
up that's going to be learning Excel
okay so it's gonna be all assignments
done on Excel which means I'll be using
the Linux version I forget what it's
called a LibreOffice calc calc that's
right so I don't know I don't yet know
if that's gonna be an issue because I
don't know how similar the interfaces
are so it might be easy for me to figure
it out on Linux versus what's being
demonstrated in class but because I
haven't taken that class yet I don't yet
know I think I think it might be a bit
of an issue as I'm first learning it
yeah once I get the hang of how to use
the Libre calc it probably won't be a
problem after that yeah I think the the
Excel clone if you will is is very very
good like I'm I'm always impressed with
it I think they've done a great job
Libre Office of making a Microsoft
Office alternative oh yeah it looks the
same certainly looks pretty similar you
know you're used to you use a
LibreOffice writer for writing and you
collaborate with people who use
Microsoft Office on Windows and how
that been as far as transferring files
back and forth and you editing a word
document on LibreOffice for example well
when they send me a Microsoft Word file
it just opens no problem but when I send
them a file I make like I said I make
sure it's the doc X file rather than oh
D to it that's too easy yeah that really
is too easy any any issues that you've
encountered as far as compatibility
between the Windows and Linux
counterparts I haven't well like I said
I haven't really encountered issues yet
I I think there might be some issues
with Excel but I don't yet know what
surprise will circle back to this
because I think because it's a course
it's an Excel course that's I can
understand the hesitation the fear of
getting into an Excel course without
Excel yeah wouldn't it blow people's
minds if it's like oh well I can do
everything the same yes I do I do
equations you've seen my like
cryptocurrency portfolio and everything
on Excel yeah it looks the same so as
long as the navigation is pretty similar
so that it's not hard for me to figure
out where it is in Libra versus my cells
Davis yeah we did encounter one issue
which was was it was it in it was in
calc wasn't it no it was where where
were we having trouble with fonts only
in that you you end of the course that
you had to have Times New Roman
yeah just essays and things are supposed
to be in Times Roman writer didn't have
Times your word right right you didn't
have the required font so we had to
download the font so on Linux you simply
download them the now it's the MS core
fonts I think there's a package anyways
that gives you the microsoft fonts and
installs it but the the reason for that
is that Microsoft created fonts and
included them with the Windows operating
system and so a Windows course is going
to say use these fonts because on their
Windows machine they have all these
fonts like Arial and Times New Roman
comics and a mess
and if they ever tell you to use that
laughs in their faces but sew it on
Linux it doesn't come with that because
it's a Microsoft product but you can
install it easily and - it wasn't hard
for us to do that so I'm gonna made it
compatible for you so that's cool well
circle back I'd love to circle back and
find out how things turned out on oh
there was the similar issue with the
PowerPoint the font I used when you
opened it right thought was messed up so
yeah it wasn't messed up per se it was
it was kind of like some of the bullet
points were overlapping some of the
paragraphs and things like that but it
was really really easy to resolve so I
guess moving a file it'd be interesting
to see you know if you open that file on
we're a Windows machine in PowerPoint
would it open differently I guess the
issue would be if you sent in the file
not knowing it would not show up
properly for the other person you'd want
to be sure before he send it in and that
can happen that's probably why the
course directors say use Times New Roman
because they make the assumption that
everyone's on Windows and so with that
assumption it's safe to say that
everyone has times new roman' so by
saying that they're not saying Times New
Roman is a great font because it doesn't
really seem appropriate for screen
display it's more for like newspapers
but by saying it they know that
everyone's document is going to come in
and it's going to display the way it
displayed on their computer hmm because
this is the same font but but that's
really just buy it by default but so
that could be part of it anyways but
let's circle back in in a couple months
and see how that how that shaped up for
you we'd love to hear from you as to
your compatibility experiences as well
we're very Len linux centric here at the
show and our household is a very very
linux centric I think we've got one
Windows machine just and that's only as
of late and it's probably been the most
trouble of all the computers on the
network yeah we're dealing with
idiosyncrasies of Microsoft Windows how
they figure it out yeah like do you want
to tell her like you have to in order to
get Netflix to work you have to click on
the start button first uh-huh
welcome to Windows 10 it makes no we he
didn't figure that out our 13 year old
daughter figured that out Zack
like your dad yeah we've got to take a
really quick break when we come back I'm
gonna be sitting down over there back is
gonna take a break through this we're
gonna be looking at an enterprise
monitoring server that is available for
you absolutely free and I've developed
it to make it absolutely dead simple to
deploy dead simple to use and really it
is I know there's a bit of a bias here
but it is probably one of the best
Nagios deployments that I've ever seen
so stick around for a limited time get
your hands on limited edition shirts
from the category 5 TV network these
high-quality shirts are manufactured by
teespring a fundraising website and your
purchase will help support the shows we
produce get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official network shirt today cap five
dot TV slash shirts
welcome back this is category five
technology TV back in 2016 we looked at
nims 1.1 and now two years later and
several thousand downloads later it's
time to look at nems one point for point
one what the heck is names Linux
that's the question running through your
mind if you've never heard of it before
well NIMS stands for nagios enterprise
monitoring server so if you've heard of
Nagios that's fantastic now you're onto
it if you haven't heard of Nagios let me
give you a really quick rundown it's a
tool used by IT administrators of any
size Network in order to monitor network
assets what does that mean well to
simplify it let's imagine your hard
drive in your server is running low on
disk space how would you know that
unless you were standing in front of the
server or actually actively monitoring
that may be one of the hard drives in
your raid array has failed and you need
to replace it well how would you know
that unless you look at the server and
see the amber light there are a variety
of different ways that Nagios can help
enterprise and home users to know if
there is an issue on the network and
it's very proactive because we can see
things say if your hard drive hits 80%
threshold then we get a notification so
that we know that it's time to look at
maybe deleting some files or perhaps
adding more storage to the server and
that's exactly what I set out to use
Nagios for here at the studio because
we're always throwing HD video at our
server so if we ever run out of space
that can be a big problem it really
helps me to know that I'm running low on
space it's almost time to add more
storage to the server that's very
helpful
Nagios is used by big business like say
NASA NASA for example if I couldn't
pronounce it right NASA is obviously you
know everything that they do is
mission-critical it's very important for
them to know if a system is failing or
failed or has some problems they need to
know about that up
run in advance so that's where Nagios
comes in and Nagios is also in use in
home networks and you know just users
that are power users that want to know
if there is a problem on their home
network so it doesn't matter it's
completely scalable and what is really
really beautiful about it is it's also
absolutely free and it doesn't matter if
you're dealing with two device network
or a ten thousand device network it's
still no cost so now we look at the
hardware that that you're gonna use to
run your Nagios server a lot of us would
figure that we need to have a server
like an actual physical server maybe
something in the rack or maybe repurpose
an old computer but the problem is is
that with that you're going to be using
a lot of electricity for that one
computer doing that very important
mission critical task of monitoring
everything else but why are we using so
much power for something that can be run
on lesser equipment because these days
we've got things like the Raspberry Pi
that's really quite powerful the
Raspberry Pi 3 has a lot of oomph behind
it but deploying Nagios on something
like that can be risky because of things
like well what if your SD card fails or
something like that
so NEMS linux comes in and takes Nagios
core at its heart and has created a
distribution for your Raspberry Pi and
other s pcs that allows you to deploy
easily on low cost and not just low cost
up front but low cost ongoing
operational cost equipment such as the
Raspberry Pi 3 full disclosure I am the
developer of NEMS Linux so maybe that
gives it a little bit of maybe that
gives you a little confidence in it if
you've been a longtime viewer of
category 5 technology TV but certainly
it's important for you to note that you
know I know a lot about it because I
built it so that's where I'm at so let's
take a look at how we actually get NEMS
Linux I'm gonna hop on over to our
website nems linux.com it's as simple as
that and you can read all about what now
Linux is kind of the the mantra if you
will of what our vision is what my
vision is with NIMS Linux and
essentially it boils down to getting
NEMS Linux and hop on over we're gonna
deploy this on a Raspberry Pi 3 now I
mentioned that hey if I'm gonna put it
on a Raspberry Pi 3 I need to know that
this is going to be reliable right this
is my mission-critical stuff I need to
know that it's monitoring and it's
working and that's where NEMS linux does
things very differently from any other
Nagios deployment in that it has an
automatic backup system and not only
that but it has an automatic restore
system so if my sd card ever failed I
can easily and very very quickly recover
and I don't lose my configuration or
have to go through an onerous deployment
process so that's where this is really
really different so on this page to
download it I can get the direct
download or a BitTorrent now I've taken
the liberty of pre downloading it just
so that we could expedite things for the
sake of this demonstration today so I'm
going to bring up a program called echar
which you can get it at your dot io we
use that to burn and I say burn it's an
old term that we used when we used to
burn CDs right so you take an ISO image
and you burn it to a CD well these days
we're using a microSD card and etcher is
the program that we use in in order to
burn if you will the image that you're
gonna download from Nimes Linux com to
your SD card through an SD card reader
so I've got mine here but you notice
it's not plugged in so what I'm gonna do
is I'm first gonna select that image
that I've already pre downloaded for us
and I've put that in my downloads folder
as simply as where it's default
downloaded to there it is so I'm using
the names Linux for point one point for
point one for PI now and when you click
select destination select Drive you
notice that it is empty and that to me
is very very important I want there to
be no Drive listed in there because when
I plug in my drive I want it to be the
only external drive the
that I do that this is my own mindset is
so that I don't accidentally overwrite
the wrong Drive because you could easily
do that using etcher so now I'm gonna
plug in my device and you see Windows 10
pops up with all these dialogs and I
just need to cancel those and now I'll
see my drive in the list and I see it's
the only one so I can continue and now
press flash through the magic of
television I am able to do this in fast
motion so we can be very thankful for
that so it it takes about 13 minutes for
me to burn this on to my own SD card and
then it goes through a verification
process which simply checks the checksum
of the burnt image to make sure that it
in fact matches the one that I
downloaded now it's popped up again
because Windows has mounted the drive
just close these windows and I can see
the flash is complete now if there was
any error message there you might want
to look at maybe a different card reader
may be a different micro SD card but
basically that's telling me that
everything has worked just fine so now
I'm safe to disconnect this now I've got
my micro SD card which I'm going to
insert into my Raspberry Pi 3 and this
is now going to become mine m's linux
server with this raspberry pi 3 you
notice there are three cables plugged in
I've got the power cable which obviously
is essential I've got the ethernet cable
which is also a requirement of MEMS
Linux now consider this as a monitoring
server and it needs to be able to
communicate with network assets so if
you do not have an Ethernet cable
connected you're doing it wrong it's a
necessity you absolutely have to have
that I recommend against using Wi-Fi
although NEMS Linux does in fact support
the Raspberry Pi zero though a lot of
our users are plugging in an external
Ethernet USB connector in order to
connect directly to Ethernet but you can
use the Wi-Fi on the Raspberry Pi 0
simply hit ctrl alt f2 on first boot
speaking of first boot which I'll show
you I have an HDMI cable plugged in that
is only for your benefit
tonight so that you can see what comes
up on the Raspberry Pi screen typically
an M server does not require being
plugged into a screen whatsoever and in
fact it's kind of pointless so I'm just
gonna switch over to the capture device
here and I'm gonna power on my Raspberry
Pi and we should see there we are it's
gonna come up for us and this is all
happening in real time folks everything
is live and so everything that's gonna
happen here is exactly the process that
you're gonna go through in order to make
this work on your own system so let me
zoom out there sorry about that clicked
on the wrong one so it's booting up
NIMS Linux for the very first time and
once it's up we're gonna get this splash
screen there we are
so you see NEMS linux is is up and
running on 10.0.0.0 1 it also has a host
name of NEMS dot local and it's detected
my device as a raspberry 3 model B and
current CPU usage is rather high and the
reason for that is because when it first
boots up NEMS linux is going through a
check process it's checking for any
updates to the operating system to the
actual NEMS linux system itself and it's
getting updates and things like that so
so just kind of hang tight for a couple
of moments while things while it does
its thing but first boot it's going to
use a fair bit of resources and so it's
important to let that kind of go and
then you can go back over you'll notice
also my disk usage is at 81 percent well
that would be a problem but we're gonna
resolve that once we do what's called a
nems in it or an initialization process
and we should see that that cpu usage is
going to start dropping down again you
don't have to wait for that but just
know that it is it's gonna take a few
moments before NEMS is ready to go when
you first boot it up and when you first
turn it on when I mentioned about the
Raspberry Pi 0 you see the instruction
there to login use SSH or press ctrl alt
f2 so on a Raspberry Pi 0 you press ctrl
alt f2 with a connected USB keyboard and
then you type RasPi - config and you set
up your Wi-Fi then do a reboot and then
everything will be up and going
ready to go so it looks like
everything's ready for us now and I'm
gonna bring up my computer screen again
here we go and we're gonna head on over
to 10.0.0.0 1 and when I get there it
says your nem server is not yet
initialized ssh to your em server and
run sudo names in it so let's do it now
I have putty installed on this computer
because I am on Windows 10 and I'm gonna
go 10.0.0.0 1 now again remember I
haven't had to configure anything so I
just burnt this and I've booted and I'm
just following the instructions on the
screen
so how nice is that let's I'm just gonna
bring just gonna kind of zoom in on that
putty window so that you've got a better
a better view there we go that should do
for us now I'm gonna login with the
username nems admin password is also
NEMS
admin now that's our default and that is
only for now it's going to change and
I'm going to be the one to change it so
looking at this initial message of the
day bootloader screen you can see again
very similar information to what we saw
on the splash screen and we can see
uptime current load is actually going
down and we can again see that we are
using 81 percent of our disk space so
now I'm gonna follow those directions
and type sudo NEMS dash in it type in my
password which again is NEMS admin and
it says welcome to NEMS
initialization script goes through a
little bit of updating just to make sure
things are up-to-date before it goes
through and that just makes sure that if
there are any patches or updates for
your system before you initialize it
that those get applied so let's just let
that finish takes a moment
generally speaking I'll just say this is
going to be really the only main time
that you're going to need to access the
terminal in Em's Linux because NamUs
linux has been designed specifically to
be very GUI based in your web browser
and you're gonna see that and it's
certainly something that makes names
Stan
now based you know in comparison to
traditional Nagios deployments for
example so there we go it looks like
it's just wrapping up okay there we go
now we are ready to initialize what
would you like your names username to be
I'm gonna use Robbie F all right
username accepted and now I'm gonna
enter what I'd like my password to be
it's asking it for it again and that is
to make sure that I typed it correctly
and you'll see now it goes into it's
adding the Linux user its deprecating
the old mems admin user migrating data
initializing a new Nagios user and going
through the whole process that normally
I'd have to do manually it's creating
contacts and contact groups and now it's
asking me for my timezone make sure you
select yours appropriately you see that
Nagios failed to initialize that's
because I have yet to actually configure
my server so that's not going to
initialize until I've done that then it
generates SSL Certificates you see that
so it's important to note that NEMS uses
a different SSL certificate for every
NEMS linux server out there so if you're
afraid of man-in-the-middle attack don't
worry that's all part of the
initialization process that every nem
server gets its own its own an SSL
certificate generated during
initialization then it says now we will
resize your root partition to give you
access to all the space done
you must reboot now when you reboot your
login you must log in as Robbie F keep
that in mind because now the NEMS admin
user is gone I'm gonna hit space server
has unexpectedly closed the network
connection well I know it was actually
expected so I'm gonna close out of that
zoom out for you and actually let's jump
back to our raspberry pi because it's
rebooting so that's just the screen that
you would see over HDMI and once we see
that blue screen again and you don't
have to you know again you don't have to
watch this on a TV or anything you just
know that it takes a couple of moments
to reboot and all of a sudden you're
gonna get a ping and you're going to get
a response when you try to go to the IP
address in your browser that's when it's
up and running so no harm no foul and
almost there
so this Raspberry Pi is going to be able
to monitor all of our network assets in
in such a way that we can be notified if
there's a problem goes through the
regular checks and kernel drivers and
everything else that Linux does
I should note too while we're waiting
that that NEMS Linux one point for point
one is based on Debian stretch
everything is as current as can possibly
be
NIMS one point for point one was
finalized just a couple of months ago
and is looking really really good there
we go so we are up and running so now I
can jump over back to my computer and
let's just refresh the page that was
telling us that we need to initialize
and I should see something completely
different because I have initialized my
name's Linux server and there we go
name's Linux version one point four
point one is up and running so let's do
a quick rundown of the menu system
configuration we've got the NEMS
SST or system settings tool this is a
great component of nebs because you
remember if you've ever used Nagios
before setting up things like the
resource CFG file if you don't set
things up correctly then Nagios won't
start and you have all kinds of trouble
and it's onerous to work with config
files in the Linux terminal this gets
you out of the Linux terminal and into a
UI and allows you to set up things like
your SMTP server settings and a bunch of
other things we are going to look at
that today then we've got the NEMS
configurator or end conf
and that one is very important because
this is how we configure all of our
Nagios configurations such as hosts
services check commands all of that
stuff is done there again through a web
UI then reporting we've got Nagios core
which is they're really just for the
old-school Nagios users because some of
you may for
prefer to use the older interface Nagios
core the web interface works really well
and we've included it for you but I
would suggest that if you are new to
Nagios that you instead look at adagios
and even if you're an old-school Nagios
user check out a doggie else I think
you're gonna be really impressed so a
doggie owes being an alternative to
Nagios core quick rundown from a
programmatic standpoint me as a
programmer the difference between them
Nagios core is an old interface based on
tables it is not mobile responsive
adagios is a mobile responsive bootstrap
theme that is a complete rewrite of the
interface using live status from check
MK so if that means nothing to you
basically it is a much more modern
interface to achieve the same thing nag
vis is a visualization platform to allow
you to create visual maps of your Nagios
configuration pretty handy and can be
really cool to set that up NEMS mobile
UI is something that typically you
wouldn't bring up on a computer but you
would bring up instead on your phone and
tablet and it allows you to use a mobile
responsive web interface in order to
access your your status of your Nagios
alerts and things like that see how
things are going
the names TV dashboard I actually have
up and running right here so this is the
nihms TV dashboard it's it's designed
specifically so that you can have a TV
set somewhere and say like your server
room or something like that that at a
glance just by looking up at it you can
see Oh everything's hunky-dory or whoa
we've got something going on because
there's some red status indicators on
the NEMS TV dashboard so that's
something that you can actually just you
just plug a TV into any computer and
then you access the NEMS linux server
through the web browser and then just
make it fullscreen that's exactly what's
happening here I've just got Chrome
pointed at NEMS dot local slash TV and
made it full screen with f11 so that's
available to you and that does not
require login although you can set it so
that it does require a login if you want
that extra privacy on your land under
system we've got monitor X which is a
great tool for just simply monitoring
the Raspberry Pi itself I'm using
Raspberry Pi is the example whatever
your hardware is monitor X will show you
things like the CPU load and all that
kind of stuff memory usage and
utilization swap file usage of the
actual server so that is this device has
nothing to do with Nagios it has to do
only with this particular device and
that's pretty handy and it looks great
cockpit is something that is very handy
for sis admins but you may or may not
need it but it comes pre-installed now
anything in NEMS Linux now I'm going to
log in using the initialized username
and password that I used nice thing
about cockpit is that I can see
real-time CPU usage versus monitor X
which uses like a snapshot on a cron job
it takes a it makes images that are
based on like a cron this is real-time
visualization of resources so now if I
head on over a nice feature of this is
clicking on terminal now I can actually
access a terminal session without having
to use putty or do anything like that
this is actually connecting me to the
nihms linux server that's kind of cool
it also does allow incidentally I should
mention without getting into too much
detail it allows you to administer
multiple names Linux servers through
cockpit at least with the features that
cockpit offers then we've got our PI
monitor is a feature only available on
Raspberry Pi based boards when you
install it it will detect and it will
install this for you this is this is
just a dashboard that shows you some of
the resource usage on your Raspberry Pi
kind of cool web min is a great
interface for system administrators to
administer the the system itself again
this has to do with the Raspberry Pi not
Nagios so this will allow you to do
things like configure your networking or
do disk upgrades and things like that if
you want to go there but do keep an M's
backup because what if you break
something right but this gives you an
overview and gives you access to various
system things that otherwise would be
you know under the hood would be
terminal based
next up and finally in the system menu
is Monnett this is a fantastic program
that simply monitors the things that are
running on our NEMS
server so you'll see nemesis is up and
running
mariya DB is up and running apache 2 is
up and running
Nagios is not execution failed I'll talk
about that in a second Sambas running
monitor X is running and 95 90 which is
a dummy port listener is up and running
and I'll talk to you about that as well
why is Nagios not running that is
because we have yet to create our
configuration and therefore Nagios is
not ready to be operational just yet
I'll show you how to do that
what happens if apache 2 crashes if
apache 2 were to crash because it is a
part of our our nems
monit configuration it will
automatically restart that's what's so
beautiful about montt yet it will
automatically restart failed services so
in the background it's watching for
running services these are the ones that
I've sent pre-configured and if they
fail if they go down for any reason like
if you stop the Apache 2 service you'll
be like well why did it start again it's
because Minette is actually monitoring
and making sure that apache 2 is always
running that's very handy migrator I
talked briefly about it but NEMS
migrator allows you to create a backup
of your NEMS server how hard is it
well let's click on download and see
done I've got it there's my backup names
migrator also creates a Samba share for
us if I go slash slash NEMS dot local
I see backup and if I type in my names
username and password you'll see that
same file backup dot names which is
updated automatically every 5 minutes
if I go back 1 you'll see that there's
also a home share and this I can
actually drop my my existing backup
names file into to make restoring a lot
easier you'll see also that there is an
optional off-site backup service this is
fantastic you
are loving this it'll automatically
backup your name server to a cloud
server in an encrypted format that keeps
everything secure every single day and
then to restore you simply just type in
a quick command and it's easy-peasy nice
and quick
then you can buy a PI support us various
ways you can support names Linux and how
you can get help through the
documentation priority support community
forum and the official nems website
let's get right into it I'm going to
show you how to configure names Linux
now if you've ever used Nagios before
you're used to using the config files
now keep in mind on M's Linux you never
have to touch a config file again it's
all done through your browser so let's
do it first off I'm gonna go into nems
system settings tool and here we see a
personal encryption decryption password
well that's cool let's add one that will
now make it so that my backups are
encrypted automatically NEMS migrators
off-site backup license key if
registered you can enter that here and
then scroll down Windows domain access
you can follow through the documentation
to find out how all this works pushover
account info I am gonna set up my
pushover account I've already created an
API key just for the demonstration and
with this I'm gonna get pushover
notifications on my phone but I also
want a mail so I'm gonna configure my
email server as well so we just punch
all that information in
and then save all settings how easy is
that the only other thing here is our
optional services we can turn off
optional services if we want to reduce
the resource usage not that anything
here is heavy but it allows you to turn
things off if you're not using them it
also allows you to disable the automatic
login to the NEMS TV dashboard so if you
want to force a password requirement you
can turn that off and it will then force
the user to have a password okay so now
that I have my pushover account info in
there you can learn more about that in
the documentation at docs.bmc.com plus I
have my SMTP email configuration in here
again in our documentation there is some
great information on how to set that up
including using Gmail as your SMTP
server so now that I'm ready I can go
NEMS configurator and in the nems
configurator first of all I can click on
hosts show and I see that nems is
already being monitored at address
127.0.0.1 the local host if I go into
things like services I can see that the
names root partition the hard drive is
being monitored as well I mentioned
about hard drive usage if I jump back to
our splash screen here notice our hard
drive usage is now 11% you reason for
that is because mems linux during the
initialization procedure resized the
partition in order to utilize the entire
capacity of our SD card so now let's
let's actually add a host so I'm going
to call this my hypervisor there we go
and I know that this is 10.0.0.0 on my
local LAN and it could be a Wan address
or something like that as long as I've
got access to it and I'm gonna monitor
that with default Nagios which is our
only available option we're gonna check
24/7 and notify 24/7 leave the rest as
is then we're gonna notify the contact
group admins stick around I'm going to
teach you a little bit about that in a
moment
and if we want we can make that a part
of the parent host but in this case
we're not going to do that and I'm gonna
leave these blank because I want to show
you what happens if there's
error message so I'm gonna submit that
and that's gonna now create that host so
now if I go into house show we now see
hypervisor and NEMS I mentioned about
the admin group so if I go into contact
groups you see that there are admins and
in men's is all set up and raring to go
and Robbie F is one of the admins and
you can add more if you want but here is
Robbie F under contacts
first things first before you deploy we
need to set up our contact for receiving
these notifications so edit that contact
set my email address because presumably
I'm gonna want email notifications but I
also remember I set up notifications by
pushover so I need to see okay first of
all host notifications so if I click
here I see notify service by pushover so
that's not the one I want I want notify
host by pushover
host okay now click the right arrow now
my user is going to receive
notifications by email and pushover this
just for the sake of the demonstration
you're gonna probably pick one or the
other
now service notification commands I want
to use notify service by pushover and
there we go so now my user Robbie F is
going to receive emails at this address
and notifications by pushover and email
submit no changes have happened yet - my
Nagios configuration because I haven't
generated that configuration yet so I'm
going to now take the settings that I've
changed and hit generate Nagios config
and remember I purposefully made some
errors so that I could show you what
happens so error deployment not possible
due to errors in configuration and of
course when we see error we think ah
this stupid thing it doesn't work let's
find out why there's an error NEMS is
very smart about helping you to get this
thing up and going
also notice Nagios core four point three
point four just in case you're wondering
this is not three point five the base
that is available in apt it's compiled
three point four point three point four
so here's the error message and made red
so that it's easy to find invalid max
check attempts value for host hypervisor
now you remember we just added the host
hypervisor so we obviously did not enter
the max check attempts which is a
require
so let's edit that host by going show
and then edit and then scroll down aways
and we see okay max check attempts how
many times do we want to check it number
of times to retry checking see over on
the right hand side let's say 10 yeah
check interval for the sake of the
demonstration we're gonna make these
really really small retry interval one
minute first notification delay one
minute notification interval one minute
and notification options are what what
the heck does that mean possible values
d'oeuvres so head on over to the
documentation Doc's names Linux comm and
if you scroll down a little ways on the
first page you're gonna see Nagios
notification definitions
what's turfs notify by it when host is
down notify if host is unreachable upon
recovery and if the host is flapping
like up down up down up down and the S
stands for notify if a scheduled service
downtime begins or ends so I'm gonna
want to all of those so notification off
options I've already got it listed there
but D comma u comma R comma F comma S is
gonna give it all to me and now scroll
down and hit submit it's important to
note if you're not getting your
notifications I'm gonna go back into
edit remember you have to set the
contact group so that admins is the
selected items and you do that by
highlighting it and clicking the arrow
that points to the right to move it into
the right column okay submit you're
going to take some time and learn how
the system works get into the
documentation get into the community
forum and then you'll be able to find
out get some help
generating that Nagios config now works
perfectly it says it's ready to deploy
so deploy and now we're gonna get into
the front-end interface so that's the
backend to configure things and you'll
notice that we currently have an an
error message per se up on the TV but
now it's gone see that now that the
hosts are available the error message
was basically because I hadn't yet
configured Nagios now that I've
configured Nagios and set up some hosts
I see that two hosts are up it looks
like I've got eight services the
being monitored and so on and so forth
so that's up on my TV now so back here
I'm gonna go into reporting I'll show
you Nagios core just quickly because I
did a lot of work to make it look nicer
there it is it looks a lot better than
say your normal Nagios core deployment
you'll see the hypervisor is still
pending check ok so it hasn't checked it
yet because it's set to check every 1
minute then I'm gonna check out Adagio
instead Adagio is a much sleeker
interface and it is the the go-to for
you on your name's linux system unless
you want to be old-school so we have no
problems there's nothing going on
there's nothing that I need to really be
concerned with here in the overview will
show me that and it shows green so while
we're kind of looking at that let's go
back to Nagios core did it check it yet
let's go to the host details yes
hypervisor is up see it's green so let's
check out some of the other features
here first of all the web the mobile UI
I think the best way to show you a
mobile UI is to actually bring it up on
my phone so let's go there I had it up a
little bit earlier doing some tests okay
proceed because all of your security
certificates your SSL certificates are
self signed because we do not have a.com
or anything associated with it so you
see that there's no problem I can click
on my host and I can see there's my
hypervisor everything looks good so this
is the mobile interface that you're
seeing here in Rita a real-time that's
pretty great TV dashboard you see it
already but I'm gonna bring it up here
as well on the computer screen so you
can see it a little bit closer that's
what it looks like and you can bring
that up in any browser just by going to
your IP address or NEMS dot local slash
TV so let's make something fail let's go
over to NEMS
configurator and let's open our host
hypervisor and all I'm gonna do I'm just
gonna emulate that this is down by
simply changing the IP address to
something that I know it is not so I
know that 10.0.0.0
Nagios to think that the server's down
because it's not gonna
reply at this point so let's bring up a
doggy us and see what happens let's kind
of keep an eye on things and it should
check pretty quickly and if all goes
well I should also start to see things
on my mobile interface I'm going to go
back to the home screen here so that I
can show you that and with the dog shows
up on my screen will very quickly see
what's what's actually going on and if I
want to I can bring up Nagios core
they're basically interchangeable they
do the same thing what does the dog
eosin Nagios core allow you to do not
only is it a status panel for me but
it's also a way for me to acknowledge
outages so if I know
okay I've received the notification I'm
working on it I want to stop receiving
the notifications I can acknowledge that
outage and I can start working on it and
then it will stop notifying and it will
show as everything good on the TV
dashboard it also allows you to schedule
downtime so both of these products do
not yell score and adagios are both
included on your names deployment it
allows you to schedule that downtime so
if I know I'm going to be replacing hard
drives in a server it's gonna go down
for any given reason I can pre-schedule
that downtime so that my administrators
don't start receiving notifications when
things go down so we've got to take a
really quick break I'm not going to
touch a thing but I do have to take a
quick commercial break to say thanks to
our sponsors when we come back we're
going to see how those notifications
have been happening I'm not going to
touch anything I'm just going to wait
and see what comes up on our screens
stick around
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H Photo Video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category-five TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching welcome back
this is category 5 technology TV this
week we're looking at NEMS linux Nagios
enterprise monitoring server which we've
deployed on a Raspberry Pi 3 this
becomes an entire enterprise monitoring
system that communicates with all of our
peripherals all of our endpoint devices
and tells us if there is presumably a
problem so that we can be proactive
towards support now before the break I
said I'm not going to touch anything and
I didn't except one thing because I did
miss one step you remember in Nagios and
conf
in nimes and conf pardon me let's head
on in there and after I set the IP
address to the incorrect IP I then
wondered why I wasn't getting my
notification so I forgot to press
generate Nagios config no when you
create a new configuration setting in in
nimes and conf you have to actually
generate and deploy that configuration
otherwise you're gonna wonder why your
new configuration isn't taking place
make sure you add that to your to your
to-do list right at the end I'm going to
deploy and now that I've deployed first
thing I notice of course is that my TV
display the the nems TV dashboard shows
that the hypervisor is an unhandled host
problem and i can also see that there is
a host down
let's bring that up a little bit closer
for you I'm gonna bring it up on my
screen so that you can see what the TV
display looks like there it is
so you can see that's what it looks like
when the host is down so I've got 50% of
my host down and it's alerting me
through the red color that hey there is
definitely something going on that's a
problem so make sure you push out that
configuration to your Nagios server
before you move on and do a presentation
live on TV
for example so now if I look at a doggy
OS I can see that there is something
going on 50% of my hosts are orange what
let's click on open problems and I can
see that my hypervisor does have a
problem and it says that it is simply
down critical host not reachable it's
unreachable oh well that's because it's
the wrong IP address we know that but it
could be let's say that the server is
actually powered off or something like
that or maybe it's crashed it could be
any one of those things let's look at
Nagios core just for those purists who
want to know how things look there there
it is hypervisors down and there it is
and we can actually acknowledge this
host problem if we want through Nagios
core but we like the interface over at
adagios because it is a mobile
responsive much more current much more
modern so I'm gonna hit acknowledge
that's that button up at the top left
here if you hover over it will tell you
what they are acknowledged scheduled
downtime and so on so I'm going to
acknowledge and I'm gonna hit I'll fix
this and then acknowledge the problem so
now in my Adagio sit says this is a this
has been acknowledged and presumably I'm
gonna start to see some changes around
here I'm gonna bring up my notifications
and everything did ice look at this so
here's the NEMS mobile UI I can see that
it was down hypervisor before that
acknowledgement comes in there it is I
can see that it was down in the mobile
UI and this is going to automatically
update itself as well but let's head on
over to push over whoa I've got some
notifications there folks and if I click
on one it says hey your hyper visor is
down critical host unreachable and
got the IP address let's go over to my
email and see what we've got there Oh
more emails too you don't have to have
email and pushover configured I'm doing
this for the sake of the demonstration
but you can see that the email is pretty
much the same thing oh and that's an
acknowledgment you see it actually sent
me an email about the acknowledgement
post unreachable there's the actual
hypervisor is down alert that's what I
got by email going back over to pushover
I'm gonna receive a new push over
notification about the oh I already did
the acknowledgement is there there it is
so let's let's now head back over to n
conf and let's bring everything back
online let's say we are powering it back
on presumably or in our case oh I
realize somebody punched in the wrong IP
address submit and finally generate
Nagios config and we're going to deploy
that it's instantaneous it's going to
take effect but it is going to check as
we know every one minute so that problem
is not going to disappear instantly but
it will disappear very very quickly and
then we will start to receive
notifications and things like that now I
notice that this has already said the TV
has already said everything's good so
hezid Auggie O's caught up to the TV
yeah no a dog yo still says there's a
problem so there's like a slight I don't
know 30-second delay or whatever it
might be between different applications
everything's communicating with the same
back end which is the Nagios core on
your NEMS linux server and then they're
gonna all update together so I should be
receiving notifications I just felt my
phone vibrate here it is
so here's pushover and you see a new one
up at the top host recovery we've got
hypervisor is up and there it is we've
got no packet loss everything looks good
I should also receive an email there it
is
recovery hypervisor is up so that is the
power of a NEMS linux server it's
available absolutely free at NEMS
linux.com
i'm at a time i would love to show you
everything adagios now says that
everything is good
and that is nems Linux big thumbs-up
from the developer I'm biased but it is
so sleek so go check it out MEMS Linux
comm I'm out of time to show it to you
but there's great documentation there's
a fantastic community forum if you want
to become a patron to support the
project you can interact directly with
me about the project and it's a great
way to get involved as well
I'm gonna throw things over to you Bekka
here are the news stories we're covering
this week in the category 5 TV newsroom
the lesson learned from Dutch Court
crime does pay
ransomware thieves have been let off
with community service
another German state plans to switch
back from Linux to Windows Google has
followed the lead of Apple by banning
crypto mining apps from its Play Store
Microsoft wants to stop Windows 10
updates from annoying you these stories
are coming right up don't go anywhere
Geoff Weston Jemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what are you
you're terrible actor
what does where acting comes into play I
don't know you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host this is
the category five TV news room covering
the week's top tech stories with a
slight linux bonus
I'm Becca Ferguson and here are the top
stories were following this week two men
who masterminded various coin vault
ransomware infections will carry out 240
hours of community service as punishment
for compromising thousands of computers
and profiting around twelve thousand
dollars from their users the sentence
was handed down by a court in Rotterdam
in the Netherlands where it was ruled
brother's melvin and dennis van de ben
DB had earned leniency based on their
cooperation with police lack of a
criminal record and young ages at the
time they were collared in 2015
melvin was 22 in dennis 18 at the time
of their arrest prosecutors had asked
that they receive a year in prison in
addition to the 240 hours of community
service coin vault surfaced in 2014 as a
high-profile scrambling malware the
software encrypted victims documents and
demanded they pay a ransom of one
Bitcoin worth a few hundred euros at the
time to restore access to their data
while the pair was only charged with
infecting 1259 machines researchers have
estimated that the actual number of pcs
hit with the malware was more like
fourteen thousand with victims in more
than 20 countries it was claimed in
court that about 100 people coughed up
their ransom demands before antivirus
makers were able to develop a decryption
tool to unscramble hostage files the
malware would only be eradicated fully
in 2015
when the brothers were arrested and the
full decryption keys were recovered
interestingly it was the pair's Dutch
nationality that brought them down
researchers were able to pinpoint the
locality of the authors to the
Netherlands after finding snippets of
the code containing flawless Dutch
phrases that are usually only used by
native speakers of the notoriously
difficult language Kaspersky Lab who
helped lead the investigation and
eventually an eventual take down of coin
vault said that despite the lenient
sentence the ultimate take away from the
three-year ordeal should be that in the
end extortionists do get caught hmm and
get 240 hours of community service for
something yeah sometimes folks are made
to be used as an example like like let's
let's let people know that hey you do
not want to go down this road route of
criminal activity using computers and
this is quite the opposite of that where
yeah do you think that they should have
a much less lenient sentence well first
of all what happened with all the money
that they collected well I'd imagine
that the courts would have taken it I
mean if they can't have they can't have
just given them the money okay well 240
community hours of community service and
now you're rich you can keep the money
in your bank account no I don't think
that's yeah case but I mean did the
victims get their money back that's what
I wonder Oh or did they get their files
back like what about the what about the
victims that didn't get their files back
hmm I mean cuz we're assuming I mean
that the Kaspersky tool that is used to
decrypt it maybe because they've got the
master keys they can but people are not
all gonna know that they can reach out
and download a program to decrypt their
files by then maybe they've moved on and
taken the loss or maybe some companies
were put out of business by it think
about a small company that whose entire
file system was encrypted and they
didn't have the money to cough up a
Bitcoin mm-hmm that went up to 1,900
dollars in value and then
they they went out of it maybe they went
out of business yeah I don't know I I
wonder what a comparable sentence would
be for shoplifting like just in terms of
dollars and cents
if you stole X number of dollars from a
store versus crypto coins so twelve
thousand dollars from a store are you
gonna get just 200 for 240 hours of
community service no you'd be spending
some time in jail yeah for sure if you
walked into a bank and took 12 thousand
dollars do you think you're gonna just
do community service feel like it's a it
does seem like a very very slight
sentence hmm I don't know maybe the
judge didn't think it was that big of a
deal I don't know perhaps maybe if it
was if they had stolen more than 12
thousand maybe that that was a deciding
factor like if they had stolen a million
dollars maybe they would have gone to
jail and I think that the along that
vein the the fear with that mindset is
that they didn't go out and steal a
target at $12,000 no they let loose a
piece of malware that could have caused
that did cause a lot of damage for a lot
of people and a lot of companies yeah
and so they got away with $12,000 say
but what about the damages what about
the damage that cannot be seen or
calculated or measured that's where you
know I think that maybe they should have
taken that more into account versus all
these young chaps were just having some
fun you know doing what kids do these
days hacking yeah I don't know what do
you think they don't like people being
used as an example per se but maybe this
was a little bit too lenient certainly I
would be feeling that way if I was one
of the the people who got attacked
mm-hmm by their ransomware yeah
the German state of Lower Saxony plans
to follow Munich's example and migrate
13,000 units from Linux back to Windows
apparently undaunted by the cost of the
Munich switch which we reported in
January could be as much as 100 million
euros Lower Saxony is considering making
the change in its tax office the state
seems to expect a much cheaper
transition with a first year budget 5.9
million euros and another 7 million
euros further out the tax office argues
its decision is driven by compatibility
field workers Intel and teleworkers
overwhelmingly use Windows while the
open SUSE variants are installed on its
office workstations the office
workstations are also aging and due for
replacement something that helped open
the door for Windows the move is in its
early stages however with the Lower
Saxony government currently defining the
framework conditions of the migration
and this will be followed by a pre
selection of possible solutions we can
only hope that Lower Saxony has a better
time of it than Munich after 15 years of
using Linux Munich voted in February of
2017 to start the long march back to
Microsoft some Microsoft software
approved hard to kill even after so long
for example Munich stayed with Microsoft
Exchange for mail servers hmm okay so
we've got an IT crew that maybe doesn't
know about these software alternatives
that we've talked about on the show for
example Microsoft Exchange so if
Microsoft Exchange has got them held up
why aren't we looking at Zimbra you know
like an alternative that is available
that is not a proprietary Microsoft
product yeah we had a talk on episode
number 568 of category 5 technology TV
you and I about the kind of the the
alternate compatible software looking at
Microsoft Word Microsoft Excel Microsoft
PowerPoint vs. LibreOffice and Linux
versus Windows and being able to use and
finding that there is a lot of cross
compatibility but if you're used to
Microsoft Windows and that's
you use at home you might come into
libreoffice and say oh every time i save
a document nobody can open them or i
can't open them at home so what's the
solution to that just to save it as a
Doc's right whatever to save it as the
correct format for the one that you're
trying to open it in so if you're gonna
open it in Word
save it as a docx and when you go to
save it gives you a whole list of ways
that you can save it if you just scroll
through you would see the option that
you wanted so it's not like you even
have to be told to do this or Google
this it's right there and the options
when you go to save yeah so the default
of course is gonna be open document
format yeah that's the default but you
just click the arrow down to see what
your options are and then pick pick
Microsoft Word if that's what you need
compatibility for so there's always an
alternative so to think of the amount of
money being invested in this switch and
and quite frankly if sorry if Hardware
is aging we've found that aging Hardware
works really really well with Linux
versus Microsoft Windows is always
pushing for and we have a we did
experience this recently with it and
Becca's my wife by the way if you didn't
know this we experienced this recently
with your laptop we're even on linux
we're starting to see that but because
there are so many different flavors we
can switch and the story behind that is
Becca's running ubuntu on her aging
laptop but the laptop is still great but
a kernel update deprecated some a CPI
drivers that make it compatible with her
laptop so now we have to actually edit
the grub bootloader and there is a
little bit of fan fan dangling to make
it compatible and it causes a couple of
little minor issues like the volume
control buttons not working now and
things like that well and it wouldn't
boot you know we can we can fix that we
editing the grub bootloader but you may
not know that if you're just a novice
user for sure so but looking at that and
saying okay well if boon 2 is pushing
forward like Microsoft to push you
toward newer hardware and your hardware
is still great and works great and does
everything you needed to do it's not
slow by any
it works really well so we could just
grab a different flavor of Linux we
don't have to keep on Ubuntu we can just
change to to another distro even if we
want to just put Debian on it and flavor
it the way that you want install matei
and make it look good and make it work
really well and then we've got
compatibility for another few years
so if hardware deprecation is part of it
sure there comes a time when you've got
to replace it but linux is going to get
a lot more longevity on any hardware
than Windows is guaranteed yanti
so that's not an excuse come on Google
has followed the lead of Apple by
banning crypto mining from apps from its
Play Store an update to the company's
developer policy reads we don't allow
apps that Mayan cryptocurrency on
devices the company had previously
banned cryptocurrency mining extensions
on its Chrome browser this move marks
another step by banks and tech companies
trying to get to grips with the
practicalities of crypto currencies the
ban does not extend to all software
involved with mining virtual cash Google
like Apple said it would allow people to
make apps that let the managed mining
being done elsewhere such as on cloud
computer platforms when mining is done
on device there is a risk that the
smartphone will overheat as a result of
intense processing the mining can also
quickly deplete batteries some malware
gangs have also moved to adopt
cryptocurrency mining many poorly
protected websites have had mining code
inserted on them to use visitors
computers to generate the cash the
cryptocurrency mining restrictions are
one of several changes Google has made
to its developer policies okay there's
one I got to disagree with yeah I mean
you I would love to hear your thoughts
below I think what we're doing is
exactly the opposite of what we should
be doing and by we I mean think about
psychologically what we're doing here so
anyone who wants to mine their now being
forced to move over to
a rooted phone mm-hmm so that they can
gain access to mining software if they
want a mine on their phone so there are
two two spectrums for mining there's the
malicious miner so somehow malware keeps
getting coupled in with crypto mining
and making crypto mining look like
malware it's not so yeah remove all the
malware from google play that mines
software without the users permission
but if I'm a user who wants to mine
cryptocurrency and I want to use my
phone to do so you're not going to get a
very good hash rate but if that's what
you want to do you want to do it so let
me do it that's a completely different
thing so if I install a video game and
that video game is mining in the
background without my permission that
should be banned yeah if I am mining
turtle coin and I want to mine it on my
phone I should be able to install that
software because I want that mm-hmm
okay so there are entire communities of
people who are constantly asking in the
forums how can I mind this
cryptocurrency on my phone how what do I
need to install how do I get this set up
and if we now remove all that capability
from Google Play now in order for those
users to be able to mined on their phone
they have to route their phone by
routing their phone and by using illicit
software now because now we've made that
software illicit they're opening
themselves up to malware yeah because
now it's only available in the hacked
store so now who knows whether it's
doing other things in the background
that I'm not giving it permission to
yeah that's a that's a risk so I wish
that they would stop coupling
cryptocurrency mining with malware yeah
they're not they're not synonymous metal
unfortunately crypto mining is just
something that malware has been using
because it makes the money yeah but it
also makes me money so stay away from my
minding software
I don't mind on my phone because like
they say it could overheat and it but
that's a choice that a user makes if
they want to do that mm-hmm
but if they started blocking software on
my
computers and things like that then that
would be a big issue yeah you seem to
agree wholeheartedly you're like our
cryptocurrency portfolio is doing pretty
good so I don't want this to stop what
do you think
are you mining cryptocurrency and if you
are are you doing it on your phone and
does this affect you and how be
interesting to hear from the community
as to whether or not this affects you
mm-hmm
Microsoft is finally doing something
about the way Windows 10 handles updates
and it's using machine learning to
accomplish the task if it's successful
updating Windows 10 should in the future
become much less annoying Windows 10 you
notice Windows 10 can be a little
aggressive when installing updates
unless you know how to manage Windows 10
updates
they'll come thick and fast and start
installing when you least expect it
possibly rebooting your PC at it in
opportune moment Microsoft has a plan up
its sleeve to prevent this from
happening and it's helped it's being
tested right now by Windows 10 insiders
the key is artificial intelligence which
Microsoft hopes will be able to
accurately predict when the time is
right to install updates if all goes
well in testing the new system should
reach ordinary Windows 10 users later in
early 2019 windows insider chief Donna
Sarkar asked in a blog post have you
ever had to stop what you were doing or
wait for your computer to boot up
because the device updated at the wrong
time to which everyone replied yes
Microsoft has listened to this feedback
so if you have an update pending we've
updated our root reboot logic to use a
new system that is more adaptive and
proactive we trained a predictive model
that can accurately predict when the
right time to restart the devices this
means that Microsoft will not only check
if you are currently using your device
before we restart but we will also try
to predict if you had just left the
device to grab a cup of coffee and will
return shortly or at least that's the
plan is Microsoft six proach going to
work for users we'll have to wait and
see until we can see it working in the
wild to know
okay so I understand the the motivation
behind this people are annoyed that
their computers you haven't been using
Windows for a long time so know you've
heard stories well you do it for work
you have customers oh yeah
use Windows and so you have frequently
messaged me for Windows updates and oh
yeah oh and my sister too has
occasionally complained that she's in
the middle of doing something important
on her laptop and then a windows update
starts okay and then she has to come
back to it the next day because suddenly
her evenings lost to the update yeah
Sasha's work computer she because I go
in and I get a chiropractic adjustment
and she said that there was a issue with
one of the monitors the resolution
wasn't correct could I just take a quick
look at it it would take me 15 seconds
to correct the resolution on a monitor
we turned it on please wait
don't shut down your computer oh wait so
I sat there for a few minutes and it was
like at 2% 3% and then I'm like oh I
gotta get my adjustment and go it's time
for work and I didn't actually get to do
it I didn't actually get to fix it for
them so like that is so frustrating but
Microsoft's approach is this let's let's
look at something broken and instead of
fixing it let's try to do it at times
when it's not going to affect the user
as badly but okay so you're gonna reboot
at 3 o'clock in the morning I had a
notepad window with all my you know with
my shopping list open and I didn't save
it before so now that's gone or I you
know let just to give you a scenario
maybe I had a something up that is now
lost or I was I have a lot of stuff open
on my computer when I leave work and I
have no this is what I'm gonna come back
to tomorrow and I'm gonna pick up where
I left off and I come back and
everything's closed it's gone hi we
rebooted your computer because our
stupid AI decided that it was time so
let's look at Linux for a moment with a
slight linux bias right that's what we
but there's a reason for the bias it's
not just like cliche or anything like
that we get updates all the time how
often do we have to reboot mm-hmm
because the the answer is not often
because the the Linux update system will
update in the background you can do an
apt upgrade whenever you want to it'll
ask you if you want to do an upgrade
right now and then when it's done it'll
say done sometimes I'd say sometimes it
says you need to reboot but it does it
for so give you the option to do it
later yeah it says do you want to reboot
now or later yeah I'll just wait until
the end of my shift
yeah no problem and and it lets you do
that that's how it should be so
Microsoft's approached is to say let's
take the option away from the user let's
take that whole you know when we linux
is approach to would you like to reboot
now or would you like to reboot later
mmm that's the way I think it should be
Microsoft is saying okay the user can't
make that decision because they are and
we know better so let's use our AI to
make the decision so we'll say to the ai
ai
would you like to reboot now or later
why are we taking this approach it also
feels like a privacy issue because now
they know when you're on your computer
when you're not they know all your
activities welcome to Windows 10 yeah
that's all part of it they could sort of
track you through your computer activity
yeah we know so-and-so is always on the
computer at such-and-such time for this
amount of time and when he's not that's
when we're even
but why are we why are we taking it away
from the user and making it an AI
decision when it should just be would
you like to reboot now or would you like
to do it at your own convenience because
Windows has this thing that when it
updates everything breaks unless you
reboot well it's for one thing though I
can say being on Linux I know that there
are updates that are needed to be
installed but I can go days where I just
keep forgetting and I don't do it I just
I'll just keep putting that haha
sometimes sometimes a couple weeks
before I get around to doing it so maybe
they just don't but are those not the
couple of weeks where you just I'm
really busy I don't have time I am busy
right occasion you are the AI because
you're the user don't
yeah well it's a control issue they
don't want
leave it up to the user they just want
to be in full control yeah cuz I've
occasionally had things start to stop
working properly and then I think oh
I'll try installing updates I do that
and then it fixes it it's all better but
I don't know just seems like a control
issue they don't want to leave it up to
the user yeah to do it and I have to
disagree that's where that's where
Windows Update is failing it's not that
they're it's not the annoyance of me
having to reboot during the business day
it's that Microsoft is taking away my
choice yeah don't take away my choice
that's what ticks me off as a user
that's what ticks off my customers who
are on Windows 10 mm-hmm not whether or
not an AI says I should reboot at 3:00
a.m. that's not the right yeah go that's
my opinion what do you think I'd love to
see your comments below if you agree
give me a thumbs up if you don't agree
just go somewhere a house no thumbs down
come on come on come on or if you don't
agree to all then explain what I'm with
start a conversation that's perfect
big thanks to Roy W Nash and our
community of viewers for submitted
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for the for more content be
sure to check out our web site from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Becca
Ferguson and I'm Robbie Ferguson thank
you so much for joining us again this
week we will be back with our regular
live show next Wednesday night and of
course if you're watching this on demand
probably doesn't affect you when we pre
record but we look forward to seeing you
in interacting with our
again next week so have a great week
everybody and we'll talk to you soon
take care
