welcome to new every day it is
Thanksgiving now if you're watching from
anywhere but America you're going what
no it's American Thanksgiving and so we
are doing a special Thanksgiving episode
because what is there more to be
thankful for then Sunday football well
that's what we're talking about today
we're gonna tell you a little bit about
Thanksgiving dinner we did here and
Canada for some students in our area and
we're just gonna talk about being
thankful and what that means and what do
we have to be thankful for so don't go
anywhere
stick around this is you every day with
Jeff Weston Scribus
[Music]
welcome to new everyday so glad you're
here I'm Jeff Weston and I'm Lawrence
Cruz and it's Thanksgiving I know we
mentioned that already it's an exciting
time I love Thanksgiving because I love
the food like as you can tell I I do
enjoy my food yeah I thought about
soccer game but I'm like no I'm sitting
on this couch it's not gonna happen well
no yeah we're talking Thanksgiving today
and you know if you're watching in
Canada you only do Thanksgiving a couple
of weeks ago get these guys a calendar
well no we are celebrating Thanksgiving
from American Thanksgiving that is this
weekend and so we wanted to kind of talk
about Thanksgiving and it's kind of we
tied in both between the Canadian
Thanksgiving the American Thanksgiving
because at our church we did a
Thanksgiving dinner for some college
students and so you're gonna see in just
a few minutes what some of the students
are thankful for and so that's a tie-in
to the Canadian Thanksgiving and then
we're gonna flip over and we're gonna
talk today on American Thanksgiving so
there you go over time the two countries
together and if you're not in Canada or
the US and you're watching and it's not
your Thanksgiving well then you could
just join along for the ride now you're
the one who had kind of spearheaded the
Thanksgiving that we had at the church
well I was privileged to play a big role
in it for sure
actually the back story on that Jeff is
for some time I've wanted to do
something to just be kind to the sea of
students that's just two kilometers down
the road sea is a very appropriate word
there yeah yeah all kinds of them and
one day a young lady came up to me and
said you know what I think it'd be a
good idea for us to reach out and that's
all I need it it's like okay you know
what this is God moving in more than
just one heart and so really from that
conversation we just decided we're gonna
do this and so so many people in our
church right rallied they we they went
out and bought the turkeys they cook the
turkeys they were asking do you want
stuffing you want gravy it's like
potatoes carrots and I mean it was the
meal of the century it was a very nice
meal I was hungry
I'm out front man in the camera and
getting you know students you know
perspective on what they're thankful for
and I'm watching all this food go by and
I'm like oh that's good I mean it was
awesome I mean it was the the full meal
done excellently home cook but I mean
everybody went all in and even the
ambience well it wasn't just like you
know church basement ack-ack we like
yeah there was the white shirt the black
pants like everybody was looking fancy
definitely not a hunting camping and I
know I hear the food is really good on
the hunting camp yes they are you know
that's a hunting camp but you're right
it was like it was like a five-star
experience people dressed in black
bottoms white tops
young people ready to serve like it's
like what and not ready they did boy
with excellence yeah
and so that was great what a privilege
Jeff I had to be able to actually sit
down it's often I'm so honored and at
the church where I serve and the people
allow a pastor will serve and you sit
down and so for young men who were brand
new to the college just down the street
a Community College and they had only
been in the country for one month right
because there were international
students yeah that's right actually all
of them happen to be from India and to
the guys were wearing turbans and which
I found interesting too I mean I've seen
that all of my life that's not nothing
new at all but to sit down openly and
and they were asking me all kinds of
questions hey tell us about your country
tell us about Barry tell us about what
this thing called Halloween they had
heard about that was kind of yeah you
know tell it I thought that's good I
said hey we're anyway they were so I
said how are you loving the meal I mean
they're they're they're young man it's
like this is awesome can we have some
more and and the people come in is
serving them more it was just excellent
I said tell me about your turban is that
okay and they proceeded to tell me all
about that you know and I and I had I
had heard that some people don't cut
their hair and that they kept on doing
that and
and apparently that's true but not
everybody does that okay and that times
are a-changing where two guys didn't
have turbans but two did and yet they
had the same belief system and so there
was just this level of change I mean it
was just I love people I love being with
people and to hear their story and them
to ask me about ours and to be able to
serve them and say hey I know you might
be missing home but welcome to our
country and they loved it and I think I
loved it even more I know that they like
the chocolate cake I think I don't think
there's a single student that less than
four rounds of dessert on the chocolate
cake well I'll tell you what well we had
plenty of it but one thing we've learned
is that the international students at
least that come our way they're not they
don't fancy pumpkin pie ya know and who
knew I mean you would think Thanksgiving
do the same thing and it's like we have
learned enough where all that pumpkin
pie is just sitting there we could have
been smart just about pumpkin yeah we
could we could have just had our fill
for the rest of the year
next time I'll be thinking about no we
bought apple crumble and I mean hey who
doesn't like chocolate I mean if you
don't we can pray for you right now
that's no troll yeah okay here we're
here I'm just going wild on the food now
it was a great experience and we had we
had a full class fall I guess you'd I'd
say of students that came and almost all
of them brand new to the country yeah
and some of them had never stepped foot
in a church before so that was kind of
neat right to have them kind of step in
and be like oh so this is what a church
looks like okay it's not as scary and
even some of them have I think I've seen
them back on on a Sunday service I think
that's the truth and it's amazing what
love will do you know it's just a love
opens the door just to keep on being
loving and just sharing life and if we
we are people who are here who are
thankful there who are thankful and and
love the Lord just being who we are and
welcome oh man how cool it yeah it's
rewarding to see that other people would
respond to that love and keep on coming
by
right and maybe even another meal or two
here or there examine out with some of
them
let's head and it's been great yeah it's
been very good so yeah so while they
were eating away I was in the hallway
had the camera set up and just you know
as they're coming in and coming and
leaving at the end of the day I'm saying
hey are you willing to just tell us for
a second what it is that you're thankful
for because we want to get a perspective
and for some of them they were
international students some were from
Bari I think another one was from a
couple hours away so you know God
brought perspectives different ages
stuff like that so yeah let's take a
look and see what our students are
thankful for hi I'm Alex I'm thankful
for friends and family they really made
this possible to have a nice dinner and
the opportunity to be here in Canada so
thank you all and Happy Thanksgiving
hi this is a promising from India and
actually I came to Canada this year and
it's been a month only and I've been
here and I am thankful for everything
like my parents has done a lot for me
and they have sent me to such a
beautiful country and talking about the
day yesterday it was absolutely amazing
to meet such such amazing people and to
have such a nice dinner and like
absolutely delighted and I'm so happy to
be here
my name is Danielle and this
Thanksgiving I'm grateful for all my
friends here at Calvary Church who have
let me come into the youth meeting on
Sundays and I'm grateful that you know
we're all so loved by God and they of
the capacity to show that love to
everyone who they need so thank you guys
for being so great
hi my name is Bhavik I'm from India and
I just came to Canada to complete my
studies and it's just I've just wanted
thanks to my parents and my family
members to send me over here for new
opportunities and I also want to thank
and thank you and I thank to this team
who invited us here for this
Thanksgiving dinner it was really a
great time with you guys and special
thanks to Lawrence who addressed us so
well and guided us through this culture
thank you for everything we had a great
experience and I am so thankful for our
church community I think I was really
excited about tonight coming for the
dinner and it was so it thrills me every
time when I see so many people
I'm just so freely giving of their time
and their food yes we should enjoy that
food it's it's I love our church family
we are all they're just amazing that's
great I'm Alexia and I am very thankful
for Jesus so thankful for again our
church community be coming from like far
away and just getting welcomed right
away in and feeling like family and I'm
thankful for stuffing now that I know
it's not guts
[Laughter]
everything stick around for more from
new every day for a limited time get
your hands on limited-edition shirts
from the category 5 TV network these
high quality shirts are manufactured by
teespring a fundraising website and your
purchase will help support the shows we
produce get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today count 5 dot
TV slash shirts welcome back we are
talking Thanksgiving it is American
Thanksgiving this weekend and so if
you're watching from the USA
happy Thanksgiving TV Thanksgiving
you're watching from somewhere else in
the world that's not celebrating
Thanksgiving happy Thanksgiving to you
exactly so you know I've I've had the
privilege of being in the States now for
Thanksgiving twice and I will move there
no no I for some reason feel tied to the
snow here in Canada I suppose there some
state might have fun to do with the back
your wife live here yeah but you know it
was it was West Virginia where I was
visiting with some friends there in a
beautiful beautiful area but one of the
things I loved is that when it comes to
Thanksgiving down there and maybe this
isn't the case with every family but the
family came from everywhere you know
like for us it's like oh we're three
hours away it's you know we're not gonna
make it you know for this celebration
down there it's like oh yeah we're from
Oklahoma but we're just gonna drive over
here to Pennsylvania we're gonna go you
know it's like they're all coming in
spending hours and hours and hours on
the road and it was really neat to see
the family perspective as a Thanksgiving
down there and you know the whole
culture of watching the football and
they were all around the team
and you know given the potshots to each
other and I just see what your guide
Danny I dropped the ball that's all my
team's getaway it was it was a lot of
fun but I really enjoyed it but was so
neat is just truly how thankful they are
yeah and I find sometimes here in Canada
I've noticed that some some families
it's just about getting together and
that's it but when I was down with my
friends in West Virginia for them it was
they stopped and they said okay every
one of you what is it that you're
thankful for and it was so neat to go
around this table of 25 people and hear
what at what every person is thankful
for different perspectives and you know
from those who are Christians those who
are not and it was really really neat to
hear kind of that heartfelt thought of
yet you know this is what I've gone
through this year and this is what I'm
thankful for you know and and and God's
taking care of me this way really yeah
and it was really really cool I truly
enjoyed it was one of the highlights of
being in the States for me as though I
Thanksgiving that is it that's a cool
experience I mean hey we're not under no
illusions here I guarantee you that's
not happening at every table well
exactly yeah boy that's that's a great
experience to be part of yeah I really
was what did it stir something in you
Jeff you think you're ah I think I don't
know if it really stirred anything but
it was really it was just kind of nice
yeah
to just to see genuine thankfulness yeah
especially in today's culture where it's
hustle and bustle and it's about you
know how can I stab you in the back to
get ahead in life at least you know in
major cities that's kind of how it can
feel yeah but it was it was neat to just
have everybody stop and go it doesn't
matter what's happening this is what I'm
thankful for and they focused on the
positive yeah and you know the the
patriarch of the family she was you know
the mother she's down there and she's
like you know born and raised in the
church and everything was about God and
so thankful and even the tough times in
life she she sat there and said you know
but I'm thankful for God carrying me
through and like there was no negativity
to the bad situations in life you know
and they had lost a family member and
she's like you know they weren't saved
but I'm so thankful that for the time
that I had even just to talk to them
about Christ and the
influence that they've had in my life
and this is the way that you know gods
directed their like everything was about
you know how God had was in everything
within her life and it was really neat
to see that was a choice
it really was yeah to give emphasis to
those things that they're thankful for
yeah it was it was really really just
inspiring actually that's very cool I'm
inspired as I hear you you share about
like I I mean I wasn't there but right
my imagine it take so my imagination
takes over I can picture this individual
and giving thanks and while you're
speaking to me a favorite verse of mine
comes to my mind and I happen to have it
posted in our home but it's Philippians
chapter 4 and verse 8 and it says
whatever is true whatever is noble
whatever is right whatever is pure
whatever is love lovely whatever is
admirable if anything is excellent or
praiseworthy think about such things
Philippians chapter 4 verse 8 oh man
that's exactly what she was and well
that's I'm listening to you thinking
this is what this guy was doing yeah and
make no mistake about it Jeff I I put
that verse on my wall in a place where I
would see it regularly and I did that on
purpose because I I I know I live the
reality of not thinking about everything
good yes and it just weighs me down and
I thought Lord you're telling me
something good I want to remind myself
of the truth of your word that
encourages me to think about good things
lovely excellent praise where the
admirable true noble like there's a
there's something good that happens
inside of me and even without you know
around me as well when I start to think
about things that are good yeah yeah you
find that - yeah definitely yeah so God
said that for a reason and so it's just
this is a good show to be part of like
I'm yeah I'm thankful for yes I'm
thankful even right now it's good I'm
feeling the love man
good you know it's funny you're talking
about your you know the scripture you've
got up on the wall and and one that my
wife and I have up on the wall at home
it's kind of become like our life verse
and I think I've mentioned it on a show
in the past but it's it's Jeremiah 29:11
for I know the plans I have for you
declares the Lord plans to prosper you
not to harm you plans to give you a hope
and a future and a lot of times that's
where people stop but I love the next
verse then you will call on me and come
and pray to me and I will listen to you
you will seek me and find me when you
seek me with all your heart and what I
love about that scripture is it totally
fits in with Thanksgiving God has a plan
for all of us mhm and it's a good plan
and even sometimes when we go through
not-so-good things it's all part of that
plan oh man are we sure yeah okay so I
would I agree I'm just like wow hey
Laurence just a second hear what the
preacher said oh and I think you know so
often you hear the question - why is it
that good thing or bad things happen to
good people it's like okay well I'm
pretty sure Jesus got pulverized and
crucified on a cross that's not a great
thing but the good that came out of that
we now have eternity in heaven like even
with those plans that God has for us to
carry us through those dark moments in
our life mmm he's got it all figured out
Wow Jeff that's a good word man so
there's always something to be thankful
for even if it's nothing less than the
gift of salvation and eternity in heaven
you know and as we're here talking about
Thanksgiving I think it doesn't matter
what you're going through and it doesn't
matter the good or the bad there is
something to be thankful for mm-hmm and
that is the gift of salvation and the
fact that God's got it all under control
well here okay you brought up this verse
well I'm thinking of her who for the joy
set before him Jesus Christ endured the
cross that hardship yes but he knew that
there was a bigger picture and he was
going to be willing to participate in
something that he didn't like as much
because there was a bigger picture of
had namely the salvation of Jeff of
Lawrence many of you watching perhaps
you don't know the Lord yet as your
Savior Jesus died for you he did it
willingly he endured a brutal cross
because he knew he had thanks in his own
heart towards his father that there was
a plan much bigger than his own
suffering and he chose willingly to
participate in that in order that we
would know salvation if you don't know
him yet why don't you reach out and just
say God thank you for what you did for
me would you cleanse me of all my sins
that's all you need to do as long as
it's from your heart I promise you if
you reach out to God he knows what
you're thinking he knows your heart and
he'll come and cleanse you oh you talk
about Thanksgiving what a Thanksgiving
weekend that would be when one knows
what it is to have all of their sins
forgiven them the weight of sin taken
off of you because it was once put upon
Jesus who willingly went there right
even though he was agonizing with sweat
drops of blood father if there's another
way but there is your plan is what I
willingly submit to because I'm thankful
that you have a plan that's gonna save
everybody who will call upon the name of
the Lord wow that's a perspective and
praise the Lord that's what I hear you
talking about yeah and yeah when things
aren't the best there's so many other
things that we can be thankful for and
when we think about it it's enough to
change the atmosphere isn't it really
really is yes it's all about that
perspective and so as we celebrate this
Thanksgiving this American Thanksgiving
you know truly think about what it is
that God has done in your life whether
you know him or not he's had an impact
on your life yeah and there are things
to be thankful for and yeah I mean if
there was a takeaway that would be it is
that you know to be thankful for yeah
yeah there are there's always something
to be thankful for yeah and those people
did it right that you were with the
states they gathered together on purpose
to recount of those things yes hear the
word of the Lord Psalm 100 verse 4
actually I had to memorize this in 19
eighty six as a matter of fact talking
yeah your enter his gates with
Thanksgiving and go into his courts with
praise give thanks to him and praise his
name
yeah okay which part of that don't you
understand more I got it that's right
be thankful give him praise and this is
how God invites us to come to him did
you hear that he invites us to come to
him I love that he's not some deistic
far away god no he says hey how you
doing what's going on come on in and
when you do how about how about entering
into my presence with thanks and praise
I said I can do that yeah easy to do oh
that's it's a good one there's one more
- Jeff the Lord this is Psalm 28 verse 7
it says the Lord is my strength and
shield I trust him with all my heart can
you say that with the psalmist I can
today yeah I trust them with all my
heart he helps me and my heart is filled
with joy I burst out in songs of
Thanksgiving
Psalm 28 verse 7 boy that that's a good
one too isn't it yeah and that's not
just I mean it's clear you can hear the
psalmist heart in that one it's not just
a one-day year Thanksgiving it's every
day yeah yeah amazing that an entire
nation comes on purpose to celebrate the
theme of Thanksgiving boy I think it is
something that we could do every day of
the year yeah for sure yeah absolutely
well we're out of time and football is
gonna be coming on a little bit so
Patriots oh did I say that okay that's
all the time we got for you enjoy your
food get absolutely stuffed and enjoy
the football or whatever it is that you
decide to do is to celebrate today and
have a wonderful week we'll see you next
week gobble gobble
catch a new episode of you every day
every Friday morning at new everyday TV
we're also on roku cody flex youtube
google play music podcasts and news book
or if you're in Southern California tune
in every Sunday morning at 6:30 on kbdb
TV channel 33 television for the high
desert
you
