here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
Samsung has patented a phone display
that projects Star Wars like Holograms
Fitbit has rolled out OS 3.0 for versa
and ionic with new apps more stats and a
bright future yay more Facebook security
loathes the latest bug exposed the
private photos of 6.8 million users
capture an iPhone 3d scanner app hints
at the future of augmented reality these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere this is the category 5 TV
newsroom covering the week's top tech
stories with Linux bias Jeff Weston
Jemma you're building a brand-new
beautiful website
aren't you right you're a terrible actor
what the swear acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay are you
building a really cool website are you
building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host welcome
back to the category five TV news room
aka tech bytes just a quick mention
before we jump into the news stories
this week our thoughts are with our our
friend Roy W Nash who is our news
director here at category five TV I
received this email and I wanted to
share it with you too Robbie and the
crew and the category 5 TV community I
haven't been able to submit any news for
the upcoming show as I suffered a heart
attack on Friday I'm now awaiting for a
triple heart bypass operation and it
looks like I'll be in over Christmas so
I'd like to wish everyone in the cat5
community a very Merry Christmas and a
Happy New Year and God willing I'll be
around for years to come that comes to
us from Roy W Nash aka Scorpio 55 in the
community y'all know him and love him
our prayers our thoughts are with him
and his family and we wish you well man
and and are hoping for a very speedy and
successful recovery and operation
alright we're gonna jump into the news
Sasha back over to you ok I'm Sasha
Rickman in here the top stories were
following this week
Samsung claims that it has invented a
new holographic device that will
actually project high quality 3d images
in the air without having to look at a
display from a specific aim angle unlike
the Nintendo 3ds the display according
to the patent published by the World
Intellectual Property Office and the
United States Patent and Trademark
Office uses a new type of spatial light
light modulator that
eliminates the limited viewing angle and
low resolution of current holographic
technologies while it may sound like
hype Samsung is known to have been
working on holographic technology for a
while perhaps they have indeed solved
the bad quality and limitations that
plagued current holographic systems the
document describes a series of micro
lenses arrays that set on a flat surface
that focuses the light beam emitted from
the display to project the 3d image into
midair thanks to the company's new
spatial light modulator there's
speculation that Samsung could be
working on bringing this new patented
technology to this to future phones in
the past the company's phone patents
have mentioned 3d holographic displays
without providing any implementation
details this is the first time that the
Korean company has provided actual
details of course while this may show
promise in the lab we don't know how far
we are from an actual implementation
wichcraft no you know Samsung you're our
only hope
Oh nicely done sir
nicely played I'm excited about this one
yeah I have loved the changes in
holographic technology that we've been
seeing over the last couple of years and
I I always look for the next thing
because it's still I mean as much as you
can say this about holographic it's
still very basic mm-hmm oh sure but I
mean it's incredibly advanced technology
but I feel like there's so much more to
be done and so when these kind of
stories come out like yes I love it
because I can't wait to see those you
know Star Wars type images show up I
mean what was the movie with Ben Affleck
where they wipe his brain and anyway he
at the beginning of the movie he steals
another company's technology and then
like does that whole thing and rebuilds
this device and ever since that I'm like
somebody's got to make that happen and
it'd be cool if Samsung nailed it was
that Minority Report no no that was I
can't I remember who's yeah I write a
paycheck
I think it's called paycheck can't remem
I do remember the movie yeah yeah and
and that that technology I mean the
spatial light modulator was so cool
really cool yeah I just patent the name
I picture like going into like a
doctor's office for a diagnosis
situation and having the doctor like
bring up a holographic like this is what
a heart looks like and this is right and
to be able to explain something to
somebody where they can actually get it
because they can see it and we know to
one of your stories tonight is about the
the kind of spatial recognition of the
iPhone and and so we know that like 3d
imaging technology has come so far that
we can control things with hands we know
from the Nintendo switch for example
that hey accelerometers are pretty
amazing these days right and so what's
to stop you from being able to control
this like right so these like sci-fi so
like in a classroom setting you could
have you know like the dissection class
could be a holographic image that you
can just go through right yeah that's
way less smelly than formaldehyde I like
this one that is really neat
head of Samsung I love Samsung Fitbit
has rolled out OS 3.0 for versa and
iconic as new apps more stats and a
bright future it's the season of giving
and Fitbit has a great gift for all
versa and ionic owners beginning this
week the company is rolling out Fitbit
OS 3.0 to all SmartWatch models bringing
a slew of apps features and enhancements
to help you get even more out of your
new SmartWatch at the center of the
update is an extended on device
dashboard so that you can both see and
input more stats right on your wrist
well you could already monitor things
like steps exercise and heart rate by
swiping up to reveal the today's screen
OS 3.0 expands on the concepts letting
you view sleep data as well as heart
rate and hourly activities you'll also
be able to see your weight and water
logged totals and update them right on
your wrist there are also new apps and
clock faces that lever
the sensors built into Fitbit and ionic
to create an even stronger link with
your route with your workout routine
among the new apps are couch to 5k which
offers insights and training programs
for short and long races genius wrists
which bundles for apps which is Jim
genius
Jim time Pro Workout builder and workout
genius to provide structure on device
workouts and my swim pro which delivers
custom guided swim workouts and uses
real-time heart rate data to help you
perform with your performance all of the
new apps are free to download but some
features require a separate smartphone
app purchase to update your device visit
the Fitbit app on your iPhone or Android
phone now do either of you use Fitbit no
ok I do
boom I have an ionic ionic ok yes which
has I don't I don't know if you will
hear you switch back to your because
maybe you can see my super cool yeah you
can maybe see it it's a little smiley
face oh ok ok did your watch not allow
you to view your sleep patterns and all
that before so if I go I haven't updated
I watch doesn't oh great I haven't wound
it so I have my steps I can see my
calories burnt I have my heart rate you
need to like walk up to the camera with
the head and show that that's pretty
neat ok but this is I mean as you're
going through store I'm like ok this is
cool updates that's fun but then when
you're like oh you could you know check
your water intake and your sleeping
water
ok I've my watch is like 3 years old and
and it's a gear fit too and it's kind of
doing that forever
like that's why I got this is because I
wanted to monitor my sleep so I'm
shocked that the fitbit's didn't already
have it as part of their soft but they
can update it so that's exactly my my
watch tells the time hey that's all and
that's ok right so with this one you you
get the updates yeah gets you the new
features and everything else exactly how
is the like does it have an
accelerometer I guess it would have to
it does how accurate is
like could they we were talking about
being able to move Holograms like could
they put it in Fitbit I would think
they'd probably be able to and then you
could like have one on each rest and
control things just by just yeah see oh
see we're see patent that that's a
spatial hand modulator
even I didn't get the Fitbit though is
because you went with Garmin no I went
with you said gear gear Samsung gear 50
Samsung yeah the reason I went with this
is because I found that the step counter
was much more accurate than on the
Fitbit oh yeah yeah like with because I
checked I'd trial ran a Fitbit and like
things like flipping papers was counting
his steps nice I need that 1.7 million
brilliant it takes some time to learn
your step
right so if you only trialed it for a
short period I think it took yeah it
takes a little bit of time because I
know sometimes for example when I'm
writing an exam I'm not allowed to have
a watch on but I like the heart rate
monitor so I put the watch on my ankle
right well I'm still taking just one
step but now the stride is so much
longer it really it's confused resting
but you're not supposed to wear it on
your ankle I mean as far as this story
goes it's neat that they're just roll
out a whole bunch of new stuff it's like
hey we're update to your phone yeah
watch yeah yeah I mean that's the
technologies I'm I'm very old-school
that way like I do have a wind-up in
Turkish it is very steampunk ish and and
that's what I like it's right but if
you're into that kind of connectivity
and everything I can see a benefit in
that for sure so if you got the update I
haven't got yet I checked I checked this
morning and I didn't have it on my I
didn't have it available on my phone
okay but as soon as it's available
current news as soon as I have it
available I'll update and then I will
let you know I guess presumably if folks
have ordered these for Christmas gifts
and things like that then they can get
that update right away from most likely
exactly
you've got the latest and greatest
dewpoint oh well I'll tell you the sleep
log situation is what most interests me
because it's the only reason why I check
my Fitbit app on my phone everything
else of interest is on my watch already
so now it just takes me away from my
phone and on my wrist I didn't like that
about the the Google home many having to
check my phone for the things that were
the answers to my questions right so I
can see how yeah you'd want that to be
hey ya supposed to show me stuff so
exactly so now I don't need to use my
phone and we know that I've been trying
to distance myself so there you go
yay more Facebook security was the
latest bug exposed the private photos of
6.8 million users Facebook has revealed
that a bug in application permissions
allowed 6.8 million users private
photographs to slip into app developers
hands the mistake went unnoticed for 12
days before being rectified anybody
affected by the bug already allowed the
apps in question to take photos from
their timeline it's just that the bug
then opened this up to images from
Facebook stories and Facebook
marketplace it also allowed access to
photographs uploaded to Facebook but not
posted which Facebook says are stored
for three days until they're removed
thanks to gdpr it turns if it turns out
Facebook waited longer than 24 hours to
report the breach then it could be on
the receiving end of a twenty million
pound fine let's make an example of them
does anybody actually trust Facebook
anymore no no like I think I mean for
years I've been saying and and and I
have been well don't put private stuff
up on there right but here's the thing
it's not about private stuff it's on
their their private photos like I can
put up a post yes that is only for
certain people it's not public
accessible but it is public you know
Facebook is a public absolutely but the
fact is I think there's a certain time
because I mean when I first heard about
this I was like okay fair enough
I never post something on Facebook that
I don't want Zuckerberg to see sure so
anything that's up there if it gets out
it gets out whatever it's just really do
I want everything to be seeing it and so
but the funny thing about this is sure
it's a bug but this used to be a common
thing years ago with Facebook is they'd
update their security settings and
everything in the past have you had a
slide it was now reset to public because
when I worked at the jail I found out
this because one of our former clients
looked me up on Facebook and then was
like hey
beautiful families looking through your
photos I'm like excuse me I was locked
down so new for Facebook I feel like
this is just another iteration of them
going out there the part that is
bothersome to me is the fact that
Facebook so if you don't post your
photos right so you've loaded them but
you decide not to post them it's still a
still accessible you didn't post them
right so that's troublesome oh that's
just like the tip of the iceberg I will
take photos that I put in private folder
locations on my phone that I don't want
my apps to see it's in a secure folder
and somehow all load Facebook gonna go
hey do you want to post a story about
this photo that I have not uploaded to
Facebook I have not given a permission
and access but suddenly goes hey LA so
it's like you know that apps gonna suck
the life Eddie any way any of us are
still using Facebook now I have to have
it for the show yeah that's it you know
Jeff knows especially and Sasha was the
first to abandon Facebook I would love
to abandon face you know that I'm very
you'll never get a hold of me on
Facebook now well exactly yeah discord
and that's it pretty Weiss now I've
actually wiped out Facebook eliminating
my profile and everything because of you
know private previous work but you know
just all the families on Facebook I
don't do like that the Christmas cards I
don't do the email a family updates it's
like that's the only way for them to get
to get
acted because there you know I will say
it actually was great at my sister's
wedding
this past Saturday to see my family and
they'd be excited to tell me what things
that have happened cuz they know right
right not cool yeah because Facebook has
created the society where someone will
start to tell you oh did did you know
about yeah I saw the photos on Facebook
yeah that's cool yeah capture an iPhone
3d scanner app hints at the future of
augmented reality 3d scanners don't have
to cost a fortune as it turns out you
might already have one in your pocket a
new free app called capture uses the
true depth sensors on x-series iPhones
to make crude 3d models of small objects
which you can then plop into different
settings through augmented reality or
share with other folks through iMessage
or other means with capture you can use
an iPhone XS my X s Macs to scan 3d
models of say Mac world's old Macintosh
se being careful to scan each angle once
done you can flip and spin the 3d model
around inside the app as though the old
Mac were a prop in a video game you
could also send it to a friend who then
be able to use their iPhones camera to
see how it looks on their own desk
through augmented reality this will work
even if that user is on an iPhone 7
which doesn't have the true depth sensor
built-in sounds revolutionary right for
now it looks pretty basic but don't
blame standard cyborgs for this captures
awkwardness Springs from the current
design of the true depth sensors which
are made to read faces from only a few
inches away
that means capture only works well if
you're holding something in your hands
for or scanning your face as the iPhone
only has true that depth sensors on the
front-facing camera capture is free so
it can be appreciated as a novelty that
highlights the potential of true depth
how cool is that that is awesome to
think you've got 3d scanning technology
in your paw
presumably that's that's okay so it's on
the new iPhones but now to be able to
you know maybe potentially bring that
kind of technology to yeah it just
starts small right so it's on the iPhone
it's only on the front-facing camera but
eventually people will pick up on that
and build on it right and it seems to be
a theme that's kind of happening tonight
yeah completely unintentionally but
maybe it's just that you know technology
is driving toward holographic technology
the ability to interact with augmented
reality that we are capturing ourselves
how cool would now combine those two
technologies right hey here's a theory
for you and make a make a FaceTime call
with your kid who's away at college
holographic holographically of your kids
augmented like put all of this stuff
together right augmented reality they're
standing in the house as a hologram
right like this is like serious Star
Trek stuff right we're now starting to
see the the bare-bones introductory
technologies to make it possible sure
it's neat I like and what I love that
we've gone to a are it was for a long
time it was all virtuality virtual
realities gonna be the big thing we've
moved off VR as a technology it's almost
like a look at where it's at right right
but it's on the hop it's time to move
forward right it was dead before it even
got off the ground no it's not I know
but I think with the advancements of AR
it could take it to a whole different
level and is VR gonna be able to stand
up to AR is this gonna be like the the
HD versus blu-ray hmm I don't think it's
one or the other I don't think it's a r
or VR exactly right but they both I
don't know it's gonna be interesting to
see yeah the capability though to carry
it now in our pockets rather than having
to set up like a PlayStation VR rig
yeah kind of set up or anything like
that or you've seen the cameras wrapped
around somebody and that becomes you
know a photo environment to create a 3d
bust of the person or something like
that so now take that to your pocket
and once they start
improving on that technology so right
now it's very rudimentary right right
but now combine the 3d scan with the
actual photograph the the actual
textures that the cameras seeing put
them together and now all of a sudden
you've got something that you put in
videogames you've got something you can
bring into augmented reality so if
you're at the store and you see
something that you think oh that would
look really nice in the house
well now you can scan it with your phone
right in 3d space mm-hmm
take your phone home bring up augmented
reality this is all just using your
phone and see what it would look like in
your house then combine that with your
first story and use holographic imagery
- oh yeah that would look really good
there right see I think to myself
remember they had the Google glasses
yeah I liked and they didn't will fly I
don't know what they were called what
glass Google glass okay cool they
truncate it at the end right well there
you go
well one glass okay so picture that they
can make that just like slime calling a
Google Monica now they could like if you
had that opportunity again to relaunch
that sort of technology with this
augmented situation then really you
could do some things with I guess it
wouldn't be super safe I was gonna say
with safety in mind but maybe they could
wear where they are able to use the
augmented reality to put things in your
visual space right absolutely log off
entire streets you're not supposed to go
down yeah I'm I'm thinking from the
emotional support end of it as weird as
that sounds but like you hear of all
these stories it's like oh I need to
bring my emotional support snake onto a
plane you know if you if you can get you
know these scans of say your pet and
then you build it as an augmented
reality thing for you does that provide
the emotional support for people now
Isis can creepy no I'm just wondering
how it's wrong to have no I'm not saying
it's wrong but but we're people they
want to be able to connect with things
that are coming to them but you know hey
going away on a long trip it here's a
scan
of you know this one piece of but
whatever my that gives me come if it
fits in my pocket now why am I not just
make that call and have like a
face-to-face conversation with a
holographic replica or an augmented
reality replica at this point because
maybe it's it's not something you make a
call with maybe it's just it's a video
like if this gets from beyond picture to
video it's a video of your dog napping
or something and you in it's like I'm
feeling house Brad's will be one Kenobi
exactly but here's this you know this
augmented reality of my dog on the
wherever I am you know like I can see
how that's it so it's okay to replace
your dog with a holographic image of a
dog no no from a therapy standpoint
stuff like that I can see how this could
be very so many great uses oh absolutely
I love just the potential there but I
think what we're seeing though and we're
at this very interesting time you
mentioned google monocle for example yes
so what we're now seeing is so that was
a failed technology but they're still
working on it for industry and so but
they're building on it yes building on
it so that
yeah VR it's great but let's make it
let's build on that and so all of a
sudden now it can be something different
maybe you know maybe the kids can travel
to Mars right like it's gonna right if
they're working on it and when it does
happen will the technology have
progressed to the point where now they
can be here like Star Trek in a
holographic form and interact with mom
and dad I love it I have no doubt we're
gonna see that come to reality before I
stepping stones stepping stones and yeah
we're getting into this crazy exciting
sci-fi era which is so super exciting
according to coin gecko here's what the
crypto market looked like at 1700 hours
Eastern Time on Wednesday December 19th
2018 Bitcoin this week is at three
thousand six hundred and eighty nine
dollars and forty four cents u.s. they
lost five hundred fifty one seventy five
in the past two weeks
litecoin similarly down twenty eight
dollars and ninety three cents per coin
lost loss of five dollars and fifty
seven cents USD aetherium is at ninety
nine dollars and ninety six
USD again a loss Manero is down to $45
and 24 cents USD now the small guys
stellite is at one point eight six ten
thousandth of a cent down just a little
bit as well as turtle coin also with the
same loss of well it's lost a little bit
at 0.47 10 thousandths of a cent
remember the cryptocurrency market is
always changing and it's always volatile
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category-five TV newsroom and
sasha Rickman I'm Robbie Ferguson and
I'm Jeff Lester
[Music]
[Applause]
