sascha back on episode 510 you'll
remember was asking about what she
should do for a display at her wedding
oh and my suggestion was you know what
keep it simple she was thinking
raspberry pie all the way let's build
this thing we can you know fandangled
and they'll be it'll be scheme punked
out and it'll be amazing but really when
it comes to your special day I'm like
just simplify yeah been there done that
I've filmed some weddings and one of the
biggest mistakes people can make is over
complicating things adding a bunch of
stress adding like trinkets and
technology that could have problems and
and I love raspberry pie don't don't get
me wrong that's that's nothing to do
with this I like strawberry pies ha ha
but when it comes to the technology of
just you know getting video playing on a
screen I want it to be so super dead
simple I am so sick and tired of having
to pull out a laptop computer run a big
long 50 foot oh yeah I cable to a TV up
the wall and you number some you've been
there you've done that right Church
sanctuaries and and lobbies that have
big thick HDMI cables running on all
together the TVs and all that kind of
stuff running into the back of a great
big computer that's using 800 watts of
electricity you know what I'm saying I
want a device that I can just plug in
turn on and play done simple wouldn't
that be just nice and you're right you
want simple on your wedding day
yeah absolutely and that's just a
perfect example of where the simplicity
is very very helpful plug it in turn it
on you're done go get married girl
you know but in my in my rec room I
don't want to have to pull out my laptop
every time or when the kids want to
watch a show on YouTube have to pull out
my laptop and now I can't use my laptop
because the kids are using it on the TV
yeah two devices surprise I know so I've
got a device for you tonight we're going
to be looking at this
cat5 dot TV slash AGP tech hmm this is
as the Vox says mini HD media player me
it exists all of our dreams have come
true this is the one
so do we do the unboxing mm if it only
makes sense it always starts with an
unboxing and for which and we're using
miracast directly to tell a stream
Wirecast a little pixelation there at 4k
that's for sure but definitely worth a
shot Wow doodle-do where's our little
key you have a tripod sir she need me to
hold the camera I have a tripod he's got
hands like boom there we go all right
nice
oh no shot oh yeah okay here we go our
unboxing of the mini HD media players
ready for this all the things that we go
through for us folks okay we've got a
instruction manual which we probably
won't need much of because it's simple
remember I think I must have said cheese
see that my camera takes it
automatically when I say the word cheese
okay here we go
after of that you cheese yeah yeah nice
okay so here's the device you guys can
see that I know we're just using
miracast and it's kind of you know it's
not quite as good a quality as we're
used to but we've got USB and SD card
and like none of that okay we've got
HDMI output we've got optical output vga
output and AV output well that means
it's compatible with old-style TVs as
well and that's all there is to it then
we've got some buttons on the top for
play fast-forward rewind all that kind
of stuff
Wow get further into the box here we've
got a couple more things I do see an AV
converter cable that gives us red yellow
and white so that's for our old-style TV
nice everybody have an old-style TV
anymore you know what it a lot like an O
then oh yeah it'll let you plug into
anything that it works with anything
brilliant okay there's a power adapter
sweet don't need to put batteries in
this bad boy and a remote control well
and that's it more instructions I do see
more instructions in the bottom there
yeah because there we go ir remote it is
there you can tell because it's got the
little over web yes okay light on the
end there okay so this device is like I
say super easy no fussing with wires
obviously light on the electricity usage
and it's just a five volt adapter and
it's just going to you could don't know
you could velcro that to the back of
your TV or whatever and it's just hidden
away so the key things here is it like
you can just get your USB flash drive
load it up with videos or pictures or
whatever else plug it in here and
assuming you know assuming everything
works we just unboxed it but right we're
going to plug it in tonight and see how
this actually works awesome any
questions thus far operating systems
that it works with file format doesn't
need any it has no platform dependency
as far as off at all goes because it is
its own device perfect not it's not a
computer device you don't need to it's
not a peripheral for a computer it is
its own standalone device so you so
there's no internal hard drive to load
files to it it's all for the USB all
just me USB stick plug it in or an SD
card plug it in right so that said if
you take pictures on an SD or micro sd
card you can immediately take that out
of your camera plug them in here and
boom they're up on the trigger to go at
a wedding another example at a wedding
it's pretty traditional to Russia really
really fast get the photos developed on
prints and then lay them out on a table
makeup nice little collage or something
right right but it would be cool for the
photographer or somebody with a camera
to be able to snap a bunch of nice
pictures immediately put them on here
play them in the reception hall so that
by the time everyone gets to the
reception hall the wedding pictures are
already up on display yeah on the TV in
a slideshow models geology yeah
instantly from an SD card slot lease but
the wait hours or weeks for that sort of
server for an hour
I remember as a photographer having to
run out to Walmart yeah the one hour hmm
instant photo and then run back and we'd
have the would do like photo books and
stuff like that yeah Wow people would
take them homeless face I didn't yeah so
capabilities as far as this goes it is
1080 P you can down scale to 720p if
your TV doesn't support it multiple
different frequencies file formats meat
file formats okay so I mentioned video
it also supports audio cut and pictures
perfect okay so now I mentioned pictures
as well
the formats themselves I noticed here
she'll that it's it's on the Box go so
our MV b and RM so real media yep I
think that's a dying or dead technology
but hey it supports it h.263 h.264 MOV
mp4 m4v
MPEG 1 and 2 VOB files mpeg-4 X bit div
X Windows Media Video WMV 7v c 1 MK V
avi tell us Inc TP DOB it's in there
twice because it's awesome PMP FLV and
then it says and so on I happen to know
that if it had so on I happen to know
that it supports even more modern
formats than that because I've tested
Wow and read on the website supported
audio formats you know everything that
you would expect right like mp3 WMA AF e
FLAC OGG AP e
AAC ac3 DTS and so on actually far yet
actually listen it's like yeah we kind
of support everything here folks
yeah and then a picture format it says
JPEG Geoff Yap ping no tents no on oh
yeah I think that Jeff is in there yeah
what about BMP
it's in there bitmap yeah yeah I'm gonna
have to make a file format and see if it
shows up in the so on that would be kind
of cool to try yeah that'd be kind of
cool
ok so looking at this from a usability
standpoint
weddings reception halls in the rec room
right yeah
church lobbies great examples can you
think of anywhere else is this kind of
thing would be going to the cottage yeah
goodness yeah yeah load up the USB flash
drive yep or E or a USB external hard
drive for that man plug it in it's USB
now I know a lot of businesses now are
starting to get in a TV on the wall that
has announcements about the business
that might change and that like it's
some sort of a JPEG file or something
sure you could rotate through all notes
how to be cool you know can you actually
Wow well let's see yet should we find
out sure okay when we come back I'm
going to plug all this in we're going to
give it a look we're going to bring it
up on your screen we're going to show
you the interface how it works I've got
my USB flash drive which has the host of
category 5 TV I've always got videos on
here stick around we're going to show
you how that looks and how it operates
in just a couple of moments don't go
anywhere
now here's another great way you can
support the shows you love for the
category 5 TV network by shopping
gearbest that's right Jeff
cap 5 dot TV slash gearbest it's an
online store for the geek streak in here
or beloved ones well of course I mean
especially your loved ones right because
cap v dot DV / gearbest quite frankly
has all of the greatest tech gifts that
you could ever hope for at rock-bottom
prices
did that cellphones you bet you cap 5 TV
slash gear best has a wide assortment of
unlocked Android cell phones and tablets
blood well compute consumer electronics
those like a great gift absolutely from
hi-tech watches to action cameras
headphones even virtual reality headsets
cat5 dot TV / gearbest have you covered
they literally have it all Jeff
literally really it's like a superstore
right from the comfort of your own chair
at your computer through the interweb
yeah there's no way they have it all
true it's just a bunch of random
electronics Stephanie what about clothes
yep
both men and women fashionable apparel
at rock-bottom SuperDuper prices kinda
like this well look at this coat what do
you think it's a slimming mock leather
jacket I love it it's available for less
than $30 plus free shipping at camp five
dot TV slash gear best yeah all right
you kinda got me Wow any other questions
for me gentlemen now that winter is past
flying season do they have any good
deals and say your own couples oh my
goodness well check this out dude they
have everything check out over 500
various drones and not only that they're
available marked down by about 32 up to
63 percent off the regular price love it
what's website again while you're going
to find gear best on our partners pages
for any of your favorite category 5 TV
shows like new every day
category 5 technology TV the pixel
shadow but of course if you want to shop
absolutely right now and you want to go
straight to the site all you have to do
is visit cat5 dot TV slash gearbest
so that's using tech 5 dot TV slash
gearbest that's right happy shopping
welcome back to save category 5
technology TV and I'm about to plug in
the HDMI I've got the power in here
scale it to our AGP tech device and you
can get this at cat 5 dot TV slash AGP
Tech so now it's already instantly up on
my screen
oh I noticed it just came right up and
there's the interface let's grab the
remote control and let's see pointing to
that there we go so we've got from the
left files music movie photo and
settings
so should I just plug in my USB flash
drive and see what happens I think you
should I think I should - all right I
feel like all of these are setup
questions like what if I have no either
buddy have to call you like I like you
guys to be participating yeah fair
enough
what do you think children sound great
dad yes let's do that
you know it's just how how we do as
parents okay movie I've got my USB flash
drive plug in you saw that okay so it
shows me already that be device smart
card and cd-rom I guess what could you
plug in a USB cd-rom drive I guess is
like suppose that must be my disc
skuzzy disc and then these are episodes
of category 5 that have happened and so
let's go to one like 511 okay so I see
screenshots videos mp4 files and that's
really all that you're going to find
here so if I click on say Sasha's news
resume playback Oh obviously I've
already been playing it a wonderful
director covering this yeah oh look a
nice automatic like just like that
dude I love that there it asked me if I
wanted to resume yeah have you ever been
in the middle of a movie and you've
stopped it and then I shouldn't have to
try to find your spot but it even it
like that's impressive
yeah where did it tell that from if I
knew that because I actually truth be
told I have another one of these devices
I tried it just to be sure okay that
this was going to work but it works
smashingly well oh who are those
charming fellow good-looking dudes right
there okay so back I push back on the
remote let's go right back I want to go
too you know instead of being in movie
mode let's just go to files so I can
just click on anything that I want and
see how it interacts with it let's go
back to that same episode and then I'll
go in here okay so I've got screenshots
this is what I wanted to see so these
are just screen grabs from the episode
so if I push OK on that
there you go it's just pictures from the
show right the boom look at that just
you
it actually has it even does transitions
oh my goodness
oh so it uses different transitions
sweet good time nice randomizing and
that was as simple as so I've got my USB
flash drive with some JPEG files and
I've simply clicked on one nice yeah
just randomizes the transition so even
further takes you know takes us to hey
this would be perfect as a slideshow
device yeah sort right it just keeps
going cool okay now if we go back and go
back one more and then I've got all
these videos the Eric's now if there's
different video like shorts a 5-second
clips will we transition between each
one May or what it is print I would
expect the video it wouldn't do the
transition okay it would just go from
one video yeah that's what I mean yeah
yes oh yes all right but also you can
set it to loop so it's perfect for like
a lobby displayers oh right okay yeah
and you can set it for autoplay oh
settings yeah should we take a look at
that yeah my goodness a lot of this
thing
yeah let's go back here I'm going to
push the Settings button on my remote
control here so we've got language just
in case a glitch is not your first
language hey look at this whoa nice okay
back screen saver I guess for two
minutes right that's cool I'll turn mine
off video output mode oh I just spotted
that we're in 720p mode right now so
what would happen if I change to 1080p
so I'm going to go down to HDMI 1080p 60
Hertz because I'm here in Canada boom
there we go you can see immediately a
slight resolution increase eh it's just
a little bit clearer audio output mode
we've got the optical outputs or just
normal over the HDMI
or through AV autoplay what do you want
to autoplay when you plug in your stick
movies music more photos I don't know I
need I guess a movies because I know
I've got videos on here right but you
could say just hey autoplay all my music
when I plug in my drive autoplay all my
photos perfect for slide shows or
lobby's autoplay DVD again I guess the
optical is going to be a USB device
auto-detect HDMI that's awesome and
we've got restore factory defaults so
let's go back and now I'm going to just
simply unplug my drive right I'm going
to plug it back in
I'm going to just switch screens so that
you can see it but I'm going to go three
two one plug and it's in let's see what
happens as I set that setting does it
also play oh there we go
oh nice nature sounds of Ontario Canada
I just I want to have that on there I
would also get it through our website
category 5 TV if you're into that kind
of thing yo now now I'm going to unplug
it and it just goes right now you killed
nature oh how cool is that
killing nature no being able to plug in
a USB flash drive so you load it up with
anything pictures videos audio plug it
in it auto plays you're going to go plus
it's got the controls on the controller
and it has buttons on the top if you
lose your controller or it's not handy
or batteries or dead or whatever that's
fine you're still able to operate it
[Music]
[Applause]
