feels a little warm in studio D today
though it's like stupid one maybe we
should turn on our minority report style
clock fan yeah you're what no what okay
shrimpy and you it that's just cool I
just okay i started a new position in in
my office yesterday yeah and I've been
looking for a fan to get my office you
go I just found it I am getting one of
these there's one of our big sellers
this week on our website you can
actually well yeah it's cheap and you
can head on over to cat5 sorry shop dot
category five dot TV and over in the
right hand side there's a little search
type in fan how easy is that it's very
easy for the record if that thing stays
on the whole show I'm not gonna be
paying attention well just gonna be
watching it we're gonna be like Darth
Vader that's a second hand that's crazy
I you guys see that moving around it's
hard to see I know that it has a little
bit of a flicker on camera because we're
30 frames a second but it's it's
actually pretty cool you want to reach
out and touch it I do want to touch it
that's kind of neat
