it's Tuesday October 21st 2014 and here
are the stories were covering this week
the BBC will be exposing articles
removed from google by the right to be
forgotten rule Smart Meters can be
hacked to reduce your utility bill
offline access to Internet content is
coming to areas of the world with no
internet access and a proof-of-concept
worm has demonstrated that an attacker
could take control of home data storage
these stories are coming right up don't
go anywhere operation christmas child is
one of the great stories it's unfolding
in our lifetime
we are only seeing just the beginning of
this project and these children will
change the world
the BBC is to publish a continually
updated list of its articles removed
from Google under the controversial
right to be forgotten rule the ruling
allows people to ask Google to remove
some types of information about them
from its search index but editorial
policy had David Jordan told a public
meeting hosted by google that the BBC
felt some of its articles had been
wrongly hidden mr. Jordan claims that
the BBC had so far been notified of 46
links to articles that had been removed
in the next few weeks the BBC will begin
publishing the list of removed URLs it
has been notified about by Google mr.
Jordan said greater care should be given
to the public's right to remember many
utility companies are installing remote
meters to help customers monitor and
manage their power use and help them be
more energy-efficient have your videl is
an independent researcher who along with
Alberto elara has found flaws in the
smart meters he says we took them apart
to see how they work what he found has
raised some concerns at the utility
companies smart meters can be hacked to
underreport energy use this essentially
means with a little know-how and very
little scruples you could effectively
cut your electricity bill attackers
could use what the pair found to
underreport energy use or to get someone
else to pay their bills by using their
ID and messages sent back to the nodes
that log usage with more with more work
researchers claim they might be paused
it might be possible to find a way to
seek out meters and cut off the power
that they are supplying essentially the
warning is that poorly protected the
warning is that poorly protected
credentials inside the devices could let
attackers can take control of the
gadgets the utility company that
deployed the meters are now improving
the device's security to help protect
its network
can an entire library be put in your
pocket most people would say yes all you
need is a mobile phone with access to
the Internet but what about for the many
people in the world that lack Internet
connectivity the answer can still be yes
according to Syed Kareem who explained
the nature of his company Outernet at
Ted global the business aims to address
the fact that about two-thirds of the
world's population has no internet
access he told the BBC when you talk
about the internet you talk about two
main functions communication and
information access it's the
communication part that makes it so
expensive so Outernet focuses instead on
information the project aims to create a
core archive of the world's most
valuable knowledge called from websites
including wikipedia and Project
Gutenberg a collection of copyright free
ebooks this would be updated on roughly
a monthly basis it would also provide
more time sensitive content including
news bulletins and disaster alerts that
could be updated several times an hour
all this information would then be
broadcast via satellites and picked up
by equipment on the ground which in turn
creates Wi-Fi hotspots allowing the data
to be accessed by individual smartphones
and computers a small village in central
Africa for example mr. Kareem said one
hotspot could provide dozens of books
and other information two to three
hundred people living close by mr.
Kareem said the system was currently
capable of broadcasting 200 megabytes of
data per day but his intention is to
increase that to 100 gigabytes or more
he said we want to use as much existing
technology and repurpose it a bit so
that people buy as little stuff as
possible Mark Newman from the technology
research firm ovum believes the idea to
be an interesting one but expresses
concern over literacy issues he says
delivery by audio rather than text would
be something to look at but that would
use up more data while companies like
Facebook hope to bring the Internet to
these areas mr. Korean believes that
broadcasting data offline could be a
better way to bypass censorship and
distribute knowledge we
checked and his conviction is legit
Outernet even allows you to download the
entire archive directly from their
website Outernet dot is a malicious worm
that can roam the net seeking data
stored on insecure Hardware has been
created by security researcher the
proof-of-concept worm was written to
illustrate how vulnerable these data
stores are to malicious attack the worm
can exploit the many bugs research
researcher Jacob Holcomb found in
popular home data systems already he
said there was evidence cyber criminals
had noticed how easy it was to exploit
these data stores mr. Holcomb started
the work on the started to work on the
worm after carrying out a series of
tests on network attached storage nas
systems made by 10 separate
manufacturers many people connect to
these devices to give a home router to a
home router to give family members a
place to put important files such as
photos and films or to act as a back up
against other gadgets some home routers
can also connect to hard drives to turn
them into NASA type devices mr.
Holcomb's investigation revealed 30
separate undocumented vulnerabilities in
the NAS devices many of these if
exploited would give an attacker
complete control over a device letting
them plunder the data on it or use it in
a way to get at other devices in that
home network and spy on what people did
online most of the exploitable products
he found where in the web-based
interface interface typically used to
administer these devices all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias visit the
category 5 TV news room at newsroom
category 5 TV for the category 5 TV
i stashed it through made us
