here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
forget about working overtime in Japan
now the drones are flying overhead
blaring the tune auld lang syne in a
blow to the robot delivery industry San
Francisco officials have voted to
restrict where they can go in the city
dan TDM has been named the richest
youtuber of 2017 after making more than
16 million dollars this year alone and
we'll tell you what you need to know
about a serious bug in TeamViewer for
Windows Mac OS and Linux these stories
are coming right up
don't go anywhere whether you shop on
ThinkGeek gearbest B&amp;H Photo Video eBay
or Amazon or even if you want a free
trial of audible you'll find the best
deals and support the shows we produce
by simply visiting the shopping sites
you already frequent by using the links
on our website visit category 5 TV slash
partners for the full and ever-growing
list and help us create more free
content like this show thank you for
shopping with our partners and thank you
for watching this is the category-five
TV newsroom covering the week's top tech
stories with a slight linux bias i'm
sasha Rickman and here the top stories
were following this week since World War
2 Japan has been struck has been
struggling with a world war culture that
consists of excessive overtime to curb
that behavior one firm is planning to
use drones that fly around the office
blasting auld lang syne to get employees
to realize it's time to go home the
system developed by office security and
cleaning firm tae se and telecom giant
NTT will see drones patrolling the
office on a scheduled flight path the
drones will also record footage of what
they see during the flight to identify
employees who remain in the office after
standard work hours it may sound a
little silly but something must be done
a white paper released last year found
that one in five Japanese people work an
average of 49 hours or longer each week
from those thousands of
workers die each year most of whom are
only in their 30s and 40s the victims
die from various illnesses such as heart
failure
exhaustion stroke starvation or suicide
as a result of work stress and
depression of the drone's the director
of the program says you can't really
work when you think it's coming over
anytime now
so what is auld lang syne anyway it's a
tune that typically plays in Japanese
malls to announce that the stores are
closing Taisei will trial the system in
April 2018 darkening a monthly fee that
works out to about four hundred and
fifty dollars for companies to use this
service this is an interesting tactic
[Laughter]
that is flying around with a giant
speaker I'm more concerned I'm not so
concerned about telling people that it's
time to go home as what is your workload
like what's making you this workaholic
if you will what's making you stay such
long hours well a lot of it is cultural
to it to a certain extent of of just
that productivity that performance that
or that honor aspect of you know I'm a
hard work I've got a few friends from
Japan and that's one of the things that
they do struggle with is you know I
don't want to be the first one out the
door right I you know I want to show
that I'm committed to the company how
much of that is it falls on the
employers shoulders though like if you
have an employer who's pushing you to
meet quotas and and giving incentives
that are unreasonable in order to make
those incentives well obviously these
employers aren't thinking that if
they're willing to buy a drone sure yeah
fly around playing the song that only
plays here once a year yeah but here's
what I find interesting about it instead
of somebody walking around saying hey
listen thank you for your work get out
of here it's a drone like how impersonal
is that how big is this factory that
they need a drone I'd like to know if
it's a teenager obviously they're not
going to listen to the drone like that's
just the way it's gonna go so what are
they gonna do they're gonna buy like
like Jimmy's head phones and they're
just gonna pop them in your ears here
you know else
right what I find interesting is the
fact that it's also going to record what
it sees so are they gonna like is this
oh we caught you on camera not leaving
you're suspended I feel the foo is
saying well these are salaried workers
but then it brings me back to well what
if you're trying to meet quotas in order
to right get incentives like a bonus or
something like that
different like the Macarena or something
crazy all right
in a blow to the growing robot delivery
industry San Francisco officials have
voted to restrict where their robots can
actually go in the city startups will
have to get permits to use such BOTS
which will be restricted to less crowded
urban areas opponents are concerned
about the safety of pedestrians
particularly elderly people and children
walk San Francisco a group that
campaigned for pedestrian safety wanted
a complete ban a range of companies have
begun trialing small robots that can
deliver food and other goods they use
sensors and lasers in a similar way to
self-driving cars in order to navigate
their routes robotics company Marvel
which describes its machines as friendly
neighborhood robots began testing in San
Francisco earlier this year other
companies such as starship and post
mates are also keen to use sidewalks for
robot deliveries San Francisco
supervisor Norman me who originally
proposed the ban on such robots has
previously said that the city streets
are for people not robots
despite its proximity to Silicon Valley
San Francisco is falling behind other
states such as Virginia and Idaho where
there are already laws permitting
delivery robots to operate so I just
feel like well okay so there's sidewalks
obviously are going to be used for
pedestrians but how many pedestrians are
there it's not like pedestrians I feel
like they're in the minority anyway most
people drive cars even still we're
talking about a robot
that is basically benign and stays clear
of humans and drives at six miles an
hour well I have to wonder like we're
talking sidewalks I don't know about
anybody else but I have yet to find a
sidewalk that doesn't have bumps and
cracks and lead like ledges that you
could trip on and are like causing the
problem well no like if a robot comes
into an obstacle where maybe they can't
get over it how does this oh they'll get
over it no problem yeah I mean like the
six wheeled machines that they have
right now they're like the size of a
cooler and they've got six wheels and
they just kind of crawl up over like a
Land Rover ah no problem at all I get up
the curb nothing right so my question is
if they already have these robots doing
deliveries in the other states have
there been incidents where there's been
concern there's been no nothing that
I've heard of anyways no I haven't okay
and even if there was like you know they
keep bump into someone on the street and
you know excuse me sorry right at least
here in Canada these delivery robots I
want to know like do they deliver just
like is it the mail cuz there was one
that was post BOTS or something and
there was the groceries so surely oh you
think about an elderly person so take
okay well we're worried about the
elderly folks that are walking down the
sidewalk
all right put flip it over and say what
about the elderly person who can't go
out to get their medicine or their
groceries and now it can be delivered by
one of these robots that they just open
the door and open it up and that's I
have a solution
I've got this are you listening San
Francisco this is gonna work okay so you
know how in there on the roads you have
like a car lane and you have a bike lane
on the sidewalks have a little robot
Lane I think it's perfect I think we're
still trying to get into the whole bike
lane thing not everybody's a fan of that
the likelihood of them jumping on board
a robot Lane before bike lane but again
these robots travel at about the same
speed as a human pedestrian see what's
interesting about this though is we're
talking about robots that are on the
ground everybody's talking about drone
technology wouldn't it just solve the
problem to have drones do it this can
this can handle something that's a lot
heavier that's delivering like pizzas
and
and full grocery order system you
pedestrians that's one of the fears too
is that they're worried that what if
they get vandalized by you know because
they do only travel like at a snail's
pace
so you know what what if they do get
vandalized or someone breaks into them
and that kind of stuff it's a that's
another concern or underground tunnels
idea yeah I don't know about the
topography of San Francisco but if you
could do underground tunnels then have
you seen some of those people don't want
to be walking up that there he'll bring
it on robot bring it to me yeah I just
don't feel like there's probably a lot
of pedestrians that went about it I
don't know I don't see a lot of them I
am back Sascha facts cite your
statements who's watching this on their
phone while they're walking down San
Francisco sidewalks what no me that's it
I'm gonna comment on YouTube one of
these robots to deliver things to me
even if I were to go to the grocery
store cause it's heavy carrying things
back again I've said that I'm I am
pedestrian I'm not a robot I would like
to be able to just have a companion
robot bring my things home with me I
would like yeah it's about the size of
like a baby carriage and about like they
call it ottoman height so think about an
ottoman how high they are pretty sure
like knee height I kind of think they're
perfect not gonna lie there you go what
do you think you comment below let us
know okay we know how I feel all right
Dan TDM has been named the richest
16 million dollars this year alone Wow
yeah the 26 year old from Aldershot
England started off simply making videos
of himself playing Minecraft in Pokemon
his face is in the corner of the screen
and he adds humorous ongoing commentary
as he plays he's got more than 16
million subscribers and more than 10
billion views of all of his videos the
youtuber whose real name is Dan
Middleton did not feature in the top 10
list last
dan TD M's recent life - were included a
show at the Sydney Opera House which
became the second fastest selling show
in the venue's history he started
posting videos which were aimed at
viewers under 10 years old at the time
he was also working at a grocery store
dude perfect also made the list with
about 14 million dollars in earnings
PewDiePie dropped to number 6 with 12
million dollars and six-year-old brian
earned more than 11 million dollars
reviewing toys on his channel ryan
toysreview back in november dantdm said
that he wasn't prepared for the fame he
got from being a youtuber he said it is
intense being a role model for young
people and it's something he is still
learning so the most shocking for me is
probably the fact that he does live show
on stage how how do you do that a lot of
fun for kids because I mean the kids are
watching the shows on YouTube it's like
like when we used to watch Sharon Louis
and Bram or you know mr. dressup or
right you know any of these shows so I
went and saw Ernie Coombs in in theater
and he did magic stuff and he did the
dress-up thing and he'd you know
everything else that you'd it was just
fun stuff to entertain children so
dantdm and other youtubers that are
focused on the the child audience dantdm
in particular is doing exactly that he's
pulling out his guitar and strumming
along and making the kids sing along to
a video that playing behind him and you
know doing all kinds of things doing
magic tricks doing games that are
interactive with the audience right
because your daughter ended up with a
contest there's contests of some sort
with a sketching with him as she not she
was on dantdm show yeah yeah yeah she's
the host of the pixel shadow if you go
to mind test dot TV you'll see that but
yeah she was featured on on his show
like all of these these people on
YouTube that are doing these shows and
making all of these you know crazy
dollars Ryan is nuts
six years old six it's insane he's just
living the dream well it's funny I mean
as much as I find this absolutely
incredible I also look at it and go
they're just doing a video and they're
getting paid this insane amount of money
like this six-year-old kid who does the
reviews
he's just opening up a box and getting
excited about a toy or whatever it is
yeah it's it's it's fair instead of
raking in the cash because even though
it's his youtube channel he doesn't have
the legal authority Texas realistically
it's it's a team effort right absolutely
yeah for sure but it's just I I find it
so fascinating that's something like
just one person's video can catch on and
it just goes nuts
we actually have band dantdm during the
day in our house because our son is all
I'm school and oh yeah we have found
that there are times where it's okay
you're gonna do your math and we're
gonna go take care of this and we come
back and oh look he spent 40 minutes
doing dantdm yes instead of doing his
online math it's like okay fine
we have his feed block during the day
the food again in the chat room below is
commenting about how you have to be 13
years or older to have a youtube channel
correct but keep in mind like my
daughter we started her channel when she
was 9 or 10 but it's me its dad that's
setting it all up and creating the
account and making sure that the the
nasty YouTube comments are deleted
before she sees them in those
conversations to the best of my ability
and same with Ryan is it's gonna be as
folks that are really you know they're
the ones who are buying all the toys and
making them review it but here's the
thing he's this he's a clever kid yeah
and that's it that's what it boils down
to dantdm is a clever kid he's come up
with something that's unique and he's
doing a great job of it and he's found a
niche and he's kept it up and Ryan's the
same he's just he's a funny kid who just
who's exuberant and and outgoing and and
that's what makes him popular I would
also like to point out that this all
happened in one year which means there
are 17 ok so Ryan's a six year old kid
who opens boxes of things and gets super
excited about it
Robby you are
kid who opens boxes of things and gets
excited about them open more boxes
that's right this is the way it's gonna
go that's how that's how we get rich we
open boxes
that's right 20 18s list TeamViewer has
issued an urgent patch to fix a
vulnerability that allows users sharing
a desktop session to gain control of
another PC without permission this
vulnerability affected versions of
TeamViewer running on Windows Mac OS and
Linux machines TeamViewer is a popular
remote support software for desktop
sharing online meetings web conferencing
and file transfers between computers
over the internet from anywhere in the
world to establish a connection between
a local computer and a remote computer
the local computer requires the remote
computers ID and password to gain
control over the remote computer a
critical vulnerability was publicized by
a Reddit user
last week linking it to a
proof-of-concept that was published on
github by a user named Gellin TeamViewer
acknowledged the existence of the
vulnerability after it was publicly
disclosed the proof-of-concept showed
how a user could modify TeamViewer
permissions with a simple DLL which
controls naked inline hooking and direct
memory modification to change TeamViewer
permissions the code can be used on both
the client and the server side allowing
the malicious user to gain control of
the presenters session or the viewer
session without permission those users
who have configured TeamViewer to accept
automatic updates will get the patch
delivered automatically however it could
take up to three to seven days for the
patches before the update is installed
those who do not have automatic updates
that will be notified when an update is
available mmm danger so for anybody
who's listening going what's a DLL
Robbie what's the deal oh just dynamic
link library did you say it wrong what I
don't think so
here's the so windows in order to reduce
resource usage to make things load
faster uses what's called a dynamic link
library they are files that are shared
among other applications so these files
can be opened by that application for
certain functionality within Windows so
if one of those DLL is contains a hook
then it can be used to exploit any kind
of you know whatever the program or the
hacker wants to put in there okay now
what about naked in line hooking cuz
that sounds like something you'd see on
a roller derby in line hooking is like
when a when a program in this case
malicious program hooks into one of
those dll's
and overrides some of the bytes of the
code so that it will now load something
else okay so in a function so if let's
say to keep it really simple you know
when I click the file button it pops up
the file menu well that's a function so
if I can hook into that DLL that opens
that file menu and make it also execute
a malicious program in the background
then all of a sudden I've got something
happening that is not intended by the
right software developer that's kind of
what's happened here they've been able
to create a hook that hooks into one of
the dll's that allows reverse access
without permission right I hope you're
writing the permissions is it always
super obvious if you have TeamViewer
like could somebody install TeamViewer
on your computer without you realizing
it TeamViewer is a great application for
remote support a lot of technicians use
it sometimes like if I'm helping you out
sometimes I'll use TeamViewer to remote
in and connect and help you out but you
know who commonly uses it are those
folks the fake support callers these the
folks that call you up and say you know
hi this is Microsoft calling and we're
here to help and we've we're gonna
remote into your computer and fix this
virus that's going around and Pat your
computer and some people fall for that
you may not but some people do Microsoft
doesn't call neither does your bank
neither it is you know they they don't
ask for access to your computers ever
red flag so when they do that they need
a tool in order to do it and
times what they'll do is they'll maybe
use something else and then in the
background while you while they're
connected install something like
TeamViewer or something else that but
that's not related to this DLL issue
this is you know something that you just
need to watch out for is hey this is
being smart it gives a remote access to
your computer from you know someone else
right yeah and now that it's public
right so a lot of times when there's a
problem like this it stays kind of in
the background for so long but now
everyone knows that it's there so make
sure that you up like you update and
that happens you know actually are
applied to your RAM and this affects all
the platforms of TeamViewer as far as I
know like this Oh Linux users are as
susceptible as a Windows user in this
particular instance so and it's a great
tool but sometimes these kinds of things
can happen and they're quick to update
it but you need to update your software
in order to get that fix exactly thanks
Ravi and big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman
[Music]
[Applause]
