you
it's Tuesday March 10 2015 and here are
the stories recovering this week would
you like some malware on your popcorn
security researcher has found two
seriously scary exploits in the way
blu-ray runs hidden code in the
background how can one material make our
shoes more comfortable and protects
power plants from the effects of
earthquakes at the same time progress is
being made on meta materials and will
give you the latest buzz computers can
now detect and track people even from
very blurry security video footage the
newly announced freak bug allows the
interception and easy decryption of
supposedly secure data a man has been
arrested for dissing his employer on
Facebook and could face up to five years
in jail and the massive multiplayer
online game Star Trek Online has paid
tribute to Leonard Nimoy who passed away
on februari 27th these stories are
coming right up don't go anywhere chroma
key green screen kits are on sale now at
cat five dot TV / green save over fifty
percent off the regular price get all
you need to build your very own green
screen studio and start doing special
effects for video or still photography
now cat five dot TV / green I'm Sachi
tomatoes and here are the top stories
from the category 5 TV news room a pair
of exploits and hardware and software
used for playing blu-ray discs has come
to light stephen tompkinson a security
researcher for ncc presented his
research at the security conference at
alberta university in scotland on friday
at the event he showed how he'd been
able to create a blu-ray disc that
detects the player it's running on and
then chooses one of two exploits to
install malware malware on the host
computer blu-ray discs support
additional content like dynamic menus
which are built into the discs using
blu-ray disc Java and these use
excellence for user interface tompkinson
found a flaw and cyberlink powerdvd
which is included in many windows-based
computers
allowed him to leave the excellent
sandbox and launch malicious code the
second exploit targets blu-ray players
he was able to get root access on a
blu-ray player where he was able to
trick the system into running a command
that would install malware since the
video continues to play users may not
even suspect that something malicious is
going on in the background until the
exploits your beings are until the
exploits are fixed users are being
advised to avoid blu-ray discs from
unknown sources so be careful not to buy
your blu rays from you know a flea
market or somewhere where they're at an
incredible deal and maybe not in the
packaging Robbie a lot of a lot of that
kind of stuff goes on you see a lot of
bootleg discs and stuff lee the flea
market is a good example but you know
somebody brings out a box of stuff that
looks a little shady maybe not quite
legitimate and they could put malicious
code on there that's a little bit scary
okay that is scary and yep one of those
things where you just you're better off
to just go and pay the extra dollars for
safety well they have netflix these days
too I mean that's true hmm so physicists
are abuzz with possibilities for meta
materials that can be designed to have
surprising properties tweaking the
structure of materials to manipulate
things like their appearance is already
fairly well known the next phase is
changing their mechanics a major
conference is alive with ideas designs
and samples including springy ceramics
unfilled ability cloaks and programmable
rubber sponges they could help build
spacecraft tiles or even terrain
sensitive shoe soles professor martin
from the cow russia institution of
technology in germany works on cloaking
but not in the way you're thinking his
aim is to make things invisible his aim
is not to make things invisible sorry
which one would you they will not be
invisible instead he wants to hide them
from physical forces and last year his
lab produced a honeycomb-like material
that made an object beneath it unfeeling
really yeah that's exciting if this
particular metamaterial or this
particular metamaterial was a solid
lattice that acts like a
fluid in certain ways deflecting
pressure around its hidden cargo which
in my opinion is something the Pirates
will love in this picture a small
honeycomb structure made from the
material was able to successfully cloak
the cylinder beneath it from being felt
Wow yeah I wonder what that would do for
like I'd love to have that on the bottom
of my shoe oh yeah able to walk and not
not feel the stuff that you're stepping
on stuff imagine that in like a
workforce how copy a steel toed shoes
with with actually being able to step on
a nail and it just kinda absorbs the
yeah the nail as a waitress let me tell
you if I Michael don't feel what I was
standing on my whole day yeah oh I feel
smiley personal dad mattresses Wow
mattresses think about that everybody
would be a better bowling ball example
exactly oh I like this honeycomb there
Wow the princess and the pea Wow okay
yeah there's no end to it it was it was
shown that a careful pattern of such
materials could divert damaging
earthquake vibrations turning the ground
itself into sort of a metamaterial it
seems might go so far as to protect a
powered station from a tremor so that's
an amazing what a development there yeah
that's very cool so you think within an
earthquake environment where the
foundation would shake possibly crack or
fracture and a power plant or a nuclear
plant you'd have some serious serious
problems caused by that my assumption is
though it's probably something that
can't be retrofitted which means it
would be new builds yeah exactly but I
mean there comes a point in
infrastructure where some of these
buildings have to be rebuilt anyways or
through expansion I mean they're
building new buildings all the time but
maybe some of these old buildings need
to be retro rebuilt because they can't
be retrofitted but that could be an
answer to a lot of problems I like it
fujitsu has developed imaging processing
technology that can be used to track
people in security camera footage even
when the images are heavily blurred
fujitsu laboratories said its technology
is the first of its kind that can detect
people
from low resolution imagery in which
faces are indistinguishable detecting
the movements of people could be useful
for retail design reducing pedestrian
congestion in crowded urban areas or
improving evacuation routes for
emergencies it said right we're not
falling for it fujitsu yeah yeah or
maybe tracking your every movement
fujitsu use computer vision algorithms
to analyze the imagery and identify the
rough shapes such as heads and torsos
that remain even if the image is heavily
pixelated the systems can pick out the
system can pick out multiple people in a
frame even if they overlap I would
wonder though until this is actually
developed how many people might be
misidentified using multiple camera
sources it can then determine if two
given targets are the same person by
focusing in on the distinctive colors of
a person's clothing an indoor test of
the system was able to track the paths
of eighty percent of test subjects so
twenty percent can't be tracked and
those are the ones wearing the
invisibility cloak that's right or that
that dress I can't differentiate the
color with a computer be able to figure
it out oh you know I I like this in some
ways and it scares me in this technology
yeah okay so to be clear it's not
tracking okay the tech this technology
is not saying that Sasha der made us
right walking through the mall they're
saying that's at work it's saying that
is a torso and it's the same torso that
I see on this camera and it's the same
torso that I saw over here ten minutes
ago right but then cross-referenced that
with other software with a higher
resolution camera at the entrance of the
mall this is what they're not telling us
high-resolution camera takes a picture
of you on your way in and says okay yep
he's the one he's the only one wearing
that sweater and yeah and so as now they
have a high-res image of me they've put
it through facial recognition programs
which already exist and they are able to
say hey that's Robbie Ferguson we've got
of now we've got access to his social
profiles and we can see all this
information about him and then using the
low resolution cameras they can then
track my movement through them all and
they can say oh even though these
cameras say I don't know who that person
is we can cross-reference that data with
other high-resolution data and say oh
that's Robbie Ferguson there yes leave
them all even though we can't tell from
that particular image so it's almost
like a sugar coating oh well you can't
really tell who it is well you can if
you cross-reference the data because
we're able to track so if I'm able to
look at you and say that's a chador made
us and then from afar I can still see
you walking even though I can't from
afar tell me that's you yeah I know that
that's you so I can make that
differentiation so computer that's what
they're not telling us and that's where
it becomes a little bit ominous well I
why on earth would you put something
like this out and call it something
other than what it is why spin it in a
positive way when everybody could deduce
so that the public will approve of it it
doesn't miss a person of interest as the
next step right but it doesn't matter if
we approve of it or not it's gonna
happen anyway absolutely already yeah
but you have to just wear layers wear
layers and take off your clothes protect
yourself change your posture exactly I
don't know what I say I can't figure it
out I don't know who that guy with the
yellow dress shirt is see this umbrella
that this guy is carrying keep sweet
colors maybe I could go shopping and
changing the changer there you go oh I
don't even know what to say yeah other
then Microsoft has issued a security
warning about a bug that could let
attackers spy on supposedly secure
communications called freak the bug was
found in software used to encrypt data
passing between web servers and web
users initially the flaw was thought
only to affect some users on Android and
Blackberry phones in Apple Safari web
browser Microsoft's warning suggests
millions more might be at risk of losing
data
the Freak flaw was discovered by
encryption and security expert
karthikeyan Berber Gavin and let's
attackers force data traveling between a
vulnerable site and a visitor to use
weak encryption this makes it easier to
crack open the data and steal sensitive
information statista statistics gathered
by a group set up the set up to monitor
the impact of the Freak floss suggest
about 9.5 percent of the web's top 1
million websites are susceptible to such
attacks hmmm that's scary the monitoring
group has also produced an online tool
that lets you check if your browser is
vulnerable to the flaw you can access
this tool and learn what you need to do
at freak attack calm I don't know
Microsoft now well now that they are
mentioning it because originally it was
thought that this was just smart phones
and things like that but to find out
that it's also affecting the Windows
operating system and nine and a half
percent of the world's largest websites
that's a little bit scary because if
we've talked about it before if someone
is able to intercept play man in the
middle with your data and it's encrypted
in a non-safe way and they're able to
decrypt it rather easily then your
financial transactions and the things
that you're doing online that should be
encrypted them that you trust are
encrypted could be compromised and
that's a scary scary actually I have a
weird thought this freak attack calm
that you go to find out whether or not
your website is at risk your computer
your browser thought of using on your
computer your phone or okay cuz I was
going to say could anybody just log in
and and see whether or not you're at
risk and then turkey that way like now
yes however through this service there
the it will just simply tell you if your
browser is affected by expletive
basically exploits your browser a test
if it is exploitable and then itself
there's no yeah yeah and then click here
to shop on amazon now that we know
an expat American has been arrested in
the United Arab Emirates for comments he
posted on Facebook while in the u.s.
helicopter mechanic Ryan pate wrote on
Facebook while in Florida after arguing
with the global aerosmith aerospace
logistics / sick leave on returning to
Abu Dhabi from Florida he was arrested
for breaking the country's strict cyber
slander laws the laws were introduced in
late 2012 and making an offense to use
the net to mock or divide organizations
and individuals his trial is due to
start on March seventeenth which is st.
Patrick's Day and he could face up to
five years in jail and a large fine if
found guilty well um he was on sick
leave and in the u.s. while supposedly
working in the United emirate Arab ever
I don't know Nick that there's something
more to Sasha don't judge come on just
cuz he's on a beach in Florida does it
mean that he's not recovering from so as
far as i understand it he's seeking
medical help from American doctors oh
and so to be on sick leave from your
work in order to be in America that
receiving care and and it would be
frustrating if you're you're here you
know in in the United States or Canada
for medical treatment and you need to
stay longer and your your employer won't
let you that's true but I wonder what
their what slander is like it's just
stating the facts slander I think no I
think he was probably pretty nasty but I
mean some people have tempers and
sometimes that unfortunately shows its
way onto facebook where an emoticon
can't necessarily show that you're you
know you're just taking it out so if
somebody is watching that and it's
illegal illegal oh he is not going to
have a happy st. Patrick's Day a
mathematic multiplayer online game Star
Trek Online has paid tribute to the late
actor Leonard Nimoy with two permanent
in-game statues of Spock one includes
the phrase live long and prosper while
the other reads the needs of the many
outweigh the needs of the few in the
announcement post
on Friday on the star trek online
website executive producer Steve rakossa
addressed what the late actor meant to
the Star Trek community calling Leonard
Nimoy a cultural icon and explaining
that his passing has been felt farther
and wider than Leonard himself could
have possibly known and it's that
humility despite all of his skills
talents and fame that made him someone
we all cared about Nimoy's name also
joins another memorial on the site
alongside creator Gene Roddenberry
DeForest Kelley James Doohan and majel
barrett the actor who originated the
role of Spock passed away on februari
27th at age 83 for all your tech news
with a slight Linux bias visit the
category 5 TV news room at newsroom
category 5 TV for the category 5 TV news
room I'm Sasha's roommate
