Bookface ladies and gentlemen Bookface
and of course you've all heard about
what has happened with Facebook and and
the concerns that have been brought up I
know you're trying to we've multitask
we're doing chat room where we're
chatting on the air and everything but
Facebook and everything that has
happened with Cambridge analytic and
really realization that our information
is not at all private right exactly so I
don't know a lot about the details
really in truth I do know that Facebook
has said that or we found out that
Facebook has another company that has
taken our data and is storing it not
quite Facebook but let's so let's look
back at ok 2014 the API which is the
application programming interface that
allows apps to communicate with the
Facebook back-end the data allowed apps
to gain an astronomical amount of
information about the users account but
here's the problem if I added the
malicious app to my facebook profile and
authorized it to go ahead it not only
gave them access to my profile but it
also gave them access to all of my
friends right profiles and we're not
talking just the public stuff we're
talking the private stuff okay so call
it a glitch in the matrix or whatever
you want to call it but so of course
Cambridge analytic a built a system to
take advantage of that and leech all of
this confidential information which many
are saying is against the you know it's
ways probably ain't some kind of Terms
of Use at the time but certainly against
moral code right but the fact is that
the backend was there and developed by
Facebook and provided for them it's like
okay here say to my seven-year-old
here's a bucket full of candy don't eat
any and they'll leave the room exactly
yeah so big news personally is that not
just because of this but for a lot of
reasons I am breaking up with Facebook
what okay so this is scary
this takes me to my next comment yeah
delete Facebook is the
the movement that's happening on Twitter
right right hashtag delete Facebook and
I have to ask myself and I have to ask
the community at large
why well okay so here's why for me and
it's not about it's actually this has
brought it back up for me but the
problem I feel like Facebook to me is a
bit too much of an addiction like I get
up in the morning exactly exactly but
it's it's I guess it's conditioned me to
the point where if I go to check my
banking or go to check something else
I'm actually like clicking the Facebook
icon by default like everything is is
that and I feel consumed by it I feel
like I'm checking it too often I feel
like I'm really close to the people I'm
closest with anyway right and the extra
people I feel as though even though I
love them
there's a lot of emotions that happen
because I'm checking my facebook feed
and I need not know about some of the
things yeah it's hard to explain really
except that I don't need that newsfeed
all of the time I don't want to feel
like I'm in this weird toxic
relationship with Mark Zuckerberg I just
it's strange part of it is that your
newsfeed is conditioned by the
algorithms yeah in order to manipulate
your emotions want to want it as much as
I that's kind of tails but looking at
heads the biggest thing that has arisen
over the past couple of weeks is the
fact that your data is not confidential
now we've you know people who have used
Facebook and we've had this discussion
in the past people who have used
Facebook think that they are the
customer of Facebook and they're not the
customer of Facebook are the data
collection agencies that collect and
aggregate data that use that data for
advertising purposes and to be able to
promote their services and whatever else
they want to promote same elections and
we're not the customer we are the
currency we are our data our privacy our
private information that we have chosen
to post on Facebook is the transaction
that is what is their product right so
every time I post a picture every time
I post a message every time I like
something or click on an ad or click on
message I am basically giving them more
data about me so now they can take that
data aggregate it using AI and machine
learning and say ok this person likes
these things and these are the things
that we are going to market to you and
we're gonna sell this person so I'm
gonna sell so facebook is going to sell
Robi Ferguson to Raspberry Pi say not
that they utilize the surface but
services that I would click on and I
would appreciate right so they that's
what they do right make sense so I I go
back to my question why we know that we
are not the customer we are the product
because we're using this service as a
free service and we all read the Terms
and Conditions right no we all cross
again let that one sink in and and so
because we are the product we have to be
responsible about what we post what we
do on that system because we are being
watched and we are being recording how
much everything everything you think
your private chats are private no ok ok
so he worried about messenger if I'm
worried sure this book yab same company
right right and the and is how much do
you pay for messenger nothing right so
what is the product me you are the
product so there you know people say
there is nothing free in this world
and I beg to differ there are free
things in this world and there are you
know you can subscribe to our RSS feed
and download category 5 TV and watch us
offline and by doing that you are not
seeing the advertisements that are
monitoring you're seeing those
advertisements you're not clicking on
links that are associated with our show
but at the same time then our bottom
line starts to hurt because we do not
have the enough revenue to keep doing
the things that we do for free so
that's where people support us on
patreon and people donate to the show
and and kind of offset that for us and
and I think a lot of people are
responsible that way where they say you
know I've blocked the ads on your
website I download the RSS feed as
opposed to watching on YouTube which
monetizes and so I also give every month
through patreon and that offsets it
right right so that's a responsibility
that so we do have to realize that there
are responsibilities as consumers that
if we're going to use those truly free
services that we do need to be
responsible but with Facebook as the the
product mm-hmm how can we tell what is
being sold any idea like how could you
tell I don't know I unless they told me
but they're not going to know right so
let's head on over I'm going to show you
a little trick here Sascha and world so
we're gonna head to facebook.com slash
settings okay just as easy as that
facebook.com slash settings and from
here there are a couple of things that
you can do of course the big one that
people are trying out these days is
delete my account so or deactivate my
account I should say clever wording
Sasha
so we'll get to this okay deactivating
your account does not actually delete
your data does not actually remove you
from Facebook at all oh it just turns
off your access to yourself and yeah
okay but everything's still there okay
okay so but on that same page just below
is download a copy of your facebook data
oh okay and when you click on that it
asks you to click forward to to compile
that data into a zip file and then you
receive an email with the download link
and that allows you to now open up a bit
of a repository style collection of
private information that is available on
Facebook so when I did that now I'm not
gonna click on everything because there
is
seriously private information here
contact info and and all that kind of
stuff but all my posts my videos even if
they were privately sent my friends and
I'm just going to change screens here
just for a second just to make sure that
they're not yeah it's just a list of all
my friends names and and of course with
the old API the apps had access to all
of these as well okay
is that friends and their birthdays or
friends and when you became friends when
we became friends okay yeah unless you
were born in 2014
probably somewhere should we check do a
quick search for Sacha Rickman so we've
actually been friends on Bookface August
23rd 2012 there you are so there's a
huge amount of information there let's
go in I've got private messages so your
your Facebook Messenger the private
messages that are available and I'm
purposefully hiding my screen when
certain things are absolutely private
Sasha can see this and attest to it I'll
do a quick search for Sasha and I've got
conversations between you and Bailey
I've got conversations with you me and
Carrie I've got conversations with you
me Kelsey and Adam these are these were
private conversations you remember Sasha
and Adam Hillary Christa Sasha Lee and
two others Wow
and so these are my private
conversations that in messenger I
thought hey these are these are private
and it's as easy as that to to see
that's hopes events that I've been
invited to that I've gone to all that
kind of information security information
applications let's let's look at add
topics so this is what the AI thinks
about me I am interested in nature huh
in alkalinity oh now I never click like
on a bee no no it just it has figured
out that hey I like nature and
alkalinity it says you like sarcasm I
like sarcasm so they know hey we're
gonna market to these people the Greg
pre-prep
Scholarship I don't know music videos
Lindsey Stirling this is crazy stuff you
should know stuff you should know with
Josh and Chuck the podcast so these are
not pages that I've liked these are bits
of information that Facebook whose back
end has figured out that our to
attribute to me as a person farm science
software engineering music visual
effects rodents rodents nice so all of
these things and then I've got add
history all of the ads that I've clicked
on oh and it shows me what I've clicked
on and when I clicked on it what I was
doing and then here's this is crazy
something a little scary advertisers
with your contact info and I've got a
list here of advertisers who I have no
clue who they are but they know you they
have my contact info they've got my
personal information that I thought was
absolutely private that's not okay one
two three four five six seven eight nine
10 11 12 13 14 15 16 they may as well be
Cambridge analytic I right there just
third parties that I have no idea who
they are
best table top games crowdfunding videos
obviously I clicked on a video or
something yeah and that somehow gave
them authority to have my personal
contact information I am creeped okay so
go to facebook.com slash settings to see
what kind of what kind of things are
being shared about you and to whom and
and what information has been collected
would it even be worthwhile for me to
check that about me if I'm going to
delete my face yes and do it because
then it's a backup okay so that's
so the pictures are totally viewable if
I do that zip file like you can yeah
because that's the thing about facial
pictures and the comments that have been
attributed to them okay because that's
the thing I don't want to lose my
pictures and I don't want to lose like
the sentiments right like a lot of my
memories in the past eight years are on
Facebook but I also don't I had somebody
say to me well you know I've lost all my
photos because I didn't backup how can I
get all my photos from Facebook because
I post a lot of photos on Facebook well
here's an answer so it is a good feature
that they allow you to do this to
download all of your files including
videos and pictures and everything else
but it's also a wake-up call for you to
realize hey what is Facebook holding
about me how are they aggregating it how
are they determining to market me to the
customer and and what kind of
information is there that could be
accessed by these advertisers now you
said I can't delete my you can okay but
it's it's tricky okay so if we wanted to
now I go back to why why do you want to
do this when you know that you are the
product okay because nobody can really
say oh I didn't know that Facebook had
information about me oh I didn't know
that they shared this with third parties
yeah you kind of did
I don't think that's really a valid
excuse whatsoever I think that is not my
reason yeah but if that so just backing
up to why and and making that decision
so deactivating your account is under
managed account at it and you'll see
deactivate your account okay and you can
click on that and it asks you for your
password in order to do that and then it
says oh but Shelley's gonna miss you and
Becca my wife is going to miss me
because she only ever sees me on
Facebook right
I don't i jen from new every day is
gonna miss me I'll message her about
that would you miss me if I left
Facebook so here's something
why do you this is a
required field why are you going to
leave Facebook this is temporary I'll be
back my account was hacked I don't feel
safe on Facebook so these are all valid
points right right but when you click on
them watch what happens I have a privacy
concern that's let's say that's my thing
oh well wait a second please remember
that you can always control your
information learn more let us know bla
bla bla give feedback right so they've
set it up as a way to mark it back to
you and say oh wait wait wait wait wait
wait don't leave here's how you can
change the thing that you have problems
with that you're concerned about which
makes sense from a business marketing
standpoint but so that feels shady but
it's also it's also a way for you to
find how to get your settings right if
you can't find those privacy settings
pretend you're gonna deactivate your
account and say I have a privacy concern
it'll take you right there if you go on
there and you say well let's see my
account was hacked oh well you can
secure your account here right well then
click there and all of a sudden now
you've secured your account with
two-factor authentication and everything
else what if you actually wanted to
delete your account now remembering
deactivating your account allows it to
be reactivated your stuff is never
removed it's always there it's still
available it's still accessible the
reason why I don't want to do that is
because I don't want to be tempted to
come back for me it's an addiction
okay so backup everything right so I
want to delete but I also want to have
messenger we'll talk about that first of
all to delete your account you click on
quick help and then you click on to
dududududu let's see here
homepage timeline they they make it
obscure oh it is very obscure Help
Center up at the top right see how
obscure that is now here there's no
mention of deleting your account but
delete account how do i permanently
delete my account so again they give you
some information download a copy of your
info bla bla bla and then if you would
like your account permanently deleted
with no option of recovery
into your account and let us know so
when I click that it says okay blah blah
blah delete my account you can follow
the prompts and you will presumably
delete your account but remember once
posted to the Internet nothing is ever
deleted nothing is ever gone you cannot
be guaranteed that it is gone because
anyone such as these advertising
companies that have access to my data on
Facebook somehow mmm-hmm I need to look
at that and address that they have a
copy of my data ok so remember that yeah
you actually asked about messenger yeah
if you delete your Facebook account you
can still use messenger okay now
remember it is still a Facebook product
right a Facebook software you are a
product I use it as a tool so I'm not
I'm not as addicted to message again
with messenger you just have to remember
that your conversations though private
are not private right they are being
recorded and they are being stored on
Facebook servers and I'm okay with that
in that I have very benign conversations
on Facebook yeah or on messenger but I
don't realistically I don't want tea and
this is the thing I don't want to lose
all content all contact with the people
who are important to me on Facebook I
just don't want Facebook but if I have
messenger people can still have
conversations with me like I can still
be we have a group group chat I can
still be part of the group chat if I
don't have Facebook right now with
messenger if you do not have a Facebook
account you're gonna need phone numbers
it's going to operate using phone
numbers and you're going to sign in
using your phone number if you
deactivate your Facebook account and log
into messenger with your Facebook user
and password it will reactivate your
Facebook account
I don't have to delete it I've never
deleted my account so I don't know what
would happen if I try to log into
messenger using my username and password
or whether I'd still have access to my
friends list they say you don't I have
seen posts that say you would still have
access to your friends in that chat but
most definitely as Facebook advertisers
you can use messenger exclusive of
Facebook
and login using your phone number okay
and it will allow you to then connect
with other people using their phone
numbers because what's my other option
if I don't have messenger I just use
email is that you know where like Google
Hangouts I don't know yeah I suppose you
could use hangouts and IRC and discord
and any number of apps and people would
say what's happened yeah I need to have
those people that are on my messenger be
ok with transferring themselves over
that's it right but I just I don't like
how infiltrated it is now like Facebook
is part of me and I don't love it you
have to set boundaries for yourself for
sure because it is it can be an
addictive platform because they've built
it to be that that's what they that's
how they've created it you'll be
scrolling your phone and suddenly it'll
jump to the top do you think that's an
accident as frustrating as that is no
hmm I don't I don't you may never not
have ever thought about that kind of
stuff but so my account will remain
Sasha wants to delete her account what
is your opinion now of Facebook and if
you are going to delete facebook hashtag
delete Facebook why that's my question
why what's your reason behind wanting to
delete facebook I have to stay on
Facebook because I administer our
Facebook pages on that Tesla
I can't I'm not gonna delete our
Facebook pages we're too small for that
they're huge
yeah we're too small we need to be able
to communicate with our community if I
was casual with Facebook I would be okay
with keeping it it's just that it's
become a thing for me and I don't like
that I won't quit coffee coffee people
always giving for me but I don't need
new addictions so Facebook's I I was a
late joiner to Facebook I only joined
eight years ago like I was a later
because it felt weird to begin with and
then I got on it and
would you be better to deactivate your
account and some people do this where
they just step away from Facebook for a
month and just see how you fare not
because I would encourage an addiction
but because you may find that it's
today's communication in a lot of ways
it's also how it's how I communicate
with a lot of folks and keep up with my
family and what they're up to because
we're not all connected and you know
physical you know getting together all
the time right and it's how I update
other people about us
it's how I let people know what my kids
are up to I know but I do it anonymously
to some degree you know like when I post
you'll notice if you follow my personal
facebook that everything is very generic
yeah I don't I don't do a lot of barely
see kids names and stuff it's like my
kids I know I don't do it like I don't
do a lot of oversharing I don't post
anything that I wouldn't be okay with
sharing with the world it's just the it
just feels weird now to me feels weird
now okay so that's that's one you know
why I'm staying why are you leaving or
staying comment below let us know
[Music]
[Applause]
