welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Robbie
Ferguson welcome episode number 238 of
category 5 technology TV for Tuesday
April 10 2012 well I just hear 1537 you
were just here for 237 but more Eric
Kidd than allowed by law seventy-four
percent more Eric it tonight folks sorry
about your luck Rachel's you couldn't
join us tonight she is off sick tonight
Eric thank you so much for subbing in
well here I am good to see once again
I'm happy lucky day Joey a lot I thought
about wearing the same shirt and putting
out your guitar and everything and just
and like totally messing with your head
so when you came in I'd be like okay are
you set I should have worn like Eric it
not not sure there you go yeah still
looking for what we're looking for one
nice and bright orange I those shots are
we have an intense spectacle of a show
for you tonight as Piper's maroc said
hints pires Rock said it you know what
you need to do more viewer question
extravaganzas and tonight you know we
got so many emails last week it's
distracting Eric that my friends was
only how about starting your own show if
you're thinking about starting your own
show that's why you buy a compressor for
when your co-host cops and was
microphone that is why you look at okay
here's the thing we got all these emails
this week people saying I really wish
you could have gotten to my question but
here the fact is we get a lot of
questions through the week and we do our
very very best i try i tried to express
that at the end of the show so tonight
we are just kind of dropping everything
well we'll still do a lot of the same
stuff but we're gonna really cram a lot
of viewer questions in tonight so we are
calling this rammed yeah we're calling
this the viewer question extravaganza /
arrive
to home overdrive overdrive Bodeen
nobody got competing on questions yep
exactly coming up in the newsroom
that'll be after some questions a Ford
Focus recall affects more than 140,000
cars in the US 140,000 that menu medical
implants have been found to be
susceptible to hacker attack hmm see
somebody with their little handheld
device neri okay the lack of filesystem
encryption means Facebook credentials
can easily be stolen on iOS and Android
AOL is sending is selling eight hundred
patents to Microsoft for more than 1
billion won net billion dollars sorry
but and you've got the correct haircut
for that I do yes yes I am NOT mini you
we're gonna leave that one a teen in
China has sold a kidney and bought some
nice apple products really oh my stick
around these stories are coming up later
in the show taking materialism to a
whole nother level Wow and of course
Apple right there at the forefront
hockey card you know got him got him
need them Needham got them but yeah are
you kidding for happen can you imagine I
don't know let's read the rest of the
story and we'll see what we will talk
about that in about a half hours time I
want to mention that we have a brand new
form it's part of v3 the brand new
category 5 website that is coming up and
here's the thing the forum is alive and
rockin it's forum dot category 5 TV
that's our new community forum and of
course it's just right now it's just
it's very bare minimum because it's just
a few people to know about it from the
v3 better group but you are welcome to
go over some of the sleigh beta group as
some of us do right he's getting kicked
under the table tonight folks won't be
the first forum dot category five dot TV
is is where you want to go also speaking
of little sites that we have our mobile
site is m dot catfight
I've dot TV if you've got a mobile
device I'll go there right now in
between hacking people's implants you
can visit our website what kind of
really does that well you're you're
you're gonna tell me how can tell us
what it never I them try to be a scary
stuff really but hey check that one out
m dot cap five dot TV for the full
mobile category five experience it's
really exciting for us to see all the
different devices that that our show is
on and I'm seeing it more and more and
more and in fact we're we're constantly
receiving pictures from viewers and i
encourage you to send some in as well
just a picture of you watching category
five on your device we see laptops yeah
just kind of like that preferably have
someone else take the shot if possible
you know if that's a possibility because
then it would actually have you in the
picture and those are the ones that we
absolutely love this one here comes to
us from Brian Murray who's watching last
week's episode while he's on break okay
in his courier van right are you gonna
say what company is a primary thanks for
sending that in Wow here he is catching
the show I don't think he's driving you
need gas man no he's not driving of
course not no the cars turned off okay
this we would not endorse that we might
have added some Eleanor yours or viewers
it you never know they can't miss a show
forget about the RSS feeds it's got to
be lying in the can was Rachel missed a
show this hats that it looks like to me
primary is that is that an iPad 2nd gen
looks like to me is it I think so is it
a samsung galaxy I'm looking at the home
button it's hard to see but it looks
like the home bottles out of an apple
device you are right so and there's your
camera news do you I don't always kind
of laid back there kind of like oh my
kidneys all relaxing at work I
understand thank you for catching the
show thank you for sending that and I'm
going to throw a hundred viewer points
your way well which we like to do
it's kind of like what was that show
whose line is a mash oh where the where
the rules are made up in the points no I
anyway uh we have a viewer postcard that
came to this week Eric I'm gonna get you
to read that in your awesome radio voice
mmm what is from Sandy egg where in the
world is Carmen Sandiego now you're
supposed to oh sorry I I think I was on
the road when that show came up i
remember the show but i don't recall
watching so this is from Mission Bay San
Diego hmm greetings from san diego
california USA mission bay is a little
more than eight miles from TJ a little
more TJ yeah who's TJ I don't know
that's the that's okay that's a one of
our viewers in the chat room eight miles
from tjs what they're called oh so okay
mission bay is a little more than eight
miles from TJ but is close enough eight
miles from DJ there you know so eight
miles from TJ what is TJ what is this TJ
that you speak of hmm eight miles from
Thomas Jefferson there is that like the
airport maybe I don't know thanks for
the postcard thank you very much for the
postcard yeah we love to receive your
postcards especially you know the stamps
are awesome for any stamp collectors
this one is have some fun during the
group I don't even know what he just
said I said this one is from blonde
lists in the group all right we can't
really get a good focus on it but there
it is from the mission the messenger
mission I'm going to scan that I'm going
to put it up on the brand new website
that is coming soon so make sure you
check that out thank you and usually let
anyone look up philately while we're
doing this flatulence no philately hey
let's get into some question let's get
into it folks okay and this is from Hong
Jang
Jen hey I think I said that correctly I
I hope I got that correct we do our get
that right okay and they are using
kubuntu all right eleven point 10 hi
Robbie weeks ago on the show you use
synaptic package manager to install djl
game manager very sad yeah my kubuntu
11.10 i cannot find the DJ I'll package
either through apt or my package manager
is there a software or a website that i
can use for finding out what repository
provides the software i need not only
detail any software the attachment is a
copy of my repositories list in my
system if it helps by the way this is my
first time sending you a question I feel
very excited about it category of 5 is a
great show I love it you gays are
amazing Hong Jang you know you can't
feel you can correct the words if they
make a type I'm not editorializing okay
Oh dear me thank you Hong Jang ok you
guys are amazing cheers all right Oh am
I gonna have to turn down the saturation
I had not realized you were blushing oh
that was kind of that was kind of funny
I didn't realize that eleven point 10
they actually removed the package for
djl when I was demonstrating that I've
just done a quick google search i did a
search for djl 11-point ten went to the
first option here says package djl and
it says that that package has been
deleted so what do you do well you can
use the the PPA which is a private
package as well I forget private you
know a PPA what is it I don't care a
personal package archive well there we
go okay so djl let's see there's got to
be a PPA here somewhere there's a home
page oh the package belongs to the PPA
get Deb games up at the top there in the
yellow here we go there are the
instructions to set up the get Deb games
repository
so that's what you would pop in to make
sure you copy the whole thing see how W
get was cut out there start at the
beginning copy that whole thing paste it
in you got that alright what I'm going
to do I'm going to give you the short
link so we're gonna set that up for you
right now just cuz I'd love to make
things good and easy for you he likes
make me Z for you he likes of
complicating that remote for him what's
the sigh for how's your week been good
game in hockey last Tuesday it was the
last one yeah it was end um it was a
great night and there there were some
wings and in a couple of the ribbon
bullets have either he won or lose lost
so you know what that I think we won
that night you did yeah unbelievable
haven't tell me about okay I've created
that link for him there's our witty
banter just to fill time as I created
the link with you yet it was banter ugh
lame lame batter cat five dot TV / DJ l
okay that is now going to take you to
this website ok this is the PPA that
you're going to need copy all that paste
it in your terminal basically what it
does ok first line w get blah blah blah
this is the key the gpg key the the
encryption key to say the signature key
to say that yes this is a legitimate
repository you want to have that key so
first line gets the key and then adds it
to your system so that now it's going to
trust this PPA then the second line here
uses a superuser do and it adds the PPA
to your sources.list file okay basically
it creates one that it that it will
refer to then you're going to want to go
sudo apt-get app dash get update it's
going to get all the repository
information just as you know to do and
then you should be able to install DJ
out what other packages come with the
game's repository I'm unsure you may
want to check into that it may give you
some some packages that are not approved
for official ubuntu repositories that's
usually what the PPA is represent their
personal package archives yes
I got it this time so those are created
by developers by fans of the
applications which have been removed
from the official repositories and that
will give you access cat5 TV / DJ l
we've got to take a quick break Eric
we're going to come right back to your
viewer questions pop us a line in the
chat room and also you can email us live
at category five dot TV all right do
that we'll be right back at eco
alkalines we believe you should be able
to trust your batteries not just here
but here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here Eco alkalines
of the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco alkalines provide
performance the rivals leading national
alkaline battery brands at a comparable
price find out more about the Eco
alkalines difference eco alkalines com
this is category 5 technology TV and eco
alkalines are an amazing battery as you
know and we are giving away a year
supply this is not a year supply this is
one two three four five six seven this
is only eight weeks know if it's a year
supply for my guitar tuner I've haven't
had to change them yet they just keep
blasting and elastic well they're good
batteries these are really good
batteries they last check out their
website cat5 TV / eco and here's the
thing you want to get involved in their
social media like them on facebook like
their posts like their pictures whatever
it takes and get on to their twitter
follow them retweet them every time
you're active with their social media
profile you're going to be casting a
ballot to win a year supply we will ship
anywhere in the world as you know so
make sure you sign up for that simply by
liking them on Facebook following them
on Twitter retweeting them like in their
posts and and here's the thing that's
going to cast your ballot we're going to
do a draw for Earth Day coming up very
very soon
and that's going to give you a year
supply fifty two packs of batteries it's
amazing that's so ala batteries and
they're earth friendly they're fantastic
we'll talk now about those on future
shows and of course I'd encourage you
get onto their website cat5 TV / eco and
that's where you can find their social
media profiles good luck everybody hey
Robbie did you know that category 5 TV
is a member of the tech podcast network
I do you knew that I knew this if it's
tech it's here right here right here and
on the tech podcast network buller to
what is your first haha you saw it here
first and then it goes on to their
that's right among other shows that are
about tech okay cuz it's here end there
so I'm like if somebody said your shirt
was amazing I'm like this superhero with
no powers or motivation yeah it's pretty
much it that you can read that that's
something is a testimony of the
technology behind web streaming these
days it's not fantastic we talked to go
Wirecast a couple weeks ago gave it away
last week check out episode number 236
exceptional stuff I'm looking a little
out of focus there tonight Eric well
speaking of amazing things you can do in
Wirecast there we go i mean just like
that I'm adjusting my camera lens I just
love that that can you do anything with
that haircut of yours I I could okay but
the reason that i won't is because that
that gets into cgi okay and yes the
lifecam has cheesy little effects i
turned you into an alien once live on
the air yeah but it like takes your CPU
and I just skyrock Sakura skyrockets it
because we're 1080p oh so nasty your
questions but live at chem extreme
arrive TV yeah yeah what he said let's
do some more questions here's one from
Dominic at Tennessee oh hey dominic and
using win XP 7 and centos debian etc so
kang common accusing them all all right
his there an open source drive imager
like clonezilla that will image alive
sin
dash five server in other words I don't
want to reboot or shut down the server
while I image it I'm aware of the tools
that I could that can be purchased but
they all exceed our budget hmm the goal
is to do a bare metal restore in the
case of drive failure yeah all right do
you want do there are very soft ware
yeah the there is an imager that will
take a picture of anything is called a
digital camera no I'm so kidding you
want to do it with software because you
don't want it you don't have the budget
perhaps for the hardware ideally in your
situation it's a server it's live it's
on the fly get a raid one unit that has
a hot hot swappable drive bay be able to
swap out a drive you've got three drives
two of them are in the system at all
times will that fit his budget won't but
this is the ideal situation okay I'm
just saying this is ideal okay so so
because and I start I proceed with that
because what I'm going to suggest is
specific to this particular viewers
question who doesn't necessarily have
the budget to do that but if it is in
your budget this is not the best way to
go the best way to go is to have that
raid one unit that means that there are
two drives that are exact mirrors of
each other one of them is your your
entire file system say the second one is
a mirror of that file system once a day
once a week whatever it takes you pop
out the second drive and then you pop in
a blank drive or whatever you've got a
third Drive okay take that second drive
off site keep it off-site never have all
three of them on site for more time than
it takes to to just swap them out one
week later you come back you pop out
that second Drive you pop in the first
so you've always got a one-week
restoration point on that on that extra
hard drive that's ideal less than ideal
you've got a server you want to be able
to clone it on a regular basis and do a
bare metal install first way to look at
it is to get your server all set up
right get it work in the way that you
want do as we mentioned last week use
clonezilla boot up the system so now
it's offline permeate you create one
cloned image then you install some kind
of backup software you use any kind of
backup software on your scent OS server
and use that to create the increments so
anything that has changed since the
point of that image
is now being backed up two separate
files on a server somewhere maybe
off-site maybe on an external hard drive
that you can take off site so now it's a
two-step process during a catastrophic
failure first you restore to bare metal
the original clonezilla image then you
restore all of the file changes that
incremental changes that have changed
since then from the on-the-fly backups
but the file system itself is restored
from clonezilla and then the the
applications or whatever settings emails
and things that are sitting on the
server those are going to get
transferred over from the backups that's
the next ideal situation the third and
probably what you're hoping to do is to
create an on-the-fly image it's going to
be pretty resource intensive because a
sector-by-sector right but you could use
DD so you would just specify an in file
and an out file so for you you bring up
let's say we bring up terminal you
create a bash script and or you wouldn't
even have to create a bash script I
guess you would probably you might want
to because you'll need some error
checking some way of confirming whether
or not the task is finished if you're
gonna run it on a nightly gonna run it
on a weekly just be careful that it's
not it never ends up running twice in a
row if you've got a terabyte hard drive
and you do a DD image on the fly and and
it's having to share resources with a
running operating system then that might
take longer than a week who knows so you
need to have some kind of a Bosch script
running to check use aux find out if the
application is already running which
would be DD if DD is running don't run
it again ok that's a little more
sophisticated than when I'm going to get
into tonight right now I'm just going to
answer your question and show you how to
do it so let's look at / dev / SD star
those are my hard drive so if we want
the entire hard drive of SDA that's the
first hard drive on my my SATA
controller I would go DeeDee I'm going
to go pardon me sudo DD I f4 in file
equals dev SDA if I want the whole drive
or i can go sda1 or SDA too if I just
want the partition let's say I want the
whole drive with the partition data file
equals and I'm just going to throw it
into temp
test dot IMG okay as simple as that
that's going to immediately start
creating a file I'll throw it on my
desktop okay so you're taking a whole
hard drive and you're throwing it on
your just onto my desktop in a file
called the destroy of hard rock IMG it's
still on this hard drive in this yeah no
I understand your point you want to have
this on a separate yeah back that could
be kind of nasty you need that you need
to have good point thank you what Erich
is saying is that I'm doing all the read
write operations Oh see I'm creating
this and I'm sticking it on this oh my
goodness and we're gonna create a
causality loop there are rift in the
space-time continuum don't do this
forget about everything I said no
because if I save it to the hole if if I
save it to the hard drive that I'm
backing up it's going to continually
back up and back up and say oh here's a
new file in black in a mirror in a
mirror you're in the mirror and get a
second hard drive yeah exactly just
totally yes it's like how you know this
started falling out and this will start
yeah that's it and I've done that where
I've done like an LS or do a grep do a
grep and then pipe it into a file in the
current folder and whoops why's my cpu
so high why is this file 10 terabytes
don't save it to the existing hard drive
okay for the sake of this demonstration
maybe I will but let's pretend you've
got another hard drive okay that's
really important thank you Eric so let's
instead save it too let's pretend we've
got to drive on media called USB one
okay and we'll call that dr dot in image
that's the way we wanted that makes me
help you that makes you have a job yeah
no causality with no rift in the
space-time continuum no explosive hard
drive filling bugs in our script boy
when I was learning how to program and
see boy did I make some loops it would
just bring a machine to it yeah I've
done a couple in PHP totally accidental
fortunately I run everything on
localhost and you know learn my learn my
way oopsie okay so that's that's exactly
what that's gonna do okay
hope that helps that's just DD image and
of course you can restore that that
including DD stands for desktop
destroyer liner was destroyed but ok I
was gonna say it's like digital naked no
what is it nobody really knows nobody
okay we're gonna call it like um did you
I wanted to say something with dork in
the name apparently according to Bob
McAdory it's like hey our TV he says
that it's a whale penis is what a dork
is I don't know where he learned that
but the more you know a swab that's the
kind of thing that when Bob McIntyre
says it on I don't believe whether it's
true or not well and yet but you just I
don't know that you repeat it to a
global audience well maybe I'll tell
Whalers over there could tell us
Weller's perfect all right okay should
we move on to another question we should
probably do that because now that is
permanently a part of that clip so
thanks if we have a question regarding
the eco alkaline batteries yeah are they
available in the United States they sure
are they are they are available
everywhere in this beautiful world of
ours sweet so should they check le I com
to find where to find them cat five dot
TV / eco there you go I wasn't joking
you can go to that website it will take
you there you can order right off their
website if you can't find at a local
store but they have a growing number of
stores that carry their product right
across i I don't I don't really like I
don't pretend to be a part of their
distribution okay but it's it they're
available everywhere will ship
everywhere so so I guess whatever is
necessary is what I guess the question
was is like anyone but you down as Alice
Texas can they go and buy one I don't
know that you'd have to ask them that
that would have been the appropriate
answer sorry about 12 sentences are
available pretty much everywhere through
us but if you want to know specifically
where in my town email them ok cap five
TV / eco ok let's go on to another
oh my gosh I know I meant to know the
inner workings of every company on the
face of the earth but Robbie told me he
knew everything I did not tell you that
well it was implied take it away now
okay I'm a guy how's it going okay okay
ubuntu 11.10 yeah okay so the question
sounds more like a statement it would
have been nice to have an Android app
for watching your show similar to the
revision 3 app i have a samsung galaxy
tab and i'd like to have easy access to
the episodes yeah that sounds a whole
lot like a statement not a question
perhaps i just love how you add so much
attitude to these emails it would have
been nice if you had an android app for
watching your show you know pretty sure
that they didn't intend that i get a
flat one question for our viewers i look
really like an android app for my
samsung galaxy tab oh yeah yeah as my
buddy with the the Apple product got a
peterson strober tune okay um and it's
fabulous mm-hmm but it's not available
for Android ah or blackberry well here's
the thing you bring up your browser you
head on over to mcat five dot TV i'll
bring up that graphic again mcat five TV
on your android device if you've got a
QR reader scan that if you don't have a
QR reader you can install one it's free
right when you do that I'm going to I'm
I'm just bringing up my ipod here okay
and I'm actually going to I'm going to
do a cue our scam why not and I'm going
to scan the screen just with you people
on backstage pass can see this is
exactly what I'm doing so with my QR
reader there we go beep
yeah this is going to actually launch
our it's a mobile website it's like a
nap it better you have a loop in here if
if I launch it live so do it that's my
battery warning oh my battery's dead but
there we are you don't have equal ends
in your apple and my Apple device
doesn't get eco walk lines that wish it
did who's that nice-looking guy with
your shirt on there so hope that screen
I don't know he's a bit of a sassy pants
so say become there's a wrong camera
there we go so that is it's not
technically a nap in the sense that
you're not going to find it in your App
Store or app world or anything like that
but you get onto that website mcap 5 TV
add it to your dashboard or your desktop
or whatever you want to call it on your
particular device and when you do if
it's supported like on the Apple devices
here just let's see here see I actually
get an icon for category 5 TV and when I
click it it's going to launch as if it's
a nap it's really just a website that's
what's amazing about the modern web
right you can do apps per se on a
website so so visit that add it to your
dashboard and see how that works for you
that'll work on any mobile device very
cool mm-hmm now what about my Peterson's
troublesome okay I don't even know what
that is you know the oscilloscope to
lose yeah I used to see in the old room
oh okay like a guitar yeah more or you
can use it to tune an instrument ever
annoy very accurately more accurate yeah
perfect team it doesn't make the face
when it does that Eric we gotta we gotta
hit some news for these folks we're
gonna have some more questions after
this and of course join us in the chat
room to category 5 on freenode right on
our website category 5e do they hear
that excuse me yeah I know there's not
enough caffeine a cough cough cough
tonight well I thought half-caf would be
nice i emailed you and I said what do
you want using whatever you're making so
some day just for the record I mean how
can you complain right
there was no I don't want half caff I'd
like I'd like full calf I'm a double
cough how can you do that I don't know I
had a jolt cola months that was pretty
good Wow just one song here are the top
stories from the category 5 TV news room
Ford is the calling more than 140,000
2012 focus cars in the United States to
repair a potential problem the passenger
side windshield wiper motor Robin Hood
resulting in an operative wiper on the
passenger side during rainfall reducing
visibility and increasing the risk of
the crash it kind of defeats the purpose
yeah it's raining stop working owners
will be notified the week of May 21st
and the wiper motor connector will be
cleaned and sealed as needed ok so it
works fine unless it rains unless it
rains you got it and then you know we'll
let you know let's hope that between now
and May 21st did you say yeah so you've
heard that there's no tier kids hope
that in the spring in the US that there
is no rainfall between now and the end
of may know I know Christie's not here
but we had wet range slushy snow and
stuff going on here it was unbelievable
ok security researchers have developed
attacks that locate and compromise
medical implants used to manage
conditions such as diabetes and heart
disease one such attack identified a
radio signal that if rebroadcast can
switch off a heart defibrillator yikes
that's just like a pacemaker researchers
insist more work needs to be done to
secure implants and protect against
malicious actions and this study is
certainly a wake-up call for implant
developers I'll say I can see this on a
future episode of CSI yeah really ok
developer Gareth right recently found
that the lack of file system encryption
on both Facebook's iOS and Android
clients leaves your facebook account
accessible by other apps and even
hardware devices which could
a compromise your account data when
poking around in application directory
is on his iPhone last week right pound
of plain text facebook access token in
the popular Draw Something game when he
copied the hash he discovered he could
pull back pretty much any information
from his own Facebook account a hacker
who copies that token onto another
device can get into a user's Facebook
account and write proved the
vulnerability by sending the file to a
friend who was able to access and post
directly to his facebook account as if
it were his own given that the
vulnerability can be exploited with
hardware and physical access right says
he'll be thinking twice about plugging
his devices into shared pcs public music
docs or charging stations yeah that's
something yeah I never even really
thought of it when I think about
encryption when it comes to like
Facebook apps and stuff I'm thinking
about Wi-Fi encryption and and yeah
ssl-certificates as i'm using the app i
never even thought well if my file
system is unencrypted and there's some
malicious app in there that's grabbing
files from my facebook folder there you
that's scary stuff AOL has agreed to
sell more than 800 patents and related
products to Microsoft for one point zero
five six billion dollars as the
struggling online company looks to raise
fresh casts struggling and there's not a
knife at one point zero five six well
they're not okay they're not so much
struggling after the sale okay okay
groceries okay as the struggling online
company looks to raise fresh cast for
its investors while fighting a boardroom
showdown with them an activist
shareholder shares of AOL surged as much
as forty five percent on Monday hitting
their highest point nearly
one-and-a-half years as the company
pledged to return to a significant
portion of the sale proceeds to shell
hole shareholders under the agreement
announced yesterday AOL also received a
license to the patents being sold to
Microsoft but the terms of that
agreement were not disclosed ok and a
17-year old student
the city of Chengdu China decided to
sell one of his kidneys in exchange for
thirty five hundred dollars for thirty
five hundred dollars with which he
bought an iphone and ipad where did you
get the money for that his mother asked
noticing one of his shiny new apple
products oh i sold a kidney the kid
apparently told her it's unclear whether
it was the mothers raids that led to the
prosecution of this case in which five
individuals were indicted for the kidney
transplant scheme which involved the
renting of an operating room hiring of
medical staff and seeking out organ
donors in the online chat rooms wow that
is pretty stuff it's both scary and sad
yeah like really sad well getting it the
full stories at category 5 TV news room
the category 5 TV news room is
researched by roy w nash with
contributions by our community of
viewers if you have a news story you
think is worthy of on-air mention email
newsroom at category 5 TV for the
category 5 TV news room american thank
you Eric hey I brought some fresh coffee
for you so uh top up is that where the
other half of the convenient that's
where it is right there category five
tonight is brought to you in part by
quarter electrics the official
electrical company of category five TV
checking out quarter eee electric com
also garden gate farms com for certified
organic broccoli sprout and wheatgrass
juice visit them at garden gate farms
com one of the things that I always like
to mention I mean we got a postcard this
week and love receiving your postcards
make sure you send this one its category
5 technology TV postal box 29 00 09
let's try it again postal box 29 00 9
the variables rules yeah 00 ho let's try
this for a third time folks category 5
technology TV postal box 29 00 9 Barrie
Ontario Canada l4 n7w 7 all right we did
w w yeah we probably have some more
questions imagine that okay
now hi rush an extravaganza overdrive
that's what I'm talking about news yes
hi Robbie hey I just wanted to say great
show my dreams I him and I our webpage
makers house we loved your PHP show
thank you have a script that allows DJ's
to change the request send change the
request sent to email so when the
listeners want to hear a tune they just
type it in and it goes to his or her
email oh that part of the script is not
working could you give me a quick idea
or a demo of how this is done please is
there a way to do it so the DJ can log
in using a login dot PHP page I've made
so when the DJ is done with their show
it will stop sending till they are alive
again I might just have it set to one
email address and tell the DJ they need
to go use that one thanks Michael from
Florida USA PS i am attaching the script
for your review please keep in mind the
person who made this script use for a
newsletter thing i am guessing from all
the code and a post post script i am
sending it as a zip and RAR file because
i'm using a Windows machine yeah sorry
well like an open windows since 3.1
congratulations well I hope that there
are eunuchs rappers in the files that I
fix and sent back to you for windows
I'll have to save them as windows text
files otherwise it'll be all one line
let's take a look I'm gonna take a look
at the code that you've sent disclaimer
what you are about to view may become
incredibly geeky so do legs make some
popcorn or this is this is what I'm
getting I don't know am I am I missing a
CSS file or something we're going to
take a look there CSS and the header
because it looks awfully dark
yeah there's really not a lot to the CSS
end of things is there so all right feel
like getting into some code Eric I sure
you do you feel like getting in some
code you need to pour yourself coffee
sir oh you another you want me to what
do you want me to do you have a copy
okay here we go we're gonna delve into
this code okay well for for our viewer
Michael Arnold oh there you go well
that's good that's why there you go all
right thank you enjoy we don't want the
hyper kid don't worry the home cool
until I have nothing as you have told
the world okay where do we start with
this okay so let's take a look it looks
like okay so I'm entering my name Robbie
my email live act category five TV
artist Eric Kidd do they have any air
kit oh they don't air Clapton all right
well let's go with eric clapton he
doesn't cover any of my material
unbelievable uh let's do some lela lela
you've gotten me all my things look
anyway when you what's going on okay so
shout out to Eric Kidd so what happens
when I go request this Jam not found
okay so first thing I notice here
Michael is that this is pointing to file
a folder called don't touch this on your
server power jam in radio com and that
folder doesn't exist so we need to fix
that file I'm going to bring up request
dot PHP in my text editor and we're
looking for don't touch this don't touch
this being only one okay so II file okay
that's not the one that we're looking
for there it is form action
and we're going to presume well okay so
is this trying to load this particular
form we're going to find that out by
looking for action if action equals
request so scroll down ways in the code
though yeah that's all HTML let's do a
search for requests okay there's the
first one max request JavaScript okay
request label CSS up there we go if
dollar sign action equals equals request
so this is actually pointing to this
form we know so where it's pointing to
that don't touch this we can just remove
let's see okay so we're going to get rid
of all that and we're going to have a
relative link to go to action request so
we're losing the URL there let's upload
that change by oral goodbye let's see if
I can submit it without filling anything
in Oh didn't refresh okay request this
Jam I didn't feel anything on okay I've
got a whole bunch of warnings here for
one thing Michael looking at that
there's there's obviously some some
issues with this code and I understand
that you probably want us to walk you
through how to fix it i think probably
the most effective thing for us to do
would look at the concepts and the
problems with the script and figure out
why it's behaving the way that it is why
it's not working okay it's still looking
for don't touch this that's that's what
it's looking for the e-file I don't know
if you see this here but now it's trying
to include power jam radio com / don't
touch this / e file so you got rid of it
in the first little yeah so but what's
happened URL file access is disabled by
the server it's trying to open a file on
a remote server that's what that error
message tells me so we'll do a search
for file the PHP function and it's not
found maybe get contents
no ok so let's let's look at that one
that Eric is seen or look at Power Jam
radio don't touch this efile what are
these little no sorry I saw where some
kind of strange little characters like
an a with a movement I don't know what
yeah Kirko look like some high ASCII
there or something yeah well we'll work
our way through the code and try to
figure this out see what what's going on
I found the include that's causing that
error though right here right up near
the top line 372 is telling me to open
this file oh that's that's where the
other where the file open is to include
and it's trying to include an HTTP well
that's never good practice first of all
let's fix our form and we're going to
put this in brackets with proper
quotations around it and we know that we
can't include a remote file that's bad
security so we're going to tell it to
include a relative file one that's in
the current folder and I notice that
there is no file called efile there's
one called you file so I have no idea
what efile is you file contains what
looks like a base64 of a password so
let's let's just comment out that line
for now so just know Michael that I
don't know what that file is e file
because you didn't send this I wonder if
it's Michael out there in the chat room
give it yeah kind of let us know if
you're in the chat room that would be
great but I won't let it hold us up
because this at all you know will j mike
says don't touch this was just a dumb
folder we made for testing okay well
that's obviously breaking it for us so
because it doesn't exist on your server
I'm going to make it local so that it
actually works ok so I've commented out
efile what does e file because I don't
have that file you never sent that so
I'm going to upload those changes I've
commented out efile now if i refresh its
submitting um no idea what do you file
and it said okay it says thank you for
your request so I must assume P is 0
there's a zoo zoo zoo zoo zoo zoo zoo
well I was good and I blocked my IP that
was good that was good so all right so
I've done I've done that much now what
would have happened if I submitted that
so when I submitted it you'll see that
it did action equals request so let's go
back to where it said what happens if
action equals request well equals equals
pardon me to PHP ok so if action equals
request we're going to do all this stuff
we're going to generate this crazy file
that Eric was asking about well what is
all this junk it's creating a PHP file
in the subscribers folder in a wherever
group is if group exists and it's
generating a random file name which ends
in an ampersand ampersand probably not a
good idea in a file name and it's
calling it dot PHP which at first glance
would mean a security exploit to me
exploitable because this folder is
writable we'd have to look at the
permissions that you have set up on your
server be careful of this all right
because you're creating PHP files here
ok so it's a PHP file it sends the e
phone number was in the files ok well it
breaks it so I've commented it out
dollar sign comment equals and then it
puts our content equals my name this
character would whatever that is for do
you know what that's for the artist the
song my comment i guess the date my IP
address and then it ends the file and
closes the PHP there's the close of the
file dollar sign g so it creates that
that file next line if post song too so
if I've created two songs is not equal
to 0 quote ok and then it does the same
thing so it's creating a secondary file
parent first gotta use this was using it
for a newsletter script sure I'll just
say it looks it looks a little bit messy
as those who see this can can probably
tell and all of this stuff that's
redundant where where it does the same
thing twice and in this case I think
four or five times yeah that could all
be done in
in a statement that could all be done in
a loop otherwise if you need to change
something and you change it on song one
and then you forget to change it on song
2 then it breaks on to right that's
that's a mess boy oh boy man lots of
that going on can I do it can I say this
should be recoded all right our jamming
radio yeah we know yeah we know that
it's saving a file and subscribers under
the so that's that has created look at
how many files is created and not only
submitted it a couple times that's gonna
be a mess and you can't really tell so I
take it this is kind of you dad amazing
if you were doing something more than
one should try some kind of a for each
loop perhaps sure well for each and an
array but probably a while in a case
like this something that says but yeah
you could if you set it up as an array
so songs 0 is a song songs one is
another song and then for each through
that array and do it as many times as
there are songs and then you're not
limited to the four or five songs they
could add a hundred songs that they
wanted to all that could be problematic
listen you get wonderin request
sometimes requests are slow though and
you like to bloat it with you know
somebody hey could you could you just
hop it on over to our website and
request about 30 songs please right now
they're limited to four or five so
that's kind of a problem so oh it was
working but it only sent to the email
only sent to whatever email you put an
email blank oh is that right okay if
that's the case then this is DJ Mike
that we're talking to the ICC image
hammerin thanks for joining us live he's
looking good in the chat room too I have
a couple of concerns with this script my
friend I know that this was quoted by
someone else I'm just I'm glancing at
this you know its first time looking at
this code I've said it could be done
cleaner it could be done nicer but
here's here's my concern right up at the
top of
let's see I noticed something here
that's that's going on in your head men
and that is that you're you're grabbing
everything as if it's in it's basically
set up to run as if you've got register
globals on and if you if you don't know
what that means then you need to learn
that because it's a very bad security
exploit I mean bad the way that you're
running this I'll just show you this is
your admin panel okay this is for DJ
Mike but I hope that you you can
understand that there are some concepts
here even even though we're talking
about a specific code there are this
transcends this code so this applies to
you if you're a PHP developer using
register globals here's the problem okay
I'm going to find a variable here that
is using okay well here's one called
dollar sign handles okay that's opening
from a file s file handles let's see
we've got a whole bunch of strings past
cookies say logged it was building
directly that's that's the whole team at
er yeah that just doesn't really matter
okay here's one if dollar sign action
equals log out okay that is not in a
wrapper it's it's it's own entity it
says if action is log out and same kind
of thing over here if action is log out
if all this stuff is going on okay so
here's what you need to ask yourself
okay if action equals log out where is
that specified it's specified on your
get line which means if I go into your
admin and I type now I've got some
problems there too okay if i type in a
password look at what it does it creates
? action equals do login ok so now you
need to say okay in my script where is
it creating dollar sign action from do
login well here's the problem it's doing
it from this it's doing it from register
globals so dollar sign action
is automatically set based solely and
exclusively on this so that means if I
figure out your script and I figure out
that i can go is admin let's just say as
just to pretend okay I know that that's
not the particular exploit in your
script what that's going to do is it's
going to create a string in my script
called is Edmond and it's going to set
the value to 1 so if somebody knows the
insides and outs of your script they can
simply force strings on to your file
using the get statement very very simple
to exploit your system that's exactly
why register globals was set to off as
of PHP 4.2 that's why it's been removed
from all of the current versions of PHP
there is no register globals as an
option anymore because it is such a bad
security x-play in your case I would get
rid of that ok so for you because you
say it's only the male thing so I can't
really get this working on my server
because I've got some security in place
that says you know what we are not going
to support register globals we're not
going to allow this kind of thing to
happen I wouldn't run the script on my
server because it's insecure it's unsafe
but that said if you were to clean that
up let's take a look at where your mail
out is happening you're saying that the
person gets it but you don't ok so I'm
going to look for the PHP mail function
here it is so what does this say it says
it's going to mail to okay whose message
one because that's the recipient the
subject message or miss stuff one
headers okay so message one is who it's
going to so let's find out who that is
message is explode so it's exploding
that file see because just it's it's
getting the content from the file yeah
no because it's an array right explode
is creating an array from dollar sign
content and the break point is this
silly character so that's just what
they've used as a break point so it's
now going to say so let's go back to the
file
message one is now going to be your name
artist so that's message 10 in the array
one in the right to in the array /
freely through an email request up power
jamming yeah radio com well this is
telling me that it's grabbing the email
address from whatever the user has put
into the form so when I go to your site
and I enter my email here this is what's
specifying if I put it in live at
category 5 TV that's where it's going to
go because it's told to send it to me
not to you based on this right so what
you would need to do if you want to see
see what you could probably do is you
could go dot okay comma and this is line
170 of the file request the ER no pardon
me Edmund PHP and that comma specifies
now I'm going to put in my email address
so now I'm going to CC it over to live
at category 5 TV so now it's going to
send it to this user but it's also going
to do a comma and then live at category
5 dB if you don't want to expose your
email address
what you can do is copy that line
entirely paste it again and just change
this in the second version to your email
address so now it's going to send a copy
to them and then in a separate email
it's going to send exactly the same
thing in to you whatever you know
address you put in there I'll just
verify that there's no mail function
there is an mail function happening in
the request script so it looks like it's
sending to them that way as well it was
supposed to go to both tell the person
was here she wanted to hear then see and
that's what see that's what's probably
happening here see they've got two
versions in request PHP so let's find
out where my email is specified it's not
specified whereas email specified see
email your script is being told sent to
these two people dollar sign email and
dollar sign my email but I just did a
search for dollar sign my email and it's
not specified not found not found ok so
what needs to happen is up where your
dollar sign email is specified create a
new line see that's creating it from
their email let's call this one my email
get rid of this live at category 5 TV
and now it's going to CC to me right now
what's happening is on that second time
that it tries to send email to my email
it fails there's no email address
specified so it can't do it are you so
that's all it is is you need to specify
your my email so be mindful of the
security problems that I mentioning with
that script very concerned about some of
the things that are happening there but
I think that will let that will help you
anyway so good luck ok alright one more
question if we've got time for Derek
it's your call well let's do it thanks
for the questions everybody we love
getting your questions live at category
five dot TV and of course you can also
join us in the chat room we do our best
to to be there for you as well hey we
have a question from
Jamie Pritchard hi genuine jamie is it
possible to download recorded and fro
info from a bell PVR to an iPad 1 hmm
interesting question um I'd want to know
probably the model of that particular
PPR Jamie the reason I say that is
because different PVR's are going to
record two different formats some of
them you may be accessed be able to
access through network through samba
which is to say being able to access it
from like your Windows computer and then
sync to your iPhone or your iPad in most
cases though I think a PVR especially
one that comes from your from Belle like
those out to VCR typos this is the yeah
probably HDMI as well hdmi is your
digital output so that's going to be the
best quality but of course it has
composite as well and you can get like
720 x 480 off composite you can get
1080p off of the hdmi so if your
particular device doesn't support
accessing the file system which many of
them don't especially as i was saying
bell is you know they don't want you to
be able to transfer stuff off it's it's
their service right they want it to be
they want you to run that particular
hardware so in that case hdmi output
from the device is your best bet going
into a computer that has say a black
magic intensity pro input black magic
intensity pro is a card or a USB 3
device which allows you to plug a an
HDMI device into your computer and
record it at full 1080p so it's a bit of
a process but it can be done can it be
done easily just by syncing it to your
PVR not too likely unfortunately it
would be nice if it was that simple
would be nice but once you've got it
imported into your computer from
whatever ripping program or copying
program that you're using to to dub it
and not to be mistaken for i should
mention i mean back in the old days of
tape dubbing we would lose quality right
here you're talking about a lossless
connection over HDMI it's uncompressed
video it's coming over a digital cable
to from one digital device to another
digital device so you're not going to
have any
in quality is going to be perfect so
anything that's recorded on that device
you plug a hdmi to hdmi on a black magic
intensity pro they're available from
cat5 TV / bh if you go to that website
do a search for intensity pro and you'll
be able to find it there so hope that
helps thank you everybody for your
questions hey man hey you see you thank
you I told you to be intense tonight it
wasn't a here we go yeah and there we go
right thanks everybody get your
questions in Han week oh boy oh boy how
does he come up with this stuff we ought
to write a book it'll be about this big
and it'll be like on the back of the
toilet he'll be Eric's quote in the back
of the toilet he said it was intense I
thought we were going camping sure
thanks Eric have a fantastic week man hi
exam for something in my best yeah
thanks for having me yeah I always a
pleasure thank you especially you Isis
and you self a little bit like we was
looking into the magic mirror there for
a second and Billy I see Bob did you
romper room when you were I sure did cuz
I remember the day she was looking
through a magic tennis racket and I see
Eric and wow I was your heart stopped
was I was exciting and from that moment
on you were in love with her I know it's
how it went down still have you gotten
over it take care everybody have a great
week Hillary rumble will be here next
weekend we're going to start our series
on how to use technology to save
yourself some money so we'll see you
then take it easy all right
Oh
