welcome to category 5 technology TV
episode number 437 for Tuesday the
second of februari 2016 nice to see I'm
flying solo tonight my name is Robby I
am your camera guy your host your
co-host your chat room operator and your
news dude so I hope you enjoyed the show
i'm gonna try to keep up with everybody
who's joining us on the chopper nice to
see you i'm gonna come back to the chat
room so hey if you're new here let me
know before the next couple of minutes
time first of all tonight we are
celebrating the 20 years of the GNU
image manipulation program as we
continue our series 20 weeks of gimp
tips and tonight we're going to be going
through an exercise to help us learn how
to create perspectives in the free GNU
image manipulation program also we are
going to be reinstalling raspbian on our
Raspberry Pi and this time we're going
to extend the file system to use the
entire 16 gig micro SD card that's going
to give us a lot more space for our
Raspberry Pi powered server I'm building
a web server okay jumping over here
let's see if I can do it see how that's
done here is what's coming up in the
category 5 TV newsroom Europe has begun
to roll out a data superhighway in orbit
above the earth a Cambridge start-up
things that they have the solution to
bulk password theft a meeting of the EU
data watch dogs is set to have
wide-ranging ramifications for the way
businesses handle data and a driverless
car project in the UK has received a
green light and a bunch of government
funding stick around the full details
are coming up later in the show
this is category 5 technology TV
starring Sasha dramatis
Hillary rumble
Eric kid
and your host Ravi Ferguson welcome to
the show this is category 5 technology
TV my name is Robbie and it's so good to
have you here flying solo tonight Jeff
wasn't sure if he was gonna be able to
make it and by the time he said yeah I
can make it I had already got everything
kind of setup and planned out for the
evening but a lot to cover so it's just
me I thought hey let's let's go at this
kind of old-school style so if you've
been watching category 5 technology TV
for some time you know that when I first
started this thing it was just me
sitting in the basement now it's me
sitting in a TV studio and you hanging
out with me so thanks for being here and
I hope that you enjoy the show speaking
of shows mangafox 70 is watching the
chat room she's here in the studio with
me keeping me company and she just shot
another episode of the pixel shadow
check that out of course you can find a
link on our website but also just go
over to youtube and use the hashtag the
pixel shadow it's all one word and if
you're on roku or cody make sure you've
got our channel installed category 5 TV
network cody it's at github com / cat5
TV and you will see the pixel shadow as
well as our other shows there speaking
of other shows I want to say I
appreciate everybody who's been
supporting category 5 the TV network
here for the past while we've been
slowly building up our following on
patreon and patreon is a really cool way
that you can support us just head on
over to patreon.com / category 5
patreon.com / category 5 and through
that website you're actually able to
support everything that we do here at
the category 5 TV network so there's my
show the flagship show category 5
technology TV the show show new every
day the category 5 TV news room try it
by a nature sounds of Ontario Canada the
drone zone the pixel shadow creation
today and more coming soon all you have
to do is click on that pledge 25 cents
per episode or of course if you can do
more we greatly appreciate those of you
who are pledging a dollar three dollars
five dollars it makes a
very significant difference and that
helps us to get to our goal a lot faster
now we've got a lot of bills to pay rent
internet we're volunteers here so I
don't take a paycheck and neither do any
of our co-hosts or the people that
actually make this happen for you and so
we do our best to make ends meet and pay
for the studio space that we have here
in beautiful Barrie Ontario and we also
have our internet connection that is LTE
and unfortunately quite pricey and we're
broadcasting to you live tonight through
that internet connection and we
appreciate everybody's support in
helping us to keep that going and keep
that strong another way that people are
supporting us is through our partners
you can go to our website and click on
to support us and our partner links and
through those partner links like Amazon
eBay a vast variety of others you're
able to make your purchases and can and
actually support category 5 with a
portion of your purchase amazon is
probably the biggest of those as far as
what what our viewers are using and what
you're using and I appreciate you doing
that and so we actually get a percentage
of every sale it's really interesting
how it works because it's the referral
program and as a partner of amazon we r
we support amazon.ca calm co uk a whole
bunch of other one so hey whatever
amazon that you use please make sure you
go through our website category five dot
TV very cool way to support what we're
doing okay category five dot TV is a
member of the tech podcast network if
it's tech it's here cap five dot TV /
tpn and the international association of
internet broadcasters camp five dot TV /
IA ib let's get right into it we've got
the 20 weeks of GIMP tips it's week 11
if you can believe already we are only
nine episodes away from the end of that
series I know that you've been enjoying
it and that we appreciate all the
comments they even sending in to say hey
i love it thanks for doing the GIMP and
some of you have never even heard of the
GNU image manipulation program maybe
your Photoshop user
or maybe you've you haven't got a piece
of software that is as robust as
Photoshop or the GIMP and here's your
opportunity to get something for free it
is gimp.org and on that website you can
download it for mac linux and windows so
with the gimp what is it gimp what does
it stand for GNU image manipulation
program it's basically a free
alternative to adobe photoshop a very
pricey piece of software so you can pay
lots or pay zero GIMP is absolutely free
if you're running Linux you'll find it
in your repositories just do a quick
search through your favorite package
manager be it synaptic package manager
or yeah store whatever you're using
search for gim p okay tonight we are
looking at creating perspective not the
kind of perspective that you know like
what you see yeah I think I know what I
mean the kind of perspective when you
look out over a horizon that's the kind
of perspective that we're looking at
tonight so GNU image manipulation
program bring it up on your screen it
looks a little something like that I'm
running 2.8 and this is being broadcast
in 2016 so depending on when you're
watching this will rule whether or not
that is current 2.9 is I believe release
candidate status or at least in in some
form of betta okay let's create a new
canvas and what we're doing tonight with
this tutorial on learning how to create
perspective is and through the whole
series through this 20 weeks of GIMP
tips what I'm trying to accomplish for
you and what I'm trying to help you
achieve is just learning the interface
learning how to do things in GIMP so
that you're not afraid of the interface
so you're not lost in the interface but
that through these tutorials so think of
this as an exercise you're actually
learning how to do some cool things so
that you can do other things so what I'm
about to show you may not be something
that you are ever going to need but if
you follow along so bring up the GNU
image manipulation program follow the
the steps that i'm going to show you
you're going to be building your
or abilities within the GNU image
manipulation program and that's going to
help you to be able to do some really
cool edits that are going to impress
your family and friends over in the GNU
image manipulation program you right
click and go file new and it asks you
the size of the canvas that you would
like so that is in pixels if you're
doing it for print you might do it in
inches or whatever you need to do we'll
just use pixels and it's defaulting to a
little low resolution image which is
just fine that's a little for over three
almost image okay so first of all what
we want to do with our perspective is
create a horizon and what that means is
that we're going to have when you're
looking out over horizon you've got that
kind of horizontal line you've got the
sky in the background and then you've
got this plane in front of you so as
we're creating perspective let's first
of all choose with the rectangle marquee
AKA rectangle select tool we can
highlight a kind of a rectangle at the
bottom here and drag to scale it however
we like so we can bring it just a little
below the halfway point here and then
choose as our foreground let's grab a
gray I'm going to grab a not too dark of
a gray there's B 0 B 0 B 0 Bob Bob oh
there we go so now my colors I've got
gray and white so with this highlighted
I'm going to and it does matter if it's
highlighted right yet but let's create a
new layer because we don't want to work
on our background layer we're going to
work on this new layer here so with this
marquee created I'm going to drag my
mouse and you can see we've learned the
gradient tool before but as i drag i can
do all different angles but what we're
actually looking to do i'm going to grab
up about here drag down and hold my left
ctrl key to lock it so that that horizon
is going to be a perfect 90-degree there
we go so we start to get this kind of
look of a horizon there you have it so
if I turn off the background that is
what we just created that's my
background at this point so now let's go
back to our background layer here and
again we're going to use the gradient
tool and we're going to create another
horizon or another gradient I should say
but this one is going to intercept with
that first one see that and i'm just
working in black and white right now you
might say hey this is actually a sky so
let's use a nice light blue and you can
do that there you have it we're not
doing anything specific it's not a
picture of a sky or anything like that
I'm just creating the effect bah bah bah
buh easy remember right there we go so
there's my kind of horizon so with the
layer that has my actual horizon so
we'll call it the ground let's just blur
that a little bit so we're gonna and by
doing that effectively because it's a
gradient it's not going to blur the
actual horizon it's going to blur this
edge so that it's not quite so Stark we
don't need it to be quite so sharp so
right click filter blur Gaussian blur
and notice that the layer of this
horizon is selected so as I choose
Gaussian blur you'll see it's actually
just changing the edging just to make it
a little bit softer let's try it at
eight pixels and that may be different
depending on your image so that just
softens it up a little bit we can also
change the opacity by dragging this
slider here so you get your cursor in
there and you can drag to make it softer
a little more transparent or a hundred
percent opaque so if I bring that down a
little bit it gives a more subtle effect
there we have it so now that's just a
little bit softer now let's grab some
text and we're going to with our text
tool here I'm going to highlight an area
over the horizon and we're going to type
in GIMP
and you'll see that it's it's text there
in black in gray so it's not really
showing up I've highlighted it and
changed it to black and I'm going to
increase the font size with this button
up here okay and that's probably just
fine so now I can use my move tool and
drag that to an appropriate spot on my
horizon so our background is fairly dark
it's it's gray what I'm going to do is
I'm going to change this font to a white
font so I've used my font tool highlight
all by clicking and then control a or
you can of course drag and then click on
the color change it to white and then I
end up with that so now we need to make
it stand out just a little bit better so
i'm just gonna click on the rectangle
tool just to unselect the the text and
i'm going to right click notice i've got
my text layer highlighted right click
and go filters and we're going to go
light and shadow drop shadow let's set
our offsets to 0 we don't need it to be
offset left and right or up and down so
this is just going to be a bit of a
black blurred shadow that surrounds the
entire thing almost like a border i'm
going to turn off allow resizing because
we don't want it to actually resize our
image and we can change the opacity this
is the opacity of the shadow itself now
we can leave that as is but we can
always change it as we're after we're
finished i'm going to hit OK and you'll
see that effect so what it does is it
just helps that text to kind of pop out
a little bit so as I was saying you can
change the drop shadows opacity
afterward if you want because what it
does is it creates a layer called drop
shadow so now I can say okay let's bring
it up to a hundred percent let's bring
it down to nineteen percent and you can
see the difference that that makes so
it's a bit of a soft border on that so
now to in continue to improve our
perspective let's grab our ellipse
select tool it looks like a circle
Markey and drag in this kind of a shape
right under there and if you don't get
it in the right spot don't worry you can
move it around
so I'm going to put that right below the
word GIMP and you'll see which layer I
have selected it's this one my horizon
and I'm going to create a new layer at
this point layer new layer transparency
edit fill I don't want the gray I want a
black because this is a bit of a shadow
under the under GIMP so right click edit
fill with foreground color it's black
now so this falls under the drop shadow
and the word GIMP but over this layer
here if you accidentally have the wrong
layer selected you might end up with
something like that and say oh well why
is that well because we set the opacity
of the of this layer to only 73 if it
was higher I wouldn't see that at all
see that so then you can drag your layer
to the right order if it's in the wrong
spot over your text you can then drag it
under the text okay so now again I'm
going to right click on the layer with
this circle the black circle that I've
created here and go filters and I can
either click on repeat drop shadow if I
want the same amount eight pixels or I
can go blur Gaussian blur and I can
create an even softer edge by choosing
something like 15 that's going to really
soften that up so now bring down the
opacity of that and I end up with just a
nice soft kind of shadow underneath the
text now I can move that around if I
like to help improve the effect and
there we have it so we end up with a
pretty nice effect so now the next the
last final thing that I might want to do
is just say okay well the text being
absolutely white is a little bit boring
let's lock the alpha channel which is
going to allow us to color in anything
that is solid on this layer and I can
then grab my gradient tool I can create
I can choose a soft gray and the white
is fine and then if i drag you'll see
what it does is it actually just fills
in the text only if I forget to click
the lock alpha layer which is this
square up here in the top right of your
screen
if I forget to turn that on and I've got
the GIMP layer selected then what's
going to happen is going to fill in that
hole area okay so what I need to do is
turn that on then drag with my mouse if
you like hold in the control key so that
it snaps to a perfect 90-degree and then
you can create the effect that you're
looking for do keep in mind that by
doing this so I've created this I've
locked the Alpha layer and then I've
changed the color of the font using a
gradient by doing it that by doing that
I've now effectively rendered the the
text so i can no longer edit that text
it's no longer text it's now a raster
graphic so by that I mean okay if I
select the text tool and then i click on
gimp it's going to say you're going to
change this back to text if you click
Edit so if I click Edit watch what
happens to the color it goes back to
white so we want to just be mindful of
that so you can create copies of your
layers if you like if you're going to
need to make changes and things like
that but that is the GNU image
manipulation program it's absolutely
free for you and we can do all kinds of
cool effects and that is a simple
exercise just to help us to understand
some of the tools that are at our
disposal with the GNU image manipulation
program you can pick up your free copy
at gimp.org and get it for linux mac or
windows this is category 5 technology TV
welcome to the show I'm trying to keep
an eye on the chat room nice to see you
folks I want to say congratulations a
huge congratulations to Dave May do
longtime viewer he and his girlfriend
have just welcomed ollie james their
baby boy into the world and everyone's
doing well and we're pleased with that
Dave congratulations man to you and your
growing family so chatroom nice to see
whiskey zeros there we've got a good guy
98 nice to see you again sparkly balls
also there nice to see you fairly active
chat room looks like bit Fox hey
water bottle alright I'm Ravi Ferguson
and here are the top stories from the
category 5 TD newsroom Europe has begun
above the earth the first node in the
network is a telecommunications
satellite that was launched from
Kazakhstan it will use a laser to gather
pictures of the planet taken by other
spacecraft and then relay them back to
the ground one benefit will be to put
information on natural disasters such as
flooding earthquakes into the hands of
emergency responders far faster than is
previously possible currently it can
take hours to get the pictures down to
earth from observation satellites part
of the reason of that for that is
because the spacecraft can only transmit
when they are passing over a receiving
dish and in a 90-minute orbit they only
have about a 10-minute window the
European Space Agency's answers is
answer is to fire the pictures upward
instead via a laser to another satellite
much higher in the sky and that one has
a constant view of the ground station
the agency recently put up to Earth
observers that are equipped with optical
transmission equipment these will now be
able to offload their data through the
new relay satellite which is going to be
positioned 36,000 kilometers above the
equator at nine degrees east with a
successful connection data will move at
a rate of up to 1.8 gigabits per second
testing by Airbus defense &amp; space shows
it should be possible for the system to
put pictures on the desk of the people
who need them within 20 minutes of those
images being acquired a British firm
that claims to have come up with a
solution to the issue of bulk password
theft has announced 1 million pounds in
funding to launch its product silicon
safe they have designed a special box
it's a piece of hardware which stores
passwords separate to the network last
year there were high profile hacks
from firms including talk talk Ashley
Madison vtec and all of those exposed
millions of users passwords the founders
of silicon safe dr. will Harwood and
Roger gross initially came up with the
solution dubbed password protect as an
academic exercise they quickly saw that
there was a commercial potential for
their idea now software is prone to bugs
and flaws so their first step was to
design bespoke Hardware effectively
hard-coding a chip and making sure that
it did not run an operating system or
any other conventional software and this
design the founders claim makes it
impenetrable via conventional attack
routes the box is designed to be secure
and has only one purpose specifically to
store passwords it runs on just 10,000
lines of code far less than for a
back-end database for example where
passwords are normally stored there is
no conventional interface with the
backend systems although it does allow
web servers to send login credentials to
the system in order to authenticate
passwords but it does not in fact at any
point reveal those passwords dr. Harwood
admits that hackers able to gain access
to the backend database of organizations
could interrogate the box but he is
built in a safety feature after just
four attempts to authenticate the
password the account will be flagged and
system administrators will be notified
the Cambridge startup remains confident
in its solution and last year it
launched a hacker challenge inviting
anyone to steal 100 unencrypted
passwords from the system to date over
2.5 million attempts have been made but
none have been successful could it be
the answer it's like an endpoint piece
of hardware for passwords kind of cool
and just to kind of understand how that
could work so how does it work right so
when you create a password you are
sending your password to that box and so
now you've got an account and the
password says okay we've got Robbie's
account so next time I go to login my
computer then again
and sends my password to that box in a
secure way the Box now responds with a
yes or no it doesn't ever send back my
password so for somebody to exploit that
I mean what could they possibly get
because it's not responding with my
password it's not saying oh yeah your
password is 1234 no it's saying yea yea
or nay is the one that you entered
correct so sounds like it could be it
could be pretty viable could be a good
idea we'll see all right a meeting of EU
businesses handle data the EU forbids at
citizens personal data from being sent
to places that don't guarantee adequate
privacy protections in order to avoid
this restriction bogging down transfers
to the US it was decided that American
firms could self-certify that
information sent to their data centers
so that it would be is to confirm or at
least to ensure or say that that data
would be properly protected the pack
made it relatively easy for companies to
send personal information from Europe to
data centers in the US for processing
but in light of information exposed by
Edward Snowden and Austrian privacy
campaigner had asked Ireland's data
regulators to audit what information
Facebook might be sharing with the NSA
well it declined citing safe harbor but
the matter was referred to the European
Court of Justice and last October that
Court invalidated the the decision to
enable safe harbor so regulators need to
decide how to act in light of this
decision and lawmakers are still
negotiating a replacement trade deal but
their determination could affect tech
giants including Google Apple Facebook
all these whose cloud services rely on
such transfers as well as thousands of
smaller businesses who have out sourced
payroll processing for example and other
tasks to US based organizations maybe
use amazon cloud services or something
like that well
here's the thing the data protection
authorities are expected to make their
views known tomorrow at the end of a
two-day event which is actually already
underway are more than 40 miles of roads
in coventry will be equipped with
technology to aid autonomous vehicles
the government has announced it's one of
the it's one of eight projects aiming to
develop driverless car technologies
which will receive a share of 20 million
pounds from the government's 100 million
intelligent mobility fund another of the
projects will focus on driverless
shuttles for the visually impaired now
that makes sense to me so you know if
you can't see and you still need to get
around kind of cool to have autonomous
vehicles for that purpose autonomous
vehicles are already being tested in a
number of areas in the UK professor Paul
Newman from the University of Oxford
co-founded driverless car research
company ox Botica sounds like a like a
bad guy walks Botica watch out for rocks
botica alright they are going to receive
some of the new funding but he says it's
part of the strategy that the UK is
unfolding to support the future of
transport the funding would support the
testing and development of software for
self-driving vehicles and it's all about
vehicles knowing where they are and
what's around them big thanks this week
to roy w nash and our community of
viewers for submitting stories to the
category 5 TV news room if you found a
news story that you'd like to send
please email news room at category five
dot TV for all your tech news with a
slight linux bias visit the category
five dot TV news room at newsroom dot
category five dot TV for the category
five dot TV news room I'm Robbie
Ferguson this is category 5 technology
TV welcome to the show it's episode
number 437 and it's it's really nice to
have you here thanks for being here with
us I want to say hi to Chris Lee 2511
who traditionally joins us through
YouTube and
on twitter you can follow us on twitter
at category 5 TV or me myself at Robbie
Ferguson nice to have you here Chris and
everyone else who's joining us as well I
gamoto and i want to say hey to dennis
kelly as well who's been a big help this
week in getting a set up as the pixel
shadow has been launching its first ever
actual branded server for mind test
playing so if you want to check that out
load up mind test and that's a free
alternative to minecraft you can get it
for free @ mine test net mi n e t EST
and connect to TP ask at five dot TV and
the port is the default 30,000 and that
is going to be displayed this sunday on
the on the pixel shadow all right folks
this is the show and we're gonna get
into the Raspberry Pi not the pie but
the pie pie it's a little micro computer
you see all these wires on my desk this
is cool all right check it out a cat
five dot TV / pie this is a it looks
like a little circuit board but it's
actually a microcomputer and it's got a
lot of cool features hdmi output it's
got its got USB ports for USB ports it's
got this is the pi model b pi 2 and this
has got the ethernet it's important i
mean some people have looked at the the
various versions of pie i think that
it's important to have that ethernet
port especially if you're going to be
using it as a server you want the
reliability and the consistency of
ethernet versus just going with Wi-Fi
for example it's also got audio output
so you know that on a previous feature
we in fact created a Raspberry Pi
powered audio server a music server for
an office and that was really cool but
right now what we're doing is we're
creating Raspberry Pi powered apache web
server running on Debbie and Jesse Linux
so there's a little something that you
need to know about the pie first of all
by default its operating system is going
to run
on one of these little guys and can you
believe like can you even see that it's
so tiny and I know this is not news to
you but if you've been in computers for
as many years as I it still impresses
you than a microSD card this one is only
16 gigs I've got larger ones as well but
they are so tiny and this is 16
gigabytes of storage but the Raspberry
Pi operating system raspy n is only
going to use about I think about a gig
maybe a couple of gigs of that by
default so you're going to run out of
space really quickly so what we're going
to learn to do tonight we're going to
backtrack a little bit I've already
showed you before how to install
raspbian but tonight we're going to redo
it because tonight we're going to also
take that extra step of configuring our
raspbian operating system I've done a
little more research since the last time
we did it and there are some easier ways
to go about it and so I thought hey
let's let's do this one of the things as
I mentioned is the size of the the
partition how big the file system is on
that system and so we're going to fix
that up there is documentation that
makes it so overly complicated we're
going to do it in like five minutes flat
it's it's super super easy when you know
where to check so I'm just going to hop
on over to to this computer here I've
got a another system right over here and
on this system let's bring it up there
we go I'm kind of Manning all of the
buttons tonight so hopefully you're able
to follow and hopefully this works well
on your on your screen so this is just a
linux computer and i'm going to show you
how we can go about this so let's bring
up our web browser we're going to go to
raspy raspberry pi dot org nope that
isn't oh look at that Oh data you this
is what we're up against folks data
usage notification you are approaching
another fifty dollars do you want to
accept there we go not authorized okay
I'm authorized raspberry pi dot org
let's try that again this is category
five technology TV unfortunately we've
had
technical difficulties risp cut off our
internet there for a moment we gotta
back up and running and then we've had
all kinds of grief since that time being
that we're live sometimes these are
unforeseen those who have been watching
live kind of got to learn what was going
on but for those of you watching on
demand we're unfortunately not going to
be able to resolve our issues this
evening in time to be able to perform
the rest of the feature so we're going
to pick that up again next week and
we're going to get that we're going to
get that done for you we're going to be
setting up the Raspberry Pi i'm going to
show you all about how to do this on
linux how to expand the filesystem i'm
really happy to be showing you these
kinds of things unfortunately sometimes
there are technical issues and it's
fairly rare that that we have to cut off
a feature like this but unfortunately
there's no getting past it and we've
tried chat room knows that we've tried
over and over tonight and unfortunately
it's just not happening so in the
meantime so next week we're going to
pick this up on episode number 438 folks
it's nice to have you here and chat room
thanks for sticking it out with me and
and doing our best to to get through
this we've had some interesting
conversations through you know trying to
diagnose what was going on I think the
chat room knows where we're going with
it and it's going to be a lot of fun
next week so thanks Sam pro 69 thanks
everybody we will definitely do the scan
so backing up what are we doing all
right so we are not f disking the drive
per se we are going to be dding the the
image that we're downloading the
raspbian distribution which is debian
for raspberry pi so we're going to
actually be using DD to place that on
our micro SD card which may or may not
be damaged we're having some problems
with our SD card after all the kinds of
things that we've had tonight so I'm
going to look at that this week once
it's D deed the problem is is that
raspbian by default is only going to use
a very small portion of the space on
your microsd so what we had happen as I
was going through tutorials with setting
up the the Raspberry Pi as a
web server what happened is I was
installing Maria DB and the card said it
was full so it been corrupted some files
and had some problems and then I found
oh well I did at the f dash H and
realized that my hard drive flash drive
the the partition was only like 256 meg
on a 16 gig flash drive so I realized oh
there's an extra step we need to expand
the file system because the image file
was created on maybe a smaller micro SD
card before they placed it for download
which makes sense because then it makes
it for a faster download I suppose
although they are zipping it so we're
going to be doing it in such a way that
we're going to expand that file system
but I'm gonna I promise you this it's
going to be brutally easy yeah I say
that with all the difficulties that
we've had tonight but it is going to be
a lot easier than the traditional way of
using fdisk to remove a partition expand
it create a new partition and then hope
to goodness that your files are still
there when you boot it up it's going to
be incredibly easy so next week we're
going to pick it right back up chat room
do you have any more questions for me I
know that we are under time as far as
the on-demand video goes and I apologize
for that if you have any quick questions
for me I do have your emails and and I
wanted some of them have to do with the
Raspberry Pi so I think that it's
something that we can cover alongside of
this feature I do have an email here
though from Walter Walter was watching
the the interview with mr. Zorin as we
were talking about Zorin OS says I enjoy
your program especially the reviews of
different tech products and linux
distributions do in doing reviews of the
linux distro such as the recent Zorin OS
i feel a couple of important things can
sometimes get missed examples in the
system menu is it possible to enlarge
the font secondly is the mouse pointer
size scalable to to enlarge the pointer
these may not seem like important items
however for users with vision
well difficulties these are indeed very
important I find that frequently what
can be adjusted is the speed of the
pointer but not the actual size I guess
that is why linux mint cinnamon
continues to be my choice thank you from
Walter and Walter thank you so much for
the email and you raise a valid point
that sometimes we do overlook certain
accessibility features because maybe
they're not as widespread but but yeah
it's good to know that those are things
that you're looking for one of the
things about Zorin OS and we were
talking about it on the show is that it
continues to use something called comp
is and that's becoming something that is
getting harder and harder to to get your
hands on because it's it's kind of a
discontinued product what comp is gives
you is desktop effects so Walter for
example I'm just going to bring up a
window here this is compass the ability
to zoom which is a great accessibility
feature this is also comp is okay and I
can move around my screen so comp is
being that it's included in or no s
means that you have access to these
accessibility features that are included
with compass so there's a tool called
ccsm and you can always run that on your
system and this gives you all those
accessibility features and a lot of them
have to do with the mouse cursor zoom
and things like that there's a one of
them is called show mouse for example
increases the visibility of the mouse
pointer so let's let's see what that
does i'm gonna click on it radius does
that do it okay so initiating it is
super k okay so that gives me what is
that oh that is it's like spinning
around my mouse that's very different
that's not like what you're looking for
that's fancy a
is there just but you can see what I
mean like that this is what you need is
a not necessarily fire around your mouse
wow there's a feature to allow you to
make it to make everything negative
maybe that helps you to be able to see
but ccsm compiz config settings manager
is a tool that you can install on any
system that has comp is and that will
allow you to configure all these
accessibility features as well as the
cool effects indeed those are there too
and I believe you would be able to
change the mouse cursor size as well
there's position polling things like
that so anyways check it out and comp is
is is what you want to look for thank
you for the email Walter and this is
category 5 technology TV hey sorry for
having to cut it short tonight folks and
I appreciate you tuning in and I will
talk to you again next Tuesday night
we're going to pick it right back up and
I'm going to get this issue resolved and
we'll go from there don't forget one of
the ways that you can support us is
through patreon patreon.com it would
help us out a great deal if you could
pitch in one of the things that we had
happen tonight was that we went over our
bandwidth restriction honor our LTE
internet service and as terrible as that
is during a live show it's inevitable
that that we've got to we've got to
cover those bills so thanks folks and
that I will talk to you again next
Tuesday night thanks for being here and
have a fantastic week see ya
