one of the issues that I've encountered
I know Jeff has encountered
maybe you've encountered is as we
upgrade our hardware for video
production mm-hmm the quality gets
better and better so we're now a problem
it can be when it comes to the editing
floor okay because nowadays the cameras
are all 4k so our camera here at our
studio is 4k when you shoot new every
day your camera is 4k 60
I think maybe it's 4k 30 but definitely
definitely a 4k snore other than the 720
I got a home what have you found the
experiences like when editing that video
[Laughter]
very very painful
mm-hm but I think that's because my
computer is probably not up to snuff for
it or any computers up to stuff all
right unless you've got like a rendering
farm and right the latest AI processor
but I find because it's such high
quality video it does take me a very
long time when I'm trying to go from
shot shot okay yeah when you're editing
yes in your editor yeah can be brutal
because my laptop can't handle it run
yet somehow I use this laptop to produce
new every day every since that we use
that's what I use I had no clue but it
can't handle it
let's look at the source video from this
is just for new everyday but it's to
show you what kind of experience we have
when working with 4k footage so this is
a clip from an upcoming episode of new
everyday so when I push play
I pushed play by the way I pushed it and
I'm waiting see that's what happens when
I'm at home and you're waiting okay and
Lawrence is there and it is one frame a
second it looks like old school web can
it's I have not paused it notice okay
it's brutal and if you start editing and
you've got clips galore and that's
really how it goes down
clips galore by the time I'm done this
thing it could be brutal and when you're
working with 4k footage and it's that
stuttery it can be really hard so
tonight what I'm gonna show you is a
couple of tricks of the trade for video
production and and I am using a program
called CyberLink PowerDirector I love it
it's a really good happy medium between
really really cheap software and really
really good quality software so it's not
up there with the most amazing
professional video effects processors
but it's really really good it's better
than any of the free stuff that I've
ever found and it's very very cheap you
can pick up this software through our
link at cat5 dot TV slash pd for
PowerDirector but I want you to know
right off the bat that everything that
we're gonna teach you tonight can
transcend the software okay
so even though the interfaces may be a
little bit different the entire
mentality and the processes that we're
learning tonight can you can do this on
free software you can do this on the
best software but the idea behind it is
the the principles the concepts yeah so
what I want what I know about 4k footage
is it's a huge canvas to work with so we
can zoom in on that canvas as long as we
don't mind down scaling the video so
when I say that I think about new
everyday broadcasts at 720p so imagine I
have 4k can't a fork a canvas I can now
zoom in on that and it's still perfect
lossless quality because it's 4k I'm
only using 720p right so rather than
taking that 4k footage and scaling it
down I'm instead taking that 4k footage
and zooming in on it to that same
dimension so that gives me a whole new
way of working with my 4k footage
because now what is one camera sitting
on a stationary tripod with two people
sitting in front of it becomes three
cameras right so in our case if we were
shooting right now and we wanted to do
this we could have you as one camera but
it's only one physical camera me as one
camera Jeff is another camera and then a
wide shot as the fourth camera but as
from a live feed of the show that's what
we do we do that here so when we zoom in
or something like that that's
actly what we're doing in real time but
not everyone has that kind of technology
exactly thousands of dollars to have
that but that gives you an example of
what you're talking about when it comes
to what you're going to show us it gives
you a bit of an idea this is a 4k canvas
that we can then zoom in on and we have
a lossless close-up of that video so
what we're gonna do is we're gonna
actually create files that our editor
and our computer can handle so not 4k
okay from our 4k source and then we're
going to be able to transition between
them so keep in mind of course at 4k I
can't even play this video let alone
edit it it's really really choppy
remember this is like 30 P or maybe 60 P
I think it's 30 because it is 4k footage
but what I can do so in CyberLink
PowerDirector again these tools are
going to be different in your editor but
if you want to follow along in
PowerDirector this is great
I've clicked on the the track of the
video and then tools and power tools and
then crop and zoom and then I can click
on crop and zoom the button there now
because Lawrence is standing up the
first thing that I want to do is I want
to skim along in the video to a spot
where both of the guys are sitting down
I'm gonna create a new keyframe and then
I'm going to put my wide shot on that
frame exactly where I want it to be so
then see the preview over the right-hand
side that's perfect so now I'm gonna go
back to the first frame first keyframe
and I'm going to duplicate the next
keyframe then I'm gonna go to the next
keyframe and then to the next keyframe
which now takes me to the last keyframe
and I'm again going to duplicate the
previous keyframe using this button here
so now all three keyframes have exactly
the same zoom see that yep so if I
scroll anywhere in this timeline that
zoom is going to have a nice frame and
it's going to be a really really nice
wide shot of those guys okay I like to
take it one step further and I like to
take this middle one don't touch the
other to make sure that they are exactly
the same because if you do any edit
points you need them to be able to be
seamless so it doesn't jerk in all of a
sudden on the camera right I like to
have a bit of motion on my camp
I like to make it look like there's a
camera operator even though we know that
it's just a stationary tripod so now
let's take this middle keyframe and I'm
gonna zoom in just punch in just a
little wee bit and then I'm going to
move the center of the frame and put it
right there so now as as this plays it's
actually going to zoom in a little bit
toward the middle and then it's going to
zoom out again to the same because these
keyframes the first one and the last one
match each other so they're seamless but
you'll notice if I start the video here
and it's very very choppy right now
because I'm in 4k mode so starting there
now watch that frame if I skip over to
here it's in a lot tighter see that okay
so you get this really nice kind of it's
like the camera is just kind of softly
moving in and softly moving out and you
just get that little bit of motion that
just makes it look like there's somebody
operating that camera so what's the time
frame on this like a retard thats like a
three-second or no just for the sake of
this demonstration I'm using a two
minute clip there abouts also you're
going from the beginning to it so you
can determine the clip length yes you
want to do it for the entire clip now
when I do the actual show I've got like
a four hour video because you guys clip
a lot right we do taht you record a lot
so so what I do in that so now I'm just
gonna hit okay because I'm happy with
this so in that case let's say this was
a four hour video I would just choose a
five minute point now that I've done
that crop and zoom and then I would hit
the cut button to to trim that so now
I've got one video here and one video
here that will seamlessly connect
together because remember the first and
last keyframe are identical right so
it's gonna zoom in here about midpoint
and then zoom back out to here and then
zoom back in again right okay so now
I've got this nice framing for the wide
shot so remember we're creating three
shots from this one shot I've got my
wide shot as my starting point so this
is both guys together on the set then I
need to render this so I need to go
produce so this is where I'm going to
output it to a file format that my
computer is capable of working with and
this is going to be the file the final
sighs but not the same not necessarily
the same compression or quality of my
final production so because I know I'm
gonna be producing a show in 720p
I can go down to 720p and then the
produced koala quality is going to be
exactly that right I couldn't go down to
360 P and then scale it up to 720p it
would look horrible so first of all I'm
gonna stick with m2ts because I find
that m2ts file format is very very fast
decoding that's important too because
sometimes offer the camera there
compressed files because 4k is a huge
frame so the camera compresses them into
a smaller file so that they'll fit on
your SD card and you can record more
than 5 minutes worth on a 128 gig card
so because it's super compressed it
means it needs to decompress on your CPU
while you're editing it if you're using
that master file yeah so by creating a
file that's m2ts it's no longer as
compressed okay it's still a pretty
small file but it's gonna take up a lot
of space these are the masters they're
gonna be pretty large but because
they're 720p not 4k they're gonna be a
lot smaller but the rendering time the
the the speed is gonna be a lot better
when working with it now I don't want to
work with interlace this is defaulting
to 60 I I'm gonna change it to this
gonna be 720p you can do 1080p or
whatever you want to work with but I'm
gonna go 1280 by 720 60 P and then I
just browse to where I want to save that
file I'm gonna just slap that on my
desktop and I call it wide I like to
just name my shots what they're gonna be
so this is my wide shot and I had save I
like to turn on enable preview during
production so that I can see what's
going on and then hit start and you see
this is gonna take a while to render
this is moving at a slow pace but it's
scaling it down to 720p at 60 frames per
second it's going to take about an hour
to render just that two-minute clip so
it's a lot of time to get it down there
so give yourself a lot of time but once
you have those rendered down 720p
masters it can be the four hour thing
and then you've got files that you can
work with so I do the entire thing all
shots and then I've got 720p masters to
work with so I never actually have to
touch the 4k
after that so I've already rendered
these I'm just gonna cancel this so that
I just wanted to show you the process
now I want to create the next one this
is gonna be my stage right shot so this
is gonna be there right your left so now
that I've created the wide shot and will
presumably say that it rendered out I'm
gonna then highlight this again and go
tools power tools and crop zoom because
it's already active and now I'm gonna
change this so that this is a close-up
of James on stage right so wait for it
there we go okay so again I start with
my middle frame that's always my
starting point never start with your
first or last frame because those have
to match and because Laurence is
standing I don't know what their final
position is going to be during the Edit
so here I want this to be a close-up
shot of James that's on stage right so
I'm going to bring it in there and I
want this to be the widest that James
will have at any given time okay
understand this needs to be the widest
shot that he will have and Laurence has
completely cut out of the shot now I'm
gonna go back to my first keyframe and
duplicate the next one which is the
middle one that I just created and now
you can see that it's a nice close-up of
James see the preview there now I'm
gonna go to the last keyframe and then
I'm going to duplicate the previous one
don't worry about the fact that they're
not standing where you want them now go
back to the middle keyframe now that
every single keyframe isn't identical
and now I want to create in the middle
keyframe it would be any guesses the
close-up of James this is as close as I
ever want it to be to him so now I've
got that nice panning kind of motion so
here it's a nice kind of wider shot and
it slowly zooms in on his face until
finally the closest it gets see the
preview in the top right here it's
really really nice and tight into his
shot but then it zooms back out as
they're having this discussion and then
finally once it gets out to the final
keyframe it's back at that nice wide
shot where you see some of the
background you see some of his shirt and
and so on but that middle frame is going
to be the closest that it ever gets
now hit OK
now I've got my close-up of James ready
to render wait for it remember I'm still
in 4k
there we go it's ready to go so now this
is the file that now I want to produce
this file in 720p notice the resolution
is terrible there but as soon as I start
rendering it because it's going to be
rendered at the proper resolution so
let's call this stage right or you can
call it James if you want or whatever
I'm in able preview resolution watch
what happens when I hit start the
quality is going to change because it's
going to be the actual render render
resolution notice I didn't have to
change it to 60 P 720 because it's
already set well that does see how
beautiful that looks so that's the final
kind of close-up on James
okay so now okay I've already rendered
that and so I'm gonna skip ahead and
we're gonna pretend now we already know
the process so we know how to do that
with Lawrence as well right we can do
exactly the same thing you just want to
start with that middle keyframe and and
it's pretty easy now because I've
already got that middle keyframe for
like already setup so let's look at that
third camera here so I'm gonna jump to
my middle keyframe and I'm gonna
duplicate my next keyframe because I
want it to be the wide shot and drag it
over to Lawrence now notice what's gonna
happen here if I forget to do anything
else it's gonna actually pan over
there's gonna be some motion and it's
gonna pan over to include James in the
shot right right so I actually have to
now go to the next keyframe duplicate
the the previous one go to the first
keyframe duplicate the next one now all
of them are on Lawrence okay
highlight the middle keyframe get that
close-up of Lawrence stage left there
you go I can pull them pretty tight
because this is 720p on a 4k canvas
right so there I've got there's Lawrence
done boom we've got a 720p shot of
Lawrence nice and tight so we've created
three shots we've got wide
we've got stage right which is James and
we've got stage left which is Lawrence
so now that we've got those files we'll
pretend that because I did this before
the show just to prepare cuz I knew it
would take an hour per shot
to render I'm gonna close out of that
and let's start with a new file new
project I'm going to open media files
jump to where I saved those two which is
on my desktop in a folder called 590
samples ready and I've got wide stage
right stage left let's highlight all
those and import them into my timeline I
like to save at this point because
PowerDirector creates swap files which
is kind of nice because it will speed up
the editing process even further so I
call this 590 test whatever okay
highlight stage right because it's going
to be the first file in your editor this
is where things get exciting Jeff I've
highlighted stage right and now and
you'll understand that in a second I'm
gonna hit plugins and then multicam
designer now it puts stage right on the
Left which is actually James position on
camera right now I'm going to click this
plus button over here on to and I'm
gonna go import from media room stage
left which is Lawrence oh yeah
okay now three add that import from
media room wide okay remember I'm using
CyberLink PowerDirector you can use any
software but I want to show you this
it's great software cat5 TV /pd it's
really really cheap really affordable
only runs on Windows that's the one
caveat but it works great and it has all
these features and some people said well
as a Linux user why are you using
Windows editing software and maybe just
showing you will answer that question
for you
so I start by let's click on that shot
the wide shot let's go to where our
actual episode starts so let's get in
here okay let's pretend that this is
where it starts I'm going to press
record and now on my keyboard I have the
1 2 &amp; 3 and presumably you could have 4
as well I'm just gonna push 1 on my
keyboard ready for it 1 2 3
I'm pushing those keys on my keyboard
and I'm swapping between the 3 camera
shots in real time as if I was an actual
camera opera
sitting there in studio holding the
camera punching in and out
now I boom boom Lawrence is talking so
I'm nicely zoomed in on Lawrence and
zoom wide shot I don't know what
happened to one I think I pressed a
button or something but you get the idea
so I'm gonna pause that oh I think I
only had a half of a file oh no no
worries that's right cuz you clipped it
yeah so okay so now that I've got that
so I've pressed record now I've hit stop
I'm finished this is not an actual edit
this is just my multicam designer so now
when I hit okay it's actually going to
create those edit points in my editor No
so now when I push play in my editor I'm
already done so I'm gonna skim over here
watch this
oh come on see that it's real-time it's
fast it's ready to go and it only took
us three hours to render that file I
mean it's gonna take you some time to
create those master files right but I do
it overnight this is why now you
understand why I say you've got to have
the show to me like seven days in
advance because if you give me four
hours worth of video it takes 12 hours
so I'm 15 hours to render so now that
I've done it yeah yeah so now that I've
done that I can produce my video and
let's just pretend that that's my
glorious editing job it's ready and you
notice it automatically added audio from
one of the tracks make sure all of your
tracks have audio or you can select that
now this is where I choose mp4 custom
and I have what I call low-cost 720p is
my my preset that I created because what
I've done is I changed the average
bitrate to 10000 kilobits per second
which just cost me less money to
distribute so then I create that file
and I call this my final and I hit start
and that will actually now render so
again you're gonna see this in full
quality now look at how beautiful that
looks and look at how fast it renders
now that it's 720p sources and look at
that close-up it's as if I have
cameras sitting in front of those guys
yet I only have one camera sitting in
front of them on a tripod how beautiful
is it I know I'm gonna take that the new
everyday camera and start recording
random stuff just to play with us
absolutely give this a go try this at
home let us know if this has helped you
with your editing process maybe this is
revolutionized your editing process and
certainly with a 1080p or higher camera
absolutely you can do this with a 1080p
camera as well get it down to 720 or
480p in order to get your close-ups but
you're gonna have a little more loss
enos to it with a 4k camera it's
virtually indistinguishable it just
looks like you've got multiple cameras
amazing this back in November because a
three and a half minute 4k Christmas
video okay church and it was now you
know Jeff I told you they were secret
long three days I told you there were
secrets to it now you know my friend you
can thank me next week
[Music]
[Applause]
