here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom a
hard drive has been stolen from an
exclusive club containing the personal
details of members such as Stephen Fry
and Lord Rees the US government is
funding mind-control chip research
getting a drone for Christmas if you're
in the UK you may have to consider new
legislation coming this spring
Uber's driver and customer data has been
compromised and they've paid hackers to
try and cover it up an Skype has been
removed from app stores in China these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere
Jeff Weston gentlemen you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what aren't
you you're a terrible actor
what does where acting comes into play I
don't know you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV / dream host this
is the category 5 TV newsroom covering
the week's top tech stories with a
slight linux bias I'm Sacha recommended
here are the top stories were following
this week members of an exclusive club
that is restricted to selected graduates
of Oxford and Cambridge universities are
being warned that computer data
containing their personal details is
feared stolen the club believes that a
backup hard drive has been taken from a
locked room inside its London
headquarters the information stored on
it is said to include names home
addresses phone numbers and some bank
details the 5,000 members including
celebrities such as Stephen Fry have
been there have been affected both the
police and the members have been
notified and private investigators hired
although the Duke of n borough and
Prince of Wales are honorary members of
the club data about them has not been
exposed according to the Telegraph
however it did add that Lord Reese one
of the country's leading astrophysicists
is among those thought to be affected
the UK's Information Commissioner's
Office says that companies need to
protect their patrons data in suggesting
the use of encryption as well as
ensuring that quality doors and locks
are used Wow so like an actual situation
where information has actually like like
the hard copy has been stolen oh yeah we
have this happen in a Canadian
government office remember that oh yeah
three years back when I think it was
like like Social Insurance numbers and
everything yeah if I recall correctly
was like potentially an Interpol type
thing Oh hanging out with a girl other
country oh wow well there but it's just
a hard drive full of data so here you
know five thousand members and and the
hard drive has the data on it right I
wonder if it's an employee even if it's
a lot don't worry
and in a very exclusive club so if it
wasn't an employee it's got to be
somebody who's a member of the club and
these are folks that are not probably in
need of stealing a hard drive
I feel like they're implying that
encryption wasn't done like the hard
drive wasn't encrypted I'm not really
saying they did say that it was
password-protected but what that means I
mean is it an Excel spreadsheet with a
password on it that can easily be brute
forced you know that's the thing that's
not the last of this yeah right
all right the Pentagon's Defense
Advanced Research Projects Agency or
DARPA is funding researchers who are
working on some kind of mind-control
chips that can be inserted into human
brains to fix mood disorders the
researchers from the University of
California at Massachusetts General
Hospital in Boston have reportedly begun
testing closed-loop brain implants these
neural implants use artificial
intelligence algorithms to detect
various mood disorders and to deliver
electric shocks to jolt a person's brain
back into a healthy state the implants
which generate electrical pulses to
control human feelings and behavior can
stimulate the brain to treat mental
disorders including dementia and
Alzheimer's experts also believe that
the chips can be beneficial to patients
with a whole range of health issues like
Parkinson's disease and chronic
depression the chips have already been
tested on six volunteers who have
epilepsy and have electrodes implanted
in their brain to help researchers track
what is happening inside their brains
throughout the day as part of their
trial the researchers tracked the
volunteers brain activity and moods in
detail over the course of one to three
weeks and eventually created an
algorithm to decode these changing moods
further analysis helped the researchers
discover that delivering shocks to areas
of the brain that involved
decision-making and emotions can
significantly improve the participants
performance in set tasks such as
matching images of numbers or
identifying emotions on faces the group
is currently working with neuro
ethicists to address the moral
implications of the project that's my
big concern right there
is the moral ethics of the project I
mean I think it's cool if you can get a
little chip that you know potential
we could eradicate some of those things
like epilepsy yeah I mean that'd be
amazing but I mean how quickly could you
turn around and be like well we're just
gonna implant this into our soldiers and
suddenly you're controlling people what
if you're doing it afterwards and
controlling some PTSD
how is this going to play into marriages
look at my face look at my face do I
look happy no I'm not happy with every
implant you get a free marriage
certificate love the idea of this like
to help against something like chronic
depression or a C or pure drug free
right drug free solution and what is the
brain but like the organ that is an
electrical impulse machine it makes
sense that too complex we don't
understand it you can't just open a
computer and say okay what's wrong with
this I'm gonna start short-circuiting
some of the electrical components see
and some of it isn't like I'm thinking
something like depression right you know
that's a serotonin level like that's not
something that you can you know fix with
a shock to the brain
I mean well perhaps maybe it's not the
serotonin that's the problem it's the
the like the reuptake errs like they
cause a depression drug is a serotonin
reuptake inhibitor so the serotonin gets
yes this is what it must feel like to
hear me talk about computers it's true I
was listening to the radio on my way
into the studio today and and
interestingly enough there was a show on
where people were in the audience we're
asking questions and then they had
professionals in the industry answering
these questions it was really quite
entertaining and informative and one of
the questions was what is the cause of
chronic pain and how how does it exist
if there is no injury right and the the
response from this professional from a
university I didn't catch their name or
anything like that and didn't even
intend to speak about it
said that it is actually the the neurons
in the pain receptors and everything
else misfiring and and providing the
wrong information so you think that
there's pain and your brain says there's
pain and you feel the pain but the pain
doesn't exist and so they can't diagnose
it they can't fix it they can't you know
what do you do how many Warrior amputee
--zz have that what's called phantom
limb syndrome sure you know so I mean
there's a lot of potential good that can
come from this but again I go back to my
first comment the moral implications I
think this could go real bad real fast
if it's not reined in right which is why
I'm happy they have some wasn't neuro
ethicists oh yeah that was good to see
but yeah but like anything where where's
the line and who gets to control the
technolon tier for this I would
volunteer to have it done and here is
why because it said increased
performance in numbers and functions
could you imagine if finally after
getting a chip implanted in my brain I
would understand the things that Robby
said I don't think it works that way so
helps you focus but take this to the
next level I mean we already know all
the analytics that come from cell phones
and your web usage imagine having that
integrated with the chip that reads your
emotions that's it it reads emotions and
it under N it interprets yeah because
it's it's an AI I mean if it then goes
Moo hey I can manipulate you from a
marketing standpoint and invoke these
emotions yeah with these I mean like I
mean the sky's the limit with this
technology but man could it go bad and
and you think well they can't control
people's minds they can't put thoughts
into your head and say you know but they
could certainly walk you down the road
well here here's a suggestion do this or
slow that or or beat up that guy you
can't they can't do that it's not that
kind of mind control but have you ever
been you know on your way to work you're
feeling pretty good and some idiot cuts
you off and all of a sudden there goes
your day yeah you know or somebody you
know something happened
somebody mistreats you when you're
checking out for your coffee or
something and and it can ruin your day
and then it affects in turn your
attitude and the way that you treat
other people throughout that day and you
know the shirt folks it's hard yeah it's
hard to regulate emotion in situations
like that the facial recognition for
moods would probably be great for people
who suffer from something like
Asperger's and where they have a really
hard time empathizing because they don't
easily read emotion on others anyway
thinking of getting a drone for
Christmas just a heads up you may need
to qualify to fly in the UK under a new
legislation planned by the government
drones weigh more than 250 grams could
also be banned from flying near airports
or above 2 or 400 feet in a crackdown on
unsafe flying police will also be given
new powers to seize and ground drones
which have been used in criminal
activity the bill has been welcomed by
the pilots union which has warned of
near misses involving drones and
aircraft saying that there have been
eighty-one incidents that so far this
year up from 71 in 2016 and 29 in 2015
the union's general secretary Brian
struttin said these proposals are a sate
a step towards the safe integration of
drones but until the new rules are in
place the threat of a serious collision
remains the proposed bill to be
published in the spring would ensure
that owners of drones weighing more than
250 grams would need to register and
take a test wow I wonder if that will be
like our written test or a flying test
or that'd be cool yeah it's actually a
race all right drones flying through a
course or something like that no I think
it's it's literally just registration
and and answering the test like a g1 or
something it's time it's like a written
test yeah
it's time for that for sure yeah the
UK's Information Commissioner has huge
concerns about ubers data policies and
six following a breach that exposed the
details of 57 million customers and
drivers uber did not tell anyone about
the breach and actually paid a ransom to
hackers to delete the data Deputy
Commissioner James Dibble Johnson said
that these actions were unacceptable the
ride-sharing company does have a
resource page for those who may be
affected Deputy Commissioner James
Dibble Johnson said the Information
Commissioner's Office would work with
the National Cyber Security Center to
determine the scale of the breach and
how it affected people in the UK as well
as considering the next steps that uber
needed to take to comply with its data
protection obligations next year EU
countries will radically alter data
protection laws to offer consumers
greater control over the data that they
share with companies Wow so uber not
only kept the breach a secret but then
paid a hacker I guess today yeah when it
comes to uber I feel like they've just
had about 12 months of complete
butt-kicking Ayana
I'm just screwing up front on various
levels right every time they'd gone
ahead something went wrong and they my
my feeling is they dealt with it
not necessarily correctly and this is
just another step in the case and it's
it's too bad if if you pay a hacker to I
guess if you pay a hacker then how do
you know how do they have proof that the
hacker deleted the data that just to sir
you oh yeah I deleted that data that
actually leaked the story right now they
have the data and probably an ethical
hacker that they knew or had reference
to do you think so
maybe they paid a ransom I did so that's
not very talked about we talked about
them
no that was DJI I'm mixing up my stories
yeah it makes me think about DJI story
last week and how a hacker was using the
the bug
deprogrammed to show that her to you
know submit a bug yes and had connected
I wonder if it's a similar case to that
oh that's true so in in this particular
case though I mean we got a look at the
fact that this is what over a year ago
that this occurred so now the question
comes up well why are we just hearing
about it now who leaked the information
I mean not every news news sources
telling where the story came from but in
fact the this is that the CEO or not the
CEO but the head honcho anyways that it
uber it was replaced maybe it was the
CEO so that kept part of it and so he
actually well first of all fired the the
folks that covered it up yes but also
then released a press release letting
people know that hey this has happened
and it happened under not under my watch
but under the last guys why and you know
so that plays into it as well yeah so
he's trying to clean up I think which is
good mm-hmm
it's a great service so I hope that they
get it together and they're able to
that's the thing is I mean they do offer
good service it just it's like man some
bad calls have been made speaking of a
good service Skype call and messaging
service has been removed from app stores
in China including the Apple App Store
Apple says it's one of several apps to
have been removed after the government
said it does not comply with local law
Skype owner Microsoft told the BBC the
app had been temporarily removed and the
company was working to reinstate the app
as soon as possible the app is also no
longer available for download on Andrew
Android app stores in China media
reports suggested disruptions of Skype
started in October Apple said in a
statement we have been notified by the
Ministry of Public Security that a
number of voice over Internet Protocol
apps do not comply with local law
therefore these apps have been removed
from the App Store in China
Skype when downloaded from outside
China's firewall has been seen as a semi
secure way of discussing sensitive
topics away from the eyes and ears of
China's State Security Skype is just the
latest in a string of foreign owned
digital and Internet platforms including
alphabets Google Facebook and Twitter
which are unavailable to Chinese users
Wow what do they do in China if they
don't have like Twitter and Facebook
they have their own stuff yeah that's
right yeah and it's government monitored
and government controlled regulated and
do you think that it'll ever be a lot I
guess maybe if Skype allows it to be
monitored yeah that would be the thing
if Skype were to put servers in China
and make them monitor a bull by the
government then but see the way the way
things work though is when there's an
app that works well somebody in China
comes up with their own version of it
right I see it all the time so it's only
gonna be a matter of time before they
have their own version of Skype which
will then have integration with regular
Skype but because they'll they'll be
there back they won't be allowed to do
integration they won't be able to tap
into calling to Skype because that's the
whole thing that's about regulating
although as you say if it was if it was
a regulated app that was connected to
sky then that app could be yes could it
could I can't see that's such a hard
thing could you imagine being a software
developer and releasing something like
Skype maintaining its servers
maintaining the service making it so
that I can call China for free and then
having them to shut it down yeah there's
potentially billion plus customers right
now I cannot imagine Wow
China's a big country you want to be
able to market to them sure have
services accessible so maybe Skype will
come up with a way of making it far more
accessible and then be allowed to
reintegrate I think about all the like
foreign exchange students and everything
and you know that's how we communicate
back with
if you know parents and it's family
members and stuff so that's certainly be
tough upon them and use like I know with
some of the online games that I play you
know we keep connected outside with an
app called discord and it's got the
right shot - that'll be blocked if it
isn't already well there's lots of users
from China yeah yeah I mean you've got
kale which is also a Chinese chatting
app I believe they've just added video
integration you know so I mean there's
lots of other ways around it it's no
different than like whatsapp or whatever
so yeah there are the ways but yeah for
now
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories test this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your attack news there's a slight
Linux bias and for more free content to
be sure to check out our website from
the category-five TV newsroom and sasha
Rickman
[Music]
[Applause]
