whoo boom - is now part of Microsoft
Windows what exactly what is going on in
this strange parallel universe that we
now live in you can now install an
optimized version of a boom to 18 point
Oh 4.1 LTS in Windows 10 what it's all
thanks to Microsoft double what uh-huh
okay okay so we are thanking Microsoft
in this moment yeah it's kind of awkward
it kind of feels dirty okay but thanks
ma'am thank you thanks gang
okay here's Microsoft's announcement are
you ready for this yes this comes to us
from Microsoft's let's see if I can get
this right the windows developer teams
senior technical product manager okay
name is Clint wit Gus and says today
this is a couple days back okay today
we've made running Linux even easier on
Windows 10 didn't even know they were
trying no I did but here we go with the
hyper-v quick create feature added in
the Windows 10 fall creators update we
have partnered with Ubuntu and added a
virtual machine image so in a few quick
minutes you'll be up in developing this
is available now just type hyper-v quick
create in your Start menu please note
this feature does require hyper-v please
head on over to the docs and enable it
on top of running ubuntu in a virtual
machine you can use windows subsystem
for linux wsl is a Windows 10 feature
that enables you to run native Linux
commands the command-line tools directly
on windows o
wsl is an extremely easy to install
feature on Windows 10 and you can run
ubuntu SUSE Debian and other distros as
well and if you want to build your own
distro and use that you can do that too
that's an official announcement from
Microsoft there you have it wink-wink
fly fly
it happened folks
at the same time from Canonical's Ubuntu
desktop director will cook comes this
and this is more details folks of course
Microsoft was a little bit
hey we now have this here are some more
details from will cook at a boon to
canonical today again a couple days ago
yes here we are we got to wait till our
show today we are pleased to announce
that an optimized Ubuntu desktop image
is available from the hyper-v gallery
this will give an optimum experience
when running a boon to desktop as a
guest on Windows 10 Pro desktop host
from the Ubuntu report data we know that
a lot of people are using Ubuntu as a
virtual machine and so we want to make
that experience as seamless as possible
our friends over at Microsoft do you
hear that
this is canonical Linux Ubuntu talking
calling Microsoft our friends I don't
understand what's happening here our
friends over at Microsoft have worked
with xrdp upstream to add support for
their enhanced session mode which
provides tight integration between a
Windows host and the Ubuntu virtual
machine running in hyper-v the next
obvious step was to create a bootable
hyper-v image of a boon to desktop 18
point o for LTS which includes xrdp
pre-configured to take advantage of
enhanced session mode so the question
what does enhanced session mode give us
what yes what does it guess the question
right and so I continued improved
clipboard integration dynamic desktop
resizing shared folders for easy guest
and host file transfers huh and an
improved mouse experience seamlessly
being able to move from within your
Ubuntu installation outside into the
Windows environment ah
thanks to the work that Microsoft
contributed to the open-source xrdp
project an open-source implementation of
microsoft's own remote desktop protocol
hyper-v users benefit from using hv sock
stream-based communication mechanism
between the host and the guest giving a
high-bandwidth inter connection between
them that's a lot of technobabble see I
told you it was gonna get serious here
tonight basically this is some
integrated stuff this is built for speed
seamless integration and a great user
experience the Ubuntu desktop 18 point
Oh 4.1 LTS hyper-v image is available
now in the hyper-v gallery on Windows 10
Pro once booted you'll be guided through
setting up a boon - including adding
your user account locale timezone when
you first finish the set up enhance
session mode will automatically be
enabled and prompt you to select your
screen resolution once selected you get
an X RDP prompt to log in make sure that
X org is selected from the drop-down and
enter your username and password that
you created during this setup and you'll
be logged into a full ubuntu desktop
session for more information visit the
Microsoft blog what canonical says for
more information about how to get a boon
to working on Kanaan on Windows so many
brands here folks go to Microsoft's
website and find out more so let's
actually you know it's not enough to
just announce the news yeah let's do it
do we have time Sasha do well they said
just a few men behind back the clock
they said just a few minutes let's do
this okay yeah all right so jumping over
to my laptop computer I'm gonna click
now this is Windows 10 Pro first thing
that I want to do is make sure that I
have hyper-v active so type Windows
Features and you see that first option
turn Windows Features on and off click
on that and if you scroll down you'll
see hyper-v and you can see yeah I
already have it and it's already active
if it's not on your system you can click
the checkbox hit OK and you're good to
go well how do you know if you have
Windows 10 Pro which is required in
order to do this well
I kind of cheat I just type 64 - pit and
it says see if you have a 32 or 64-bit
version of Windows and on that screen if
you scroll down a little ways you'll see
that this is Windows 10 Pro and so with
that I know haha I have what I need to
make this happen so with hyper-v
installed and keep it in mind that this
update came in with the fall update
right finally
Microsoft doesn't update that brings us
some good this is the first time not too
bad Microsoft ok don't need you coming
at us like CBS no I I I'm really pleased
with this I loved you a lot more before
you crash my server but we're joking
about it because yeah you're kind of
your updates kind of screwed up Sasha's
work for a while but I love you again
now that you're embracing this one is a
little better okay so this is what was
coming to your server session type
hyper-v and you'll see quick create
that's brand new folks click on that say
yep and what do we find lo and behold Oh
what do you want to install windows 10
dev environment or Ubuntu 18 point oh
four point one LTS I haven't had to
download it I haven't had to set up a
virtual machine I'm not doing this folks
microsoft has included Ubuntu LTS in
Windows 10 bananas this is a trippy show
folks
trippy show so I'm gonna click on create
virtual machine and when I do all of a
sudden it's going to start downloading
and thanks to the magic of television
here Sasha tonight I've sped this up
from 45 minutes because ladies and
gentlemen it's not as fast as they say
the download server is beast yeah 45
minutes for me to download this Thank
You CyberLink PowerDirector for the
ability to change time and here it comes
it see I'm even getting impatient
watching it in thousand
time's the actual speed Sasha I can't
even give yourself give yourself some
time folks walk away at this point at
this point walk away you've got another
20 minutes left check out a movie yeah
do something do not just sit there
waiting now this is real time it's gonna
verify that downloaded image we're gonna
see if that works
oh I sure hope it does all right now
we're creating a new virtual machine did
you notice Sasha all I did was click on
a boom to 18 point zero four point one
in the hyper-v system and click on
install and I'm just I know that it's
taking time but I am just sitting back
and doing nothing else right I could
minimize this if I didn't want to show
you it I could minimize it and go about
my day right and let this run in the
background all that kind of stuff would
it reduce the performance of the
computer hardly yeah now keep in mind
I'm doing this also on my laptop
computer in my laptop computer as we've
found is not the most latest and
greatest however it does have Windows 10
Pro and it's got an i7 in it so I do
have virtualization technology in the
processor which is great so you're gonna
need to have support for that hyper-v
requires that your processor supports
virtualization technology so do check
that my i7 is gonna be a dream so yeah
it's extracting this so it's time
consuming Sasha but it's easy right I
don't have to figure anything out that's
how I roll well you know realistically
this is an opportunity for Windows users
to try Ubuntu if this goes well I mean
we haven't seen what the end result here
is yet folks but there we go it's done
so what happens if we actually click on
connect oh what's this this is a typical
hyper-v window I can click start to
start the virtual machine and what have
we here
[Music]
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching oh the
traditional purple screen are you
excited
you can do this on your server at work
now that you've got your updates it
flash real quick I've got - boom - on
Windows ok local selection we're booted
we're ready to go so we've like see how
this actually I'm I'm a little nervous
because I've never done this before
there's a brand new feature I'm gonna
hit English and continue let's see how
things go here sash ok
u.s. keyboard yeah that's good for me
you can choose yours if it's different
there's like Dvorak you got the French
keyboards in in Canada here so watch out
when you buy a laptop in Canada because
it has all these French characters all
over it so if you're not French it can
be really annoying if you are French it
can be fantastic my keyboard just
defaults back to French anyhow and then
I have to message oh how do I get rid of
oh yeah that's annoying if you type
resume a couple times here in Canada all
of a sudden Windows switches to French
mode
what have you
so this is it's not motoring along I can
click on the pin up at the top here it
looks just like any other hyper-v so by
clicking on the pin that top bar will
disappear see how so it'll give me a
more native feeling experience and of
course I imagine that we're gonna get
full-screen mode here after the
configuration is complete so I could do
this with my home the computer yeah you
have Windows 10 on your home computer
right now yeah yeah I don't know if it's
pro I need to check that yeah do the
thing I did when in doubt do the thing I
did okay watch the show and go back to
that moment yeah okay so time zone this
is easy
Toronto does it does it come up come on
give me Toronto show me
Toronto I'll just type it and hit
continue did it work okay my name Robbie
Feder Kison and it's given me Robbie -
virtual - machine I'm happy with that
that's the name of my host I'm just
gonna call I'm gonna use test test one
two three for the sake of the
demonstration test test one two three
that's probably not a strong password
and it's probably not the one that you
want to use but I'm gonna use it tonight
Sasha a bit by saying it out loud I
won't forget it while we're live on the
air it's one of the T's capitalized
because that makes it stronger no I went
really weak and who tells me it's a fair
password boon - yeah okay so I'm gonna
log in automatically because I don't
really care this isn't my real system
this is just a ok what is it doing so
this looks a lot like the Ubuntu
installer but of course I'm not having
to go through the installation procedure
it's just simply activating it on
hyper-v because I don't need to install
it right right I already went through
that 45 minute download and let it do
its quick verification and install so it
just looks like it's configuring now
it's creating the user it's like an
initialization procedure as opposed to
an installer but it looks the same
that's sleek fast and full of new
features the latest version of Ubuntu
make
computing easier than ever here are just
a few cool things to look out for okay
what do we got
say goodbye to searching the web that's
all I get
come on now I got uh applying changes
alright we're almost there almost there
so this is Linux you've asked how I'm on
Windows very interested in this Linux
thing that you speak of but I don't want
to lose all my stuff and I don't want to
have a problem reverting if I don't like
it you can do this oh it's not here okay
it's gone black oh you can so you can do
this oh look at this okay okay I'm gonna
come back to that you can do this on
your Windows 10 Pro System right just as
I'm doing here it's happening live okay
all right so it's it's got a desktop now
so choose the size of your desktop for
interacting with the virtual machine
drag the slider
I want large I want huge I want full
screen nice connect there you are
wow that's ugly as sin but that's okay
I'm gonna okay well cuz now I'm
connected by the new xrdp so I it was
robbie test test one two three which is
a fair password if you ask me that's
fair okay
the session was disconnected if you want
to continue try connecting again
reconnect Robbie
test test one two three the session was
disconnected
okay well that stinks loopy yeah all
right let's get back into hyper-v and
let's see what is actually happening
with my virtual machine here there it is
Ubuntu is running can I just can I just
bring up the console let's maybe my
resolution at full screen it maybe it
doesn't like it I don't know I'm gonna
say it
I got tried just connecting with the
default Robbie
test test 1 2 3 because maybe maybe
maybe it just simply didn't like the
fact that I was trying to rescale the
the desktop is it gonna give me the
desktop I can see the desktop in the
thumbnail there come on give me more
than that
Windows come on you're getting me
excited here and then so I'm an end-user
today and I'm looking at that and saying
well this is not great what happens if I
try reset which you never actually want
to do I just want to see do I get a
window here
connect
am i right am i right we're so used to
the process
okay I see Ubuntu in the little
thumbnail there we're so used to the
process of I'll install Lubuntu and then
install Windows as the virtual machine
so how is the process of doing it the
other way around
Robi test test one two three now check
my session it is set to X org and that's
what we were told to do and it won't
allow me to connect what I know well
that answers my question so what was
your question going to be my question
was going to be yes so the reason why as
you know we built this computer for Dave
and yeah he installed Linux on it and
and for a moment we loved it and then he
got on Steam and downloaded some games
and the games only to play with Windows
mm-hm and then until we needed to switch
to Windows which was a sad moment for us
both but it's about gaming and he really
wanted to play it that was that was the
whole intention behind the computer of
course right so the reason for switching
to Windows was that because some of the
games weren't supported so if now we
have Windows 10 at home if we switched
now on our Windows 10 could we still
play those games
if you both see the what we're trying to
do is install Linux into Windows right
so we're not actually replacing windows
we're giving ourselves access to Windows
so I would feel like I had Linux yeah I
could but Dave could still play his
games that are only supported with
Windows correct because Windows is your
native your actual operating system
right Lubuntu would be your guest
operating system is something that you
can run when desired so you can use it
for Internet you can use it for things
where typically viruses are a problem on
Windows for example yeah but you could
use this I would but if it doesn't
actually work like the process this the
process of getting it installed was
easy-peasy and dreamy but if that
doesn't lead me to an operational system
that
I have to say the windows team has not
done everything that they need to do in
order to make this a user-friendly
experience because I know I can probably
get this going and maybe next week we'll
say hey I figured out what the problem
was and I can get this up and going but
if I were to go home and try and do it
that any user like hey I'm on Windows 10
I'd never used Linux before and I want
to try it out try it on your system
obviously there's no harm done if you do
give it a try through hyper-v and see if
it works for you and comment below tell
me if your experience is different but
as far as I'm concerned I mean right now
it seems disappointing it's a little
lackluster and folks in the chat room
are saying well check your your user
name sky rate or 64 says yes my user
name is Robbie
remember Thank You Robbie Ferguson and
they gave me Robbie and the user name
Robbie I know so disappointing indeed
but I would like to know is your
experience different with the hyper-v
implementation of Lubuntu eighteen point
oh four I'm excited about this is a
really good thing for Linux and Mbutu
and it's an exciting thing to have
Windows working on it right it would
help me because I want to be better with
Linux right that's why my laptop is
Linux and my home computer was to be
Linux but for gaming purposes it wasn't
but it would be really nice if I could
actually run Linux on it as well and
then get more acclimatized to it because
there's some things I just would like to
know better I like absolutely I was
slightly expects one final try one final
try is not even connecting yeah it's not
ready yet
not-ready-for-prime-time not ready for
TV not ready for live TV you
almost there you're not quite there
journalist there got it installed
