welcome back to new every day I'm Carrie
and I'm Jen and on stage show we're
going to talk about Wow we've been in
the car for a long time is there
anything left to talk about well I've
had some favorite things in the kitchen
I'm stage show where we talk about Raven
thanks
you
you've got mad skills now hone them
learn new skills or improve your
existing ones with online video
tutorials and training from Linda calm
through our special link at cat five dot
TV / Linda learn software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today to help you achieve your
professional goals join today and start
learning will give you this chance to
try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat5 dot TV / linda
welcome back to new every day Jen it's
been a good dry we've had some great car
conversations and so we've seen two
Hawks we've seen two Hawks put the drawn
on our fingers we've had some light
conversation we've had some deep
conversation we've seen some cool things
and Jen Carrie why don't you tell me
some of your favorite things some of my
favorite things well actually we're
doing some of my favorite things right
now is being outside
looking around things okay actually one
of my favorite being in the country I
was made to live in the country I love
where we live in the sense that it is
close to everything but I really enjoyed
trees some of my favorite things I think
we want to talk about bright copper
kettles and warm woolen mittens
mother did
and what we just did is something that
we did all the time in the car we sang a
lot specifically oh yeah down by the bay
is the camel that's cute we also would
do like old hands like them on a hill
far away and um oh yeah left to right
Jen hi I'd go straight after the stop
sign um yes so we would sing there we go
sorry we had to pause because we want to
make sure she'll pretty wanna say I
would live it's a pretty new every day
tomorrow
some of the things that I actually
started thinking about
are like what is my favorite verse okay
what is your favorite person people say
you know do you have a life verse that
we had a baptism
in our church and one of the things I
like to ask what are their favorite
verses it's always very interesting cuz
i find that it gives insight into who
they are as a person and what they've
been through maybe yes yes the do you
have faith I do have faith what is it
John 10 10
yes see I'm looking up on where our
previous conversations I've talked about
yes no conversations open-ended see
we're picking up on this that you're
learning I think if it's good to learn
from our conversations but anyway John
1010 says the thief comes to steal kill
and destroy but I have come that you
might have life in life to the full and
the thief being Satan and the I being
Jesus we're going to go straight and it
is probably one of my all-time favorite
verses so why it's a like how did you
why no that's a great question of why or
how it came to be but it reminds me of
the fact that Jesus came to give us life
first an abundant life depending on our
life to the max depending on what
version you read and he didn't just come
to save us for heaven right but he came
that we do have life to the full both
here and in heaven right so it
challenges me to say
you know am i experiencing life to the
full now why am i experiencing life to
the full why am I not am I giving thanks
in those situations and so I would say
most undoubtedly the thief came to steal
kill and destroy but I have come that
you might have life and life to the full
I find really is I want to say
quite a level eight levels my life i
guess like it helps to bring balance
because i ask myself am i experiencing
life to the full am i experiencing the
joy that she just wanted to give me or
the peace or you know all those things
that he wants to give us am i
experiencing those things and if i'm not
why not
you know I read something very
interesting this morning I'm reading a
little devotional called Jesus calling
by I think it's Jenna young I want to
say no sarah young okay yeah yeah yeah
which you can find if you go to our
website new every day tpd click our
partners page to go to Amazon the amazon
link you can order that book yeah and so
the way that the devotional set up it's
as if she she takes verses of the Bible
and then puts them as if Jesus is saying
them to you so today was about his peace
in his presence and you said am I giving
thanks for this full life and what it
said was that one of the best ways to
start experiencing my piece and presence
this is if Jesus is talking to you is to
give thanks for it because he says that
he has given it to us when we have
accepted Christ received the Holy Spirit
he gives us his peace
and said and it said one of the best
ways to experience that is to start
giving thanks for it right to
acknowledging the reality of that in our
lives so anyway I just want to share
that as on the sides like maybe just
need to start giving things we have life
to the full so thank you for it here we
go Jen go straight okay then here we go
yep we're going in the right direction
okay then so good we're gonna end up my
mom trust me okay hope so
so carry this my favorite verse John
1010 and serve the ping-pong ball over
to you what would your favorite person
II it would be second Corinthians 5
verse 14
ok and
I just don't wanna run over this person
because that would take this
conversation in a totally different way
for the love of Christ compels us
because we are convinced that one died
for all and therefore all died that
those who live for themselves should
know those who live should no lauralee
no longer live for themselves but for
him who died for them and was raised
again
yeah and why is that your favorite verse
um well because it talks about the
gospel which I love the gospel is not
the gospel because it's good news that
Jesus died for us and therefore we all
died right so I've died to my old self
that those who live should no longer
live for themselves so frees me up to
live for God because I know that he's
paid the price for my sin and also talks
about our motivation if it's the it
should be the love of Christ that
compels us and not obligation
arnaud for you
is love for us
that's great
that's yeah
it's my favorite first I don't think
about it all the time I don't know why
else it's my favorite it's just my fate
really you know when I became your
favorite nope I don't know how to hear
ya I don't remember when hey
civilization huh we're back you know
where we are no but it looks familiar
I am not good at direct a limit line Joe
act because this is the road that we
turned them are you serious
yes great so bad hope so at me now if
you can pick a favorite bubbles I almost
don't is trippin she teaches his media
that she was going to go around the
other side okay so sideline story my
cousin who has six kids we're driving
down the road and you're not allowed to
play the music because six kids they
were seven and under at the time seven
and under six kids maybe they were
neither now that's fairly possible yeah
nine and under that's better there we go
anyways so she really hasn't slept
through the night in nine years anyways
um we're talking like this having a
meaningful conversation going down the
road and she literally she goes two
turns left and she pulls into oncoming
traffic and had to go probably she's
like that's why I'm not that's what we
don't have music in the car that's why
we don't talk to the car because i am
not capable of talking and driving
because i haven't had sleep
seriously oh yeah I just you know what I
have had a couple friends who have just
had babies and I just cannot even relate
to the lack of sleep that they're
getting so kudos to you moms are do a
great job I greet like I don't know how
your functional
anyway favorite Bible story
and well
I think it's my favorite just because I
think of it so much when Jesus was
walking down the road and I don't
remember if it was blind Bartimaeus but
the dude knows to blind guys and they're
calling out Jesus son of David have
mercy on me yeah and Jesus stops and he
and he opens their eyes I so many of my
favorite Bible stories are when Jesus
opens the eyes of the blind and he like
touches them and then they
see and their eyes are opened i don't
know i just love picturing Jesus doing
that and like was he thinking about them
when he was doing it what did he
remember creating them did he remember
for the gentleman who was born blind did
he remember creating him and making him
horn blind and then looking forward to
this moment when he could reserve his
sight I just like think of that Wow
and then I often think about you know
did Jesus remember making these because
he in John 11 said the word the Word was
God the words with God and nothing was
made that was made with everything was
made through the word which is Jesus
race we was there at creation making
everything and that first came to mind
when I was thinking about when Jesus was
going to be crucified and the soldiers
were beating him and when the soldier Oh
beforehand when he was on trial and the
soldier slapped him in the face that did
jesus remember creating him
and did he couldn't realize that he was
slapping his maker you know I just yeah
hard to comprehend I've never really
thought about those passages like that
because in in Psalm 139 talks about how
God's thoughts towards us outnumber the
grains of sand so he's always thinking
about you because he loves you and cares
for you
and do you really believe that that he
loves and cares for you that way do I
think that God thinks about me with
pleasure right or do I always picture
him as being not pleased with me because
I haven't done a B or C
so what ya thinking about those verses
is kind of changed my perspective and
instead of feeling bad about that uh you
know about maybe I've had the wrong
perspective glad i just stopped and i
just give thanks thank you God that you
actually think those thoughts about me
right and that you think the thoughts
about others and that he would help me
to love other people in that way and
have generate those same thoughts in my
mind towards them Wow yeah I didn't
think we were gonna go there but there
we are and we're home we are home Wow
yeah my it's interesting because see my
favorite Bible stories kind of get me
thinking about different things in the
same way that your Bible stories get you
thinking about things it's not the
actual story per se but is how it makes
you think about the people in the story
ok so like because Mike it's interesting
two of my favorite stories in the Bible
that I love to read the story of
Ezekiel's wife and when she dies I know
it's weird I tell you I know and Joe
yeah yeah like I actually want to get to
that part of the Bible I actually get
quite excited because i feel like i'm
going to understand a part of God that I
don't understand Wow because so many
people have questions about suffering
and obedience in and maybe it's because
I feel like that's constantly what I'm
talking to people about because I those
are those big deep deep questions mmm
you know why is there suffering you know
why could God allow this and the story
of Ezekiel's wife basically is on one
day God just says Ezekiel I'm going to
take your wife's life tomorrow like the
apple of your eye and you are not to
mourn because this is an example of
what's going to happen to Israel and I
wrote every time I read it I'm just I'm
challenged by it because I'm like what
is Ezekiel thinking
did he have was his wife like an idol in
his life um is this where we really when
we talk about pick up our cross and
follow me that I I'm willing to
surrender everything um does life really
matter that small to the Lord mm like it
so it's odds all those big big questions
like you said when Jesus you know of
course you remember he the blind man in
making him but looking for right you're
thinking about the mind of Christ and
these stories make me think about the
mind of the Lord in and and now he
thinks about people and for that he he
thinks in ways that we have no idea cuz
we think with human ways and we don't
think with God thoughts and so i find
the story of Joe and the story of
Ezekiel's wife really challenging me to
think about you know the importance of
of who God is and fully serving Hammond
and my willingness to follow him in all
situations even when they're difficult
or doesn't make sense yeah I think
that's where we need to look at the
whole counsel of Scripture because we
see Jesus as a fulfillment of the law
and we look at the Old Testament and
Jesus is in the Old Testament concealed
and he's in the New Testament revealed
yes right and suit to take it all in
perspective those stories that seem hard
and generate these tough questions we
can see them answered in the life of
Christ and who God is in the person of
Christ right so it's interesting that
you had to Old Testament stories and
then I had New Testament stories where
we can see the character of God in so
many different ways yes which is so
important why we always will say read
the whole thing read the whole thing
because it really does reveal who got it
reveals all of who goddess yeah and so
you need all of it and so thanks for
traveling with us today we hope that
you've enjoyed our our favorites and how
they kind of they do draw us back to
God's faithfulness and who God is and to
examine more deeply his character and
and how much he loves us yeah yeah so
we're so thankful that you've tuned in
hope that you'll come back next week
check our partners page and just hope
that you would support us over this
Christmas season as you're maybe giving
to others if you'd like to donate you
can go into our partners page at go to
our website new everyday TV and you can
donate them their religious so
appreciate that to make this show
continue so thank you for tuning in have
an amazing have an amazing weekend in or
bless you and keep you and may your
thoughts be drawn
west
