[Music]
one of the things that we love here
Sasha yes any guesses one of the things
we loved here is unboxings yeah we love
unboxings she's gonna say Lennox yes a
open source software yes open source
software why do I love open source
software so much why because it's your
heart I don't know why because it's open
and it nobody makes money yes Robbie who
gives away the show for free loves
things that make no money no there is
that but I think there's this whole kind
of spirit of community around open
source software that says and sometimes
this is not the case but certainly a lot
of the times it is it's people working
together to develop software that they
love and they are passionate about and
they distribute and they give away
absolutely free so that community
members people who want to just go to
their websites and download it can do
that that's free you took the words
right out of my mouth it's like it's
like the tech flashmob like the way
everybody just in community gets
together and they do something for the
greater good only this is just
open-source not just open-source is just
like it is just like it so you think
about things like Microsoft Windows and
then you realize that there is Linux
look at Linux Mint look at a boon to
look at boon to mattei and realize that
windows being a commercial application
that's closed source its proprietary and
it is it belongs to Microsoft and you're
paying for that Linux on the other hand
is open source it's free you can
download it you can install it you're
not limited to how many computers you
put it on you can put it on everything
and it still remains free you can do all
the same things that you normally would
like going on the internet doing the you
know checking your email surfing the web
watching YouTube watching category-five
all these things can be done
and then you say well yeah but I need
Photoshop because we're back in that
mindset of proprietary commercial it's
owned by Adobe it's not something that
we can just have and install on
everything but then we realize oh just
like Linux is two windows there are
alternatives to things like Photoshop
Sasha's got guests GIMP GIMP what do you
say GIMP
it stands for the GNU image manipulation
program GIMP for short gimp.org is where
you can go head on over there gimp.org
I'm gonna see if I can bring up my
screen here I'm sure I could here we are
and there we are and the first screen
that you see is giant huge button that
says download two point ten point four
that's what it says today tomorrow it
might be ten two point ten point five so
you click on that and lo and behold hey
download it directly and it's available
for Linux so if you've already made that
choice that hey I want to go the
open-source route not use Microsoft
Windows not use Mac OS I want Linux and
you've made that choice hey you can
install the GNU image manipulation
program on your Linux system and now
you've got an open-source alternative to
Adobe Photoshop on that computer as well
so you're saving some money my friend
you are frugal but then look right next
to that it's also available for OS ten
it's also available for Microsoft
Windows if you are stuck on Microsoft
Windows or maybe you love it you can
still download the GNU image
manipulation program and you can give it
a go hey it doesn't hurt anything to try
it right so why not head on over to
gimp.org and download that application
and install it to your computer so if
you're on Windows just click on the
Microsoft Windows link and it'll take
you there this tells us a whole big
bunches you see I mean this tells us a
lot about the GNU image manipulation
program it's been around for years and
years and right now
with two point ten point four why am I
so excited about it tonight anything
that I could ever complain about with
the GNU image manipulation program or
anything that would make somebody say
yeah I like that it's open-source I like
that it's free but it's not as good as
Photoshop a lot of those things anything
that you can think of other than CMYK
we'll talk about that but any of those
things are resolved so now we have we're
at the place with this free program
where the GIMP is so good you can use
this in commercial for commercial use
you can use this I have used this to do
billboard scale print jobs and I do it
all in RGB because the GNU image
manipulation program if you want to look
for anything that is better in Photoshop
that would be my example would be that
Photoshop will work in both CMYK and RGB
if you don't know what that means it
probably does not matter to you
graphic designers will prefer to work in
CMYK it's more photo accurate in print
so when you print something it's going
to probably come out more accurately but
with some care RGB which is red green
blue can still produce an exceptional
result and if you're producing images
for web for online for screen display
and for most print jobs to RGB is going
to work just absolutely fine so it's not
a downfall in the GIMP it's just truly
that's probably the biggest the biggest
thing that is different about the GIMP
so with ten point to pardon me two point
ten point for having been released there
are a bunch of really great new features
now I mentioned that some things have
been fixed that used to be
idiosyncrasies about the program now
those would be things like when you used
to rotate an image a little bit it would
go blurry because it didn't have very
good interpolation for re interpolating
the pixels Photoshop had a one-up on
that things like scaling down images
Photoshop did a better job because the
GIMP would come out with
blurry image if you scaled down now
that's no longer a problem I've showed
it on category five before but I will
show it again tonight really briefly but
so that is no longer a problem so now
looking at 2.10 point four we have some
enhancements to things like the measure
tool which is what i want to look at
tonight in our demonstration but it
allows us to fix the horizon of our
image our images and I want to show you
that so I'm not gonna get too much into
it
it has a synchronous font loading what
does that mean when you open your
program it loads all the fonts well now
GIMP says you know what you probably
don't need comic sans ms so let's not
load it until you demand it let's let's
just wait and and sew it and because
it's asynchronous it's doing other
things while it's loading those fonts
and so it's gonna load up a lot quicker
we've got font tagging we've got
dashboard updates which means that they
have made some improvements to the UI
the PSD loading so this is important
they've made some enhancements to the
way it loads PSD files that may not mean
anything to you but if you are
transferring files between someone who
uses Photoshop and the GIMP a PSD file
is a file that was saved in Photoshop
Photoshop document I believe it stands
for would correct me if I'm wrong but a
PSD file was saved in the actual Adobe
Photoshop program in their format so in
the GNU image manipulation program if
you make that transition now you can
open all those PSD files and it does a
very very good job of loading PSD files
directly they have been working toward
giggle and Babel support and that is
just nonsense right but it means that
again the interpolation is much much
better speed is much much better and a
lot of the plugins have been redone to
work better and more professionally
giggle is a big part of that and again
you don't need to know all the details
but you can read about it on their
website at gimp.org are you ready to get
into a sash certainly yeah can I show
you how this works please have you Sasha
I'm talking to you Kip yeah have you
ever taken a photo only to
realize that you it looks like it was
taken by a one-legged pirate
ahaha you know me well even the camera
take the picture you think it's straight
but you know you're a little bit scared
so it ends up being horribly skewed I've
got a picture here that we're gonna
pretend I took in fact I did not I got
it from pixels pixels comm check them
out okay open with GNU image
manipulation program now I skewed it the
photographer didn't do this to it
welcome to the GIMP this is the GNU
image manipulation program two-point
10.4 beautiful now I am running this on
Microsoft Windows 10 you can run this on
any platform Windows Mac Linux and
you'll notice with this photo now it is
incredibly skewed if I create a box I
can see that one legged pirate did take
this picture and this happens very very
often now I get photos from customers
that because when you're standing in a
room if you are not looking straight at
the wall you're looking a little bit off
that horizon of the wall will be off and
so in your mind you think oh well
straighten it and then take the picture
but then it ends up actually being
crooked because it's not where the
horizon should be so I'm using this
extreme example to really quickly show
you one of the great new features the
enhancements that come built into the
GIMP two point ten point four now this
is a free program remember and we've got
all these great tools we've got filters
we've got color you know if you want to
fix the levels of a photo you can do
that just like you would in an in Adobe
Photoshop and then you can save those
settings to to the photo just like that
or you can undo you've got all these
options filters as I mentioned we've got
things like Gaussian blur you need to
install this go through these things and
just play and have fun but in this
example now I brightened it up a little
bit there with my levels and in this
example I want to fix the horizon now
normally I would go through a process of
having
to rotate the image which i can do i can
turn on things like a grid if i want to
be able to kind of line that up let's
see if I can show grid I don't know I'm
just kind of playing but sometimes yeah
there are things like show grid I don't
know where it is but just to say there
you know sometimes we hack around things
and have to go like that and then we
crop it and it's not ideal now watch how
easy they've made this so looking again
at this as a possible professional suite
to use I'm going to just simply use the
measure tool which is usually used to of
course measure right and we can use this
to now fix the horizon of any photo so
when I say horizon I'm using an actual
sunset horizon you may be using photo in
a room or indoors outdoors whatever but
the horizon being you know where it
should be straight so jumping back here
I'm gonna change my interpolation now I
mentioned how things used to get blurry
if you made some changes because we only
had none linear in cubic now we have no
halo and with no halo interpolation
we're able to get a very very nice clean
pixel recreation if we modify the the
image the scaling and those kinds of
things then we've got the clipping now
this is how we want to work with the
image how we want to crop it or whatever
after we straighten it so I'm going to
show you those features in just a moment
and it'll all make sense so I'm gonna
just simply click on the horizon and
drag and I'm gonna just put a line what
looks like a line with a measure tool
and let go now there's a line where the
horizon is you can see that and so now
all I have to do you ready for this
Sasha I am what do you think about this
button straighten I'm gonna push that
and just watch what happens to this
picture now it's fast I'm working with a
48 18 by 25 90 photo and now my horizon
is perfect
please straight look at that if I make a
box that is perfect it's beautiful but
I've got this like strange kind of
cropping happening because it's done it
within the canvas and so it's got these
kind of you know the alpha section
showing behind so I'm gonna change the
way that I do this by going back to my
measure tool which is move now that I
made that wider where to go there it is
all right
leaving interpolation and no halo
because I want it to stay real clean
let's look at what clip does differently
so I'm gonna do the same thing and
straighten and lo and behold clip looks
pretty much the same to me as adjust
it's not gonna undo and I'm gonna change
to crop to result now this is starting
to sound promising and do my line
straighten and you may not think to look
for this under measure but there it is
so now you see what's happened we've
still got that alpha area but it is that
the image has been cropped so that I can
now right-click on the image and go
image and then crop to content watch
what happens boom nice there is a
beautiful image that I can now work with
that has a perfect horizon and I didn't
have to figure it out I didn't have to
do any calculations I didn't have to
line things up and zoom in and squint it
was just that easy that is incredible
I could probably do that that's our
measurement folks Sasha do you think you
could do this I think I could do that
she thinks she could do this so you can
do it too
but truthfully I mean okay let's
backtrack just real quick GIMP GNU image
manipulation program is free you can
download it from gimp.org it runs on
Windows Linux and Mac and it is
continually being developed by an
open-source community of developers and
it is continually improving now with two
point ten point four available you can
do something like straighten your image
her eyes
just that easily goethe gimp.org pick up
your copy today it's absolutely free
what are you waiting for
[Applause]
