welcome to category five technology TV
it's episode number five twenty nine
nice to see you oh yeah what's that this
is the Raspberry Pi killer and it's
super fast super small and it has an SAT
a backplane with raid compatibility I'm
gonna be building this tonight stick
around
TV newsroom Broadcom has confirmed a 130
billion dollar buyout offer further
arrival Qualcomm some iPhone users are
left fuming over the new letter AI bugs
Torres been leaking users real IP
addresses and Australia's multi-million
dollar broadband network is under attack
from cockatoos stick around the full
details are coming up later in the show
this is category 5 technology TV
[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and then the
streamer tune in every week on roku cody
and other HLS video players and for
local show times visit category 5 TV TV
slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters
cat5 TV slash iai
be welcome to the show this is category
5 technology TV and I'm Robbie I'm Jeff
I'm stache it's so nice to have you here
and just want to say greetings to all of
our new viewers here tonight if you are
just tuning in for the first time
especially make sure you say hi get on
over to our community forums which
you'll find on our website category 5
dot TV we'd love to hear from you if
you've been here for a few weeks or hey
if you've been here for years upon years
we still want to hear from you as well
we've also got a live chat room so if
you're able to tune in on a Wednesday
night at 7 o'clock Eastern Time you'd be
able to tune in and also participate in
that live chat so as the questions are
coming in that's how it's done so that's
a cool way to interact with us as well
but just want to say hey and thank you
for tuning in to the show this has been
a busy week for Robby I tell you
yes NEMS one-point-three Hobbit was
always a saga on facebook ooh lots of
folks have and you remember about a year
it was a year ago I guess
hit me featured NEMS 1.1 that's right
and so we're actually going to be
looking at nems
in the next couple of weeks because it
has grown so much and by that I mean
like the feature set is incredible do
you remember names there's a lot of
people right now that are in the same
position as you where you're gone huh
it's fairly new oh absolutely yeah it's
about a year and a half old
yeah NEMS was released about a year and
a half ago but a year ago we really we
did a video on the the second edition
which was one point one then one point
two came out one point two point one
point two point three anyways what is
names names is Nagios enterprise
monitoring server and basically what
that means is it's an appliance that
goes on your network
that tells you if a hard drive is about
to crash it tells you if a computer is
about to fail or if you've got problems
with bandwidth usage from particular
user it tells you anything that you want
to monitor it shows you that it's an
enterprise monitoring server while
there's lots of those available so
what's so exciting about NEMS well it's
got a cool name yeah the ones that are
in that that's it no but as a monitoring
server you think about your business in
network and being able to monitor assets
within your network that is a very
expensive process you have to have a
server you have to have an appliance
you've got to have licensing fees that
cost thousands and thousands of dollars
per year nems is unique because it uses
all open source software right so it's
absolutely free as far as software goes
but then you think okay well the
hardware's got to be four thousand
dollars well no we built it specifically
to run on single board computers
starting with the Raspberry Pi 3 so
we're talking about a $35 investment I
mean for a basic Raspberry Pi board and
then you just stick MEMS on it and you
put it on an SD card and you run it
that's that's really I mean under a
hundred bucks
you easily have a server and people say
well what how reliable is it the the
longest-standing them server that I know
of was running since version 1.0 and has
not failed yet and it's just it's
continuing to run and now is running
it's actually on 1.2.3 ok soon to be
upgraded to 1.3 huh all that to say
fantastic software good over to NEMS
linux.com it's just like it sounds an
EMS linux.com and you can download it
absolutely free if you already have a
Raspberry Pi it's great you can just
deploy it on your SD card and boot it up
and it's ready to go otherwise you can
purchase a Raspberry Pi from that
website as well all the hardware that
you need and neat thing about NEMS 1.3
is that there are networks that are
running
Nagios enterprise monitoring server with
hundreds of computers right and it's
running great on a Raspberry Pi
it uses 5 volts of electricity and it's
it uses virtually no power so I like
there's there's no cost to operate it's
fantastic but some people want more
power
or so this cycle they're gonna be we're
gonna start seeing other hardware
available as as nem servers right so
we're gonna start seeing them as
appliances that are more powerful we've
got one device that we're looking at
that has 16 gigabytes of RAM whereas a
Raspberry Pi only has one gigabyte jump
and tonight we're actually looking at a
really cool device from Odroid called
the X u4q and it is we're gonna talk all
about it in just a couple minutes time
but it's basically the next generation
nem server because it's a single board
computer but it has two gigabytes of RAM
it's much much faster than the Raspberry
Pi we're gonna get into the specs as we
build it tonight
stick around that's gonna be fun
Sasha speaking of builds we finished
doing your your gaming computer has been
going now of course it's been it's been
a couple weeks now since you've set that
up for Dave it has been great he loves
it he absolutely is blown away we went
out and got a new Mouse so that's all
good okay so you just picked one up that
was a wireless mouse and it works better
yeah there was just legging issues with
the other one so this one is perfect and
then we needed a mouse pad yeah because
the mouse pad was was meant to be sent
with the motherboard but never actually
arrived in it right so then I remember I
was watching the show as I watched this
whole thing on YouTube and I was
watching the shona I would I was going
through and I was like oh well we did
actually receive a mouse pad because did
we unbox a mouse pad because I remember
that the motherboard was meant to come
with one exactly but I don't remember
ever seeing it and so when you took when
you started saying oh you were looking
for a mouse pad I said well I thought
that it was supposed to come with one
but I never did see one and we had
gotten into this box did you keep it no
well this is this is the box that sash
is meant to take with her but she hasn't
taken all the I said I said you got to
take all the recycling and this is this
is the recycling this is the stuff that
we didn't use and lo and behold Jeff
something that we never ever saw
don't see anything under there dia Sasha
mm-hmm Dave there it is beautiful gaming
mouse pad and it's a good server scible
well it's a republic again or it's a
gaming mouse pad to give you a lot of
good gameplay so it did come with one I
don't suppose you can return the one
that you spent an entire day trying to
find a perfect got one for each hand so
no you said the mouse didn't work now if
I recall correctly when we did the show
we talked about possible distance
because you were what like 10 feet away
potentially yes okay so is that the
issue in truth the mouse did work if I
was practically right on top I had to be
and because of the way we have our our
room setup Oh I mean to take a picture
every time and I haven't okay but the
the computer is set like a little bit
behind the TV to the side of it so in
order for the mouse to really connect
well you kind of had to be standing
right beside the TV but the TV is what
we use as our screen so so it's not that
the most that we got was a bad mouse
know because we I mean there was some
researching going on with some of your
components it was just a matter of the
distance was too far exactly in the
mouse itself like it clicked very well
it was quiet it was nice but it really
wasn't connecting proper so we're keep
it was it was affordable it was not an
overly expensive Mouse exact that
happened but what was funny is we
couldn't really use the computer very
well and so we had the mouse so when we
went to get the mouse we got the
mousepad then we watched the show and I
was like oh there is the most did I
mention you've got another mouse pad it
all worked out and yes we've got a
really like dump the boxes and see what
we've nest that's kind of funny that a
couple of extra things are there Sasha
now have you gotten has Dave gotten set
up with steam at this point you
mentioned that he was having trouble
getting his account up yes so he's fine
so he finally got his account up and
running and then I reset his password
the whole thing again because know that
I remembered what I did well knowing you
you changed it a password one two three
exclamation mark Oh with an explanation
cool Asian push okay so he's got steam
working yes at least now steam is up and
running and q do you remember when when
we had Henry go down to the VR Expo in
Toronto now he met with the company the
bat fly interactive and they showed off
a wicked cool VR game that was dead
Effect 2 right yeah okay fantastic game
if you haven't seen the video yet go
onto our website category five dot TV
and just do a quick search for virtual
reality and you're gonna see a whole
bunch of clips of different things now
Sasha for Dave yes we have a coupon code
for dead Effect 2 on Steam so that's for
Dave and this is like this is virtual
reality first-person shooter I mean it's
it's just a ton of fun and certainly you
know takes gaming to the next level
absolutely it's gonna run really really
well on your gaming rig it's for Steam
and we've got other coupon codes for
Steam as well so if you would like a
free copy of debt effect to VR from bad
fly interactive all you have to do is
send us an email contest at
category-five dot TV
tell us your name where you're watching
from and how you're tuning into category
5 TV whether it be on roku or on channel
33 in the high desert or if you're
watching on youtube just let us know how
you're tuning into category 5 send us a
little note along with that just to say
hey and we're gonna put your your name
and a draw we have at least 10 weeks of
giveaways coming up leading up to the
Christmas season because we want to make
sure that you've got all this really
cool gear before before the Christmas
shopping is done we'll say so heading
make sure you cast your ballot contest
at category-five dot TV and we've got
one of those for you as well just give
me all your email addresses all your
submit your information for you 10
copies of the game what good is that
screen ok so we've got to take a really
really quick break when we come back
we're gonna be unboxing the Odroid cloud
shell - we're gonna tell you all about
what that means
and we're gonna get into it and we're
gonna actually assemble the thing really
in just a couple of minutes time stick
around we'll be right back whether you
shop on thinkgeek gearbest B&amp;H photo
video eBay or Amazon or even if you want
a free trial of audible you'll find the
best deals and support the shows we
produce by simply visiting the shopping
sites you already frequent by using the
links on our website visit category-five
TV slash partners for the full and
ever-growing list and help us create
more free content like this show thank
you for shopping with our partners and
thank you for watching welcome back this
is category five technology TV we've got
to get right into it we're gonna be
taking a look at the Odroid cloud shell
- right now it's just a box I'm gonna
set it down and we're gonna take a look
so what we're gonna do tonight is we're
gonna actually assemble this thing put
it together for you and what's included
in my box of the cloud shell 2 is the
Odroid X u4q you see this this is a SBC
I'm gonna call it the Raspberry Pi
killer here tonight folks and the queue
in the name stands for quiet and that's
that huge heatsink that you see there
that is gonna keep this thing cool
without a fan why is it a Raspberry Pi
killer well do you see the circuits
it's basically compatible as far as the
form factor goes but we've got gigabit
ethernet 4k video output and more we're
gonna talk all about that now in the
cloud shell case we've got a whole bunch
of stuff there's a USB 3 component
kickback cable we've got the ribbon
cable a bunch of screws we've got let's
see the this is really nice the front
panel includes a 2.8 inch TFT color
screen but it also has a backplane built
right into it look at that SATA and that
is for 2 SATA hard drives so that's
going to give us rate controller or
j-bot or whatever
do that's all built in I've got a power
cable I've got the Americans kind of 110
then we've got the 92 millimeter fan to
cool it and a 15 volt 4 amp power brick
we've got a couple of little mounting
little pieces as you can see we're gonna
show you all about what that does and
the emmc hard drive it's basically a
replacement for the SD card that you
would put in in your Raspberry Pi
there's our battery for the battery
backup for the real-time clock and then
the components themselves for the case
now you'll notice that they have a
little bit of a cloudy finish and that's
because each of these components have a
protective film on it now you may not
see it and you may not be able to really
easily get to it but if you get your
nail under there you're gonna see that
you can peel that right back and we need
to do both sides of each of these pieces
of plastics so that's just there to
protect it during manufacturing during
shipping itself but make sure now if it
is not crystal clear then you know that
that has some film on it so once that's
done they're gonna be perfectly clean
clear and not gonna have that cloudy
look to them whatsoever so now we just
have to kind of figure out where to plug
everything in but I want to do this with
a kingston SSD if i can so let's give it
a go I'm just gonna put it on this
mounting bracket to make it the same
size as a 3.5 million inch hard drive
and then I should be able to mount it to
the side brackets here so let's set
everything up and just a couple of
screws on each side should do it but we
need to make sure that it's lined up
right now I've noticed that I've
actually got it mounted the wrong way
around here Jeff so I need to actually
turn that over Robbie okay there we go
lined up to the backplane just fine
that's better I can put that back
together through the magic of TV we can
speed this up for you so it's not a full
hour there we go
now all I have to do is just plug in the
backplane you'll see that it just kind
of snaps on to the backplane there
because it is just an SATA hard drive so
that carries power and
the the data as well but what I'm
noticing here with the SSD in particular
with this mounting apparatus is that
it's not lining up so the problem with
that is now I can't line it up to the
backplane that's a problem so I do have
a server here that has some old 500 gig
hard drives in it I'm gonna pull those
out as we take a really quick commercial
break when we come back we're gonna take
that SSD out of there and we're going to
instead install physical like spinning
hard drives almost cuddle style
all right so stick around we'll be right
back you've got mad skills
now hone them learn new skills or
improve your existing ones with online
video tutorials and training from
lynda.com through our special link at
cat5 dot TV slash Lynda learn software
technology creative and business skills
you can use today to help you achieve
your professional goals join today and
start learning we'll give you this
chance to try it absolutely free with
unlimited access to all of the courses
sign up now for free cat5 dot TV slash
Lynda welcome back this is category five
technology TV now tonight we are
building the Odroid cloud shell 2 with
the xu4 single board computer I'm
calling it the Raspberry Pi killer
because it is way more powerful than the
Raspberry Pi so let's fire it back up
and we're gonna throw these hard drives
in that I pulled out of an old server
that I've got here these are just 500
gig barracudas so we'll just remove them
from the mounting apparatus and just
take this SSD out now I do want to do
the SSD thing so in a couple of moments
I'm gonna show you a bracket that we
could use that would allow me to use my
SSDs in this system but you can see that
the normal hard drive line up really
really well and so we're gonna go that
route just for tonight for the sake of
time and for the sake of the
demonstration so that looks good it's
gonna work with this backplane just fine
so we'll put these drives in now this
particular unit the cloud shell to the
case it
includes the back plane that has raid
rate capabilities so by putting two hard
drives in here I can set up a mirror I
can make it so that these two computer
these two hard drives will have an exact
image of one another so that if one of
the hard drives crashes I still have the
data so we should be able just to plug
that right in now these ones line up a
lot better than that then that SSD with
the just kind of the included mounting
plate so if we just line that up and
give it a little push should be nice and
snug there we go okay all right looking
good not too tough to put this thing
together as a Jeff know so simple Sascha
do you appreciate the ease I'm just
gonna stick a couple of screws in here
too just to hold that together that's
just for the side of the the faceplate
itself a little quicker and easier to do
it this way then the build that we've
had to do so this is the 92 millimeter
fan I'm just going to mount that here
and one of the things you're gonna
notice I'm just gonna put in three
screws you're gonna understand that a
couple of minutes time but essentially
when you're putting the fan on here we
just want three screws and the other
thing that's important is we observe the
airflow direction there's a little arrow
here that shows me that it's blowing out
the back of the computer that's
important we want to draw the hot air
out of the chassis and blow it out now I
can plug it directly into the board but
it did include a current limiter here
and that is actually going to slow down
the fan make it quieter because it has a
lower spin speed so I would recommend
that we install that first and then
we're gonna monitor the temperatures and
and see if we need to remove that it's a
nice easy thing to undo if we need to
with hard drives spinning hard drives
like this we're gonna generate a lot
more heat than we would with an SSD so
the SSD component when I upgrade to that
is going to run a lot cooler so I'm
happy to use that limiter I may need to
remove that with these hard drives so
the Odroid xu4 Q is right there look at
that board it is just like a Raspberry
Pi as far as form factor goes in this
case just kind of snaps together as you
can see
and there we go so now we're gonna
actually mount the Odroid itself but I
did notice that I've missed a couple of
films here so we do need to make sure
that we've got all of those removed just
watch those little components they kind
of got set aside and I missed it so now
we're just gonna put these these little
connectors these riser connectors onto
these little components and it's a
little confusing if you don't have a
visual to see you know the manual makes
it a little difficult to see so I hope
that this helps you to be able to mount
this before I mount it I noticed that
there's an emmc input which is going to
be my hard drive so this is a jack for
the hard drive itself this replaces an
SD card so it's much more reliable much
faster and it's gonna give us a lot of
life so we just kind of snap that on I
would recommend that you do buy that
it's sold separately but it's going to
be more reliable than an SD card for
sure and a lot faster so now I can mount
the board and keep in mind it's a little
backwards to what you would expect it
actually hangs the board hangs so it's
not mounting from the bottom it's
mounting from the top of the board
so I mentioned that this is the
Raspberry Pi killer it is an 8 core
single board computer Jeff really 8
cores it's got 2 gigabytes of ddr3 RAM
make sure you keep your maker kit handy
by the way here I actually needed to
pull a couple of screws because there
were a couple screws missing with 8
cores 2 gigabytes of ddr3 RAM this thing
runs up to 2.0 gigahertz which makes it
more than twice as fast as a Raspberry
Pi 3 their latest version and we know
that the Raspberry Pi is not bringing
out a new version any time soon so this
is the next gen and definitely you know
this gets you back on top of the single
board computer market so it just kind of
snaps in there and then we need to just
apply this ribbon cable which we're
going to Bend just to make it so that it
connects the way that we want it to I'm
going to just fold the cable a little
bit here so that it it looks clean and
it's not kind of just draped over
everything we need it to be able to
reach the board so
just connect that in it's like an old
IDE cable takes me back oh so then
that's gonna go into the the front panel
what that's gonna do is it's going to
provide power to the circuit board so we
don't need to have separate power for
the X X you for at all
it also provides the signal to the
screen on the front panel so and then
some other communication as well so but
the screen is actually a color computer
screen and every every bit of the signal
goes through this cable so now the final
kind of step here is we need to connect
the SATA controller but first I need to
make sure now you see this little dip
switch here that's gonna select between
the emmc and the SD card and I want to
leave that out as you can use either or
you can choose which one you want to use
here is a selector a dip switch for the
RAID controller we're gonna zoom in a
little bit on this so that you can see
so this allows me to select raid 0 raid
1 span or j-bot and PM PM is basically
default mode like normal harddrive mode
so independent drives that's the mode
that I'm going to use so both switches
are going to beep off so then we plug in
this USB cable which is actually USB 3
that's another advantage to the Odroid
Xu 4 is that it has USB 3 whereas the PI
has USB 2 and it's very very slow this
one is very very fast and it's USB
Attached or scuzzy so it's very very
fast compared to typical USB connected
hard drives so just simple slide and
click finish putting this thing together
look at that Wow
now I mentioned this battery here this
is sold separately but this makes it so
that if you unplug the power from the
Odroid it will remember the time and
date I think that's important so for the
extra couple of dollars that it cost to
buy a battery for it I just look at the
RTC battery or real time clock and that
just kind of goes in there and I just
push it aside that just helps with that
and that's pretty much all there is to
it so slide the cover on there and now
it's still you know nothing's quite
locked into place yet but look at that
absolutely beautiful now the bottom of
this chassis is wide open so check this
out underneath we've got a lot of
airflow but we need to be mindful of
that if you're gonna set it on a shelf
or something like that you know you know
you need to be mindful that it is wide
open on the side is where you plug in
the power and again this is a 15 volt
power cable and it powers everything you
the Odroid now the final piece is to
lock the cover in place with this little
guy this is why I didn't want to have
that third and the fourth screw in the
chassis fan because now with that lock
in place screw in that final screw and
that's all there is to it now
we're done everything's locked cool good
and solid beautiful little rig I love
the look of it
now you can get one of these at camp 5
TV /c s 2 for cloud shell 2
of course you can also pick up the board
itself cat 5 dot TV /x u4q you're gonna
need both of those components in order
to put this thing together absolutely
awesome now a couple of other upgrades
that you could get for this if you want
Jeff I love the fact that it's crystal
clear yes love the love the look of it
so I went and picked myself up a 92
millimeter replacement chassis fan that
has built-in LED lighting yeah so it's
gonna make this thing glow really really
cool one of the things I was
disappointed with there is that I
couldn't plug in my kingston SSD right i
would like to have this for a couple of
reasons first extremely cool no moving
parts it's not going to generate heat
too it's very very reliable there are
again no moving no moving parts so if it
gets bumped or if it's you know just
spinning all the time 24/7 it's not
going to have that wear and tear of a
physical spinning hard drive and they're
just just ultra reliable ultra fast and
I can set them up in a RAID one what
nice so in order to do that of course
the included chassis mount was not meant
for a backplane not going to do it for
you so I picked up one of these which
I'll post a link below in the comments
actually picked up two of these I should
say okay for my drives so what this is
is a little different from the one
that's included and just a simple little
upgrade it looks like the back of the
hard drive right an SATA hard drive you
slip the SSD in here oh and it snaps in
there we are it's done and now it has
the exact form factor to spec of an SATA
hard drive so now it will fit that
backplane so my next upgrade is to now
switch to these Kingston SSDs I've got a
couple of DC 400s which are really
reliable right enterprise drives
beautiful drives and that's going in my
Odroid case nice so what can you do with
this what can't you do with it well X
media server okay gaming nice you want
to do some retro gaming on here turn
this into a retro gaming system
imagine with eight cores two gigs of ram
how much more powerful that's gonna be
the new Raspberry Pi right you want to
build your own network attached storage
device an ass now the one thing I'm
noticing is that there's no peripheral
plugins it's for what anything like well
I'm not seeing oh it's on the silent
yeah I don't even see right over here
we've got USB and we've got HDMI 4k
output
totally we've got 10 over 100 over 1000
Ethernet there is no built-in Wi-Fi but
you can plug one into the USB okay I
would say probably put it internally
because there are USB 3 ports inside the
chassis so you can put that in there to
hide it and not to use up one of your
external ports here see I was paying
attention to the bill that wasn't an SD
port here for SD cards micro SD and so
on and of course because it's USB you
could always if you wanted to grab the
USB 3.0 from the inside here and run a
cable at the back or out the side there
are some ports here yes and have it go
to a USB 3 hub and then okay multiple
USB 3 ports that are powered right so
you can do all that kind of stuff it's
built to be I mean it's a it's it's a
DIY nice box nice how do you like that
so if you in Nass being network-attached
storage you can set this up as a new
server a nice economical server for your
network be it business or very nice when
I say Plex that's a media server so that
you can watch TV shows on any of your
devices it's like a DIY build your own
Netflix server I love it and you can
just lo every day we're on Plex
beautiful but Plex through a Raspberry
Pi now this is two to three times faster
I know with better specs better
performance and real hard drives for
storage yes beautiful check that out cat
5 dot TV /x u4q for the circuit board or
cat 5 dot TV slash CS 2 for the case
itself we've got some other components
listed there in the description below
post your comments let us know what you
think and Sasha you built that really
really fast the magic of television is a
beautiful thing I love that we can do
that
all right here are the stories were
covering this week in the category 5 TV
newsroom Broadcom has confirmed a 130
billion dollar buyout frit offer for
their arrival Qualcomm some iPhone users
are fuming over the new letter i bug tor
has been leaking users real IP addresses
and australia's a multi-million dollar
broadband network is under attack from
cockatoos these stories are coming right
up don't go anywhere
Jeff Weston Yemen
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website what are you you're a terrible
actor what this where acting comes into
play I don't know you're supposed to act
okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash DreamHost to sign up for unlimited
web hosting for your website with
unlimited email accounts MySQL databases
the latest version of PHP WordPress and
more and even a free domain name
registration it's less than six dollars
per month so sign up today cat five dot
TV slash DreamHost this
is the category 5 TV newsroom covering
the week's top tech stories with a
slight linux bias
I'm Sasha Rickman and here are the top
stories were following this week
Broadcom has confirmed its multi-billion
dollar bid for Qualcomm revealing more
details of the 130 billion dollar
all-cash and shares offer to buy out its
rival chip maker both Qualcomm and
Broadcom are specialists in
system-on-chip products putting arm
compatible silicon into various items
such as smartphones and the wildly drawn
world of the Internet of Things which
all chip makers regard as the future of
chip sales and manufacture broad coms
offer comprises $70 per share which we
now know is a fact and is made up of 60
dollars in cash and $10 in stocks
Broadcom CFO Thomas Kraus said we look
forward to engaging immediately in
discussions with Qualcomm so that we can
sign a definitive agreement and
completes this transaction expeditiously
it's a bold move by Broadcom Qualcomm on
the other hand has sued Apple attracted
the interest of antitrust authorities in
America and earned the an enemy of Intel
on the flip side it's not only
profitable but is in the middle of its
own multi-billion dollar buyout of
arrival so the Internet of Things is
definitely 100 percent the future of
this actual product itself right well
sure yeah the Internet of Things being
like connected devices and and so on
right so if you're a chip manufacturer
you want to be in on that right ok so
what exactly is a system on a chip like
it's well I would imagine I mean we're
talking about chips with firmwares so
that the software is actually running on
the circuit on the chip itself but these
guys I mean Broadcom does I think it's
like broadcast circuits and chips and
Qualcomm does the modems for these
devices so various different you know
different needs you know you think of an
iPhone and you think about a specific
phone you don't think about the fact
that each little chip is made by
different many
factures Broadcom being one qualcomm
being another mm-hmm right exactly but I
you know what my question is if Qualcomm
is doing so well and is actually a good
rival why bother is Qualcomm doing so
well well are they they're profitable
they say hey seventy bucks a share
that's the offer
okay so Qualcomm is profitable right
right consider the dispute that they've
had since before January with Apple like
their one of their biggest customers and
obviously one of the biggest
manufacturers in the world as far as
mobile devices and and that kind of
thing goes so they're profitable yeah
we're making money we're in the black
but we're not if they're ninety percent
down on previous years so their their
profit right is way down compared to
previous years so no they're not doing
well they're they are profitable they're
still making money but they're on the
decline right okay Wow so you know the
the thing with that you know why would
Broadcom be looking at buying Qualcomm
well it's it's an opportunity they're
doing poorly right now right and as far
as that goes and I think it really all
surrounds the Apple thing I shouldn't
say that they're doing poorly they're
not then they have other customers but
the whole thing with Apple is they
they've got patents that they're just
you know Apple is disputing the fees
that go along with those patents and
Qualcomm is fighting them and they're
suing each other and there's all these
lawsuits going back and forth right so
it makes me wonder if there's a
perspective on it that you know broke up
sitting there going well if they win
this we get access to all of you
earnings if Apple or oh if they win the
buyer this is it here's the thing so
imagine their their stocks of their
stocks went down yep Qualcomm because of
the lawsuit and everything else so
they're doing poorly that way then along
comes Broadcom in this perfect moment
and like a vulture says okay we'll give
you this unimaginable like the biggest
buyout in tech ever 100 billion dollars
and in order to take over your company
so if they say yes now Broadcom buys up
all those the patent portfolio it now
owns it and settles the
with Apple fixes that relationship
because Apple is already on the fence
about their relationship with Qualcomm
and saying you know maybe we want to
just sever this relationship altogether
so if they say yes if Qualcomm says yes
to the buyout now Broadcom can fix
things with Apple and and redeem that
whole relationship and become this
bigger entity now if if Qualcomm says no
however the stocks go back down the
stocks plummet right and Apple says you
know what we still want out yeah now
that's not a sure thing this is just a
theory but you know what what timing
what absolute timing if you're Qualcomm
you pretty much don't have a choice you
kind of don't I kind of feel that way
it's like okay we really need to take
this otherwise we're done yeah like our
stocks are way down now their stocks
rose when they offer came right like
they're like big-time and are continuing
to rise at a slower pace but you know
it's it's happening so as soon as they
say yes it's gonna be a good thing for
you know for everything involved but if
they say no then it's gonna drop right
back down yeah exactly
it's all in relation to Broadcom I think
wow thank you well things that happen
behind the scenes
speaking of Apple some iPhone users have
been left frustrated after an update to
the iOS operating system curiously began
to autocorrect the letter I to a capital
a with a question mark the affected
version of iOS 11.1 is available on
iPhones and iPads a technology reporter
shared his frustration on Twitter saying
I have a one thousand one hundred and
fifty dollar telephone they can't read
the letter I
Apple has outlined a temporary fix for
the problem on its website the fix
involves editing the keyboard settings
so Anna in iOS so that's the right
character either an upper or lowercase I
is used Apple has said that the issue
will be fixed in a future software
updates and not all iOS 11.1 users have
been affected Wow Canadian the Canadian
it's not a bug it's a Canadian upgrade
you wouldn't think that would be a
simple patch just fix it upload it and
be done with it in one day
right right you think you would think
that but it could perhaps it's it's not
I'm kind of envying Android right now
where if you have problems with your
keyboard you just install a different
keyboard yeah
Apple is like locked in it's like you're
on Apple you can't change things so it
cause an autocorrect issue like that bad
dictionary virus not a virus I don't
think that'd be pretty unlikely I mean
it could be like a disgruntled employee
who you know having tried to delete the
president's Twitter account and so
decided to inject strange character it
sounds to me like this was an update to
iOS 11.1 that was meant to introduce all
these new emojis so maybe maybe maybe
the emot-- like I think about I and then
a stray or a and then a strange question
mark character this kind of seems to me
like maybe a high ASCII issue or
something like that so you know the
programmer in me thinks maybe that you
know it's trying to output a Unicode
character or something like that so what
that means is maybe just that key that
particular autocorrect got corrupted or
changed to something that it shouldn't
have been and so it's correcting
everything because as you type it
replaces words so imagine every time you
press I and hit space it replaces it
with a would you be fine unless you're
trying to type in your password it's an
it seems a little bit too good to be
true as far as humor Macs and Linux
versions of the Tor anonymity browser
just received a temporary fix for
critical vulnerability that leaks users
IP addresses whenever they visit certain
types of addresses turmoil as the flaw
has been dubbed by its Discoverer is
triggered when users click on links that
begin with file colon slash slash rather
rather than the more common HTTP colon
slash slash and eight
ttp equal and slash slash address
prefixes when the tor browser for Mac OS
and Linux is in the process of opening
such an address the operating system may
directly connect to the remote host by
bypassing tor browser on Friday members
of the Tor project in issued a temporary
workaround that plugs the IP leak until
the final fixes in place updated
versions of the browser may not behave
properly when navigating to file colon
slash slash addresses they said both the
windows versions of tor and tails as
well as the sandboxed tor browser that's
in alpha testing aren't vulnerable tor
statement Friday said that there's no
evidence that the flaw has been actively
exploited on the internet or dark web to
obtain the IP addresses of tor users of
course the lack of evidence doesn't mean
that the flaw wasn't exploited by law
enforcement officers private
investigators or even stalkers for that
matter and now that a fix is available
it will be easy for advert adversaries
who don't know about the vulnerability
before to create working exploits anyone
who relies on Mac or Linux versions of
the tor browser to shield their IP
address should update as soon as
possible and be ready for the
possibility however remote that their IP
addresses have already been leaked hmm
wow very tool that's meant to protect
your IP and identity yeah
boy sure I have used and understand the
prefix HTTPS right would an HTTP but a
secure website exactly unsecure website
I've never typed in file colon slash
slash but you could click on links on a
website that would take you there right
of course but like I don't understand
why you would even need to use something
like that like what's the ok so file
colon slash slash typically refers to
files on your own hard drive so a
website for example if I was creating a
tutorial on how to access network shares
I could tell you in my tutorial on my
blog
in order to access your server at IP
address 192.168.0.1 i 2.16 a ton so i
could use it in a tutorial and file
colon slash slash tells my browser do
this on the local network or it might be
like a local file for some you know for
some reason or you know a local uploaded
image or something so there are cases
where it could be needed or where it is
legitimately used I know like docu vici
for example will convert local network
share addresses into links so that if
I'm on my personal network and I click
on that link it will take me to my local
internal server so that's a file colon
slash slash link fairly uncommon but in
the you know in the wild once this
exploit is now known people may in fact
put those links on websites
we're not even links but JavaScript
redirects for example to exploit the
person's IP address yeah now that the
fix is available now people are like you
know what happens when a fix comes out
is everybody who is malicious says oh
that's how I can get people people's IP
addresses right now there's a fix I know
how to exploit that browser ok now for
people they use tor browser they
obviously don't want their IP addresses
to be exposed so what happens in this
case now where their IP address is
exposed is there anything they can do
what can you do if your IP is exposed
right like your ISP your internet
service provider controls your IP
address think of the IP as and it stands
for Internet Protocol it's your your
your phone number for your computer
right or your network so when you go to
Google and you type in a search it
responds back to your computer with the
results and that is done through your IP
address and that's very very important
and it generally you know if you're on
cable or there fiber or anything like
that generally doesn't change and if it
does is very infrequent like every
couple of years I no cable cable
internet here in Canada it might be
every couple years you'll see your IP
address changed when they rolled out
ipv6 the IP address is chained
and I think that's the only time that
I've had a change in four years let's
see with mine if I restart my modem
mm-hmm my IP address changes so you're
on DSL no I'm on cable you're on cable
and are you sure it changes your puppy
changes yep
so some ISPs do that yeah because
there's a pool of IP addresses there's
no guarantee that it's going to change
when you restart your router no
certainly DSL is a case where it's
probably going to change because it it
reconnects over pppoe with your username
and password and then gets a new IP
address right every time you restart
your router or your modem so it's a
little bit different but with internet
on cable it quite often it keeps the
same IP rights and that's what shocked
me is when I saw that mine reset I was
like yeah that's interesting because I
got it with my ISP about it and I'm like
why did this happen they're like oh it's
a security feature they have in a
business though in a business typically
you're gonna be sitting on a static IP
addict yes that means that phone number
of your network never changes so if
somebody is exploited on that IP address
you are never going to lose that IP
address it is now identifiable to you
good types if you're interested in
knowing what an IP address reveals
here's a little trick for you go to
Google okay so just go to your favorite
Google search engine and the reason I
say Google is because they have a tool
in the search instead of doing a search
just type in IP so that stands for
Internet Protocol and it will actually
respond with your public IP address so
what Google sees your IP address is now
copy that and go to Mac's mind comm ma X
M IND comm max mind is a geolocation
technology that allows credit-card
processors and banks and online sales
portals to use IP geolocation data to
verify people's identity so that service
is used for legitimate purposes so that
people can verify that
hey yeah you're making a purchase on my
website you're you say you're from
Quebec and indeed you are check if you
say you're from Quebec and you're
actually in Israel I think there's a red
flag there so you go to max my comm and
if you scroll down the page a little bit
there's a little place where you can
paste an eye
P address to test it paste that IP
address from Google in there and go and
you're gonna see all the information
that Mac's mind reveals about your IP
address Oh interesting little test for
you if you'd like to see what your IP
address reveals I'm doing that today
very very cool
thank you take it one step further real
quick it gives you a longitude and
latitude copy that paste it back into
Google Maps it tells you where you are
nope
just try it okay gives you a longitude
and latitude result paste it into Google
Maps and see what you'll find I'm
actually scared all right
Australia's a multi-million dollar
cockatoos the national broadcast
networks said it has spent tens of
thousands of dollars so far fixing
cables that have been chewed by the
birds they also estimate the bill will
rise sharply as more damage is uncovered
in an attempts to improve Australia's
internet speed currently lagging behind
many developed countries 11.1 megabits
per second a national telecommunications
infrastructure project has been
instigated and is due for completion in
2021
but engineers have engineers returning
to sites have been finding spare cables
chewed and frayed the culprits are
cockatoos a type of parrot which
normally eats fruit nuts wood and bark
and now wires the company has had to
replace power and fiber cables at the
cost of tens of thousands of dollars
each time so far they say they have
spent $80,000 of local currency which is
roughly sixty one thousand five hundred
u.s. the company says it's currently
installing perfected perspective casings
which cost $14 each and that will
protect the wires from the birds in the
future and save billions of dollars and
save their 3 billion dollar Network for
further damage stop making the internet
out of nuts and berries it reminds me of
an old story that we told in the news
about mice were eating the in
like the soundproofing or something
inside a car that was all yes yes right
they had some kind of biodegradable
insulation
yeah and wiring the traction that was
apparently delicious so I'm thinking
that the birds probably aren't eating
the wires I think that they're probably
using them as as either nest material
because it probably looks like a twig or
perhaps Australia didn't think about it
and put something yummy in there you
know what I think it's more that they're
sharpening their beaks I mean they're no
yes cockatoos are known to pack a sharp
sharpen their beak so you get something
like a good solid wire and looks like a
good thing to sharpen a beat guy I mean
as weird as this story is that it's
cockatoos yeah what I was actually most
shocked about is the fact that their
internet is so slow oh 11.1 megabits per
second and that's high like their
average in Australia is 8.5 like that's
insane how was it that it really is so
far behind on that oh how far behind are
they well think about this ultra HD
video on Netflix is 25 megabits per
second alright so why are they so far
behind Jeff talk to know I think you
know it's probably political the the the
company that runs the internet service
in Australia is government-run and in
you know the early 2000s the plan was to
upgrade the infrastructure to fibre
we're gonna do 100 megabit fiber lines
all throughout Australia and upgrade
every one so you know I think the plan
was that 95% of Australia would have
access to fiber internet that was the
plan now the 2013 election happened and
the Liberals came in and said you know
what we're actually gonna change things
and we're going to instead we're gonna
focus on cost savings we're gonna try to
make you know we're gonna make the black
here and that didn't go so well for the
internet no no the choice was made at
that time that instead of upgrading to
fiber we're gonna tap into the existing
copper infrastructure and try to work
with that so use newer technologies over
the
per infrastructure and keep going with
that now so the the idea was that it was
supposed to be cheaper it was supposed
to be faster to deploy and it turned out
it was neither and it's costing them a
lot of money and they've got this
terrible infrastructure that is being
eaten by cockatoos that's too bad you're
tapping into nature I think that the
solution would be it's government stuff
right like so it's like a government
monopoly over the internet so imagine if
your internet service was provided by
the government that's how it is in
Australia so because of that
infrastructure is completely driven by
governmental budgets and and legislation
and and bureaucracy so you think about
that and you know if they would just
privatize that sector of you know the
the infrastructure of Internet
telecommunications if they can privatize
that everywhere cried well I've got a
different perspective I'm sure but you
think about that you know why are they
so slow that's the question yeah why is
their internet so slow because it's it's
not per me it's it's not publicly right
you know it's private right now I wanted
to you know I think that sorry it should
be public because it was public then
we've got competition
we've got fair competition we've got the
price coming down you know the
government says oh well the Australians
don't want it to be faster
we don't want that's what they say
that's what the CEO of the the broad
broadcast company or whatever they call
themselves
that's what they said but the fact in
Kilis they don't want to pay for it
you're watching and you're from
Australia yeah please call me am i right
like it's not I mean the government is
misquoting Australians and saying that
they don't want to have it when really
they just don't want to pay the
astronomical fee that the government
wants to charge them for it so if it was
public instead of privatized pardon me
if it was public then there'd be
competition and the infrastructure could
go up and the cost could come down so
now I can get faster internet and it's
affordable that's the key thing so
really the tagline out of this is Polly
want a cookie cookies
[Laughter]
it's very punny what are you talking
about
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of yours for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman thanks Safa this is category 5
technology TV I hope you've enjoyed
being here with us tonight we'd love to
hear from you get on over to our website
category 5 TV you'll see our community
forum their great place to interact with
us
we're also on Bookface svr head on over
to facebook do a search for category 5
technology TV you'll see the three of us
there and we'd love to hear from you
there if you're on the tweeter you can
get us there we'll be like tweeting 280
characters as soon as HootSuite upgrades
their API we won't be cockatoo cockatoo
Inge that's a new verb Wow all right
folks all the time we have I'm great
