alright i'm sascha through madison here
the top star is for the weak of january
fourth 2017 more than 40 fraudulent
websites have been shut down in a major
crack dialogue down on the sale of fake
degrees the site's closed included those
selling authentic looking certificates
using the names of real British
universities others were providers
offering distance learning courses but
were not valid UK degree awarding bodies
an agency set up to investigate the
issue higher education degree data
checker or a head said it had reports of
more than 90 bogus institutions the
investigation found fake University of
Kent degree certificates on sale in
China for only 500 pounds the government
announced a crackdown on bogus providers
in jun 2015 with the aim of prosecuting
and taking down fraudulent websites head
has now asked new graduates not to take
photographs with their real degree
certificates in case they inadvertently
aid fraudsters a spokesman spokesperson
for the Department for Education said
degree fraud cheats both genuine
learners and employers so we've taken
decisive action to crack down on those
seeking to profit from it I understand
asking people not to take a picture with
their degree or it's your time get out
and me holding my certificate late
serial seriously I've like a million
siblings I have a lot of friends and I
feel like every single time any of us
graduate anything even if it's like a
new level of luminosity or like it could
be anything it's always like a picture
take my house Google Analytics course
graduation certificates printed on my
wall at work right what you just but you
took I took the course I went through
the step-by-step questionnaire exactly
it's gonna be so hard to catch these
people did you know I am ESET Canada
sales company of the year this year
that's side note I know oh we what is it
partner of the year congratulations that
is awesome yeah sweet I mean I don't
know how I got on that but I'm thinking
about certificates and this is a
certification that's true I added to the
footer of the website 2016
of the year super yeah now I mean on a
serious note for this it does mean that
people could buy for 500 pounds a
university degree that would cost them
otherwise tens of thousands of pounds
here's the thing they're only shutting
down institutions the print fake
certificates for real or seemingly real
universities that use names that are
very very close to the real university
name right because it's fraudulent it's
like taking money and making fake money
that looks just like real money well
they'll stop they'll stop that but
they're not stopping monopoly from print
and monopoly money and Canadian Tire for
a Canadian Tire money because that it's
obviously fake so it's important to note
that you can still buy certifications
from Starfleet oh that is important to
note really yeah you don't even have to
go to the Academy Starfleet Academy it
doesn't exist apparently according to
the government but you graduated from it
I'm thinking I might you might as well I
might just graduate from have you ever
get you know somebody should start a
Starfleet Academy University and doesn't
have to anything to do with legit
aeronautical or anything just I gonna
start an education facility and call it
Starfleet yeah I do Star Trek has it
they have a course in either a college
or a university around here that is how
to survive a zombie apocalypse it's the
name of course what it's wilderness
training it's wilderness training but
they call it how to survive a zombie
apocalypse because they know more people
will sign up that's cool Oh see with
marketing its marketing so sir fleet
Academy would get more people excited to
go it's like school it's like flight
school or something yeah something like
that or like maybe like if you're into
like stellarium zand things like that I
don't know what you call yourself if
you're certified is still Erised a step
stellar s just stellar you're super
stellar phone superstellar okay foxconn
the taiwanese manufacturing giant behind
apple's iphone and numerous other major
electronics devices aims to automate a
way a vast majority of its human
employees
died jpg the general manager Foxconn's
animation committee says the company has
a three-phase plan in place to automate
its Chinese factories using software and
in-house robotics unit known as Fox BOTS
the first phase of foxconn's automation
plans involve replacing the work that is
either dangerous or involved repetitious
labor humans are unwilling to do the
second phase involves improving
efficiency by streamlining production
lines to reduce the number of excess
robots in use and the third and final
phase involves automating entire
factories with only a minimal number of
workers assigned for production
logistics testing and inspection
processes the company can now produce
around 10,000 fox spots a year jpg says
all of which can be used to replace
human labor in the long term robots are
cheaper than human labor however the
initial investment can be costly it's
also difficult expensive and
time-consuming to program robots to
perform multiple tasks or to program a
robot to perform tasks tasks outside its
original function that is why in labor
markets like China human workers have
thus far been cheaper than robots to
stay competitive though Foxconn
understands it will have to transition
to automation as of last year Foxconn
employed as many as 1.2 million people
making it one of the largest employees
in the world more than 1 million of
those workers reside in China often at
elaborate city like campuses that house
and feed employees by replacing humans
with robots Foxconn would relieve itself
of any issues stemming from its
treatment of workers without having to
actually improve living and working
conditions or increase wages but in
doing so it will ultimately end up
putting hundreds of thousands if not
millions of people out of work do you
have any questions comments thoughts
concerns Africa I'm I like round one
fight I'm hearing it and everything in
me is screaming bad news I understand
that we are in a world where we want to
do things better and cheaper and all
that kind of stuff but if you're going
to come up with
I completely automate a workforce like
putting millions of people out of work I
mean this is just one company yeah when
this catches on what else I mean think
of the arch company though think of the
auto industry if they can make this work
for producing things like say iPhones
and completely automate a like something
small like that imagine putting together
cars where you don't need people anymore
the mass impact this would have globally
I mean you're going to see unemployment
go through the roof and there I mean the
fact is you're not going to be able to
recoup those jobs there's not it's not
going to be like well for every robot we
make we're going to need 10 more people
in manufacturing over the robots because
eventually are going to get the robots
making robots and we're just in a
situation where somebody's gonna have to
be neo and wipe out the computer right I
mean I see I'm also like my I'm a union
guy so this hurts my thought on it is
that a lot of times and I'm not saying
every time but a lot of times especially
in countries where they have their
employees living at the factories that
they work at the conditions are horrible
and if you're not willing to bring that
up to standard it is better to let those
people go even if it means forcing some
sort of social change in a way but is
right but it's better removing the
worker the solution yes improving all
condition would be better but yeah are
people willing to actually pay the money
toward the product that would then
funnel down to improving the lives of
the people making it I'm thinking about
like really cheap clothing companies to
shaker just automate that then those
poor people wouldn't be stuck inside
sweatshop I think we have to be very
careful though that the solution does
not become replacing human people human
people that the solution is not to
replace them with robots yes but that
you are doing no but you look at it and
you say well the the working environment
is deplorable the people Bob k 54 is
reminding us that Foxconn the company
that we're talking about who
manufactures iPhones actually installed
netting
so that people would not be able to
commit suicide but that is a sad fact it
is but that's a lot of that is because
of the working conditions I mean this is
a whole social recognize those people
with robots does not solve the issue no
makes it worse I don't know if it makes
it worse absolutely does you've got a
million workers that chances are making
no more than a hundred bucks us a month
in wages right you're going to tell all
of them sorry we realize that you're
below the poverty line and that we you
know we pay you peanuts and it's
horrible working conditions and a lot of
you don't even want to live anymore
because of the working condition so
we're just going to replace you so you
have nothing these are people who are
being enslaved they're one step above
being slaves so change global working
conditions that that buddy has a decent
job that would be the best thing to do
but let me tell you no person is going
to choose to be working inside a factory
in those conditions if there is an
option at something better and you own a
lot of cases there isn't isn't an option
what are your thoughts comment below get
us in the chat room I don't know you
know where's the line I know I can't
this is not a solution I think this is
probably one of the most polarizing news
stories we could ever have because the
social economic impact right I agree
that these people need a job but I just
want them very significant severance
package I know I just say look we're
gonna save X number of dollars over the
next 20 years here's your wages for
those 20 years and let's give you you
know two hundred thousand dollars to get
you started I know that there are always
these crazy stories out there but I
remember seeing I think was like CBC or
something but an interview with somebody
who was in their early 20s who had
literally never been outside they were
born in the factory they worked in they
had never seen the light of day be sure
that's a human rights violation yeah you
don't say but but i did say yeah it's so
hard being here in canada where we're so
blessed to have such freedom and such
laws that protect
worsen and the rights of human beings so
to see that kind of thing happening is
just crazy okay let's move on do we have
any happy news stories well we have some
Amazon news all right I like this
Amazon's good okay amazon has filed a
patent for a massive flying a massive
flying warehouse what equipped with
sweets of drones that deliver goods to
key locations carried by an airship the
warehouses would visit places amazon
expects demand for certain goods to boom
it says 11 use could be near sporting
events or festivals where they would
sell food or souvenirs to spectators the
patent also envisages a series of
support vehicles that would be used to
restock the flying structures the fly
the filing significantly expands on
Amazon's plans to use drones to make
deliveries earlier this month it made
the first its first commercial delivery
using a drone via the test scheme
running in Cambridge in the documents
detailing the scheme amazon said the
combustion the combination of drones of
the combustion the combination of drones
and flying warehouses or airborne
fulfillment centers would deliver goods
much more quickly than those stationed
at its ground-based warehouses also it
said the drones descending from the afcs
which would crew ver cruise around and
hover at altitudes of up to 45,000 feet
would use almost no power as they glided
down to make deliveries the patent lays
out a comprehensive scheme for running a
fleet of ASCS and drones it suggests
smaller airships could act as shuttles
taking drone supplies and even workers
to and from the larger afcs Amazon's
patent was filed in late 2014 but has
only now come to light thanks to analyst
Zoe love it from CB insights who've
recently unearthed the documents so that
means you can get your stuff real fast
from Amazon if it makes sense that at a
Star Trek convention that they would
just this would just fly down from the
sky right into my hands see and as
you're reading the news what I'm
picturing is Nick Fury standing on this
floating device in the air owned by
mazon nice with Mark Zuckerberg having
his Jarvis programming talk behind him
and sitting there thinking I'm pretty
sure this is the Avengers I can't wait
to see what this thing looks like ya
soon I'm excited to see it all right
Kingston digital incorporated the flash
memory affiliate of kingston technology
company incorporated the independent
work world leader in memory products
announced yesterday that their data
traveler ultimate generation terabyte GT
the world's highest capacity USB flash
drive data traveler ultimate GT offers
up to two terabytes of storage space and
with USB 3 performance amazing you
imagine two terabytes you terabytes
small little thing yeah perfect come on
now my dad a traveler is 32 gigabytes
yeah two terabyte provides power users
will have the ability to store massive
amounts of data in small form factor
like up to 70 hours a 4k video that is
mind-blowing data traveler ultimate GT
is rugged as well with a zinc alloy
metal casing for shock resistance this
is the next step in portable solutions
for storing and transferring huge files
data traveler ultimate GT ships in
February and will be available in one
terabyte and two terabyte capacities it
is backed by five year warranty free
technical support and legendary Kingston
reliability I feel like that would make
it so easy to back everything up you
could easily backup all your spell them
just have to yeah you see just back
stuff up so you ain't crazy I think this
is totally incredible but what's going
through my head is two terabytes on a
flash drive how long is that gonna take
the load USB 3 so we're talking not not
bad at all three gigabits a second but
still that could take a while if you I
mean depending on what you got on there
I mean we're not talking necessarily
text files if you got two terabytes
chances are you filling it with video on
what not sure what you're gonna do it
one video at a time you're not
necessarily going to fill two terabytes
worth a video all at one there will be
somebody who will do it sure love it I
love like the Kingston stuff is coming
out like
hard and fast and strong I'm a time how
many gigs was our entire torrents for
cat5 our torrents let's take a look at
torrent dot category five dot TV and
what you'll find is that over the course
of seasons because the quality of the
show became higher and higher and now
being 1080p the files get bigger and
bigger so torrent doc category five dot
TV and I'm sorry that I can't bring this
up tonight on your screen that's because
of the new set and things were just kind
of getting configured and set up but you
can bring it up toward category 5 TV
season one was nine point six eight
gigabytes Oh see this is like I'm
looking at it going mmm I was like it oh
you can get them all in one flash your
flash drive out pretty much 361 gigs of
video all together see that's amazing
you pick up one of the Kingston flash
drive and be like I've got a little cat
five with me there you go and you can
download it right from our site bring it
on vacation exactly yeah well on the
beat i'll be on the beaches of Hawaii on
I'm gonna watch season one don't do it
don't do it me with a webcam in my
basement bins have been stepped up a
little bit since then technologically we
have two terabyte flash drives now
that's crazy and wasn't it like 30 years
ago Bill Gates said nobody would need
more than 640 k yeah yeah 10 the patent
is extended lately though so people have
been doing weird things remember that
time there like nobody has any new ideas
we'll just close the Patent Office what
dunno remember this no I will find out
exactly when it happened years and years
ago before I was born yes okay that's
why I don't remember it right do you
have more for I was in the story one
more story the addition of an extra
second to 2016 didn't cause too much
tech chaos but it did lead to some
web-sites being difficult to reach for
about 90 minutes a leap second is an
additional second added at the end of a
month to compensate for the fact that
the Earth's rotation is slowing down
very gradually and can also be altered
by major seismic events and thus slips
out of sync with atomic clocks the
International earth rotation and
reference system systems service
calculates when one is necessary and so
far 27 leap seconds have been added the
only five in the past 18 years all at
the end of june or december the second
is officially added to the coordinated
universal time UTC used as a reference
by most computer systems by having an
out-of-the-ordinary 23 hours 59 minutes
and 60 seconds while the process is
simple in concept and comes with six
months of warning it can potentially
cause problems with computers while many
machines work from remote time signals
which either literally broadcast the
extra second or send an instruction to
add a second some simply can't cope with
the idea that a minute doesn't have 60
seconds and needs manual intervention
popular science notes that solutions
include pausing the clocks for the final
second or literally slowing down the
clocks over the course of the day to
spread the extra time out so it has no
significant effect according to cloud
fair cloudflare sorry the extra second
cause one of the numbers in its software
to turn negative something that the
software wasn't designed to cope with
because the code writers worked on the
sensible enough idea that time can't run
backwards heart yeah part of cloud
flares DNS resolution process involves
using time codes to generate a random
number a step which fell apart when a
negative number was thrown into the mix
right that's crazy fortunately this only
affected 0 0.2% of DNS queries and
overall fewer than 1% of attempted
visits to cloudflare clients throw up
error messages it affected you will do a
whois query on cbn.com guess who hosts
it CloudFlare rarely so our site assets
uptime robot started telling me hey
something's down oh it's back up up
something's down oh it's back up so if
you were on our website during that time
our website was up but various assets on
different cdns
kept going down and weird and like it
would be down for like 30 seconds and
then back up again huh so yeah that was
I think that explains why we had those
issues because I was like what is going
on soon here we had just an extra second
no it's no big deal so I was waiting for
the new year's countdown I was waiting
for everybody to go 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
1 happy new year why don't they do like
that 10 9 Larry's six giant problem
solved yes amazing thanks for watching
the category 5 TV news room don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our website from the category 5 TV news
room I'm Sasha through made us
[Music]
