I got on Amazon and you can head on over
to cat5 dot TV / solder kit and it
arrived already
so obviously available on prime and I
picked one of these up let's see and it
is way microscopic compared to what I
was expecting I was expecting from the
picture but this was going to be like a
full size tool box right that's it's
like a mini like a mini tool yeah okay
let's get this out of the way so that I
can show you folks that so this was the
next step from this this cost me $30 now
I'll tell you see 120 ad you mentioned
like the 16 dollar Weller's and things
like that I got on Amazon I started
looking around and the cheapest that we
could get here in Canada was $22
Canadian and it was not brand name and
it was just a cheap soldering iron right
so why I went with this kit it's only
eight dollars more it came with the box
it came with extra tips and it came with
some extra essentials so let's get in
here and this is going to also take us
back to our Wald's comment about having
solder D soldering tools right okay
let's get in here so into the box boom
first and foremost a solder sucker oh
there you go that for excess solder oh
that's fun it also pinches your face is
that for excess like this is for
removing solder so you can heat up the
solder and then suck it okay guys so
that you can remove chips and things and
reuse or fix when you mess things up so
that if if you ask me that's worth
probably the extra eight dollars anyway
it came with a whole bunch of solder now
what is this lead-free solder wire or
effort this is 2.0 flux 2020 gage no
eight zero point eight millimeter versus
my zero point six that I have here so
similar to what I have
but it's got a lot yeah 20 grams I guess
that is okay so it's got this itty-bitty
tiny toolbox the commute is that all
right it's got a box within there what
do we have and remember this was only
$30 so okay what do you expect for $30
it's got a little stand that is
basically just a cheap little tray right
with a couple of nuts that hey you you
can hold your soldering iron now yeah
and it's got a sponge that you can wet
to clean it so I didn't have one of
these now I do so that's cool but it's
not as nice of a holder as my helping
hands so I'll probably just end up using
my helping hands anyways but if you
don't already have helping hands that's
something anyway it's in my box kind of
thing okay what else have we got we've
got a couple of a couple of tweezers
these are anti-static and I like that
the tweezers that I have have become
magnetic so I needed new one really yeah
so it's a pain because I'm working with
little itty bitty resistors and they're
magnetized to the songs which I'm really
really hard then we've got the soldering
iron obviously but a couple of extra
things that came in the kit it's got D
soldering wire that's cool a soldering
wire I can put this on all those bad
joints that I made right and I can
remove I can touch this to it and heat
it up and it will suck in the solder
absorb it and then I take it away and
the solder is off of the joint no yeah
so I need this when I correct the
soldering joints yes I've created okay
then I've got my soldering tool here you
go now what is what really excited me
about this and Dave fear pointed it out
on the one for $70 let's actually bring
this up through the magnifier the
through the microscope so that you can
see what I'm seeing here it has a
temperature gauge and it goes from 22
part me from 200 C all the way up to 450
and it's just a dial so for a cheap
little thing that's pretty good look at
what else we've got
it does go up to 60 watts so it's a
pretty you know it's going to heat up
pretty quickly yeah apparently should do
a pretty good job
we'll see we'll see I mean we're gonna
be checking it out on future
demonstrations and seeing how it works
so but then it also came with one two
three four five two extra tips so we've
got some extra tips there that came with
this and each one is a little bit
different for different jobs you're
gonna expect that as I grow and learn
how each one works then that's going to
be cool so if I remove this I can see
there's my tip so you just slide and
then it's got a ceramic core so the
ceramic core apparently I'm learning is
very quick to heat up yes and so that's
a good thing
I have a hair straightener that's
similar oh yeah that's good I like that
it has the adjustable temperature mm-hmm
and it does have also an inline power
switch which was an added bonus because
you normally have to unplug one of these
kinds rights soldering irons so it's a
good start I think this is a great
little yeah 30 bucks yeah and it's
available in our shop now cap five dot
TV slash solder kit now I've been able
to get obviously it's available here in
Canada as you see it here it's also
available in the United States as you
see it here in the UK they don't have
exactly the same kit but I found one
that's very similar and it's only 14
pounds so you can check that out and it
even has a couple of extra things in the
UK but I obviously can't test it because
it's a little bit different but it looks
like about the same thing and it is what
it is it's a cheap soldering iron but
it's better than what I have and it's
going to get me started exactly and I
like that it came with all this extra
stuff that I'm going to need anyways for
my projects and just a cheap little case
which appeases might need to have
organization because otherwise
everything just sits in a cardboard box
is it a quick cool solder iron as well
well I haven't plugged it in yet but I
don't expect so no okay I didn't read
anything about it being anything special
holder Taketa yes yeah it is quick to
heat up yeah which is good yeah but I
can put it in my my helping hands turn
off the power switch which I guess is
gonna help anyways because being able to
turn off the power switch and turn it
back on and it's got quick heating then
should work pretty well but we will find
out on a future episode how much better
that works
my old battery-powered soldering irons
so you don't want to miss some of the
features that we've got coming up and do
check out that Kit Kat v TV slash solder
kit now I know it is just a cheap kit
it's going to get you started it's going
to improve our game it's gonna help me
to do a little bit better when it comes
to soldering and some of the things that
we're learning here on category 5
technology TV is really helpful as well
if you've got comments you want to share
with us comment below or head over to
our YouTube channel on our website
category 5 TV if you're watching on
cable TV there are so many different
ways that you can interact with us we'd
love to hear from you and love to find
out what what we could do better
[Music]
[Applause]
