here the stories we're covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom the
UK government is stepping things up in
the high-speed infrastructure Department
a biodegradable car is undergoing
testing and looks like it will be Road
worthy within a few weeks
Volvo is having a hard time getting
their autonomous vehicles to work in
Australia because the Kangaroos keep
hopping around in front of them and John
Romero one of the creators of doom to
put his floppies on eBay and landed a
sale of more than three thousand dollars
after promising to sign them these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere
Geoff Weston Gemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what aren't
you know unless you're terrible actor
what this where acting comes into play
oh I don't know what are think you're
supposed to act okay where are you I'm
building a really cool website are you
building a really cool website you need
hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
it's sure how much harddrive space do
you have how many email accounts how
many domains can point to it well we've
got an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are going to get
unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name the roots are your own com
dice to put that amazing website that
you've been working on on there if you
run if you want to build a WordPress
site fine
sign up cat5 GV / DreamHost still
out of a paper size just don't do it but
hey it's a great deal folks best deal
you're going to find five dollars and
change per month go to cap five dot TV /
dream host
I'm Jeff Wesson and here are the top
stories for the week of August 2nd 2017
the UK government recently launched a
400 million pound fund to boost
investment in full fiber broadband the
aim is to offer speeds of up to 1
gigabit per second households and
businesses now rather than relying on
copper cables to connect them to
roadside cabinets fiber-optic cables
will run directly to their properties
the plan announced by the Chancellor in
November called a drop in the ocean
compared to what will be needed to make
full fibre the norm although many
households and organizations do not
currently need one gigabit per second
speeds the idea is to provide a
future-proof
solution the government is tapping
private investors to bring the total sum
to 1 billion pounds and the money will
be managed and invested by to fund
managers until now the UK government's
focus has been to deliver superfast
broadband speeds
meaning 24 megabits per second or more
its pledged that 95 percent of UK
properties will have this by the end of
the year and 100 percent by the end of
2020 BT telecoms infrastructure division
Openreach has said it believes that two
million premises will have full fibre by
the end of 2020 but it aims to provide
speeds of up to 330 megabits per second
to a further 10 million premises via a
copper based technology known as G dot
fast by the same date nice now car made
from biodegradable natural materials has
passed road safety tests in the
Netherlands TU Iike motive a student
team from I know Haven University of
Technology unveiled Lina earlier this
year the four-seaters lightweight
structure is made from sugar beet and
flax which takes 20% of the energy used
to produce today's aluminum or carbon
fiber based cars the University says the
concept car will undergo a few final
adaptations before being allowed on
public roads within the next few weeks
Jeff can i interject it they do not do a
story at one point about a biodegradable
vehicle pipe or something I remember it
might have I think there was a problem
with rodents
wanting to eat oh yeah for the military
vehicle I think that was sometime in
season nine it was awhile ago any cuts
oh I'm thinking about that and thinking
they've met do you not learn from your
mistakes so this was a story a long
while ago where they were using the
insulation in the vehicle was made out
of this yes that's right a substance and
rodents were getting in and eating it
that's right I did imagine all kinds of
trouble because the wiring goes through
all the insulation and everything and so
now they're going to build a vehicle
right out of biodegradable or aka edible
material I wonder what they're doing to
you know do we just add some cayenne
pepper in there what do we do well and I
and I can't help but wonder if you live
in a very moist climate I would get
really sticky yeah I'm just going to
affect your vehicle oh my goodness like
yeah I don't know I mean I think there's
probably going to be some issues but I
don't know maybe it's hard-packed or
they use some sort of chemicals to bind
it together in a way that it doesn't
break up but you know is this one of the
things like when your car breaks down
you can have feed your family for a
month actually doing a road trip we're
at a gas we've got a car to eat so here
have a door panel it tastes like chicken
yes it does everything does tale well
speaking of cars the relentless march of
the self-driving car is in danger of
grinding to a halt in Australia because
the technology cannot cope with the
almighty kangaroo while other large
animals walk run trot kangaroos jump you
think this has proved all too much for
Volvo in fact Volvo has been trying to
solve the kangaroo problem for nearly
two years having sent experts to examine
them in their natural habitat in 2015
now there's more than 16,000 kangaroo
collisions on australia's roads which
cost the insurance industry just over 44
million pounds Wow the company has been
working on tweaking its self braking
system to deal with the problem martin
Magnussen Volvo safety manager said
kangaroos are very unpredictable animals
and difficult to avoid but we can't
we can refine our technology to detect
them and avoid collisions on the highway
and to that the Kangaroos said yeah Ron
might despite the company's best efforts
Volvo's large animal detection system
has yet to crack the problem
nevertheless
Volvo remains confident that we'll have
solved the conundrum but by the time its
self-driving cars are available in 2020
kangaroos are kind of a big animal
they're big and they are maniacal I know
you do you picture a bunny rabbit as it
bounces know these things but do you not
think that was the size of a kangaroo I
mean like those they're tall yeah
exactly they could stand six feet or
higher you'd think you would see this
massive thing going boiling-point
morning and go hey there's a large
jumping object I need to be careful hmm
to me that seems simple programming but
I don't but how in cars act course of
direction for the kangaroo that's the
thing like is it just going to pull over
and stop every time a kangaroo hops by
hey daddy funny it's better safe than
sorry yeah yeah just drive into the
ditch exactly we have avoided all
kangaroo collision let's try we don't
want to say how we have done it yeah I
hope they don't use one of the beach
cars yeah hole doesn't go to beat cars
if it all came together then I could
just see the kangaroos but I'm gonna eat
that yeah coming at you like a maniac
and I can't stop yeah I don't think I
don't know I've seen kangaroos get on
their back or on their tail and kick
yeah I don't think many cars would
survive that they're they're stronger
they are speaking of not surviving if
you want to play the original version of
doom to which I always got slaughtered
in the game will set you back just one
pound and 49 cents during the current
steam summer sale if you want a boxed
copy of the original floppy version
circa 1994 that's a trip back in time
there's a copy available on eBay right
now for 75 bucks but if you want doom to
floppy disks that were once owned and
potentially signed by doom create
co-creator John
Romero you'll need to pay over three
great John Romero himself posted
original do two discs 3.5 inch floppies
PC on eBay and promoted the listing via
Twitter the oxygens were 84 bids from 31
distinct bidders over three days ending
this morning with a winning bid of three
thousand one hundred and fifty dollars I
will sign these discs if you like Romero
wrote in the eBay description wow that's
cool
I I was a fan of all the doom games oh
for sure horrible Adam but I was great
at them for some Unreal Tournament came
out it was the same kind of gameplay yes
but you know in VR space 3d space mm-hmm
that was fun
I think just to only original discs I
did on them so seeing the picture there
Jeff takes me back yeah I had those
that's like eight megabytes of gaming
glory all right to get into one disk got
damaged oh I'm so bad yep yep got to go
out buy the whole thing good times I
always made copies of my floppies yeah
on to what pop it onto other floppies
yeah welcome jobs what I had you know
I'm at them 1.44 Meg to 2.88 Meg
dual-density so that we could video
space yeah that's what we called it back
in time yeah I'll dig it into the
computer copy it over to the rll the MFM
so good good time of the days that's
right alright thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our website from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Jeff Westen
[Music]
