here the stories were covering this week
in the category 5 TV newsroom the
world's first autonomous transport ship
plans to set out on its voyages next
year
a Swedish rail firm has approved
training m'q train pace as the name of
their train following an online poll
Google is unleashing 20 million
lab-created sterols male mosquitoes on a
city and says this is a good thing and
will help control the mosquito
population according to the Federation
against copyright tasks British magazine
Cody is directing readers to cop to
copyright infringing software and
updated drone regulations in Canada and
make it legal to fly again these stories
are coming right up don't go anywhere
Jeff Weston yelling you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what are you
like you're terrible actor what does
where acting comes into play oh I don't
know we're acting you're supposed to act
okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website you
need hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
it's sure how much hard drive space you
have how many email accounts how many
domains can point to it well we've got
an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are going to get
unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name the routes are your own com
dice to put that amazing website that
you've been working on on there if you
run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine
sign up cat5 GV / dream host still
competitive a persona just don't do it
but hey it's a great deal folks best
deal you're going to find five dollars
and change per month go to cap five dot
TV / dream host
I'm sassy tomatoes in here the top
stories for the week of July 26 2017 a
fruitless ship to be christened the
Yarra berkland is expected to start
sailing in 2018
initially delivering fertilizer along 30
a 37 mile route in southern Norway the
electric powered ship will be minuscule
by modern standards with the capacity
for 100 to 150 containers but its
arrival could be a huge turning point
for the global shipping industry the
ship according to The Wall Street
Journal will cost twenty five million
dollars about three times as much as a
conventional ship of similar size but
will save up to 90% in annual operating
costs by eliminating both fuel and crew
though it's project is it though it is
projected to launch next year it will
transition to fully autonomous
operations only in stages it will first
be operated by an onboard crew then
remotely before becoming fully self
guided by 2020 that is around the time
rules governing autonomous ships are
expected to be in place okay
so Jeff how you feel about that aye I
think it's a very cool idea what to see
is not a place to be playing around with
a fully automated boat I mean like is it
going to be able to adapt to things like
hey our hurricane just showed up in
Manila the ocean okay so here's the
thing I feel like it because it's safer
for people to not be on the ship in the
hurricane I'm okay with the ship
perhaps.perhaps full of fertilizer going
down but I feel like it's better for the
people to not be on board if there's
going to be catastrophic failure of some
sort oh not that I think that the ocean
needs 150 containers full of fertilizer
well that's just a Crimson Tide sure
that's a bad
yeah I'm waiting to use it but no I
think it's very cool though but I just I
can't help but wonder like is the AI can
be ready for the El
I mean we've got autonomous cars that
can't pick up or certain autonomous cars
but self-driving cars that can't pick up
jumping kangaroos in Australia but now
I'm going to send a ship out into the
water like is it going to be programmed
for icebergs is it gonna be programmed
for all there were people really good
with the icebergs Jess well there was
one vote that struggled with the iceberg
or a iceberg but yeah like I like
they're doing in stages right so it's
kind of like the the new story that we
had last week with the race cars where
there was a human in the car that would
guide right yes so it's similar to that
in that people will be in the boat and
train the boat probably the route and it
likely won't deviate from that right so
now the thing the thing is I mean if I
were to take kind of a nother side of it
yeah now people are out of jobs
right there's I've been making that
argument for a year I know son I'm
you're writing on this one but people
are perhaps now available to get safer
on shore jobs than on the sea that's
true that is true those disappointed
when Britain rejected the name bode
mcboatface for a polar research ship
should find joy in the name of a new
train in Sweden after a public vote a
Swedish rail operator has vowed to name
one of its trains train emic train face
The Guardian reports training ik train
face 149 percent of the votes in the
naming competition conducted by online
train operator MTR Express in Swedish
newspaper Metro beating choices such as
McCann Miriam and Poseidon the train
will run between the Swedish capital
Stockholm and Gothenburg the country's
second biggest city and here said
another train had been voted had been
voted to be named Glenn an apparent
tribute to an IFK Gothenburg soccer team
of the 1980s that featured four players
of that name on
common in Sweden including Glenn - who
later captain Liverpool okay so first
thing I thought is Glenn was a probably
a nod to walking dead and I was
completely wrong that's what what did
you name it train after character from
The Walking Dead I don't know that's the
only Glenn I know I guess I've been
training with train face I'm so happy
that there aren't public polls for
naming children there are there better
not be well I don't know about public
polls but I know I've seen people where
they've done fundraisers online like hey
name our baby and for every vote it's
like 5 bucks and baby McBay BJ's know
there's been some wild ones II yeah and
I don't know if it's ever actually been
tested legally in court my thought is if
you're going to take money and somebody
wins you have to name their kid that I
don't I love the name train emic train
face to be honest with you I don't love
the name Poseidon for a train if that
seems weird and I'm Poseidon like a
water you think yeah yes okay so I would
have expected just people to be voting
for like Thomas the Tank Engine yeah how
come he was new Thomas but I don't know
maybe Thomas wasn't as riveting as Glenn
or training extreme face training my
train base this is what our world is
they should have named the Train boaty
mcboatface
that would have been a kick in the teeth
for the boat company yeah well then
Google's health care arm verily
announced just before the weekend it
will release 20 million sterile male
mosquitoes into the wild in Fresno
County California don't panic it's to
test fighting diseases like zika dengue
and chikungunya I'm glad I do not have
that disease the deepa project will be
the biggest US study to set free
mosquitoes infected with wool bhatia a
common reproductive parasite the idea is
that the infected mosquitoes will try to
mate with wild females but the eggs laid
will not hatch and the mosquito
population will decline over time
a million mosquitoes will be released
over a twenty week period okay I love
this story because I am like a mosquito
magnet right so I love the idea of
getting rid of mosquitoes that shocks me
what what the something is magnetized to
me I'm an attractive individual no it
shocks me that you would be okay with
messing with things look it it's not
like the mosquitoes are being taken over
by robots okay we're just being
eradicated there like GMO mosquitoes now
but their non reproductive GMO okay but
what are mesquite big mosquitoes that be
good for something and now to have like
sharing ginger blood okay I unders - I
get it but don't they feed like I wish I
knew more don't they feed birds Oh
if you backs yes bats eat mosquitoes
and probably frogs eat mosquitoes - frog
screams you know I have no clue anyway I
love the idea of less mosquitoes I don't
love the idea of modifying something to
make less mosquitoes I don't want the
idea when has modifying something
outside of the natural course of
creation ever gone bad for the human
race when has modifying this is this is
ridiculous you're doing right now I just
the breasts it's like well what happened
to the other ways of controlling
mosquito populations like don't let it
don't let there be standing water right
or seeing the lakes we have around this
area but it's always windy yep but but
like it's a standing water causeway
chiquitos breed in standing water don't
let there be standing water no but if
you don't remember to genetically modify
the mosquitoes I don't want there to be
Zika or chicky Ganga or whatever it's
called yeah I don't want dengue fever
I don't want sterile mosquitoes unless
they choose to sterilize themselves and
that's
I just don't want a I'm okay with
no mosquitoes okay that one's got my
vote according to the Federation against
copyright theft British magazine Cody is
directing readers to copyright
infringing software Cody is a free legal
media player for computers but software
add-ons can make it possible to download
pirated content the complete guide to
cody magazine instructs readers on how
to download such add-ons denis
publishing has not yet responded to a
BBC request for comment the magazine is
available at a number of retails
including WH Smiths Waterstones and
Amazon it was spotted on sale by a cyber
security researcher Kevin Bauman it
repeatedly warns readers of the dangers
of accessing pirated content online but
one article lists a series of software
packages alongside screenshots promoting
free TV popular albums and world sport
check before you stream and use them at
your own risk the guide says before
adding that readers should stay on the
right side of the law two of the add-ons
listed in the article are a banned list
maintained by the Kodi developers Nate
Batson Cody's community and project
manager says we don't support piracy
add-ons and so we don't like the idea of
someone selling a magazine encouraging
people to use them WH Smith declined the
comment but it is understood that the
newsagent has no plans to stop the sale
of the magazine Transport Canada has
issued an update in recent week or in
recent weeks to its interim order
governing the use of unmanned aerial
vehicles or UAVs which include consumer
and professional drones the previous
order which went into effect on March
16th imposed harsh restrictions on when
and where Canadians could operate their
drones effectively grounding their
aircrafts in most populated areas of the
country the rule surprised many
including amateur drone enthusiasts
professionals and industry players they
also prompted a strong backlash from
drone owners who signed online petitions
wrote to the Minister of Transport as
well as their local MP
MPs and joined an on
group called node created by Chinese
drone company DJI for the purpose of
making their voices heard those efforts
were apparently successful the new rules
adjust the filament ations imposed by
the March announcement earlier in the
month at the Canadian launch of its new
drone the DJI spark Adam liz berg DJ ice
corporate communications director for
north america express expressed
frustration with transport Canada's
rules noting that they do that they
would do nothing to prevent drone pilots
from flying recklessly if that's what
they were determined to do while they
penalize the overwhelming majority of
drone pilots who fly safely I'm not sure
how I feel about this one I like it
because it just goes to show you that
your voice can absolutely be heard right
this is people who really stood up
against some super limiting regulations
and they changed the laws really see
speeding up I love I love that they said
that look this is this is wrong you
don't understand what we need to do and
you're not going far enough you're not
doing what we need you're going the
wrong area and like that I don't like is
that drones are just taking off in the
last couple years as something fun to do
like the fact that my kids have a little
teeny drone like are they going to be
roped into these rules in some way shape
or form it depends on the weight of Finn
I suppose yeah I mean the teeny drone
it's yeah you know but if we get the
point where we start upgrading to
something bigger and maybe we're not
using it for commercial purposes but is
this going to impact the ability of just
having fun and I can't have a wonder how
is this going to affect like some of our
shows like the drone zone mm-hmm so yeah
you know I wish Henry was here for this
to weigh in on it because Henry's sure
he would have some good thoughts yeah he
would know exactly even what those
regulations are whereas I'm not quite
sure I understand that you can't fly
drones after like up to like certain
secured areas like you can't be in a
Airport sort of scenario
or I really will show you stuff like
that yeah but still I don't know it I
just I think maybe they're jumping the
gun on some of the rules that Transport
Canada is rolling out yeah I think is a
drone really transport hmm depends on
asset owned by Amazon I guess ha ha ha
ha ok good point I'll give you the big
thanks this week to the Albuquerque
turkey Roy W Nash and our community of
viewers for submitting stories test this
week thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our web site from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Sasha tomatoes
[Music]
you
[Applause]
