hello and welcome to new everyday what
an exciting episode we've got for you
today this is our special guest Leno
Samuel and he's going to talk to us
about the healing of God the calling of
God the provision of God you won't want
to miss this
this is new every day with Jeff Weston
and Cruz
[Music]
well hello my name is Lawrence Cruz and
Jeff Weston is away this week but I'm
back from vacation and happy to be with
you today for new every day we have a
very special guest with us today his
name is Lynn Oh Samuel and he's all the
way from India I'll tell you what we've
got lots to talk about how are you today
Lynn oh I'm doing good thanks for having
me in this show oh you're very welcome
it's so good that you could join us this
week and I know you and I know you've
got a fascinating story about the
provision of God and I can't wait to
hear all that God's gonna share with us
today but tell us a little bit about
yourself I just said you're from India
dad that's a big place yes I'm from
India from the southern part of India
the province name is called Kerala
Kerala I've heard of that because I went
to India and I flew into the city called
Hyderabad yeah it is wetted nearby yeah
okay so that's nearby to Kerala yes that
how you say it
yeah Canela okay and I've since learned
since since we've become friends that a
man that I've listened to a very
well-respected man of God is from the
province of Kerala yeah his name is Ravi
Zacharias is this true yeah that's true
like are you personal friends with Robin
no I listened to him and yeah he's a
wonderful servant of God yeah absolutely
and we were talking today earlier as
well about Thomas you didn't Thomas from
the Bible like isn't it the doubting
Thomas yeah yeah we have a long
tradition called and no send Thomas
coming to India it is very near to my
hometown it's a one hour journey from my
home so he came to that province and
that's why you know if you look to the
southern part of India the Christian we
can see that a large percentage of
Christian multis
the southern pot okay and you're one of
those yeah man of God who knows Christ
as his Lord and Savior and this is a
fascinating journey well tell me a
little bit about yourself your mom and a
dad you have any brothers or sisters my
mom and dad I was born in a Christian
family and I have one brother so my
parents raised us residence up in a
Christian faith and so growing up in a
Christian family everything was very
mechanical for me going to the worship
service and being part of the church but
I had a personal encounter with the Lord
when I was in my 10th grade where I
committed my life for the Lord service
now for me and when I was in the tenth
grade I was 15 years of age yeah
were you is that the same as 14 and
that's okay 14 well I know because
you're smarter than I am so that would
kind of explain it okay so really sir
two age 14 yeah 14 you had an encounter
with God and and yeah tell me about that
what did he what happened
yeah the 10th grade has begun and I want
to go to the classes but suddenly I fell
ill and I was taken to the hospital
there was a sudden shooting up of my
temperature in my body and so taken to
the hospital I was there for many weeks
and the doctors were not able to
diagnose what was happening with me and
then they transferred me to another
hospital where it's a multi-specialty
hospital where they have every
department and they have been checking
up with me and at the end they found out
that my white blood cell count has been
going down and which was affecting my
internal organs oh my goodness when I
hear white blood count like blood cells
going down I'm no doctor but that's it
that's dangerous dangerous your organs
were shutting down and the medicines
were not affecting the medicines were
not respond
in my body and they do not know what to
do at that time they called me at the
end maybe they called my parents this is
what I came to know through my parents
because I was in a critical unit and so
at the end after talking with the
doctors and then they allowed my mum to
come into my room and so I also felt
within myself that I am nearing to the
end of my life and there you remember
that is a 14 year old boy yeah I
remember that
oh I can't imagine that must've that's
probably a terrible feeling yeah
oh and so here you think god this is it
yeah this is it and so I came to realise
that my mum was crying of them near to
my bed and holding my hand and then
that's only a few minutes they allowed
me and they allowed my mum to come to
that room so mum left and so there on
that bed I started to cry unto the Lord
a lot what is happening with my life and
then I started to commit my life to the
Lord and I started to confess my sins
and rededicate my life to the Lord all
of a sudden in the late night I started
to experience the presence of God in my
life and in that hospital bed room for
many weeks I have been like in a
vegetable my body became so lean and I'm
at the end of my life where so
completely on the liquid food
there on that night as I was praying to
God in a very supernatural way I started
to experience the presence of God in
that room okay oh my goodness I am
fascinated here we're talking about the
provision of God but we're hearing about
something so much with so much depth of
a healing of the Lord I understand it
yeah well I getting is also publishing
them all there
provision of god and it certainly is and
so yet there's so much more to your
story but this is fascinating soul in oh
you you you cry out to God in in a
dedication of everything that you are to
the Lord
yeah and his presence yeah visits yeah
yeah this is the prayer I made Laurie if
you're giving me a life I will serve you
for the rest of my life oh my goodness
and so what happened so I started to
experience the presence of God in that
room and slowly my body started to
respond shiver with the heavy presence
of God which I was experiencing like an
electric shock something the heavy that
was passing throughout my body and so
their eyes I experienced a great healing
and for weeks I have been lying on the
bed on that moment I was able to sit on
that bed and the nurses were very much
surprised so in one encounter at one
encounter with God in one night one
after weeks being like declining yeah
you're sitting at silver yeah and the
nurses were waiting was surprised what
is happening with me and the early
morning they took my blood and for the
routine checkup
so so they went and they was very much
shocked by seeing within one night the
medicines were respond not responding on
my body within one night what happened
to this guy so they did blood work and
were there some results oh yeah and what
were they saying they were saying that
the there was a sudden shoot up of white
blood cells that had happened to your
body and it is just an what an average
person needs and that is your blood
count now so everything came back to
normal yeah every
in game metronome now did you feel good
all of a sudden or did it take you a
time to get better or was it just like
overnight although I want to go home now
just all the night incredible that is
incredible for two age of 14 and so you
made a commitment to the Lord
yeah that you would give you'd be all-in
yeah Lord my life is yours yeah did you
did you honor that commitment yeah I
honor that commitment I went back to the
school and they told me that no this
time because you lost many of the
classes you cannot write because the
indian culture is very much shame
oriented culture they don't want to
bring shame on the school so if one
person's no fail in the examination
board examination that will be an
embarrassment for the school yeah so but
I insisted that no the Lord has touched
me and healed me I'm ready to go I just
want to serve the Lord that was really
deep in my heart this is the life God
has given me and I just want to serve do
you think that God not only healed you
physically but is it possible like did
he do something in your spirit like -
yes elyda fire calling yeah yeah okay
which is so that's what I'm hearing you
say it's like okay I Lord I'll commit
you but he said okay I'll take you up on
this yeah yeah and he deposited
something in you that there's a hunger
and I believe that on you're still real
today yeah so you were 14 now do you
mind me asking what's your age now I'm
turning 30 on this month thirty yell and
a happy birthday - yeah this month okay
so we're talking okay you you've got the
we're talking like a 15 year journeys
yeah just about 15 16 years for you
saying yes to the Lord I'm all-in and
your passion to follow his will is as
strong today as it was that time yeah so
I'd be very interested in hearing about
your journey what happened so you went
back to school yeah I went back to the
school and I wrote the examination I got
a good grade by the grace of God cuz
school wasn't she
okay so you made that look good that's
good then I came to know that no I can
do my eleven and twelve the secure
studies and the theological studies
together in one of the that is one of
the Baptist seminars college back in
another province which is known as
Karnataka they are providing that they
have the secular school and theological
school so they are providing that kind
of energy this is fascinating so you're
so serious about it that you finish your
high school and at the same time you
also you start your theological training
yeah like that's incredible well friends
we're here with Lyn Oh II Samuel yeah
from India the province of Kerala and
he's got a wonderful story of the
provision of God we'll be right back
with more from Leno after this stick
around for more for new every day for a
limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the
category-five TV network these
high-quality shirts are manufactured by
teespring a fundraising website and your
purchase will help support the shows we
produce get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5
TV slash shirts to support us and get
your official Network shirt today cat5
dot TV slash shirts hi we're back with
leno Samuel
oh you hooked me in from the first half
of this episode about the provision of
God but I get it could be called the
healing of God it could be called the
call of God all of its intertwined
Linda what an exciting testimony you
have yeah of course our God is an
exciting God isn't it yeah it's amazing
what he will do with anyone who says
Lord I mean it you asked me to follow
you you said to me in your word if
anyone would come after me let him deny
himself take up his cross and follow me
yeah and Lord you promised to all of us
who abandoned to you with everything
that we are that you would have your
perfect will in our lives and we were
thankful Lord
I bless you who you're all-in to be
encouraged today we're with you we're on
your team we're excited to pray with you
but God's best and rich riches for your
life - it's great yeah soul in oh we
talked about low blood count like white
white blood cells and a miraculous
healing and then pursuing when you were
in grade 11 and 12 however you say yeah
yeah and you were pursuing theology
college at the same time tell us about
that yeah it was a wonderful journey
like no morning I have the theological
education afternoon till evening I have
of secular education so this has been
combined together and it was a Baptist
mission who has been doing that for a
long time in that province okay so your
school would allow that yeah about that
board in that province food allowed
to happen so so they weren't worried
about that you know that reputation
knowing like they are not because they
have a great fame of that college
because one of the missionary has
started that and has produced a lot of
graduates who are in the top level in
the government sector and almost all of
the fields really so even people outside
of the church recognize this Theological
College as a good place yeah for
learning for our money well isn't that
great it sounds like the church is
affecting the culture yeah yeah how cool
is that okay so now was the workload
heavy
yeah the workload was very heavy because
I have to maintain both of the
theological studies and a lot of work to
do but God has really honored mean that
canvas like I almost all the sub secured
subjects I have got academic excellence
of ADD and and in the theological field
too that is why when we come into a a
life to the Lord is the Lord who is
taking care of us and leading us forward
and he will really honor us
yeah furnish God you live this Lynn oh I
know that as I've gotten to know you I
love this well I love who you are I love
you and I love this part of who you are
you're welcome sir and thank you it's
just so good to meet someone who's all
in and to rest in the prove the
provision of the Lord how beautiful this
is
so we're how did you do how did you do
in your 11th and 12th year in the
theology yeah I I didn't well land I
have graduated from there endure with
the good grades and all my teachers were
very were very much happy about me and
they were telling me that no you can
excel in your studies and get to the
know if within short period of time do
as much as education you can that's the
way however cultural works and so they
were encouraging me there in that level
good and congratulations you didn't oh
yeah
and so your mom and dad they were happy
obviously yeah they were very happy
about it
yeah great so they were one of the thing
that they
president while I was receiving all
these academic excellence and that for
all the department like sociology
history and everything so they were
there and they were so happy about it
boy and now I know you and sounds to me
like God was preparing you to for a
future because you've got these ok these
subjects you just talked about that you
did well in what was your next step
after you your it look like tell me yeah
as a high school do you call it god
that's a high school and so from there I
have graduated and I went back to my
province and I was waiting upon what to
do whether I have to go for the theology
education or because I felt the need it
wasn't just an Associated biblical
studies just covering almost all the it
is very much related to the biblical
studies you know studying the Word of
God and everything so I felt the need
that I need more training so I was
waiting upon the Lord and then Lord
brought a servant of God who has just
graduated from a Bible College and he
was going to pioneer a mission in
somewhere near to my province and so he
invited me and I became part of that oh
wait a second so you mean a minister
invited you to come and partner with
yeah Minister yeah ok and did I get this
you said you went back to your province
yeah did you go away for yeah yeah yeah
it's away from your family yeah every
from my family I know all a 14-year
55:14 oh my goodness I missed that part
okay cuz I'm like what you came back
yeah okay so that's incredible so you're
studying grade 11 and 12 and theology at
the age of 15 you heard this away from
your parent from my pattern and that was
a two-year journey yeah - yeah journey
okay so now you're what 17 same come
back home saying I think I need more
training yeah and this missionary guy or
a church planter or whatever it is is I
want and you joined him that has giant
an oh my god well what you do
what this is fascinating it was so tough
I would say that being in the mission
field when you start a pioneer world
especially back in my country it's just
a developing country so the things were
very much minimal and the society were
very much hostile and as we reach with
the gospel message but we had the
opening and there was a church right now
which is growing and we have almost 200
people attending that church has been
pioneered today in 2018 these like 15
years later 15 years like 30 whatever
yeah yeah oh my good and you you were
the pioneers yeah yeah yes how does that
feel to know that there's two hundred
believers worshiping the Lord today
it's amazing we do not know even if it
is small a small effort from our side
when we take by faith and we put the
scene or how it will know how God God is
the one who produced the fruit right so
we are just sowing the seed and it was
so wonderful to see that life continued
a very lively congregation I would say
worshiping the Lord in truth and spirit
excites me listening to this story now
you mentioned something about sowing
seed and you mentioned something about
opposition yeah okay tell me like what
so what did you do because you're with
this man maybe ever this man we used to
have a morning prayer walk which we used
to know surround the places and just
pray for the families and as we pass by
the two houses which are just on the way
we just bless them and we pray that Lord
let them know the love of Christ Jesus
that's what we did and and then we went
with of some of the messages the tracks
we call like the messages and we just if
somebody's hearing willing to listen to
it we share the gospel with now did you
go and knock on their door yes all
contact oh you would just yeah how are
you
and and before you're knocking and even
maybe as you're talking you're praying
yeah cheering yeah
so what we use to do is that now we pray
as we when we go for the morning walk we
pray for and leave when we feel that
there is a leading of the Spirit within
ourselves we go to those houses and just
knock at that door so you wait until the
Lord yeah
gives you a promise yeah prompting and
did you find that was helpful yeah that
was very helpful because there will be
some well I think so if my memory is
right that was one family which was
going through some tough time in their
life and they were thinking of ending up
their life and we were there just
knocking up their door and no sharing
this wonderful message of hope to their
life and so they embrace the Christ know
and they came they were the first I
think yeah they were the first who came
to our church so here this young
teenager and God leads you to a family
that's thinking it's time to end it all
yeah and it all I can't wait I'm so glad
you're gonna be with us for another
episode but in the in the short time
that we've got left yeah why don't we
talk to our viewers maybe there's
somebody here listening today who feels
like that's life isn't worth living yeah
could you could you what would you say
to them today Linda would you would you
speak to them no God will bring in our
life into God will lead us into
different situations or circumstances in
our life and I believe that any crucial
situation that you phrase in your life
it is an opportunity to meet and
experience the love of God in your life
and which I have seen in my ministry
those people who are very hot loss in
their life and the Jesus Christ is the
one who can give true hop into your life
and to carry on in your life he will
give you the strength to push on in that
difficult circumstance should we ask him
to invite him what do we
how do we get him to be the one that
does that leaner what would we do you
just pray to God a simple prayer you you
don't have to be have a big theological
jargons you have to put in that in that
prayer just pray to God Lord this is
what I was facing in my life Lord you
are a living God come to my life this is
the situation which I am facing and I
have heard that nothing is impossible to
God I truly believe that lot Here I am
giving my circumstances and leaving my
life in tonight and Lord come into my
life
praise God Lynn oh thank you so much for
sharing the first part of an amazing
calling a healing from Almighty God and
his provision just the same god bless
you everyone we'll see you again next
week
catch a new episode of new every day
every Friday morning at new every day TV
we're also on roku Kodi
Plex youtube google play music podcasts
and news book or if you're in Southern
California tune in every Sunday morning
at 6:30 on kbdb TV channel 33 television
for the high desert
