category five dot TV presents a short
story by becca ferguson I was a stranger
read by the author he knelt down next to
the fireplace stoking the coals and
adding another piece of wood to the pile
a Christmas tree twinkled beside a
wingback chair and in the adjoining room
pillar candles burned atop the dining
table 2 plates were set with a cloth
napkin Christmas cracker and crystal
glasses the trimming SAT ready on the
stovetop the turkey nearly done but she
wasn't going to be there she was never
going to be there again I wanted to tell
you this in person she explained over
voicemail but I just couldn't bear to
look into your eyes when I say it he'd
missed her call earlier while out
walking the dog there was a pause in the
recording here and goosebumps rolls on
his skin as though the blizzard outside
was still swirling around him the thing
is Emerson she went on I can't marry you
I wish I didn't have to hurt you like
this but I canceled my flight this
morning and I'm not going to be moving
to your province I've unpacked all my
bags he swallowed throat dry the terrier
lying on the wingback chair raised its
head gazing at him with intuitive
concern I hope he didn't cook anything
or go to too much trouble the message
continued I figured you'd be ordering in
I'm so sorry I shouldn't have waited
this long to call you were probably
expecting me to arrive by shuttle soon
she let out an exhale and explained in
greater detail why she was breaking off
the engagement so suddenly it wasn't
until she said her final goodbyes that
he realized he dropped the phone at some
point in her message it lay on the plush
carpet next to where he now announced at
the fireplace the screen black in sleepy
mode
he added one more piece of wood to the
fire and anger spark within him like the
flames in the grate on impulse he
grabbed his phone donned his outdoor
gear and pushed into the snowfall tears
froze on his cheek bone has any doctors
face down against the chill he didn't
yet know where he was going but he
walked the determination boots crunching
on the lamp lit sidewalk after a few
minutes he stopped at the end of a
driveway and turned to face the shadowy
bungalow a faint inner lights a fused
one window the rest of the house dark
his anger fading with a newfound resolve
he went to the front door and knocked
hoping his eyes weren't read it took a
while but eventually came the sound of
shuffling footsteps the thump of a cane
and the sound of a latch turning the
door creaked open an old man blinkered
at him with a single I the other sealed
shut by the stretched and nodded scars
consuming one side of his face you don't
know me Emerson said and I don't know
you but I've seen you around and you've
seen me around and well I'm alone this
Christmas and if i'm not mistaken so are
you will you join me for dinner tonight
about a half hour later having called
and caught a cab together ever since gas
now SAT across from him in the very seat
intended for his fiancee the food had
been laid out the turkey sliced and the
drinks bored carols and Holliday hits
played on the stereo while the dog
strategically SAT beneath the table in
the hopes of falling crumbs they said
grace
haven't celebrated Christmas since
before the war the old man said his
voice wavering he cut his food with some
difficulty before taking a bite one hand
stiff with more of the same knotted
scars that covered half his body swore I
never would again his eye was milky with
age but it glinted with some deep
emotion oh this tastes so good he ate a
few more bites with evident pleasure
young man do you know what you're the
last person on this street I'd have
expected to show up at my door tonight I
don't have much longer to live a few
months maybe is all if I was ever going
to have a last Christmas this is it I
never dreamed anybody could care about
me again I've been invisible all these
years Emerson looked down a moment and
the fork trembled in his agile hand he
set it down you weren't invisible he
said lifting his gaze I just couldn't
see you through my good fortune
you
