tonight we're looking at the Raspberry
Pi 3 model 8 plus now how can the latest
and greatest version of the Raspberry Pi
be an A+ when the last greatest model
was the B+ I can answer that
can you well I think so a plus is just
better nicely done you could do a little
better like yeah only what we're saying
is Raspberry Pi is most improved student
yeah cuz they keep absolutely yeah so
this is the the latest version of the
Raspberry Pi line it boasts a 64-bit
quad-core processor ok just like the
previous iteration the B+ it has a
different form factor it's got dual band
2.4 gigahertz and 5 gigahertz and one of
the neat things about this if you're
using the A+ for for developing a
product so if you want to put this in a
smart home device that you're going to
be selling for example the Wi-Fi is
already pre certified so you don't have
to go through the certification process
it expedites your ability to release
your product that's using the Raspberry
Pi as its brain kind of thing and it
also cuts your cost because you don't
have to go through that approval process
right the Raspberry Pi 3 model a plus is
also just $25 so hey if it meets your
need this is gonna be the perfect thing
I'm gonna head over to our unboxing
table here this was a gift from from
Marsh man thank you marshmallow nice and
there it is the Raspberry Pi 3 model A+
let's get right into the box and get a
look at it as I mentioned it's got a 1.4
gigahertz cortex a53 64-bit quad-core
processor now you notice right away that
the form factor is different from a
standard Raspberry Pi like the B+ for
example let's get out our trusty ruler
here make sure I've got the right side
here because I always do this this is
the craziest ruler folks what do we have
we have turnover
65 millimeters about two and a half
inches a little more than that now I can
see it looks like a square but in my
hand this side is definitely a little
bit shorter but yeah 56 millimeters
about 2.2 inches this way and so the
form factor is definitely a little bit
different for you so we've got a couple
of interesting facts about this board
first of all the one thing that I
noticed right out of the box this the
first time I've had it out is that there
is no Ethernet but as I mentioned it
does have dual band 2.4 and 5 gigahertz
Wi-Fi
it's got BGN and AC compatibility it's
got bluetooth 4.2 and it's got a full
sized 40 pin GPIO extended connector as
well so if you want to use this for
prototyping or building your product
this is the perfect little board as long
as you don't need Ethernet it has a
single USB 2 port and working our way
around the board we've got our audio
jack here as well which doubles as video
composite video so if you've got the
cable with the yellow end on it you'll
be able to pull RCA video off of that as
well we've got a camera connector we've
got a couple of different connectors
there display as well
we've got full-sized HDMI we've got the
power input which is 5 volts 2.5 amp
right here which is just the USB micro
working our way around we've got the
improved Wi-Fi chip the processor there
on the other side we can see a couple of
well the board is double-sided and then
we've got the SD card port here so
that's for your 4 booting your operating
system as well as the storage itself so
not a lot to see because we're so used
to these single board computers and this
one is kind of a little bit streamlined
a little bit stripped down if you will
but definitely as a prototyping board or
something that is going to power a
device that you're creating
manufacturing there's gonna be really
really cool again as long as you do not
need that Ethernet connectivity that
said we do have a USB 2 port so
presumably we could use
an Ethernet USB adapter in order to gain
that if we like what else is in the box
if anything nothing at all there you go
just the instruction manual and that's
it that's the Model A plus Raspberry Pi
3 we're gonna be taking a look at that
getting the giggle score off of that in
the next couple of weeks time there you
have it
what do you think of that that's very
nice now one thing chatroom picked up on
yes 65 by 56 millimeters not centimeters
[Music]
we're using a special telescopic line
we're still very nice in the end then
there was a question about micro SD it
is micro SD ok if I said SD that's
that's what I mean it's do yeah
absolutely
and of course we're open any other
questions we are gonna be testing that
as I mentioned with the giggle score
we're putting that up against a couple
of other boards as well very interested
in seeing how it performs and
interestingly enough in the preliminary
tests that we've been seeing in the
community I do believe that it is
performing better than a Raspberry Pi 3
B+ now I say that as a preliminary yeah
you kind of think so is it it's newer
and everything else but it does have
half of the RAM so we got to keep that's
true so if you're using it for like it's
not something that you're gonna be using
for a retropie system or or probably not
for NEMS Linux or anything that requires
a gig plus like that one gig of a
Raspberry Pi 3 B+ mix is really low
already so cut that in half and now okay
what what is it good for what can it be
used for there are certain applications
of course that are going to be really
really good for this board especially at
the price point of 25 bucks well a
pretty sleek very nice now the one thing
about it they kind of shocked me is that
there was no Ethernet port yeah like
that to me is a drawback because I like
to be hardwired in at home absolutely I
have better control with the data that's
being sent when it's over Ethernet as
opposed to
don't they're in the Wi-Fi world mm-hmm
so why would they eliminate the Ethernet
on it cut cost cut the underlying price
of the board so they're presuming that
this is going to be something of a smart
home device so if I'm gonna build
something and create something from this
device use this as my prototyping board
it's going to be Wi-Fi connected right
you know all of the the devices that we
use that are smart home they're all
Wi-Fi yeah you don't you don't plug an
Ethernet cable into an Amazon echo it
just that's not how it works so yeah
it's not great for streaming video
because it is Wi-Fi and it's limited to
the the throughput of Wi-Fi now it is a
pretty decent Wi-Fi chip but I have
found that raspberry-pi Wi-Fi has been a
little substandard yeah but again it's
what is it for what is the Raspberry Pi
for that's that's where it really does
well in that kind of manufacturing
building something learning education
robots for example using this as a brain
for a robot with Wi-Fi yeah that'd work
and it's a smaller form factor it's a
little bit faster doesn't have a lot of
RAM but doesn't need it when it's just
running some Python and and it would do
very very well in that scenario I think
cool so it boils down to what you want
to use it for I'm excited to see the
Google score mm-hm I am too you get what
a cap five dot TV slash PI check them
out and let us know what you think would
be the best option as I mentioned Jeff
you can presumably use a USB adapter to
get Ethernet if you're absolutely needed
it but that's not the intention of this
below with you know keeping the cost
down at 25 bucks
that's pretty cool
[Applause]
