hi everyone and welcome back to new
every day my name is Kari and my name is
Jen and we're talking about life hacks
and communication and have you ever
responded to someone harshly and then
went oh I wish I didn't say that
well that's what we're gonna talk about
on today's show so come right back
this is new every day with Jenn Wagner
and Carrie Webb
[Music]
hello and thank you so much for tuning
in again to new every day we are talking
about life hacks Jen and last week we
touched on communication skills and the
value of actually listening to people
and we talked about one verse in
Proverbs and today we're looking at
another verse in Proverbs
and where are we well specifically we're
gonna look at proverbs 15:1
which says a gentle answer turns away
wrath but a harsh word stirs up anger so
what does know what version are you so
I've gotten new King James
okay so I just read NIV and I'm going to
read chapter 15 verse 1 and 2 so it says
a soft answer turns away wrath but a
harsh word stirs up anger the tongue of
the wise uses knowledge rightly but the
mouth of fools pours forth foolishness
and we opened up the show saying have
you ever said something like harshly and
then wish like oh I wish I hadn't said
that and we had talked about in last
week's show so if you missed last week's
show you can just go to our website
which is new every day TV and you can
check it out and give it a listen
because we talked about how it's so
important to ask the Lord to put a guard
at our mouth so we don't say things but
often when a harsh word comes out the
harshness is it doesn't start with the
tip of our tongue the harshness starts
on the inside yeah that I've ruminated
about that person about what they've
done and as soon as I bring it out into
the light
it makes manifest what was actually
going on in my heart yes and then from
that what I found Jen in a not so
enlightening experience is that as soon
as I have spoken that harsh word about
someone else then it's it's open up to
the air to other people that they can
start ruminating that way about that
person yes so I've caused other people
to stumble in that way because we
actually had this conversation yesterday
Kerry had a conversation with with a
new friend and I said so like what you
guys talked about she's like well you
know what I'm gonna have another
conversation with that person before I
say anything because I don't want to put
thoughts in your head and that's so
often when everyone meets someone new
like we could come home from church or
from work or from wherever and say you
know I just met this new person that did
it and all of a sudden I have intrepid
yaks but you've already formulated all
of this opinion about them and you have
a checklist going in do they actually do
this are they this are they this I think
this and that's not right like I just
want to see people the way that God sees
them and Jen one of one of my favorite
verses that you often quote is that
people look at the outward appearance
but the Lord looks at the heart
yes First Samuel 16:7 yeah when Samuel
is going to anoint the new king and you
know Jesse trots out all of his sons
except for David and it's the Lord the
Lord says to Samuel like I don't look at
what people look at I hit the heart yeah
and so when we talk about a harsh word
you're right it always preconceived the
hurt that's going on in the inside but
what happens often is filters and I will
often say to carry filters breaking down
filters breaking down filters are gone I
need to I need to go away now because
I'm not saying anything helpful like we
have had those conversations revived
said I shouldn't have said that
I'm because what happens is I'm tired
yes
I'm tired I'm angry I'm you know hungry
and emotional yes and actually if I
started interrupt but to give some
credit cut it to Charles Stanley because
he says he uses the acronym halt H alt
right yes so when you're hungry alone or
angry yes
oh sorry hungry angry lonely or tired
yes and you're predisposed to saying
things that you don't mean having
judgments in your heart that you don't
mean and forgetting that that's your old
person yes like instead of CAP taken
captive those thoughts and
submitting them to Christ and then being
renewed in your mind and reminding
yourself that knowing my mind has been
renewed by Christ I can see this person
with love because I have the love of
Christ in me like actually embodying
that that transformative process that's
already happened in you by the Holy
Spirit yes he knows why it's so
important to invite the Holy Spirit into
your words yeah like surrendering those
conversations and because sometimes you
have to have tough conversations and
sometimes they are at inopportune times
yes and that's where you have to send up
through those moments and just say god
this is the only time we can have this
conversation I am hungry tired alone
like please help me because I'm we need
to have this conversation and I don't
want harsh words coming out yeah because
they can be so damaging so we're gonna
take a break and we want you to think
about a little bit when has you spoken
some harsh words and maybe you need to
take care of it oh so we're going to
give you a few minutes to think about
that I'll be right back
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching hey everyone
thanks for staying tuned to new every
day check out our partners page new
every day TV click on the partners tab
and you can see the organizations and
businesses that help support us and we
mentioned last week Jen that new every
day is under the umbrella of category 5
TV which is operated by Robbie Ferguson
so if you would like to support us when
you go to patreon or use the beer
supporting us through the partners page
it's going to category 5 TV and then the
trickle down comes to us so category 5
hosts us and makes this show possible
because you might be going in thinking
oh well I'm gonna support you every day
and then you're like this category 5 so
it was crappy yes we are underneath that
category holla at category 5 so check
out the website category category 5 top
TV TV or new everyday TV and we just
have a have a look around there Co you
can help out yeah so yeah we're very
thankful and we're we're jumping back
we're jumping right back in Jen you left
everyone with a question or an
opportunity I guess to reflect on the
time when maybe you have spoken a harsh
word out of turn I should even say out
of turn
I remember hearing his speakers say one
time Jen that there is never a reason to
be unkind there is never a reason like
even if someone's being harsh to you
like Jesus was the ultimate example of
that when he's like when someone takes
your cloak give him your tunic
so if they demand that you walk with
them one mile walk with them to turn
your other cheek like he was the
ultimate example of showing kindness to
people the heat that did not deserve it
yes and it can be hard to actually think
well that person has upset me mmm how do
I show kindness to them like I'm still
sore on the inside yeah I'm still sore
on the inside and if I show them
kindness then they're gonna think
everything is okay yeah but that's us
trying to I think for me it's like well
no they should they should know that
there is a consequence and that there
needs to be some kind of retribution but
that's me trying to orchestrate in that
that in my own mind instead of letting
God take care of that and maybe well I
know that the love of God is more
impactful and more transformative than
any kind of retaliation or retribution
or forwards or limit setting that we
could impose on someone else it's when
you see someone acting
counter-intuitively
in a loving way that is what pits people
right right between the eyes
yes and right in the heart and so often
I'll say things I'll be like oh and I'll
go back to that person I'll be like I'm
so sorry I should not have said it that
way and more often than oh I didn't take
it that way and it's like no it's the
heart check my heart check says what I
said was wrong
so whether you took it wrongly or
incorrectly I can't control but I know
my own heart said Oh Jen that was I'm
gonna say that was unkind because like
we said last week the power of life and
death is in the tongue yeah and so part
of a communication life hack is is being
kind in our words and so when James says
be quick to speak be quick to listen and
slow to speak that actually creates
space for kindness now that is a really
good point because if you're you're
pausing long enough to hear you're
stopping yourself from saying something
that you're going to regret
yes and you give room for God to say
something to you that might be impactful
to that person yeah I've never thought
of that
and also being kind as being honest too
like there have been times I have said
to carry or said to other people mostly
carry because it is a trusting that's
the problem with the communication you
really are trusting someone with your
words and I would say when you do this
and I start to slow down because I'm
like oh how is she going to take this
when you do this then it upsets me hmm
then I'm listening because I don't want
to upset you you know yeah and I and I
mean I'm certainly not the expert at at
that listening part but hearing what you
have to say is important and and knowing
the other person like being vulnerable
is scary because you're sharing
information with them that they might
use improperly like proverbs 15 verse 2
says the tongue of the wise uses
knowledge rightly but the mouth of fools
pour forth pours forth foolishness and
there's another verse that says that
knowledge puffs up but love builds up
and I feel like the wise person well
first of all the fear of the Lord is the
beginning of wisdom and if you fear the
Lord you're going to be humble if you're
humble you're going to listen to people
and put them above yourself and then
you're gonna use knowledge greatly to
build up the other person in love yes
because when you when you choose
kindness then you're choosing a fruit of
the Spirit you're choosing a fruit of
the Spirit so that means the Spirit is
going to be in the kindness because
you're thinking I don't want to hurt or
harm this person yeah right
and so Lord wrap your Holy Spirit around
my words help them wherever they start
in the options start in your no where
you think your nerves up here you know
it's down here okay and so a little
might get you feeling yeah and so Lord
even as those words are coming up I know
I have to speak truth but help me do it
with kindness because it's off um the
Lord says it's it's your kindness
Paul says it's your kindness that draws
us to repentance and that's in the book
of Romans and that has always struck me
in some Watson when we have to have
those kinds of conversations the word
slowed down the words also I'm gonna get
really slow because we're thinking about
what we want to say because we don't
want to be harmful to each other we want
to do want to be kind but we do want to
be honest yeah as well and that's
probably the one of the hardest things
is how do how do i express myself but
how do I be kind how do I be kind of
that person but also real to myself as
well and like you said it's
counterintuitive sometimes when you
actually because sometimes I think well
I just have to get it out and I have to
say it yeah and then let them deal with
it well is that really the best way and
I love there's a verse in John that says
that Jesus came full of grace and truth
and I know we've talked about that
before but the truth is that he shared
the truth of God which is sometimes can
be hard to hear like about our
sinfulness or where we've gone wrong and
similarly when we communicate with other
people sometimes sharing the truth is
actually important but his truth was
coupled with grace that was extended to
people like His grace extended to me
that I can still come to him and he
loves me
and I remember again we had an argument
one time and you said you're just gonna
have to extend me grace and I was like
yeah and you're gonna have to extend me
grace to like this has to go both ways
because we were called into relationship
and we long long for acceptance I know
we who are dads but I think we forget
this
we long the acceptance and so
communication is so important because I
want to be understood yeah first
Corinthians 13 says you know then we'll
be really know known as they will know
even as we're fully known yes we want to
be known and so communication is so
important but so often we don't know how
to communicate so that's why listening
is so important like practicing our
listening skills so and then repeating
back so what I hear you say
is cuz that shows that you didn't listen
so that's from last week but then
secondly our response has to be in
kindness that's really where growth and
communion and love and relationship and
connectedness comes is the me I miss
because if I if if Kerry tells me
something and then I'm like well that's
really stupid or I can't believe you
thought that or did it right cuz all of
a sudden my face is communicating
something and the words the way they're
coming out is communicating something
and she if it's if it's not communicated
with love and kindness and grace you're
gonna be like and you're not gonna share
with me yeah and that's like then are
desired to be known and to communicate
for love and acceptance just goes it's
cut off yeah yeah so that's why the
listening is so important and and the
kindness is so important because we want
to grow in relationship with each other
and with God now God can you know he can
filter yeah and you know what there is
this magic moment and how long it is I
think is up to us from when we hear
something perceive something before we
give the response there is that magic
moment where you can actually invite
Holy Spirit to give you the words to say
yes or pause and think for a moment or
pause and pray for that person yes and
realize sometimes that that's not really
them yeah and I gotta say like I've had
a bad run-in with a family member who
was just so mean and like was actually
like like aggressive and I was like this
is like what is going on are you
sociopathic like do you actually not
care about other people you know and it
was really hard until like God showed me
that that is not them that is the world
that has broken them down
and beaten them down and and and our war
is not against flesh and blood I'm not
I'm not at odds with this person yeah
and that's not the real person yeah the
real persons who God sees inside of them
and that's the person I want to see so
in that golden moment when something
happens before we respond that's what I
want to say God thank you for this
person I just think you that you love
and you died for them and I thank you
that you've given me eyes that I can see
them as you see them you've created me
for love and help me to love like you in
this moment that's the prayer and a half
yeah and and it can happen that fast and
that's why it's so important that when
you're communicating and and we're not
talking about hey how's it going we're
talking about some of those serious
conversations that need to the serious
conversations need to take place on a
regular basis so it doesn't just well up
and then all of a sudden it's like well
why didn't you tell me well I thought
you would just figure it out it's okay
for those of you who are married you
figured it out that does that just
doesn't work I yeah that just doesn't
work you need to be like straight-up
explicit and I've actually said to
friends before how many times do you
want me to remind you they said at once
but how many times do you want me to
remind you and they've often said Oh
until it's done I would like you to keep
reminding me so I know it's important
cuz they just forget right and I
probably won't say well I want you just
to remember but they have then given me
permission right and that's why I like
communication is so important and to
wrap those words in kindness to write
like Lord Holy Spirit wrap those words
in kindness
okay let me think about this and I want
to ask you like what does that to wrap
something in kindness what does that
actually mean because I think that could
be misconstrued as like I'm just gonna
package it real nice like but really the
heart of the matter is still kind of
like mean or harsh you know like not
just putting a sugar coating on
something like
you're really nice but yes like that
I think it's genuine kindness like has
to come from God because it's sometimes
really counterintuitive right to
actually care about that person yeah I
think yeah that's in favor like kind of
kindness the intention is for good okay
yeah I took a 20 love the intention is
for truth and so when the words like
that for that for the other person you
know so for you so when they come out
it's not just well I'm gonna say
whatever and then Lord you package them
so they land right
be thoughtful Lord helpful in my words
and cuz you can say harsher things but
in kind ways yeah come out with all the
bristles and and burrs and like
sharpness yeah but it can come out and
but this is why it's so important to
have the holy spirit in the conversation
yeah and not to try and do it on you
because then you're gonna try and do it
forcefully or with control and
manipulation and that feels gross so
that's why kindness Trump's control and
manipulation and that's the difference
because people can say kind things but
there's a controlling manipulative thing
like I'm gonna get what I want and then
you're kind of like oh that's gross it
feels gross oh they have good point and
so Carrie brought up a good point where
you said what do you mean by that well
you don't want to be controlling it's
not controlling and it's not
manipulative and it's not like well I'm
going to get my own way
it really is Holy Spirit I want your
truth I want your goodness I want your
love I want your best and it's not about
me it's about communicating it's about
fixing what's between us it's about
truth and so because a kind word turns
away and and so this week be kind in
your words ask the Holy Spirit to help
you and just stand back and be amazed at
what he can do yeah yeah those are good
words well I'm gonna pray for us okay
God thank you so much that Jenn just
reminded me to stand back and look at
what you can do even when the situation
seems impossible that's when we can ask
for the impossible
because you are more than able God to
give us the words to say the kind words
to show your love for other people in
just the way that they need to hear it
and perceive it and I just thank you so
much God even looking back in my own
life how you've used other people to
extend kindness that in turn I've seen
that attribute of you so I thank you for
your kindness God thank you for your
sacrifice that you sent your son to die
for us and we're so grateful I pray God
for the viewers and the listeners this
week that they would perceive your
kindness to them and in turn extend that
to other people we love you we thank you
in Jesus name Amen thank you so much for
tuning in have a very kind week catch a
new episode of new every day every
Friday morning at new every day dot TV
we're also on Kody Roku Plex YouTube and
Facebook or if you're in Southern
California tune in every Sunday morning
at 6:30 Pacific on channel 33 television
for the high desert
