hi and welcome to new every day my name
is Carrie and my name is jen and today
we're going to talk about john 15 so
stay tuned
hi and welcome to episode 4 of new every
day we're so glad that you're tuning in
again and we're so happy to sit here and
chat with you this is your first time
tuning in we're just two friends
exploring different issues encountered
as Christians in day-to-day life and
we're so happy if you would go to our
website new everyday TV there's a
contact link there you can contact us
via Facebook or you can send us an email
again that's new everyday TV we're also
very thankful for category 5 TV for
hosting us and for eco alkalines those
are the types of batteries that are
powering our camera our microphones so
we're very thankful that they are
sponsors on our show so Jen what do you
think last week I thought it was very
interesting how there are two
Commandments big ones okay they're all
the majors love God Lulu and love others
and so last week we talked about the
loving others part and how do we
actually navigate in friendship and one
of the questions you asked asked was how
has Jesus how have you seen Jesus change
relationships your relationships and we
talked about that a little bit and I
think when it really when it really
comes down to it it's abiding in Christ
the only way we will ever see change is
if we abide in christ or live in Christ
or walk with Christ or hang out whatever
word you want to use for abiding but
it's not just like this stick your
finger out it's not like yeah that is
not what abiding looks like like abiding
looks like like this where we are like
clothes talking head like it's close
it's being willing to get up off your
chair and be with christ not and yes he
does come near
okay but it's also you because it says
John 15 we're going to read it a little
bit but all the way through and as we
read it I want you to listen and we have
I don't know if you'll read both
different versions because I have new
century and you have this is New King
James James so it's going to sound a
little bit different but maybe we need
to read it into both versions because I
find sometimes it'll it things stick out
differently yeah you know what the verse
I just thought of is draw near to God
and He will draw near to you yes and
that's a wonderful promise isn't it it
is it doesn't say fix up yourself and
then come on close you know though God
is holy yes and once we come to know him
then he helps us get rid of sin in our
life step by step but he is loving and
gracious and he says that we can come
yeah and I'm so thankful yeah and so if
we want our relationships to change we
have to draw near to Christ period it's
not like self-help it's not all dig down
deep yeah if it's like okay yes but only
God can truly bring the fulfillment in
those relationships because he has to be
the center of it he has to be the center
of it and as soon as like you said as
soon as you dig down deep then all of a
sudden it's like well I did this yeah
well aren't I good friend look what I
did is like oh I think you were becoming
our own God which is the first
commandment no no so don't me just yeah
yeah you go head off and all so this is
I John 15 and it will sound like a
familiar passage for some of you for
some of you will be the first time but
Jesus is basically this is after the
last supper they're walking through a
vineyard on the way to guests enemy and
who's with him ah his disciples so and
so this is the cool thing about Jesus
he's constantly teaching but he's not
not for the purpose of teaching just
doing like doing life yeah he's not like
okay now let me sit down and teach you
like there are moments where he says let
me sit down and teach you but I think
half the
time and this is why what's so important
about relationships and being in
friendship and having various
friendships is that we learn from other
each other in a very non sit down school
sort of way we learn how to love one
another by watching people love or not
love yeah so anyway so he's just this is
on a walk so this is what he says I'm
the one I am The True Vine my father is
the gardener he cuts off every branch of
mine that does not produce fruit and he
trims and cleans every branch that
produces fruit so that it will produce
even more fruit you already you are
already clean because of the words I've
spoken to you remain in me and I will
remain in you a branch cannot produce
fruit alone but must remain in the vine
in the same way you cannot produce fruit
alone but must remain in me I am the
vine and you are the branches if any
remain in me and I remain in them they
produce much fruit but without me they
can do nothing if any do not remain in
me there like a branch let us thrown
away and then dies people pick up dead
branches throw them into the fire and
burn them if you remain in me and follow
my teachings you can ask anything you
want and it will be given to you and you
should you should produce much fruit and
show that you are my followers which
brings glory to my god to my father I
loved you as the father as a father
loved me now remain in my love I have
obeyed my father's command and I remain
in his love in the same way if you obey
my commands you will remain in my love I
have told you these things so that you
can have the same joy I have and so that
your joy may be the fullest joy possible
this is my command love each other as I
have loved you the greatest love a
person can show is to die for his
friends you are my friends if you do as
I command you I no longer call you
servants because a sermon because a
servant does not know what his master is
doing but I call you friends because i
have made known to you everything i have
heard from my
they're draw me a key free sure 217 may
be sure you did not choose me I chose
you and I gave you this work to go and
produce fruit fruit that will last then
the father will give you anything you
ask for in my name this is my command
love each other mm-hmm so we were
talking even earlier in this week how
well you talked about it at youth right
so if a vine if a branch is separated
from the vine it's not getting any
nourishment and it's dead and what did
you say to the kids well kind of mine
can yeah kind of a branch that's not
attached to the vine can it produce
fruit and I just put a picture up on the
screen of a branch that was on the
ground okay I'm like why they're very
cute they were junior high will this
produce fruit this branch that's on the
ground they're like no and I said why
and they're like because it's not with
Jesus I'm like the branch is a trail
answer like yay Sunday School teachers
and they said because it's not attached
right and and I said okay well then how
can you be connected with Jesus every
day and so we actually made this a
little bit of a competition okay and I
said okay leaders pick two people from
each of your groups and have them come
forward and how can you stay connected
to Jesus every day of work put the only
way to produce fruit which is what he
says is to stay connected well how do
you stay connected so I had four kids
and I said you can't repeat what the
other one says and if you gap or repeat
out you go okay so she's hardcore like
that hardcore for they still get candy
so it went like this read your Bible
pray these are ways to stay connected
ways to stay connected with Jesus every
day read your Bible
okay go to church go to youth group
don't hang around bad friends there
junior high so then it went hang around
good friends right on obey the Ten
Commandments do what Jesus says all
right obey then you know um listen obey
your parents like they just started
listing off all and I'm like it was good
yes it seems elementary but that's the
truth and they even said listen too good
listen to christian music oh yeah and
then the other one was don't listen to
non christian music watch be careful
what you watch on TV watch christian
movies okay like it got to be like that
simple because they don't want to get
kicked out of the game but as they're
doing this I'm listening and I'm
thinking if I want to stay connected to
Jesus what am i willfully doing every
day um well the choices are you making
10 min by moment moment by moment
choices am I making to stay connected to
Jesus because that is the only way we
produce fruit it says in Galatians 5 19
to 23 it goes the first part says the
acts of the sinful nature obvious and it
goes through sexual immorality impurity
debauchery idolatry which attract but
then it goes on in it says but the fruit
of the Spirit it is not the fruit of
Jennifer hmm it is not the fruit of
Carrie you know it's not even a fruit of
of new every day it says the fruit of
the Spirit is love joy peace patience
kindness goodness faithfulness
gentleness and self-control against such
things there is no law so when you act
in these ways you're not going to get
fined for them wait and so if and I
never understood it really until this
week and I started preparing the lesson
for youth if our lives
are exhibited us a means the spirit is
at work in our life that's what it means
it it's not the fruit of Jennifer like
often we say you will know a man by his
fruit right but now I'm thinking about
it you will know how connected that
person is to the spirit by the fruit
that is coming out of mm-hmm and it was
like oh so if I'm not exhibit of joy
peace all those things I need to go back
and say god what have I not surrendered
to you where's the disconnect where's
the disconnect and as I was looking up
pictures on the internet sort of
encapsulate John 15 passage they had
some brands branches ripped off trees
but not all the way hmm so they're kind
of attached and all I could think about
I am had a young man in my previous
youth group who was a tree guy an
arborist would be the correct like tree
guy tree guy and you talked about all
the different fungus that can attack a
tree or whatever because of an opening
hmm its efforts is vulnerable it's
vulnerable and that's why they put that
black stuff over at right pitch whatever
to protect it so that the disease and
everything can't come in and I just
thought ah when we sever ourselves from
the Lord and I think sorry can I just
interject there like when do you think
that severing happens so is that when
when you start to engage in the things
of the sinful nature so oh you know what
I'm just going to watch that movie you
know but it's full of all those things
the fruit of the sinful yeah a sinful
nature are obvious yes and if that
movies full of those things and that's
maybe where
it starts to get severed yeah right and
recreate opportunities for the enemy to
come in and it's like because that's
where all those diseases come in right
that kill the tree mm-hmm and so when we
sin and is sown whether it's a big
whether it's a big sin or little sin
however you want our grade it even
though as soon as the same as a citizen
all sin separates us it's in our world
it's it the complications in other right
word the consequences are what are what
can be perceived as different so when we
sin in whatever way we create an opening
for the enemy to come in because sin is
not of god and we reap the consequences
of sinning so like if I lie like I lie
about I lie to you about something well
that's actually going to cause distrust
in our friendship mm-hmm so that's where
the I have allowed because I've lied
it's an opening well god is not at work
in the lie Satan does that work in the
lie and that's where you have to have
that relationship mending conversation
to confess and first Rome 19 says if you
confess your sin he is faithful and just
and will forgive us our sins and cleanse
us from all unrighteousness so hope is
not lost but it does need to be a choice
to say no to the things of our past life
and say yes to the things that are
pleasing to God I think that's part of
the abiding like it I haven't anything
I'm a Bible circular I write in my Bible
and if you don't then that's okay too
Bible circular just pictured you running
circles around your Bible but I have the
word for me is remain and it's 1 2 3 4 5
6 7 8 9 10 11 11 times in this passage
and remaining it doesn't mean there
aren't mistakes it doesn't mean that
there is an upset it doesn't mean that
everything is perfect and Rosie it means
you're choosing to stick it out yeah
it's like remaining is even though I
have
done this God still loves me yeah and so
I eps like I come back into relationship
yeah even though I've done this and
that's you know our theme verse his
mercies are new every day and so because
it you know it says that he remains with
us because he calls us friends mm-hmm
and so that's part of what relationship
is is extending that grace so that when
we sin or we do something wrong that
does not mean we tank the friendship
right because it God doesn't tank us
like he doesn't say oh she doesn't throw
up his hands no thank God thank God but
when he restores that relationship then
he gives us new opportunity to produce
fruit so I had a patient in the hospital
one time who had a large clot in one of
the vessels in his legs and I was
triaging him and his leg was completely
white and almost dead so the source of
blood was cut off by this plot and these
clots can they're different types but
anyways some clots can actually be
caused by immobility by you not taking
action and you're not moving and blood
clots form and they stick together and
then they occlude that vessel so that
the source of oxygen and nutrients in
the blood can't feed the limb and then
it becomes dead so it's still there but
it's completely used useless and becomes
a hindrance and it's actually dangerous
because it can become tissue can die and
that person can then you know not do
well so it was very interesting and I
saw that picture and it's like if
sometimes my own decision to be immobile
or to not read my Bible or to not pray
or to not come and ask the Lord for
forgiveness when I've done something
wrong if my bride saying you know what
it is just I am just this is too bad
this time I'm not coming that's pride
because I look at the price jesus paid
on the cross
was enough and if I'm not thinking that
it's enough and that's pride because I'm
saying oh I can do something to add to
that but if if I'm choosing to be
immobile inert then that's where I can
be cut off from that supply mm-hmm and
then the Holy you know when we come back
to him the Holy Spirit's like the blood
thinners that we get over the clot
Buster's bus away that clot to reap
refuse that yeah that dead tissue that
dead branch you know by his grace we are
grafted in we can be given a new
opportunity but something I find
interesting here jen is um 15 John 15
verse 2 in this version says every
branch in me that does not bear fruit he
takes away and every branch that bears
fruit he prunes and it that it may bear
more fruit and so once you're
reconnected and you start bringing fruit
God's actually the one doing like the
clipping that can sometimes be painful
so I did a little reading I'm not a
gardener by any means we have two plants
in the house I look after them both
actually Jen won't even water though one
was a cactus and I killed it oh he
killed that sorry Alex you gave it to us
but the other one is still alive good
for now um what was it talking about oh
yeah gardening gardening so yeah when I
was doing some reading about like grape
vines and so they'll actually prune away
even some perceivably good fruit and
good branches so that the fruit that
comes after is more rich and sweet
mm-hmm it's it's not necessarily just
like more fruit it's like quality fruit
and I liked that picture yeah because
it's not that the other branches are bad
but they will drain off energy nutrients
so that you will have like a good crop
but you won't have like the ice wine yes
the grapes that when you taste them
you're like tesco those are good and I
remember reading
in the shack so the shack is a book
written I can t remember who it's
written by but basically a man meets God
the Father God the Son God the Holy
Spirit and in his interaction with the
Holy Spirit she's gardening so the Holy
Spirit is personified as a female and
she's gardening and he is watching her
this man is watching her garden and she
goes to a beautiful spot and she starts
ripping all the beauty out he's like
what are you doing and he's freaking out
cuz it's beautiful hmm and he's like
you're going to all that work and did it
and he's getting upset and she looks at
him and says I am taking I have to clear
all of this good out in order that I can
bring something even better well and I
read that and I'm like how many times
you know our because we get satisfied
right we think that things are good and
we can't even begin to think that things
could be better because it's good so can
you think of anything like can you give
an example and you're only for something
yeah and someone else where you feel
that God has done that because you were
remaining in him then I started to do
some pruning well I think sometimes it's
even that the letting go of like what
like I was in my I was at another church
for 12 years loved my church you know I
believe in in lifelong minister you come
get planted you commit like okay and so
I'm like I'm here I'm here I'm here
there's no possible way that you know I
would leave you guys I value this
mission it's it's good and then the Lord
started planting new thoughts in my head
I had and I'm like there's no possible
way it could get this good or it
couldn't be better in the batter have ya
as I had this mindset this frame of mind
that this this is good mm-hmm and so
then he does through a series of words
and friends and conversations and
whatever I left that church
and people kept saying what are you
gonna do what you gonna do and I like I
don't know but I know it's definitely
God because I was fully committed fully
committed as a result of saying okay to
God here's my life I have traveled fully
around the world I have ministered in
England and Holland and Taiwan I've been
like to minister as a as I can't pastor
I've come to the church that we both go
to now and I am continually blown away
by the opportunities that God has given
me that I would never have been able to
experience if I had just stayed where I
was like so often we think but this is
good how could it get any better how
could God give me anything else that's
like this and the thing is it's not like
that i would i would never exchanged the
wonderful experiences and friendships
that I had um but I would have missed
out on this if I had stayed there and
it's like um like we cook totally
differently and uh you know I would get
up have my piece of toast with my butter
my piece of fruit my juice and yes the
same thing same thing every every day
and then Kari comes along and she tries
all these wonderful all these new things
good because in my mind I'm like what is
wrong whatever I wonderful / what is
wrong with the toast we haven't died of
fruit the juice the water the coffee
what is wrong it's good it osha's me I
haven't died yet so then Kari comes
along and she has cereal one day and she
has owed meal the next day and then she
has this type of bread that's not really
even bread it's like a cracker and then
sometimes and I'm like oh well maybe I
it blew my mind that she would have
something different every day and so I
tried this cracker tight bread
with the peanut butter and I had never
ever thought about cutting up a banana
and putting on top never yes and so I'm
like okay oh she hasn't died yet so it
must be okay so this week we're
introducing Nutella masala um so anyways
I got the cracker bread thing put the
peanut butter on that put and I was like
oh good this is good for you have to be
open to trying something new I had to be
open to trying something new and it just
goes back into that am I willing and
this comes with because when we abide
with Christ I I learn more about him and
how he moves and how he orchestrates
things and and when he says you know
like I love you mm-hmm I know he's not
going to give me bad gifts right and so
when he gives me new opportunities when
he asks me to go in a different
direction because I'm abiding with him
I'm getting to know him I'm learning
more and more mm-hmm okay and what if
this goes along just with what you were
saying they're done excuse me in John 10
talks about Jesus being the Good
Shepherd for us and let me just find it
here he says in verse 11 I am The Good
Shepherd the Good Shepherd gives his
life for the Sheep sorry it's before
that John 10 verse 3 read on uh I mean
verse 2 you know what I'm gonna start a
first one most assuredly I say to you he
who does not enter the sheepfold by the
door but climbs up some other way the
same is the thief and a robber but he
who enters by the door is the Shepherd
of the Sheep to him the doorkeeper opens
and the sheep hear his voice and he
calls his own sheep by name and leads
them out and when he brings out his own
sheep he goes before them and the Sheep
follow him for they know his voice yet
they will by no means follow a stranger
but will flee from him for they do not
know the voice of strangers it's like
when you spend time with a lot of people
you start to know their tendencies you
know their voice you know what they're
going to do I mean you probably have
family or friends and so I might suggest
oh let's go do this and you might say oh
you know what know my sister would
actually never do that or no or someone
will say so-and-so said this you know
what I know that person they would
actually never say that because you've
spent time with them you know their
character you know what they wouldn't
wouldn't say you get to know Jesus voice
by spending time with him in prayer and
reading the Bible and actually I've
talked a lot to jen about this recently
because I've been saying I really want
to know God's voice like I want to know
what when he's saying something to me
and I want to obey it and that's just
been a prayer of mine lately Jen mm-hmm
but even doing this show as made me
realize that it's going to be coming
from abiding with him and spending time
with him more and more and more right
knowing his words and letting the the
word of God is a lamp unto our feet and
a light unto our path yes and then he
will illuminate the way and then i can
i'll know the direction to go he's
already told this is this is his voice
this is the word of God and was so cool
this is the word of God the Bible but
Jesus is also called the word in the
beginning was the word that's John 11
and so we need to allow the word to
abide in US which is the Bible we also
need to spend time with the word himself
yes which is Jesus and that's why when I
I'd listen to those kids last night how
do you connect with Jesus every day
because sometimes people might say I
can't sit down for an hour and read my
Bible okay well what are you doing on
the way to work can you listen to
christian use it can you listen to
christian radio can you have godly
conversations with whoever you're
walking with because like you said how
do I know I want to hear God's voice
because he speaks to us through the word
but he also speaks to us through other
people
I one of my favorite Christian artists
Steven Curtis Chapman before we were
recording today I just I listened to his
one of his recordings and I like the way
I can do all things I his strength is
perfect and I'm sitting there and I'm
like he's singing scripture right his
strength is perfect did I read that in
the word that day no but I was able to
connect with Jesus by listening to
christian music by someone else who you
know on their own journey wrote this
song recorded it and now i'm listening
to it and i am being encouraged right
and it's cleaning up your mind because
then you're thinking about things that
are honoring to god and i know that
abiding isn't the mighty doesn't mean
sitting here like this and I'm abiding
why but maybe sometimes it doesn't mean
being quiet I totally agree but staying
connected me just means like throughout
the day use taking time to stop and pray
so we have a friend Shelley and
Shelley's are really good Brian like a
good connector now she just is a
wonderful communicator too and so like
through the day she'll send a funny
picture or sent a text or call or show
up and it's just those like little
intermittent yeah interactions with her
that helped develop a friendship and you
get to know her you know it's really
it's really good well and as you're
looking for a verse yeah I think
sometimes we can think about is the
sitting still which yes it is but it's
also the intermittent throughout the day
and it's also like in the car driving
yeah while you're playing baseball yeah
why you're cooking dinner even while
you're having a conversation okay Lord
what should I say next like how do I
honor you in this conversation like even
that is yeah being with Christ like so
often people like I don't know how to
widen it's just these okay like Shelley
how how do you sort of connect with God
throughout the day and I know one of the
things that we've done is we put a
devotional in the bathroom so as our
about our business we can open it up and
in that moment read a passage they're
just people it's yeah CS Lewis chant is
view on different issues but it helps to
turn your mind take captive bad thoughts
turn your mind towards ya and make me uh
maybe you make a point of stopping
before you come into your house every
day dear Lord prepare me for what comes
in or as you're leaving dear Lord but
it's sometimes we think it can be so
difficult but you have to start
somewhere and I think listening to
podcasts and Christian radio so life 103
is a local christian radio station and
that i listened to they also have
teachings by like james mcdonald so walk
in the word and you can go onto their
website also focus on the family I
really appreciate their teaching
download their podcast Ravi Zacharias is
another author and speaker who has
podcasts available ours at I a morgue
and just turning those on even driving
in the car yeah it's been really really
helpful yeah especially for people who
commute right like here you are in your
vehicle for anywhere from you know half
an hour to three hours for some of the
people that I know who and so how how
are you redeeming that time and
sometimes that's where some true abiding
can come in and just going through your
day and processing it Oh Lord that lady
at the photocopier uh help me or Lord
when my boss came in today i have to
admit i did not treat him with honor and
respect forgive me Lord and my left this
morning you know if you're if you're
married my kids said this to me and I
really don't want to look them in the
face because of this and it you know and
that's
of abiding to its it's not only you
talking but also creating space for God
to move through His Holy Spirit and help
to bring order right to just things that
are out of order that just seems so huge
abiding with Christ allows him to come
in and sort things i like i like to
think he's the best filter Lizzie no he
teaches us what to hold on to he shows
us what we need to let go of he reveals
things to us so um when I first read
this passage and it says abided by
divided by divided and I remember asking
God and and this is how and I'm still
learning how to read the Bible better
but I asked I was like what does that
mean and I kept reading any answered my
own question in verse 10 if you keep my
Commandments you will abide in my love
just as I have kept my father's
Commandments and abide in his love yeah
and Jesus says if you love me you will
obey me mm-hmm and so and as he says my
commandments are not burdensome he says
love one another sometimes I can be the
hardest thing buddy yeah he gives us the
ability to do it by its grace so yeah
looking at his Commandments asking what
those are yes which is a lighter which
is what one of the girls said last night
oh yeah and I just thought what she say
she's like you stay connected to God
obey the Ten Commandments I'm like great
sunday school answer rah rah rah Yeah
right cuz that's what the passage says
if you love me you will obey me yeah and
it's anything is it's not a lord and
master you're my servant yeah and yet he
is and we are why but he's not doing the
card that's not the car does it lord it
over us he's like we could I love you
and so the reason i love you i'm going
to give you these rules or commandments
to live your life I because that's where
you will truly
live Wow but here's something
interesting to think about and I was
talking to my dad about this he shared
it with me that when you look at the 10
commandments and when Jesus is saying
love other people you know don't steal
don't covet their stuff don't murder
don't do all these things if they ask
for your cloak give it to them it's
really a value statement about you God
saying I love you so much I'm not going
to let other people do that to you so
it's not so much a list of do's and
don'ts but it's like it's got saying no
you're valuable enough that I'll hold
people accountable if they do these
things against you until you have to do
the same for them yeah because when we
don't we create breaches in the
relationship if I lie to you I don't
value myself but i also don't value you
and the enemy comes in creates the tear
if I start to covet carries my jacket
haha I'm just saying every time she
pulls that our iPad I'm like oh you can
use it I know but it's yours um but I'm
like oh do I need one maybe I want one
oh look at her usage just make and I'm
like look at her use it and but that's
no yeah how are you mmm it's like oh
it's I want that and I actually have to
surrender that to the Lord to say Lord
do I really need that or is it just a
nice bright shiny toy that I think will
do me well and so far I've been able to
do my technical stuff fairly well
without one you have to take that cap
you have to take the thought captive and
a lot of questions things I start asking
myself is Lord forgive me for coveting
or for breaking that commandment
whatever one it is mm-hmm and if it is
cause division between me and Carrie or
me and you hmm reveal it to me and what
is that root cause inside of me
causing that to come up and so just
surrendering that whole thing to Lord
like in the last episode we talked about
the little foxes that come in and just
being willing to surrender those two and
that comes also from abiding it's like
the not infirmities see i'd like to make
up a word do it i do it but you know
those blemishes when we abide with
people the blemishes come to the top I
know say what explain what you mean like
I want to say the sins or those things
on us the imperfections rise to the top
that's true actually so when I was
dating this one guy and as we we spent
more time together I remember coming
home and telling jen i was like i just
realized that I'm kind of selfish about
some things I'm expecting him to do a B
and C and because it's all about me and
it wasn't until I was in relationship
mm-hmm that that came out because on
your own like who cares yeah you know so
and that's why I think we need to be
attached to the vine yeah be continually
getting source from his word and his
truth I mean psalm 119 verse 9 says how
can a young man or a young woman cleanse
his way or keep his way pure yeah by
taking heed according to your word or
living according to his word and I think
of that like get its living quarter the
Bible that's living according to Jesus
so I don't know I feel challenged to
read the Gospels like Matthew Mark Luke
and John and see how Jesus actually
interacted with people or people who
robbed other people their own way yeah
you know and how did he respond mm-hmm
so with that in mind maybe the Lord has
touched some things in your life today
about or mate say you're not abiding in
me in this area or maybe you're saying
yourself
I need I need to check some things
because the Lord is so clear it says in
verse 11 I have told you these things so
that you can have the same joy like God
was joy for us she wants joy for us so
we're going to pray I'm going to ask God
to reveal those areas that are not
abiding with him those areas that have
allowed the enemy to come in and do his
thing and we're going to ask him to
produce joy in our life as we abide in
him so heavenly father I thank you that
you do call us friend and you call us to
abide and you you don't say not until
you're perfect you just say come and
then Lord as we abide in you those
things those imperfection must rise to
the top and then in your grace and your
mercy you say are you willing to
surrender them to me because if you hold
on to it you're not going to have the
joy that I have for you what you have is
good but I have something that's even
better and we're the thing that I love
about you is what we thought was better
becomes there's something always better
there's something always better there's
something always better in you cuz
you're that good so father help us to
fully surrender our lives to you help us
to abide in you lord help us to allow
your Holy Spirit to move in our lives to
produce fruit we need your help we need
your help or thank you so much for the
viewers that are watching thank you for
Robbie in the category 5 team bless them
as they look after all the details and
father God thank you for drawing near to
us when we draw near to you help us to
abide in you we ask this in the name of
Jesus for the power of the Holy Spirit
amen amen
father you wrote in the Bible that
people will know that we're your
disciples mm-hmm by how we love others
and so that's important because we want
to be your ambassadors and represent you
well so Lord will you please help us to
love other people as we go about that
our days and weeks at work at school
wherever at home with kids would you
give us a good insight into how to
really love other people maybe it's
reminding us to phone somebody or to
call our parents or to call that distant
cousin who we haven't connected with or
maybe make a meal for our neighbor Oh
Lord would you help us to really shine
the love and the light of Christ for
your glory thank you for your goodness
lord I pray for the people who are
struggling and maybe they have sought
you in the past and they've turned away
and I pray that you would remind them
that your mercies are new today for them
that they can turn and be forgiven and
start fresh even now thank you for your
love towards us we pray this in Jesus
name Amen well thanks for tuning in
again I new every day doc TV is our
website so please go there check out the
links you can contact us through
Facebook or through email and you can
get to Facebook and email through our
website new everyday def TV so thanks
again to category 5 and thank you jenn a
good talk good talk we'll see you next
week later
you
