if artificial intelligence was able to
like make my dinner
there's no I'm not afraid of that I
think that's a great idea
uh well but do you need artificial
intelligence to make you dinner no but
if it's consistently making a great
dinner every single night and I don't
have to do it what's the problem in that
well I mean that's you have a simple
home use you just my concern you're not
gonna win this no no but my concern with
it is how it's used to replace our need
to exist that's my concern
oh is one of those it's not it's not
just about your dinner it's cuz suddenly
it's about your dinner and then it's ya
doing tasks around the house
hold on everything else that comes with
it and suddenly you're just a head in a
jar everything that we know about
artificial intelligence and everything
that you just said which is completely
unbelievably false everything that you
just said and everything that I believe
about AI is just based on what we hear
in mainstream media it's based on what
we see on science fiction TV shows that
we watch we've got our opinions based on
all that yeah but if I read it on the
internet it's gotta be true it's gotta
be right would it be cool if we were
able to actually hear from some of the
people who are developing artificial
intelligence and learn from them
what it is and how it works and what we
need to be worried about and what we
need to plan for would not be ideal that
would be very ideal and I think it would
vindicate me and my concerns about
security oh well there you go so let's
do it we've got Martin for joining us on
the show he is a New York Times best
selling author in the artificial
intelligence space and he's done what we
all want to do he sat down and spoken
with a whole lot of people in the
artificial intelligence industry to find
out hey what is going on where is this
going what do we need to be afraid of
and what do we what is the potential for
artificial intelligence we're going to
be speaking with Martin Ford this
evening and we're gonna be learning all
about AI stick around
this is category five technology TV our
live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream wire cast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 dot TV is a member of the
tech podcast network if it's tech gets
here cat5 dot TV slash TPM and the
international association of internet
broadcasters cat5 dot TV slash ia IB
welcome to the show this is category 5
technology TV it's episode number 592
and Jeff is here I'm here Sasha's around
so she's going to be joining us for the
news in just a couple of moments time
just quickly off the top I want to say
thank you so much to everyone who's been
supporting us on patreon this is you
know a new year for us at category 5 TV
and as a volunteer organization your
patronage helps to to make category 5
possible and we love bringing free
family-friendly tech broadcasting to the
world and we appreciate you coming along
with us and supporting us at the same
time we're gonna jump right into our
interview tonight
Jeff and I have had a lot of discussions
on the air about artificial intelligence
and opinions thereof but the fact is
artificial intelligence is no longer a
thing of science fiction but we tend to
get our information from mainstream
media and so we're hearing about hype
and speculation and often fear-mongering
from people who haven't themselves been
contributors to the technology our guest
this week wants to change that with his
new book Architects of intelligence
where he's recorded in-depth interviews
with the very people shaping the future
of AI he's the New York Times
bestselling author of rise of the robots
please help me welcome futurist Martin
Ford Martin it's great to have you on
the show thanks for joining us yeah
thanks for having me Martin why another
book
about AI well what I really wanted to do
with this book is get inside the minds
of the people that are really building
this technology the people that really
it on you know in the whole world know
the most about artificial intelligence
they're literally in many cases the
people that have you know been
responsible for some of the
breakthroughs that have really brought
us to this point where everybody's
talking about AI because it's become so
disruptive so I think that's the best
way to kind of cut through as you said
the speculation and the hype and really
find out what's really going on and
that's sort of my purpose with this book
very good and I love the way it reads it
is written very much as an interview so
you know if you're daunted by a big
thick book architects of intelligence
from Martin Ford is it's written like an
interview and you're able to kind of get
into the minds of those who are involved
in the development of AI Martin how will
a I evolved and what major innovations
are on the horizon well I mean that's a
good question no one really knows the
answer to that and that's one of the
main takeaways from the book is that I
talked to 23 of the people in the world
that know the most about this and yet
they really don't agree on a lot of this
stuff in order to have different
opinions different ideas so one of the
main takeaways is that it's gonna be
unpredictable I mean everyone agrees
that this can be very disruptive that
it's gonna be a game changer for the
economy for society but we don't really
know exactly what innovations are gonna
occur first we don't know for example
what industries are gonna be transformed
first we don't know exactly what the
breaks fees are going to be having said
that the primary technology that's
really driving things right now is
what's called deep learning or deep
neural networks which is basically
building software in a way that kind of
roughly emulates the way your brain
works you know in terms of the way the
neurons are connected and that's the
technology that's really just been
transformative over maybe the last six
seven years we've seen incredible
breakthroughs we've got systems that of
course are used in self-driving cars now
they're getting really close to to
really working we've got
systems used in medicine that can look
at a medical image and actually be
better than a human doctor in some cases
that determining is there cancer in that
image
we've got systems that are translating
languages even in real-time so it's just
stuff that really just a few years ago
with science fiction is now happening so
we can expect that over the next year's
and decades that technology is gonna get
a lot better it's gonna evolve become
much more powerful and that's gonna
continue to drive the disruption and
then further out there are some real
breakthroughs on the road toward what we
would call true human level intelligence
which is really kind of the holy grail
of this whole field you know building a
machine that can think at the level of a
human being but that's kind of a long
path and there are a lot of
breakthroughs that need to occur before
we get there right and a lot of my
discussions in this book are about what
exactly are those breakthroughs when
might they occur what does that path
look like and how long will it take us
to to get the human leveling on that's
one of the most fascinating questions
you know mm-hmm it's really central to
this field
Marton we hear a lot of terms AI and now
deep learning what what's the actual
relationship between deep learning and
AI well AI is the broadest term
artificial intelligence really means
essentially building technology building
machines or algorithms that in some
sense think or or take on cognitive
capability and can solve problems and
learn in the same way that that people
can one facet of that one one area of
that is machine learning which is
specifically building algorithms that
can look at data and can learn and right
now those terms are used kind of
interchangeably but what we're seeing
right now is really machine learning
it's algorithms that look at sometimes
massive amounts of data and can learn to
do amazing things from now you know base
you know for example looking at a
medical image and determining is there
cancer there or not and that is really
the disruptive technology but there you
know in the future it will become even
broader and will incorporate things like
genuine reasoning and so forth
but right now it's primarily a focus on
machine learning yeah that makes me
like is are we gonna see machine
learning and deep learning continue to
dominate or are we gonna have other
approaches that are coming to the
forefront right so before the current
boom in deep learning if you go back you
know more than 10 years 15 years there
were other areas of AI that were much
more prominent that we really focused on
and this involved for example what was
called symbolic reasoning the ability of
computers to make decisions and to to
reason in human-like ways this is where
the main thrust was although people
didn't have a huge amount of success
with that there was also expert systems
which are the kind of systems for
example that do step by step thinking
and analysis that's the kind of system
you basically find in a jet airplane
which can fly itself right there was
once a time when all of this stuff that
we now consider to be kind of routine
was was considered to be artificial
intelligence the current boom is in
machine learning and teaching algorithms
that can learn but many people think
that in the future we'll need to bring
back some of those earlier ideas into
the picture in order to build more more
generalized powerful intelligence that's
one of the the main ideas in a book
there's one camp of people one group of
people that believe strongly that deep
learning is not going to be enough to
take us forward to the next level that
we're gonna have to bring back some of
these more traditional ideas right but
then there are a bunch of people that I
talked to that are really deep learning
enthusiasts they really believed in this
technology and that includes people like
for example Geoffrey Hinton who is very
famous within the AI community for
having been probably single guy that's
most responsible for bringing forth his
deep learning revolution he really
invented a lot of the technology there
and they believe that deep learning will
get better there will be you know and
become more general it will have new
capabilities there will be breakthroughs
that will occur within the context of
deep learning or neural networks and
that will take us forward so it's really
interesting to talk to these different
people about their views of the
technology and how it might progress but
again one of the main takeaways is that
they really don't agree there's
something of a debate between these two
camps mm-hmm and that's one of the
most interesting aspects of it cool and
it's very much stepping stones I think
and we're we're at that point where it's
leaps and bounds Jeff I'm thinking about
deep learning and as you're mentioning
Martin how can this technology is able
to think along the the same kind of way
of a human in a way so I mean I have to
ask the question that all of us Trekkies
are thinking I'm sure at this moment I
mean what does it look like as far as
the path toward human level artificial
general intelligence like how far off
are we really from lieutenant data being
able to operate our business right right
I mean that's that's the biggest
question in artificial intelligence and
and and it goes back right to the
beginning when Alan Turing in 1950 wrote
a famous paper he asked kind of machine
think and that's where he invented the
Turing test right which many people have
heard of is kind of the test for true
intelligence if a machine can carry out
a conversation like like a person and we
consider it to be intelligent that's one
one test and that goes all the way back
to right to the beginning and yet we
still don't really know the answer to
the question of how how far off it is
and it's it's a big part of the book I
talk to everyone about that but the
opinions really vary I talked to Ray
Kurzweil who is a very famous futurist
and many people have heard of he's the
guy that is most associated with the
idea of the singularity
he thinks it's only ten years off 2029
he thinks ok we will have human level
artificial intelligence and that's a
very very aggressive prediction I
personally think that's way too
yeah like is that an aggressive
prediction to try to push the industry
or is this a realistic approximation
that's his view I mean Google working on
these technologies right he's now before
he was a guy that kind of wrote books
and talked about this a lot and an
inventor but now he actually for the
last few years has worked at Google and
he's actually working on this so and in
the interview I did with him is clear
too he knows what he's talking about in
terms of the details of
you know the technology he's working on
so you have to give that some some
credence right but then other people I
talk to you and one example would be
Rodney Brooks who is who is the founder
of iRobot corporation he's one of the
most famous robotics experts in the
world
he thinks it could be a hundred and
eighty years in the future so that's a
pretty good range oh wow is it ten years
in the future or a hundred and eighty
years in the future I mean one hundred
and eighty years you're really getting
into the the Star Trek era right doesn't
I think when Star Trek was actually set
right a couple hundred years in the
future so I mean that's the range of
opinion I I did I asked everyone about
this I actually took an average any era
home not to be about 80 years so okay
just at the end of this century so I
think most of us would be quite lucky to
still be alive if it's really 80 years
from now um so that's what we're talking
about it's very unpredictable 80 years
is about the average but there certainly
are a number of people that are much
more aggressive not just Ray but others
think it might be 20 to 50 years
somewhere in that timeframe okay but
others think it's hundred years away so
that really gives you a good sense of
just how hard this problem is and how
good all we know about it how little we
know about what it is really gonna take
to get to the point where we can build
human level intelligence and and how
fast those breakthroughs gonna occur so
I would expect very question yeah and I
would expect that that is the key word
its breakthrough because at one point
that breakthrough is gonna happen that's
just all of a sudden gonna accelerate
things you can read all about the
discussion that we're having basically
learn about these discussions the martin
has had with these professionals in the
AI industry by reading architects of
intelligence Jeff do you mind throwing
to a commercial break we've just got to
take a really quick quick break here
yeah yeah so when we come back we're
gonna be speaking with Martin Ford about
the dangers associated with AI so you're
gonna want to stick around
[Music]
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching and we're
back we are talking to Martin Ford about
his he's best-selling author and we're
talking to him about his book on
artificial intelligence called
architects of intelligence now prior to
the break we had a couple of great
questions just kind of going through
what is artificial intelligence deep
learning how are they connected stuff
like that but I want to get to the other
side of it because we've had
conversations on the show and as much as
I love the advancement in tech
personally I am very worried about the
the security risks that come with this
as part of the conversation usually goes
Jeff we got to stay away from conspiracy
theories we got to be careful of that
because a lot of the mass media is
driving toward fear-mongering in a lot
of ways yeah so so I guess the question
I want to know and and in coming up to
this interview I think it's the number
one question I've wanted to ask is what
are the risks associated with AI and
particularly in the areas of security
privacy bias and potential weaponization
it sounds like a great question for
Martin our guest Martin Ford right so
this is this is a very important
question and there definitely are some
legitimate concerns there and this is
you know was again a really important
topic in the book so there's lots of
material there on this I will just in
the beginning I want to just
the point that there are really two
categories of these risks or dangers and
the first one is is what you just
mentioned the things that we're gonna
face for sure the things that we are
already beginning to face an artificial
intelligence so these are very very
legitimate fairly immediate concerns
that we really need to be worried about
and then there's a second category of
dangers that we might call
science-fiction still at this point very
more speculative futuristic things that
many people consider to be you know
potentially existential but that's a
separate category so what I'll let me
focus first on on the immediate things
the things that we really legitimately
have to worry about it's certainly one
of those is security the reality is that
when we have an autonomous system
something that is controlled completely
by artificial intelligence and there are
no people in the loop then by it's
natural to assume that that system is
gonna be more susceptible to you hacking
or to cyberattack sure Oh someone else
could contain control of that system or
or cause it to stop working just to give
one example imagine that we had
autonomous trucks driving around
delivering all our food to stores to
grocery stores and someone hacked into
that and brought all those trucks to a
stop I mean that's a pretty big problem
right and you can imagine many many
things like that so the whole issue of
security with these systems is is a huge
issue and there's lots of effort being
put into that and it's gonna be a huge
challenge it may be the single most
important challenge with with regard to
artificial intelligence and automation
more generally is the security issue you
know the fact that we have to make sure
that these systems you know are safe
from intrusion whether it's from
criminals or other countries or whatever
and Martin if I may ask along that vein
whose responsibility is that are there
regulations to to demand companies that
are manufacturing artificial
intelligence to to use a security by
design principle yeah I think there's
gonna be a need to be kind of
interaction between government and
between industry there I certainly there
there's a place for regulation
I don't think the government can do it
all by itself I mean the reality is that
with many of these issues we you know
there's a place for regulation it's also
true that the government isn't isn't by
itself competent like the people that
work in the government don't have the
knowledge to do this so you want basic
realities that people that work for the
government make a lot less money than
people in the private sector so the very
best people don't always work in the
government right so right in terms of
technical expertise it's not always
there so it's gonna require cooperation
between the companies that are doing
this and the government and hopefully
there can be some reasonable standards
there you know and and the companies
will understand it there probably does
need to be regulation to ensure that
that these systems are safe and they
will work together with the government
to make that happen in an appropriate
way okay now I mean along that vein of
thinking you also have the impact of AI
as it relates to industries and so with
that challenge you write about in rise
of robots is the potential impact on the
job market and the economy do you think
that all of this could cause a new kind
of industrial revolution and completely
transform the job market yeah I mean
that's my view and as you say that was
the topic of my book rise of the robots
and I also I talk a lot about that with
everyone in an architect's of
intelligence as well there is something
of a debate about that you will find for
sure economists that will tell you that
this is all overblown there's nothing to
worry about and largely the reason
they'll tell you there's nothing to
worry about is the in the past this
issue is come up many times people are
worried about technological unemployment
for a long time
it hasn't really happened yet right so I
personally believe that this time is
different because now we've got
artificial intelligence we've got
machines that are in a limited sense
beginning to think and that means that
they are competing you might say with
our core competence right the thing that
really makes us unique as human beings
is our ability to think to learn to
adapt to innovate and and machines are
beginning to compete directly with this
capability and that's gonna have a
different impact in the future that's my
view
most of the people where everyone that I
talked to really and Architects of
intelligence believes that there's going
to be a disruptive impact not everyone
agrees there will be outright
unemployment but I mean I think most
people in the technology community
believe in the potential word is big
disruption what we see so far of course
is not unemployment we've got a very low
unemployment rate in the United States
but we do see for example stagnant wages
right among most right oh the workforce
you know they literally haven't gotten a
raise really in decades not in not after
an adjusting for inflation so I think
technology is already having a big
impact in terms of pushing down wages
for average people and making things
much more unequal so to all the gains
from advancing technology are now going
to the people at the top right
executives and investors and people like
that are doing well but average people
are not so I think this is already
having a big impact and I personally
believe that over the next 10 20 years
we're gonna see an even bigger impact
and there is a real potential for for
unemployment and that's an issue that is
you know potentially huge for society
for the fabric of society for stability
of society for political stability and
so forth not just in the US but in
countries across the world right and it
also has big economic implications
because in order to have a thriving
economy people have to have money to
spend right you you know you need people
to come by what's being produced
businesses need customers and if people
don't have jobs or if their incomes are
very low if things are so unequal that a
few people are really capturing all the
income then you can't really have a
vibrant economy and I think that's gonna
be a real challenging for us so that is
my view although again there is a big
debate over okay now I mean with that
thought I mean you've talked about how
big business is gonna be gaining from
that and I know I read an article
earlier this week about a I think it was
a restaurant in Japan or China that had
laid off all of its staff and got robots
in and then fired them all essentially
because they weren't working out so with
that kind of back and forth hustle of
trying to get a sense of how to use AI
who really is going to be the big
benefactor and who are going to be the
big loser
is it kind of the you know big man
versus little man or is it gonna create
a whole new realm of winners and losers
so to speak well it's going to I mean
technology is gonna have a gradual
impact right it's not going to be a
restaurant bring you know robots
overnight or something it's going to be
a restaurant gradually using more robots
and as a result of that not meeting
quite as many people and maybe letting
some people go and maybe not hiring so
many people in the future right and
you're gonna see that in restaurants
you're gonna see that in Amazon
warehouses and you're gonna see it
especially with white-collar jobs across
the board so this one really important
thing to understand is that this is not
just blue-collar workers and it's
certainly not just physical robots and
they're actually manipulating the world
right it's a lot of this is just about
software and it's gonna be a big impact
on knowledge workers the people that sit
in front of a computer and do relatively
routine things you know cranking out the
same report again and again or doing the
same kind of quantitative analysis or
manipulating data in some way a lot of
it I was gonna be susceptible to
automation and that's not you know low
skilled people right that's people that
have college degrees
so there's a big impact coming there now
in general the losers are going to be
people that do routine repetitive
predictable things and again right that
doesn't necessarily mean unskilled
people or people that don't have
education it's about the nature of the
work there might be the McDonald's
worker flipping hamburgers or it might
be the college graduate who just does
the same report every week right those
people will both be impacted the people
that are gonna be the winners and and
will be relatively safe from this and
may be in a position to benefit from it
are gonna be the people that can work
with the technology in a way that really
adds value and that will be people who
are very creative that generate new
ideas it will be people that have
interpersonal skills and networks and
can build sophisticated relationships
with other people you know and and and
and things like that and of course it
will also be people that
own lots of capital right because
essentially what's happening here the
big picture is that capital which
includes technology and machines and
algorithms is becoming more capable and
displacing labor right so to people to
own capital which is a relatively few
people right because you know capital
ownership is very concentrated right
those people are gonna do better and
better right because they own the
machines basically they own the robot as
you might say whereas the people that
rely on their labor if they don't have
the specific skills to really work with
these technologies and and benefit from
these technologies those people are
going to be losers so that's the story
that we're gonna see in the future I
think and it basically is saying that
things are gonna become even more
unequal than they are now right now it's
interesting that you talk about the
people who have the capital are really
kind of the ones that are gonna benefit
because it you know there have been some
who have that capital that have spoken
against it and I mean you have to worry
about the fears that have been raised by
people like Elon Musk Stephen Hawking
and others that someday I could pose a
genuine existential threat to humanity
right so that's the second category of
danger that I was talking about right
there's something that's still right now
is really science fiction and the
concern there is that someday first of
all we'll build a machine that has two
human level intelligence right Rocha
again as I said before you know based on
on the people I talked to could be 10
years away or it could be 200 years away
right so and probably is is something
like 80 years at least away so you know
it's pretty far in the future but if we
reach that point most people believe
that of course things are not going to
stop at that point the machine is gonna
get even smarter and is the natural
expectation in part it might happen
because the machine then decides to use
its its superior internet intellect to
to make even smarter versions of itself
so pretty soon you have what's called
super intelligence you have something
that is maybe much smarter than any
human being something dramatically
smarter some people think it could be a
times smarter and we are or something
like that so we might be like you know a
mouse or an insect relative to the
intellect of this machine right so at
that point the question then becomes how
do we control it how do we make sure
that the it still works with our best
interests in mind right and this is
what's called the control problem and
there are serious people really really
worried about this working on this the
most famous of the people working on it
is a guy named Nick Bostrom who I also
interviewed in the book and he wrote a
pretty famous book that was a
best-seller called super intelligence
and so I talked to him in the book and
he's concerned about this he thinks it's
a real genuine issue that it potentially
could be an existential threat obviously
that's very expectancy my own view on
this is that it's good that some smart
people like Nick Bostrom and a few other
think tanks Elon must set up a
think-tank called open AI which is
working on this problem and I think
that's great there's some really really
smart people that are doing good work on
this mmm-hmm
but I think that's kind of an
appropriate allocation of resources to
this problem okay because it is very
speculative it does clearly lie on far
in the future I don't think we should
have this massive concern over this I
don't think we should have the
government focused on this spending big
you know government funds or public
funds on this I don't think we want
Donald Trump tweeting about this right
mom I think it's good where it is with a
few smart people working on it and I
think that when you get rhetoric like
you've seen from Elon Musk where he's
talking about you know summoning the
demon and it's a bigger threat than
nuclear weapons or North Korea and all
this stuff there's a risk that we become
too engrossed in that and we distract
attention from the things that we really
need to be concerned about in the
immediate future and this is the issue
you raised earlier security also the
potential impact on privacy the
potential for bias these are real issues
that are already concerned
and also as I've been talking about the
potential impact on the job market and
and on inequality these are things that
are coming at us within the next few
years certainly within the next 10 20
years
probably a lot sooner than that so
that's where most of our media attention
should be these other fears about an
existential threat are legitimate I
wouldn't dismiss them and say it's
stupid or silly you shouldn't worry
about it but I think it's okay that a
few smart people are worried about this
I'm working on it for right now all
right and so it sounds to me through the
course of this conversation and Martin
please correct me if I'm wrong but the
people who are responsible for
developing the artificial intelligence
are aware of these potential problems
and and they're admittedly there are
some potential issues with AI that are
frightening and and they know about
those and they implement those into the
development process does that yes is
that fair to say that's fair to say and
again speaking in terms of the two
general categories I laid out right
everyone that I talked to in the book is
aware of the immediate concerns that
things like privacy and security and and
bias and so forth and they are actively
working on these things they have
different views about the further out
more futuristic existential threat some
of them are quite dismissive of that
they really think that's not something
we should worry about others do take
that concern seriously good but I think
everyone agrees that it's okay if a few
smart people work on it all right
very good so yes I mean I you know we
can have a reasonable level of a cup of
confidence that the people working on
these technologies care about it right
that they they certainly know about
these dangers and you know one danger we
haven't talked so much about is
weaponization the idea that that
artificial intelligence could be used in
you know autonomous weapons right that's
not the same as the thing Elon Musk is
worried about that means you know drones
that might autonomously kill somebody
yeah that's something that we have to
worry about in relatively near future
and there are many people in the
artificial intelligence community did
are very very concerned about this for
example there are over a thousand
researchers that have signed a petition
you know calling for a ban on these
kinds of technologies
cheese because it could be you know very
dangerous and disruptive interesting now
we've kind of gone from the beginning of
what is it and how does it relate yeah
we've gone to the we got into the dark
side of AI can we just bring it back a
little bit yes okay so for one final
question
between all of your interviews all of
the research you've done you've done
what are you personally most excited
about when it comes to the evolution of
AI I'm excited about the potential that
the technology has to transform the
world for the better I mean the one of
the best interviews of my book that I
recommend everyone read is with demis
hassabis who is the CEO of deepmind
right this is maybe the most famous AI
company in the world is the company that
built the alphago system that a lot of
people heard about it it wanted the game
of Go you can you can there's actually a
documentary called alphago on Netflix
you can watch about this's I'd highly
recommend it what Dennis says he's very
famous for this quote is that he wants
to solve the problem of artificial
intelligence and then he wants to use
that to solve everything else and that's
really interesting what we're talking
about here right so AI is going to
become the most important tool in our
toolbox it's gonna result in incredible
breakthroughs in medicine and science it
can be used to address problems like
climate change it can be used to solve
the problem of new clean energy sources
right I mean maybe even you know global
poverty these are huge problems that
humanity faces AI is gonna be the most
important tool we'd have to solve these
problems because if you think about it
everything that we have in our world
today everything that makes your life
better than someone that lived a hundred
years ago or a thousand years ago is
because of human ingenuity right right
and I think I think we've lost Martin
there just for a moment Martin I'm gonna
let I'm gonna let that reconnect for
your final thoughts I can't even finish
it sorry we lost you there Martin Martin
can we just back up just about ten
seconds please it's okay so artificial
intelligence is going to be the most
important tool in our toolbox it is
going
to enable us to create things in the
future that today we can't even imagine
you know and and that's the real promise
of this technology that's what gets me
excited and that's the reason that I
talk about the challenges and the
downsides of this technology in a
particular way I talk about the
potential for inequality and
unemployment and so forth because if we
don't talk honestly about those problems
and and try to create solutions to those
problems and try to create a way for
this to evolve in a way that's inclusive
right that the benefits everyone then
it's gonna be a backlash right people
are gonna object they're gonna you know
people that are losing their livelihoods
sure are falling behind they're gonna be
against this technology and that's a bad
thing because it's an incredible benefit
for Humanity we don't want that we want
to find a way to adapt to this so that
we can leverage his technology on behalf
of everyone and that's really my primary
message and really everything's I do and
in terms of all the writing that I've
done in this area we've been speaking
with New York Times bestselling author
Martin Ford and he is the author of
Architects of intelligence brand new
just came out and it's available
everywhere right now you can also
support us if you'd like use the links
that we've posted below and that will
allow you to purchase through Amazon as
well Martin it has been a pleasure
having you on the show thank you so much
for being here thank you we've got to
take a really quick break when we come
back we've got Sacha Rickman gonna be
joining us taking over for this guy in
the news don't go anywhere
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cap five
dot TV slash shirts
this is the
covering your week stop texting Linux
bias I'm Sacha Rickman and here the top
stories were following this week gdpr is
already making making an example of
Google
they've been fined 50 million euros over
ads French data regulator CNIL said it
has levied the record fine for a lack of
transparency inadequate information and
lack of valid consent regarding ads
personalization the regulator said it
judged that people were not sufficiently
informed about how Google collected data
it's personalized advertising the first
complaint under the e use new general
data protection regulation or gdpr
was filed against Google on May 25th of
last year the very day the legislation
took effect the two groups filing the
claim said that Google did not have a
valid legal basis to process user data
for ads personalization as mandated by
the gdpr
although Google's European headquarters
is in Ireland it was decided among the
authorities that the case would be
handled by the French data regulator
since the Irish watchdog did not have
decision-making power over its Android
operating system and its services in a
statement Google said it was studying
the decision to determine its next steps
well then so so oh the thing is I love
Google like I switched away from
Facebook o to her right and then I put
all my love in Google and now Google is
doing some weird well not necessarily
suddenly doing but but wouldn't it be
difficult to be as big as Google yeah
and then have something like gdpr
suddenly come into effect and looking at
your massive amounts of code right and
the incredible infrastructure that they
have and oh my goodness so getting
called out on that one thing and it's a
pretty obvious thing - it's completely
obvious like if I search something right
it pops up and all my Google ads is that
yeah the thing right like I search like
say I search winter camping sleeping
bags every now everyone
your network is getting that ad right
exactly like 100% yeah it's tough but we
knew that gdpr would be making an
example of some big companies and and
Google seems to be yeah congratulations
you're number one
well that's the thing they're the
biggest they're the one that's gonna be
targeted but I mean if they're not the
only ones doing this by any means right
they're just the biggest ones kind of a
first to get made an example of but is
it really being made an example of
because it's petty change to Google
right right
yeah and it's and we knew it was
happening all along so it's not like
they're shining a light on to something
that has worried us GDP r2 is a
difficult thing because it's a European
regulation or law and and so me like for
example like our website category five
dot TV we are based in the u.s.
technically that's where our hosting is
and so we have a lot of viewers in
Europe and and so our website if I was
collecting any information has to be
transparent about that right and and so
if I wasn't transparent about that I
don't collect any information but we do
use ads on the website so do the the
advertisers that post on our website
they're third parties right they're not
Google they used to be Google I wish it
was Google cuz they pay a little better
but but you know what do they yeah it
was responsible for that yeah it makes
it really really tough for for some
businesses for sure it's tricky but
it'll all come out kind of in the end as
far as these regulations and
legislations they're all new right so
they'll develop and flesh out yeah and
and they're pushing and driving toward
protecting our privacy and putting our
data back into our hands so that I have
to say yes I opt into that to be able to
share that data and to be able to store
that data right so it's a good thing
yeah it's a very good thing it's good
that the default is security as opposed
to where the default used to be right
just
you know a free-for-all yeah yeah so
this is good we'll see what comes of it
exactly a massive list of compromised
accounts has been leaked to the tune of
773 million accounts and the have Eibon
own service has got their hands on it
have I been owned the breach
notification service that serves as a
bellwether for the security of login
credentials has just gotten its hands on
its biggest data hall ever a list that
includes almost seven hundred and
seventy three million unique email
addresses and 21 million unique
passwords that were used to login to
third-party sites according to the
services founder Troy Hunt the monster
list is a compilation of many smaller
lists taken from past breaches and it
has been in wide circulation over the
past couple of weeks
it was also posted to the mega file
sharing site at least one of the
included breaches dated back to 2015
dubbed collection number one the
aggregated data was likely scraped
together to serve as a master list that
hackers could use in credential stuffing
attacks these attacks use automated
scripts to inject credentials from one
breached website into a different
website in the hopes that the holders
reuse the same passwords the list
contained 12,000 separate files that
take up then up to more than 787
gigabytes of disk space has 2.69 billion
rows many of which contain duplicate
entries that hunt had to clean up about
663 million of the addresses have been
listed in previous have I been owned
notifications meaning 140 million of the
addresses have never been seen by the
service before HUD said that some of his
own credentials were included in
Wednesday's notification although none
were currently in use
have I been owned has now begun the task
of emailing more than seven hundred and
sixty eight thousand individuals who
signed up for notifications and nearly
forty thousand people who monitor
domains anyone who hasn't signed up can
still check the status of an email
address at have I been owned com what's
would I take from that story there's a
couple of interesting points now
the creator of how vibin owned found his
own credentials on their right so that
tells me a couple of things first
he is obviously very security conscious
and and protects his passwords and his
and yet his his accounts were
compromised so if someone like him the
very creator of have I been owned is
able to have their data compromised it
means it's not always the users fault
right that the data is compromised so
think about that for a second so so what
we need to realize is that his second
point in the story mmm-hmm so my second
point based on the story is he said well
but none of those credentials were still
active so what does that mean okay well
he is security minded right his data was
compromised but it's okay because it's
no longer current so we know that he's
been rotating passwords he's been
changing accounts he's been using
various email accounts for different
things and so even in a data leak like
that he is not compromised because the
information that was compromised is no
longer valid because he took steps to
protect his own rat counts super forward
thinking of him sure and something that
I should be doing I should just take a
whole day of changing my passwords and
that's a tough thing to do and and not
only changing passwords but looking one
of the nice things about having a
password manager is that it reminds you
of all the sites that you did sign up
for right because sometimes I forget
I'll get a notification from have I been
owned that Adobe's website was
compromised
I used Adobe's website what Yahoo was
compromised when did I have a yahoo
account I don't remember
Oh Flickr or you know like there's
connections that I may not make and so
having that password manager is not only
great for
maintaining a password list and being
able to change passwords and keep them
very very strong but it also helps me to
be accountable to the accounts that I've
created so that I can look at the list
and say oh I signed up for an Adobe
account I haven't ever logged into that
so let's shut it down right let's at
least change the credentials to
something stupid because I'm never going
to use it so if they ever get hacked I
don't want the credentials to be legit
it makes sense we can take those kinds
of kinds of steps so take that story and
kind of learn from you know the this the
kind of underlying theme of it which is
rotate your passwords okay and know that
it's not going to be your fault
necessarily if a data breach occurs so
it's not some people say oh I'm never
gonna fall for a phishing scam so you
know I'm not concerned get concerned
yeah I'm pretty sure that the creator of
have I been owned didn't fall for a
phishing scam and quite probably didn't
fall for them yet his data was
compromised so keep that in the back of
your mind Google Hangouts begins winding
down this year but service will live on
in chat and meet spin-offs in March 2017
Google announced that hangouts would
split into meet and chat apps kicking
off what has been a long slow road to
shutdown the original version of the
platform almost two years later we now
have an official timetable for the
winding down of the well.you service as
Google attempts to wrestle a bigger
share of the team communications market
away from competitors like slack the
timeline begins with the transition of G
suite users from classic hangouts to
chat and meet this year followed by a
consumer transition which will likely
begin in 2020 the plan begins on April
16th when Google will start pushing G
Suite administrators and users toward
adopting the meet and chat platforms
with an emphasis on chat the slack like
messaging platform mainly these are
admin facing changes beginning on that
date administrators will be able to
disable classic hangouts user interfaces
at this at the time of their choosing
and will also be able to control both
class
hangouts and chat or meet in their
respective settings Google vault
customers will have to make a few
decisions about mail retention rules
between March 16th and April 16th next
features from classic hangouts will come
to chat over the summer Google plans to
add features like integration with Gmail
chatting with external users improved
video calling and the ability to make
calls with Google Voice then in October
Google will start retiring classic
hangouts 4G Suites customers all
remaining users will be transitions to
chat as it stands now chat and classic
hangouts are fairly interoperable but
group conversations are separate between
the two products the two will continue
to be interoperable until October as for
protecting any data you might have in
classic hangouts
it seems the transition will carry along
your past message histories into chat
but that is yet to be confirmed
additionally there's also Google takeout
if you want more peace of mind other
than that
it all seems it seems all that's left to
say is
rest in peace google hangouts you served
us well we're evolving yeah and I mean I
feel like they are already offering us
replacements we've had done Google
Hangouts even on the show right and it's
always been evolving it's the platform
has been great but I think with the
evolution of the platform it makes it
difficult to keep up as you know I'm not
someone who uses it every day no some
people do and so you know you're on top
of the latest technology that they're
offering but I mean it has to evolve
yeah I feel slightly uncomfortable the
fact that they give you two options to
transition - right like they have the I
think it's more splitting up the
functionality between two different
products so that it's a little more
targeted to each need so if I got rid of
Google Hangouts what I need to have both
chat and me right like do I need to have
both I we shall see I guess right or do
I could choose one or the other
I guess not I wouldn't have to choose
one or the other it just seems
I don't know I think I would put it akin
as to like Messenger chat versus Skype
you know and kind of keeping those two
platforms separate so you've got the
chat and you've got the like visual
meetings and calls and things like that
right and and calls in general I do like
Google's yeah I'm gonna I'm gonna be
into this you'll see we'll see let us
know if it impacts you
Microsoft has begun beta testing windows
10 patches with an with actual beta
testers Microsoft releases C and D
updates to people who click check for
updates in Windows updates those people
become unwitting beta testers January
2019 C Update has a rare distinction
Microsoft tested it with windows
insiders first CMD updates are released
in the third and fourth weeks of most
months they include non security fixes
and are only installed for people who
click the check for updates button in
Windows Update these people essentially
beta test the updates before the fixes
form part of next month's table Patch
Tuesday updates those Patch Tuesday
updates are named B updates as patched
Tuesday's is in the second week of each
month these C and D updates have caused
problems before for example a D update
recently caused blue screens on
Microsoft's own surface book to Hardware
only people who clicked the check for
updates button would have installed it
and encountered the problem Microsoft
calls these people seekers and thinks
that they're looking for more updates
but we think most people clicking that
button have no clue they're opting into
unstable updates there's finally some
good news though this month C update KB
for four seven six nine seven six has
actually gone through testing in the
windows insider release preview ring
earlier this month this is still a C
update and it's still only installed if
you click check for updates but seekers
who do click that button will be getting
a patch that's already gone through a
round of testing with people who know
what they're getting into windows
insiders are of course people who have
chosen to be beta testers Microsoft
first pushed a test version of a
cumulative update to the release preview
ring back in November 2018 but this time
Microsoft put two builds through the
testing cycle using insiders to actually
find problems before the stable release
that's just a month after the release of
the initial release of the disastrous
October 2018 update which deleted some
people's files Microsoft was so
confident in this big update that the
company didn't even bother putting it
through the release preview testing
before unleashing it on those
unfortunate seekers who clicked check
for updates now Microsoft has been
chastened and it's putting its even
putting smaller patches through real
testing before rolling them out and
that's progress we just wish Microsoft
would stop its shenanigans with the
check for updates button that button
should never oft users into additional
less tested patches without warning but
at least those patches are getting more
testing first I'm in the industry and I
had no idea that is so sneaky so if I
push check for updates they're assuming
oh well Robbie wants to try some new
updates that we've been experimenting
with oh did they just make that
assumption that's like a flying leap
that's idiocy I I write that story and
I'll tell ya my my feelings for
Microsoft well they stayed the same well
yeah and ok at least at least as you say
they're gonna put them through testing
now right
so that means hopefully the October
update will never happen again because
that was horrible for a lot of users
right but to think ok so keep this in
mind if you click on that check for
updates you're actually opting into
receiving better patches yeah stuff that
hasn't necessarily been marked as stable
that's kind of worrisome yeah it scares
me that's let's jump into
Geko report this is what the crypto
market looked like as of 1800 hours
Eastern Time on Wednesday the 23rd of
January 2019 now Bitcoin lost about
fifty six dollars and forty six cents
u.s. it's at three thousand five hundred
thirty two dollars and forty one cents
litecoin looks like the only one that's
gone up just a little bit only thirty
three cents US but hit thirty $1.48
aetherium went down a little bit as well
one hundred fifteen dollars and forty
six cents Manero also lost a bit at
forty four dollars and fifty three cents
now stellite and turtle coin the little
guys are chugging along behind and also
losing a little bit of ground there
stellite now at two point one two ten
thousandth of a cent and turtle coin at
one point three three ten thousandth of
a cent both losing just a little bit do
not forget that the crypto currency
market is always running it's always
changing its volatile and if you're
gonna get in on it you need to be ready
for that and be careful just remember
that big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our web site from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson thank
you everyone for being here with us this
week it was a lot of fun don't forget go
grab this book cat5 dot TV slash what
did i put it at AI cap v dot TV slash AI
pick up a copy today and you're gonna
enjoy that I promise you that thank you
to our guest Martin Ford for joining us
on the show thanks for Jeff being here
as well thank you oh thank you and thank
you for being here we'll see you again
next week and you don't want to miss it
can I tell them what we're gonna be
talking about next week yes oh boy oh
gosh is going to be here from 964 I love
their single board computers I love the
pine book
well we're gonna be talking with him
about what is up and coming from Pine 64
in 2019 and I'm gonna give you a little
bit of a hint okay we're gonna be
talking about some stuff that has never
been talked about before we're gonna be
unveiling some technology from behind 64
that you've never heard of before
because it's never been said so you
don't want to miss out if you are
interested in mind 64 in single board
computers in all of the cool SOC tech
that is coming out in 2019 you don't
want to miss next week episode next
week's episode I will see you there I'll
be here
have a great week everybody we'll see ya
[Applause]
