it's Tuesday September 20 2016 and hear
the stories recovering the launch date
of the new Star Trek TV show has been
announced and we'll have the info for
you coming up t-mobile is urgently
warning iphone users not to upgrade to
the new iOS 10 a safe mode exploit in
Microsoft Windows let the hacker gain
access to your network and Microsoft
will likely not be fixing it for the
first time ever a video game youtuber
has been charged for promoting in-game
gambling he is rough and someone has
built the tiniest main cabinet in the
galaxy this big these stories are coming
up right after don't go anywhere I love
it Jeff westin Yemen you're building a
brand new beautiful website what are you
all right you're terrible actor what
does we're acting comes into play I
don't know where I think you're supposed
to act okay I'm building a really cool
website are you building a really cool
website you need hosting one of the
things about a hosting account is you
don't want to have limitations put on
your website let's sure how much hard
drive space do you have how many email
accounts how many domains can point to
it well we've got an amazing deal for
you for a very limited time cap five dot
TV / dreamhost for just five dollars and
a bit of change per month you are going
to get unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name
so your own calm dice to put that
amazing website that you've been working
on on there if you run if you want to
build a wordpress site fine sign up cat5
TV / dreamhost just don't put peddle the
papers on just don't do it but hey it's
a great deal folks best deal you're
going to find five dollars and change
per month go to cap five dot TV /
dreamhost the new Star Trek television
series called Star Trek discovery has
had its launch date bump back a couple
see it doesn't work
in may of next year it was announced
Wednesday afternoon by CBS all access
the new premiere date is driven by the
creative scheme behalf that this will
give the show appropriate time for
delivery of the highest quality premium
edition of the first new Star Trek
television series in more than a decade
executive producers Alex Kirkman and
Bryan Fuller said in a joint statement
bringing star trek back to television
carries responsibility and a mission to
connect fans and newcomers alike to the
series that has fed our imagination
since childhood we aim to dream big and
deliver that means that means making
sure the demands of physical and
post-production for a show that takes
place entirely in space and the needs to
meet the airdate don't result in a
compromise quality before heading into
production we evaluate these realities
with our partners at CBS and they agree
Star Trek deserves the very best these
extra few months will help us achieve a
vision that can be then we can all be
proud of Star Trek discoveries coming to
CBS all access in May 2017 following
premiere the CBS television network and
will be distributed concurrently on
netflix and 188 countries and through
the bell media in canada dope wait
you've got it paused you're getting the
hang of it that teleprompter is crazy
good speed yeah decent okay
back to you do not install do not
install way i'ma do not assault Apple's
new iOS 10 on your iPhone 6 6 bluster se
warns t-mobile us or you'll mess up your
connectivity on Thursday the American
cell network blasted out it's sex to its
subscribers urging them to hold off on
upgrading and is tweeted publicly to
raise the alarm telling people to stay
away from the software this is because
some iphones running iOS 10 can't
maintain stable links to the cellular
network causing calls to drop and the
mobile internet connection to flake out
if you've put the new code on your bed
set and you've effect bit affected by
the signal problems that can turn you
turn things on and off as a temporary
fix alternately switching in and out of
play modes may also work t-mobile is
firmly blaming Apple for the issue even
though it's been suggested that
t-mobile's carrier software update is
causing the problem a customer reps said
its iOS 10 issue an apple is working on
fixing the problem we hope to have that
fixed very soon security research to
Tron name has cooked an attack that
views Windows 10 safe mode to help
hackers steal logins you the cyber Ark
man says remote attackers need to have
access to a pc before they can spring
this trap which involves rebooting a
machine into safe mode to take advantage
of the lesser security controls offered
in that environment once in safe mode
logins can be stolen and otherwise with
defeated past the harsh lateral
techniques can be used to compromise
other network machines a fake login
screen can be shown using the calm
object Nick leaks to nippy manipulate
and menu I eliminate the Lea and
eliminate boot and cloak safe mode using
then types in their credential assuming
normal reboot will hand their logins two
attackers name says once attackers break
through the parameter and gain local
administrator privileges on an infected
windows-based machine
they can remotely activate safe mode to
bypass and manipulate endpoint security
measures in safe mode the attackers are
able to run freely run free tools to
harvest credentials and lateral
movements to connectivity system all
while remaining undetected this exploit
can also work in Windows 10 despite the
presence of the microsoft virtual
security module apparently Microsoft
will not fix the attack vector since it
depends on hackers already having access
to a Windows machine two men can we just
take it take a quick moment there so
what Shelly's talking about is that that
hackers are able to get into your system
on Microsoft Windows if they've first
gained access to it Microsoft's not
going to fix it because they're saying
well they have to have access to the
system but that's where all these
phishing scams to me make you know that
gets kind of scary because you think
about the folks that fall for the phone
call that says hey I'm Microsoft and
where we've detected a problem on your
computer can we need to remote in and
gain access to your system to fix it for
you well Microsoft has to admit that
this is a problem that the phishing
scams are a real thing but not only that
we've talked in the past about people
installing modems routers you get a new
modem from your isp for your internet
service and it's got all the default
password set up and unless you manually
change those other people can gain
access yeah and if they've got access
they can get into your Windows machine
and microsoft says that they or at least
the theory is is the Microsoft will not
fix it because it's not a problem
outside of someone having actual access
to the computer well it starts with that
initial access so where does it begin so
it's it's all about secure you know make
sure that you're safe by being careful
if you get those calls if you get those
phishing scam emails don't click on them
don't don't take the call okay back to
you shell
who is this uh well he this guy appeared
in court large offenses under the
gambling act in what is believed to be
the first prosecution evolving betting
on video games Wow Greg Douglas and
Dylan rugby who are both from Essex are
charged with promoting a lottery and
advertising unlawful gambling mr.
Douglas makes gaming videos on YouTube
under the soon pseudo pseudonym soon
annum new Pez yeah nepenthez nepenthez
here we go we'll say he is also charged
with inviting children to gamble yikes
the two men appeared at birmingham
magistrates court the case has been
adjourned until october fourteenth the
gambling commission which brought the
prosecution has been looking into the
rise of video game gambling it is
warning parents that children can be
drawn into betting so-called skin
virtual goods such as weapons or clothes
that are features of many of these
popular games it has been estimated that
the global market embedding on video
games is worth as much as four billion
pounds euros I don't know pounds behold
the tiniest name cabinet in the galaxy
world of Maine cabinetry cap cabinetry
essentially a subculture of arcade
lovers who build amazing cabinets for
their emulators the goal is usually to
either create recreate the arcade games
or build something really wild adafruit
built something really wild originally a
weekend project this main cabinet is a
few inches tall and uses a screen about
as big as a thumbnail Wow the kid is far
from complete and the screen too small
to really be usable for most games
however with a little down sampling and
some Judas Judas judicious nice work
sorry about that game choices you can
play some pac-man or dig duck a dig dug
in this miniscule machine
the cabinet uses point nine six inches
are gigabytes old Oh LED display and a
raspberry pi 0 also great the Creator
Phillip burgees uses a tool called nano
screen to down sample and display the
game frames on the tiny tiny screen big
thanks this week to Jeff Weston Roy w
ash in our community of yours for
submitting stories to us if you found a
new story you'd like to send email it to
newsroom at category 5 TV for all our
tech news with a slight Linux bias visit
the category 5 TV news room at newsroom
category 5 TV for the category for
the category 5 TV news room I'm Shelly
de Silva
you
