here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
t-mobile admits that have to school
their customers data in a major security
breach IBM is patenting a coffee
delivering drone that can read your mind
Google go the tech giant's search app
optimized for emerging markets can now
read websites out loud and happy
birthday Linux these stories are coming
right up
don't go anywhere Jeff Westen Gemma
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website what are you you're a terrible
actor
what this is where acting comes into
play you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host
this is the category 5 TV newsroom
covering the week's top tech stories
with slight linux bias i'm sasha Rickman
and here the top stories were following
this week in a statement Friday t-mobile
admitted that hackers have breached its
systems and stolen customer data
including names addresses account
numbers and billing zip codes the
company said that it discovered the
security breach on August 20th and
immediately shut it down a company
representative said that around 3% of
t-mobile customers may have been
affected meaning around 2 million
accounts t-mobile CB CEO John Leger said
on Twitter that it's always a good idea
to regularly change account passwords
and t-mobile admitted that some
encrypted passwords may have indeed been
in the data stolen according to the
company's timeline the breach was only
discovered on August 20th and affected
customers first began to be notified by
text message on Friday however the text
looks suspiciously like a phishing
attempt complete with a link to a
shortened URL to learn more the message
reads hello we ID'd and shut down an
unauthorized capture of your info no
financial info / SSN taken but some
personal info may have been more at T
dot t / m o.co / security so that sounds
like a like it sounds dodgy right you
know it sounds like another day in tech
news data breach stolen passwords but
what kind of way tom finney
i'm holding my tongue would release an
email ir a message like that to their
customers like we in security and data
security teach our customers never don't
fall for that type of message right no
bank is ever going to email you and say
click here to sign in no you know what
you know how to log into your online
banking so log in to your online banking
it's not gonna give you a link right so
this is actually really dangerous
because then this is a legit way and it
seems so non legit it's actually them
it's
intimately t-mobile right so now they're
giving like a false sense of security
and safety to people who follow it and
there isn't an issue so here's the thing
all of your data has just been stolen
right now we are teaching our customers
that when a phishing scam looking
message comes through that you can trust
it yeah it's really us so now that this
data has been stolen what's it can be
used for phishing scams click here to
find out more this is banana so what
would you recommend that t-mobile do
they fire their security staff and would
be a start I mean I feel like wouldn't
it be okay just to put it on the news
like it like I what else would you tell
because because you can't do it via
email the easiest way would just send a
subsequent email saying we sent out an
email that said do this please don't do
that like the damage is done we can't
teach our customers to do something
stupid that that they have done so they
need to send an email to educate and say
don't do what we told you to do we need
to backtrack and say this is the new
message we've been hacked your data has
been stolen contact us for more
information you can find out more by
looking at your bill yep right that's it
that's it don't click a link at T -
MoDOT co dot uk' slash secure whatever
you know where to come once a weekend
let's just put a link on IBM has filed a
patent for a mood sensing coffee
delivery drone it features facial
recognition psychological profiling and
scalding liquid flying through the air
IBM's plans for aerial hot beverage
deliveries not only include deliveries
of pre-ordered brews but also taxi style
flagging down of aerial drinks the US
Patent Office filing revealed that IBM
thinks such a delivery system
is part of our future in the patent
application they talk about a coffee
Laden drone flying into an area
including a plurality of people scanning
the people using one or more sensors
connected to the drone the one or more
sensors connected to an electronic
processing circuit which identifies an
individual among the people that may
have a predetermined cognitive state put
another way if you're feeling glum IBM
wants a circling coffee drone to sense
this and then fly hot drinks at you the
details of the filing have suggested
ibm's drone sensors could be collecting
and analyzing data on everything from
the time of day to facial expressions
your gestures and even the dilation of
your pupils it hopes to merge this with
your work calendar as well as the time
an individual woke up in the morning all
right at first I was like ah sweets come
on the flying coffee I love coffee yeah
and I see it coming and I'd be like I'm
sad face
okay and maybe they would give me like a
coffee on a special day like your
birthday just for free like happy
birthday here's this coffee like it
would be so good if it wasn't obviously
some sort of weird privacy ploy right
like it's like but here's here's the
thing though the idea of personal
privacy in a public setting of video
feeds is out the window right like there
used to be a time of day when news
companies couldn't air clip unless they
had the approval of everybody who was on
film now it's like you don't want to go
on air you need to tell me because we're
automatically going to put you on there
and so this whole thing is just
biometric collection for data and
marketing purposes it's it's gonna
happen they also know what time you woke
up and how dilated your pupils are and
whether you're or not you're just about
to lose it like don't give that guy
coffee he's gonna throw it at somebody
else apparently they're using social
tactics as well to make people want this
service so I don't know what the future
holds for it but to think that a drone
will fly down and
give the popular kids coffee so that
everybody else is like hey I want some
of that you know like when you're
walking through and everybody's walking
around with cotton candy you know the
kids are asking for it so way to get my
full attention is to start a story with
something's gonna deliver you a coffee
bye bye drone but the dark side of that
is and now there's Thrones that are
flying up and down the street that maybe
no longer have coffee maybe they just
write tickets maybe they just police you
and because they know you because these
things use AI to know who you are they
just be like oh there's Robby give him a
coffee
oh there's Robby give him a coffee hope
there's Robby give him a coffee great
they know me they know my trends the one
thing about this story
totally guaranteed you're not gonna see
this one coming I wonder if this was
inspired by a friend of mine do you know
John Stein guard from Hawk Nelson mm-hmm
so he's a big drone enthusiast and oh
yeah I remember that three years ago
yeah he was playing with his drone and
he decided to do it on YouTube a pickup
of a coffee from Starbucks using his
drum he was sitting there on the beach
and the drone took off flew up the road
to the Starbucks came down they handed
the coffee to the machine yeah it took
it back up in the air and brought it
back to him he used their app ordering
system yes and so it was a phenomenal
video that went nuts was talking
somebody the other day who had seen it
like I know the guy that like shut up so
how much you want to bet this inspired
that that's the case I hope he gets
royalties he's cool he gets royalties I
hope that this is not as bad as I feel
like it that's gonna go horrible because
you won't see the database we're putting
like some random drug in your coffee to
make you more complacent and can you
know compliant you're gonna get these
coffees but really it's just gonna be
like yeah yeah we're talking about like
black Mir chemical manipulation caffeine
excuse me one second there
ya see it happened now I want one too
okay
peer pressure I've chemicalized enough
as I can I feel much better now
there we go see now we can resume we've
been keeping an eye on some of the
accessibility enhancements coming to
smart devices lately and this week
Google go the tech giant search app
optimized for emerging markets can read
websites out loud
the company has updated its browser with
the ability to read web pages in 28
different languages using a natural
sounding voice that works even on a 2g
connection the tech giant has announced
the new feature at its annual event in
India which is one of the markets
Android Go was created for according to
Google then the apps new ability it
takes the old text-to-speech idea and
gives it a brain they're using AI to
determine the most important parts of a
web page and it will only read those
sections and leave out everything else
for instance if it's reading a cooking
blog users don't have to listen to a
drone on and on about a writer's a life
story before reaching the recipe itself
since Android Go was designed for
affordable phones with the most basic of
specs some devices built for the
platform could also have relatively tiny
screens this ability can make it easier
for users to consume written content in
the same way one would listen to an
audio audio while doing something else
like exercising or cooking or while on
the go however it will probably be the
most useful for those with vision
problems difficulty reading or even
those learning a new language as an
added bonus the browser displays what
it's reading and highlights each word as
it goes making it viable as a learning
tool that is cool cool so you could
learn really 28 different languages hmm
really yeah I guess and Google
translation service is fantastic so you
could be oh I was that in tandem with
this sure that would be cool see I just
have to find the time for that for that
the AI that decides what's important
that worries me because what if oh
everything is dark with you tonight
no because the writers life story it's
not dark it
just I just want to know how it's
deciding what the important thing is
right so are you able to let's just do
it with a recipe for lentils
okay let's I'm gonna click on the first
thing that comes up okay alright so it's
a it's a list of lentils lentil here's
the lentil recipe so it starts with we
love lentils here at kitchen they are
magically easy to cook on the stove and
versatile enough to go into a wide range
of cuisines plus they are quick what
more ah really
so think about that you I just asked for
a recipe for lentils you never read that
why would I read that what but when I'm
looking for that's true if I wanted the
back story fine I've scrolled down
that's true I mean thirds of it no way
okay I've now scrolled down what I would
say is equivalent to about three or four
eight and a half by 11 sheets of paper
yeah and the recipe still hasn't started
it's starting to explain lentil ball one
ball meals are one of my favorite things
to keep in concentrate
oh right okay so imagine that this is
the first thing I googled yeah like just
lentil recipes right so if I just using
that example because it was in the story
just give me the recipe right right it's
gonna read it to me like like Alexa
would or like to Google's that is really
neat you have a very good point and the
truth of the matter is there are people
who are visually impaired that will now
be able to explore webpages tramonto
inexpensive device right and I've used
text-to-speech a fair bit in my time yep
and on a website it can be annoying
because you got to think if if it's
gonna read everything on the screen home
about to us information in an image does
it read all sharks it might it might
read advertising like an annoying voice
that just interrupts
I think that's smart
yes great do away with ads and stuff as
it's reading to me and if it is pretty
good if it's intelligent enough then it
would be like like an Alexa type service
that would take me to a website and then
it's just integrating that service back
into yep okay Google and Alexa and
everything else that's it's actually
it's awesome that accessibility features
like this are are not only existing but
they're getting better as we go yeah oh
yes and they sound better like you said
it's a very natural sounding we've we've
looked at voice like text-to-speech here
on the show it's amazing sometimes you
wouldn't even know the difference that's
right yeah yeah incredible so stick an
AI on that hope you're replaceable soon
never happy 27th birthday Linux yes it
is once again the time of year when we
celebrate the hero of modern computing
the Linux kernel some Foss fans consider
the first public release of prototype
code which dropped on October 5th 1991
as a more worthy of being the kernels
true anniversary date others take this
past Saturday August 25th as the birth
date of the project and for good reason
the 25th of August is the day back in
1991 a young finished college student
named Linus Torvalds sat at his desk to
let folks on comp
Oeste MINIX news group know about the
Hobby OS he was working on the Hobby OS
that wouldn't he cautioned be anything
big or professional here's what Linus
said in that original post hello
everybody out there using MINIX I am
doing a free operating system just a
hobby won't be big or professional like
GNU for 386 486 80 clones this has been
brewing since April and it's starting to
get ready I'd like I'd like any feedback
on things people like or dislike in
MINIX as my OS resembles that somewhat
same physical layout of the file system
due to practical reason
among other things and look at Linux now
which birthday you celebrate is up to
you for what it's worth
Linus says that he's called people
celebrating either date or even both
way to go Linux born on April 21st
I also celebrate two birthdays because
the Queen does and she was also born on
April 21st
so Linux is like me cool Wikipedia has
some excellent information about kind of
like how Linux started and what what how
it evolved yeah
I'd encourage you to check that out if
you're you know interested in it Linux
is everywhere yeah we looked at
Raspberry Pi here on category five
technology TV our computers are powered
by Linux you may have Windows but maybe
there are some components of Linux that
are involved in that your phone if you
use an Android phone it's Linux yeah
what else has Linux on it your fridge if
you boxes TV boxes Playstations Linux
Playstations some ATMs or limit if
you've ever heard of steam steam OS is
Linux Linux is bigger than you think
doesn't want you to know this yeah they
really don't but the internet use the
internet every day guess what makes the
internet go Linux yep yep
so happy birthday no wrinkles even yeah
looking youthful 27 I really like open
source everything I like the idea and I
love Linux that's what makes Linux so
great is that being that it's community
driven mmm-hmm it's like if I have an
idea for Linux or if I find a bug in
Linux I can submit the fix for that
right and then the creators of Linux can
look at that and say oh yeah oh look at
that you found that and we merge that
pull request into the actual kernel and
that's why there are thousands of
contributors to and then taking it one
step further so Linux being the kernel
right now you've got
axe or whatever environment you're using
and then you've got your desktop
environment like gnome KDE or whatever
so when you look at your computer so you
look at it Boone - for example it might
be gnome 3 or it might be unity if it's
an older one and older Linux was gnome -
and so the interface that you see is a
whole other project on top of Linux
right and so many people just kind of
helped to lift that into the air and
make it be right like it's loving it's
like a flash mob like a flash mob big
thanks to Roy W Nash and our community
of yours for submitting stories us this
week thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our website from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Sasha Rickman thanks Ashley
I'm Robbie Ferguson this is Jeff yep and
Sasha and it's been great having you
here with us this week
don't forget head on over to our website
category 5 dot TV we've got lots of
great programming there check it out if
you want to become a part of this
community join the chatroom send us an
email join the community forum there's
so many different ways to interact to
watch us on YouTube you can comment
below the video make sure you give us
that thumbs up to subscribe and put it
up now Bell yeah right Val we learned
that tonight and we look forward to
seeing you again next week
[Music]
