here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom under
a government proposal to cut emissions
new homes in suburban England will need
to be fitted with electric car charging
points a migrating tagged male stork
flipped out of contact on April 26 only
to run off a 12 $2,700 phone bill a few
weeks later Amazon wants to fill the gap
left by the closure of stores like Toys
R Us by sending out printed catalogs and
a friendly reminder in case you haven't
already upgraded your web hosting to act
to use SSL effective this month google
is warning users that their websites
aren't secure these stories are coming
right up don't go anywhere
Jeff Weston jela you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what are you
you're a terrible actor what this where
acting comes into play you're supposed
to act ok I'm building a really cool
website are you building a really cool
website just because Jeff is confused
doesn't mean you have to be visit cap 5
dot TV slash DreamHost
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
DreamHost
this is
category-five TV newsroom covering the
week's top tech stories with a slight
linux bias i'm sasha Rickman and here
the top stories were following this week
points under a government proposal to
cut emissions also wherever there's
on-street parking ministers want new
street lights to come with charge points
details of a sales ban on new
conventional gas and diesel powered cars
by 2040 are also expected to be set out
the strategy comes at a time when the
government is facing criticism for
failing to reduce carbon emissions the
government's target is to reduce the
UK's greenhouse gas emissions by at
least 80 percent of 1990 levels by the
year 2050 the proposals announced by
transport secretary Chris Grayling aim
to make it easier to recharge an
electric car Grayling's said that the
proposed measures would mean having the
UK having one of the most comprehensive
support packages for zero emission
vehicles in the world
he said the prize is not just a cleaner
and healthier environment but a UK
economy fit for the future and the
chance to win a substantial slice of the
market estimated to be worth up to seven
point six trillion pounds by 2050 Wow
okay okay this is absolutely incredible
and it seems inconceivable to me because
here we are without anything like that
in North America but I wonder to myself
and this is not me trying to be in any
way like dark or anything but how are
they getting the electricity like is it
the electricity not being sourced in a
way that's not green do you know Rubby
mm-hmm you know my knowledge of UK
electrical generation is well outdated
and I know that it was very much skewed
toward gas and coal generation renewable
resources were very low now I'm just
checking if things have been improving
and I do see that it looks like it looks
like renewable energy is on its way up
like we're looking at almost 25 percent
at this
point now in the past the UK has as I
mentioned very much been skewed toward
gas coal with very little nuclear
renewable energy and so we're starting
to see that rise and that's part of you
know initiatives to push for renewable
energy sources so looking at I'm looking
at energy - UK org dot UK and renewable
technology which is natural energy to
make electricity fuel sources like wind
that's a big one that's something that's
been really booming wind wave marine
hydro biomass and solar so now making up
twenty four point five percent of
electricity generated for the UK so
that's a huge rise over say ten years
ago when it was closer to like five
percent so I'm pleased to see that
because it's an interesting point that
you raise Sasha where it's kind of you
know where is the advantage to switching
to electrical motor vehicles if the
electricity itself is being generated
using dirty means right right you know
what this is interesting and and timely
for me because I just bought a car and
while I was looking for cars electric
cars came to my mind as an option but I
was really scared well I scared off by
the price point because right now
electric cars are still way more
expensive than the gas cars but then
also charging them for me wouldn't be as
easy like there are some charging
stations in in the city we live in and
Barry but then charging it at home seems
like you have to I rented installed that
you would have to pay for us right and I
would have to ask my landlord because of
course it's his electricity bill and it
seems easier in this particular case
just to buy a small little four-cylinder
car and fill up a small gas tank and not
make a huge dent in the fact that it's
little I'd rather be electrical but I
feel like we've got a little bit of time
before it actually happens here I don't
think we're ready for it and I I can
understand like
you mentioned about there are charging
stations here in our city of Barrie
Ontario and it's true but they are all
kind of clustered together and they're
only near a particular shopping center
so hey if you happen to be shopping at
that shopping center or maybe you're
lucky enough to work there and have an
electric car it makes absolute sense but
if you live or work on the other side of
town to have to drive 25 minutes to a
charging station and then you know
dilly-dally in the shopping center for
however long it takes to charge your car
it just doesn't seem it doesn't seem
practical at all so close we're getting
there working on it it may be what the
UK initiative is is doing is making it
practical maybe that's what it takes
maybe it takes having them installed in
every house exactly Wow all right
migrating tagged male white stork known
to the Polish environmentalists who were
tracking him as K Jack looked out of
contact on April 26 that however did not
stop him from making good use of the SIM
card in his GPS tracker with which the
bird or somebody who found the GPS
device and picked it apart in order to
get at the card racked up a $2,700 phone
bill k Jack was last located at the Blue
Nile Valley in Sudan on his way back
home to Poland after successfully making
his annual 6000 kilometer or 3700 mile
trip to Africa when his GPS tracker
showed that he had stopped moving then
when his GPS tracker showed that K Jack
had stopped moving researchers at the
environmental group ecologic assumes
that the bird was dead they had placed
the tracker on him in April of last year
in a fairly routine practice he was it
was April 26 when things got weird that
was when the scientists who were
monitoring K Jack's tracker noticed that
the birds signal started moving again
taking a roundabout 25 kilometer trip
before it went dead then a number of
weeks later on June 7th a ecologic got
the giant bill from its phone company
the group believes that in June someone
pulled up hurt the tracker to get
the SIM card then used it for the
marathon call everyone everywhere spree
running up the twenty seven hundred
dollar bill echo logic said that it
doesn't know who made the calls and they
expect that they'll have to fork over
the money for the phone bill out of
their own pockets so hmm now I use
pay-as-you-go so that if my SIM card or
my phone ever gets lost the worst that
could happen is they could use up the
remaining balance right and to think
that they had a calling plan on a SIM
card on a bird's tracker and then didn't
cancel it when the bird stopped flying
right so my question is really if my sim
card gets stolen yeah right I'm I'm
responsible for the bail yeah you sure
are so I think the key thing is to call
your service provider and cancel it
immediately let them know that hey my
SIM card and the worst that can happen
is is that they cancel it and then you
find your phone or whatever and then you
just buy another SIM card for $10 and
they port the number over to the new SIM
card okay I have a second question and
it's kind of an environmentalist
question they're putting these trackers
on birds so I don't know exactly how
they equip them but then they just like
once the bird stops moving or is
presumed dead it's just like right
because the tracker is dead right so are
they just letting it just be where it
lays and you know what's not sure I'm
sure that if it was like nearby that
they would go and collect it but
realistically I mean these birds are
migrant Birds that are traveling great
distances they could go down in a jungle
or you know who knows I don't know where
they fly but you know I think that they
would go down in a very dangerous place
where they're not gonna go in and look
for and who knows where it is all right
and then what about predators right so
you put a tracker on and a predator
attacks the prey that you put the
tracker on that's possible now they've
ingested this maybe there should be we
did
you story once about making like parts
of hearts with like silicone or it was
something that was a non-toxic obviously
because it was in a human body could
they not come up with some sort of
tracker device that maybe would dissolve
just yes it tastes like gummy bears
exactly I think they might be larger
than that I mean but it's a GPS unit
right with a battery that has to last a
fairly good amount of time and be
trackable from GPS satellites so what it
boils down to is it's probably it's
probably not reclaim Abul in most cases
and in this case I think it was just oh
like facepalm that they didn't cancel
the service on that SIM card they will
never make that mistake again yeah
Amazon's move into retail has largely
hinged around opening or acquiring
brick-and-mortar stores but this holiday
season the online retailer will
reportedly try something different
printed catalogs we're talking about a
massive holiday themed catalog dedicated
entirely to toys to conveniently fill
the void left behind by their recently
shuttered Toys R Us chain in the United
States
Amazon's toys specific catalog will be
mailed to millions of Amazon shoppers
homes and will also be given away for
free at Whole Foods locations while the
report compared this catalog to similar
Christmas season toy catalogs from Toys
R Us Target and other big-box retailers
it did not confirm whether Amazon's
planned book will be as big as those
100-plus page catalogs the report also
didn't clarify if or how the book will
include price information since the site
hinges so largely on dynamic pricing and
prime exclusive deals this is actually a
super cool idea I think from a marketing
perspective for people who perhaps
haven't delved into the world of online
shopping yet and I think those exist
yeah I think Linden wants to know like
why are they stepping backwards here as
far as the way things are done i well I
think that this is not a step backwards
for them in that they're trying to get
new customers I think this is a new
customer acquisition situation so
they're really like capitalizing on the
nostalgia of the catalogues but they're
sending them to two or they're having
them picked up at Whole Foods and
perhaps you know grandma or grandpa or
could just be anybody who doesn't online
shop opens the catalog and sees how easy
it is to get all of these things right
directly to your house I think that's
one perspective now my perspective goes
right where Linden and the foo in our
chat room are thinking about the Sears
wish book and you know that was the big
thick catalogue that came out every year
and had everything and we would sit down
as kids I'm not gonna date myself here
Sears just went out of business so it
could have been just a few years ago who
knows we would sit down his kids and we
flipped through and our Christmas list
was like circling the things that we
wanted and and our lists would be you
know if it was handwritten it would be
page 273 I four and that was like what I
wanted for Christmas or for my birthday
or whatever so there's a nostalgia for
people who grew up in that era and I
think Linden that it's not so much a
step backwards as it is improving
loyalty for the nostalgic look at the
retro gaming systems that we that we
look at here on the show look at the NES
mini and the SNES mini and these kinds
of things and you think these are
appealing to the nostalgic people are
probably not going out and getting retro
games because they're amazing it's
nostalgia and and there's something
about when it looks like a little mini
Nintendo Entertainment System that
really makes it brings it on home right
I really do wonder how they're gonna do
pricing they probably won't have prices
in the catalog I can't they can't
especially that's such an international
system like the whole Amazon idea you're
gonna have to take maybe you can scan
things we'll see but take those codes
take them on to the website and then get
your price
yeah I won't yeah they might have those
whatever they call the QQ Qi codes you
are now we're really stepping back in
time
I don't know QR codes really you know
looked like they had a lot of potential
and everybody was like oh yeah let's get
a QR code and they put it on every
product and then they just kind of
fizzled and nobody uses them it just
kind of seemed to die as the technology
I think maybe until now maybe they'll be
in the catalog maybe or they'll bring
out something new and the Amazon app
will be able to scan from your phone the
new type of code that Amazon implements
you watch for it I'm gonna patent that
right now marking it down new QR code
from Amazon got it this is exciting yes
for the past several years Google has
moved toward a more secure web by
strongly advocating that sites adopt
HTTPS encryption and within the last
year they've helped users understand
that HTTP sites are not secure by
gradually marking a larger subset of
HTTP pages as not secure effective this
month with the release of chrome 68
chrome will mark all HTTP sites as not
secure developers have been
transitioning their sites to HTTPS and
MIT and making the website the web safer
for everyone progress last year was
incredible and it's continued since then
over 68% of Chrome traffic on both
Android and Windows is now protected
over a 78% of chrome traffic on both
Chrome OS and Mac is now protected and
81 of the top 100 sites on the web use
HTTPS by default Chrome's new interface
will help users understand that all HTTP
sites are not secure and to continue to
move the web towards a secure HTTPS web
by default HTTPS is an easier and easier
and cheaper than ever before and it
unlocks both performance improvements
and powerful new features that are too
sensitive for HTTP Wow - all that a lot
of viewers heard right there is HTTP
HTTPS HTTP HTTPS and what does it all
mean
I'm wondering yeah I understand like the
S stands for secure is that right well
HTTP is the protocol that your computer
uses in order to access the Internet so
when you look at your web browsers
address bar and it says HTTP colon slash
slash and then category five TV or
whatever website you're on amazon.com or
whatever but it starts with HTTP is the
old way or now HTTP so HTTP was the
original protocol that allowed this
information HT hypertext HT Transfer
Protocol so it allowed the transmission
of that hypertext information which are
if you back up to the 1960s when the
internet was invented the its hypertext
is like website content the the text the
the way that it interacts with one
another the way the href links connect
to one another and so that protocol is
used to send and receive transmit and
receive data so then it was realized
that hey this is not very safe we're
sending a lot of information over a
protocol that can be intercepted and ret
now hypertext think about it text it is
text it is readable by anyone who sees
it so you've heard of man-in-the-middle
attack m.i.t M man-in-the-middle that is
somebody who has a server or a computer
or a router or a modem or a device on
the internet or network that is
listening for hypertext traffic text
traffic and they can then save that log
it aggregate it and read it so if it's
confidential information now they have
access to that so what has happened over
the past couple of years and now Google
is forcing is that all of that traffic
needs to be encrypted so when you look
at your address bar it now says HTTP for
hypertext Transfer Protocol secure or
SSL and so then you are you can rest
assured that the information that's
being sent to your computer from the
server and
to that server from your computer is
encrypted so it cannot be intercepted by
that man in the middle attack well it
can correction it can be intercepted but
it cannot be understood it's no longer
plaintext it's encrypted data flow so
Google has put their foot down they've
said okay we're forcing the internet to
be HTTPS now if you run Chrome and you
go to a website that is not HTTPS which
means it's secure it's gonna tell you
it's not secure so if you run a website
you have to set up SSL Certificates and
you have to enforce that anyone who goes
to your site it automatically puts them
on HTTPS that's important and it's also
you know it's not just to stop Google's
browser from complaining about it no
it's to protect the end users
category-five TV we switch to HTTPS
years ago because we want to protect the
confidentiality of our viewers our users
as they interact with us so that's
important to us and it should be
important to you as well
you can check out just quickly Sasha if
I may I know you're like hey you really
kind of took over no this is perfect
this has been very helpful Oh fantastic
let's encrypt is a free service that
allows you to set up SSL certificates on
your website they have an amazing
amazing website that you simply tell it
a little bit about your server and it
will give you the codes that you need in
order to set this up on your computer so
it's let's encrypt dot-org you can head
on over there I've just brought it up on
my screen just to confirm I had it right
in my mind let's encrypt org what it
means is that you can have secure
hosting at no extra charge because in
days gone by one of the things that kept
people from setting up SSL Secure
certificates and encryption is that it
cost money
now let's encrypt has changed all that
and it's free so check out let's encrypt
org we love free yay
when it's good what's good thank you so
much Ravi and big thanks to Roy W Nash
and our community of viewers for
submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight linux' bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our web
site from the category-five TV newsroom
I'm Sasha Rickman and I'm Robbie
Ferguson thank you so much for being
here again with us this week hope you've
enjoyed the show please go to our
website category 5 TV track us down
track down this episode number 564 of
Technology TV and submit your comments
give us a thumbs up if you're watching
on YouTube don't just give us a thumbs
up give us a subscribe as well and we
look forward to seeing you again next
week we'll see you
[Music]
