welcome to category five technology TV
very exciting show planned for you
tonight Robert Capps is going to be here
from new data we've had him on the show
before he is a genius when it comes to
all things data security and tonight
he's gonna be talking to us about a
recent security breach but also looking
at how things like biometrics and
analytic data based on our behavior can
be used as a nation when we're accessing
these kinds of systems basically using
biometrics and our actual interaction
with websites and other systems to
protect our data by authenticating as us
so we're gonna really simplify it and
learn all about it tonight with Robert
I'm really looking forward to that also
we've got a rock 64 here pint 64 sent us
their brand new board
I can't wait to unbox that for you this
is category 5 technology TV
[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
flex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category-five TV
TV is a member of the tech podcast
network if it's tech it's here cat5 TV
slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters
cat5 TV slash iai be welcome to the show
sathi you realize that when the graphics
are up they don't they don't see us so
they're wondering why why are you
laughing
yeah he's the read I was dabbing this is
randomly dabbing yeah I can't do that I
have to look at the paper to read oh yes
yes yes because you're new here that's
right when the teleprompter has my name
on it and it glitches a good week it's
been an awesome week just with my new
car your new car as I've been doing well
it's been doing well before it's ever
gone is here which is fun so you've
really racked up the kilometers on earth
up to like 30 150 km under 50 yeah
you've been really motoring I've been
driving to and from work and I went home
on my lunch break one time yeah that
nice happen wheels eh
so good it's nice to appreciate having
them cuz it for for a lot of my life I
had a car and then for a little bit of
my life I didn't have a car just enough
to reset my like gratitude button now
I'm like super happy I have a car
it's incredible if you don't have one
you should try it
I wish Amazon sold cars because we are a
partner with Amazon and you know the the
kickback on that would be pretty all
right that would be not bad we need to
partner with some car dealerships or
something like that sash very great too
little too late oopsie speaking of
amazon though and our partner program
with them thank you to everybody who
decided to use our partner links at
category-five TV during prime day
yes prime day was a load of fun wasn't
it yeah did you get some deals no you
didn't know I'm being so good no so many
things I wanted in prime Amazon did such
a good job of making me want so many
things that I had to stop turning off it
like I turned off the notifications I'm
like I don't want to want this cuz I do
so badly but I'm leaving for a
Newfoundland for next week right so I
can't even order anything because I
won't be here to get it oh no right well
it arrives by Friday if you order it on
prime top stop there's still time Sasha
there's still time no there's not yes I
did pick up an elgato stream deck a
category 5 TV he got it for a hundred
bucks off folks yay and so I'm pretty
excited about that because in here in
the studio like I makeshift and and I do
pretty well we've got our studio
broadcast server way across the room
so I have to use some method of
switching camera shots and things like
that so I've got this little guy in my
hand here that allows me to do just that
it's just a Bluetooth keyboard for like
14 bucks and it works but my methodology
is like a little note that says okay
Sasha is s smart very complicated W is
the wide shot and and so sometimes I hit
the wrong thing yeah and it's not the
greatest so this stream deck is is like
it's built for things like Telestream
Wirecast where you actually see a little
clip of the shot and you can push the
button and it will just like a really
great extension so that's really really
cool so that brings me to also thanking
our patrons and those who support
category 5 TV of course as people are
purchasing things through our Amazon
links and our ebay links and all the
other partners that we that we are
partnered with a portion of every sale
even though you're gonna buy it anyways
you don't pay any more but a portion of
the sale goes to helping category 5 TV
so that we can do things like that so
though we're looking at a failed hard
drive right now or possibly a failing
motherboard and that concerns me a lot
and that is something that we're gonna
have to deal with so your contributions
you're supporting us in any way possible
through those links and things like that
it really helps us to be able to deal
with things as they come and then being
able to save a hundred bucks on
something that we really do need here at
the studio well the good news is really
I shop at the air okay thank you but
I'll be shopping when they're not on
sale so you'll be higher yeah that's
only because I really needed to stay on
budget just know I understand I
understand white is it's not easy to
stay on budget during prime day
it's a horrible I got a couple of little
miscellaneous things to like USB
extension cords were all 2 bucks off you
know so I got a couple of those because
we need them and you know various things
that were all just discount what almost
got me it was in my cart and then I
removed it because I realized cuz it's
not a sale if you're not gonna buy it
anyway you know the whole cottage right
but I've been talking about wanting to
get my DNA tested and they have that on
why did it ended up in my cart and I was
like oh it's it's it like half off it
was like $89 or something didn't we talk
about how you shouldn't trust Amazon for
some things like fire alarms and carbon
monoxide detectors and solar glasses
maybe DNA tests I really want to get my
DNA tested I once had a dog I got her
DNA tested that's how about I want to
get it done I was like well let's see
you go first I can't imagine how a DIY
DNA test would work I think you just I
think spit into a tube for like a day I
just picture somebody on the other end
fulfilling this order going I think well
yeah the way like the way the DNA gets
tested it matches you up with like
relatives you didn't know you had okay
and it can solve murders apparently yes
it's happened before
where they've been like Oh was that the
Amazon kit though really not it was on
sale it almost happened I didn't do it
so the stream deck is a real thing yeah
that's a smart that's a smart
makes sense it just makes sense doesn't
it yeah you want to say it I want to say
it alright who I want to talk about the
contest that's what I thought you were
gonna say I do want to say it ded effect
to VR we have it for you you can win it
and you can play that effect they are
with me because I have it and I want you
to be my friend that would be so much
fun
yes how can they win they can win by
emailing contest at category 5 TV and
letting us know who you're watching from
how you're watching really just tell us
it a little bit about you you'll be
entered into the draw to win bingo bango
yeah I mentioned patreon cap 5 TV slash
patreon just before we hit a break we're
still working our way up thank you to
all of our new patrons make sure you
head on over to our patreon profile and
if you can just give one dollar per
month that's all it takes and if
everybody were to do that or if a large
portion there if you were just to say
well over a month for category 5 TV and
everything that they do and everything
that they do for free then please would
you consider doing that and let's see if
we can really have a rock and month as
we close out July and and August is
gonna be strange month for us because
we've got a lot of vacation time you're
away next week I'm away next week I'm
gonna be a way sometimes but you know me
I'll be here anyways somehow I'll find a
way we'll pre-record or whatever it
takes
exactly I'll be I however will
we do have to take a really quick break
when we come back we're going to be
joined by Robert Capps and this is an
interview that we've been wanting to
share with you very excited about this
as we learn about how biometrics and
behavioral analytics and these kinds of
technologies can be used to help secure
our data don't go anywhere
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV Network these high-quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap v dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today
cap v dot TV slash shirts
welcome back this is category five
technology TV once again tonight I'm
joined by Robert Capps you remember him
from previous shows he is a world-famous
expert on data privacy he is the VP and
authentication strategist for new data
security Robert it is so nice to see you
again
thank you
now you were here now it's hard to
believe I mean time flies it's been a
year ago in February you were here on
episode 492 and we talked about
something called two-factor
authentication and we realized through
the course of that discussion Robert
that two-factor authentication while
possibly a good strategy to data privacy
is not enough when it comes to
protecting our data before that we also
had you on we talked about a hack that
occurred at a casino here in Ontario
Canada and that was back on episode
number 479 if you want to go back but
tonight boy oh boy this one's this one's
big I think I should just kind of let
you talk a little bit about about time
hop and what has happened that time hop
just as sure yeah so what happened at
IHOP is they've had a data breach we've
heard data breaches constantly in the
news these days every day you open the
paper or I guess those who get papers
you open your web browser and you see a
lot of information about this company
was breached this company was breached
this company was breached it's a daily
occurrence and at this point there's
more data out there on internet users
than there are humans on the on the
internet or even on the planet right
well there are more records that have
been released in data breaches than
there are humans here on earth and so
with that sort of numbers in mind
looking at what happened when time hop
is actually not quite as big as some of
the others they lost 21 million consumer
records that's
in the bucket compared to some of the
other organizations well it was really
impactful here is it wasn't just a name
and an email address and maybe a
password it was a phone number it was a
date of birth it might have been their
gender their nationality and those sort
of data points and that's a little more
impactful when you think about how this
data is used once it's stolen stolen
data is often used for account takeovers
you know if they get a username and a
password they go out and they they try
to log into a bunch of different
websites across the internet and see
where they work that shouldn't work
except the consumers aren't real good
about keeping unique museums a password
for each one of these sites they access
no you you mentioned and something that
you hit on here is that we're seeing
this happen over and over and over again
it seems a theme here at category five
technology TV that we're constantly
reporting on this site has been hacked
this user database has been compromised
why is it that all of a sudden this is
happening ah well it's been happening
for a long time what we've seen is that
the regulations being put out by
different nationalities or different
organizations are forcing the disclosure
of data breaches in a much more profound
way and and so where once these things
got swept under the rug we now have data
breach discovery and disclosure laws on
the books here in the US there's a
number of laws at the state level and
federal level recently in Europe we have
gdpr which really mandates that there's
any exposure to consumers information it
has to be disclosed in a very timely
manner and this is actually one of the
first breaches that's occurred publicly
where gdpr
played a central role in the timing of
that that breaches disclosure and
actually interestingly enough I do read
the the the the the blog post time how
timehop put out there and let me say
they did a fantastic job catching the
issue when resolving quickly and getting
the information out to their consumers
but what we did see is that there was a
lot of confusion and they
talked about in their blog posts about
what do we need to do how do we need to
do this there were lawyers involved over
the weekend you know it was a fourth of
July week and it was always the way has
got the long weekend off and guess what
yeah and the smaller and smaller
organizations tend to have fewer
security staff and if one of them goes
out on vacation and it sounds like that
happened on this situation as well that
can delay understand the full scope of
the issue and and that is what happened
they had to come out with a subsequent
release saying that there were date of
birth and other data points that were in
the data breach that they found out
after they started going and doing all
of the forensics on the on the attack
no situation I mean that happens I've
been behind the scenes during data
breach recoveries and you know you go
there you go okay well we think the
problems here and then you start looking
and it's over here too and it's over
here too and you start you know
culminating piece by piece the data
that's been stolen you get into a
position where you know you you can only
disclose what you know and you might
have to disclose again and again as you
find more and more information that
happened in this situation yeah it comes
across as more and you know we hear
about it with Facebook it seems like
more and more and it just keeps
happening I'm not a time hop user and so
as someone who doesn't use time hop and
viewers are asking you know how does
this affect me I think there are two
facets to this type of data breach one
obviously we're gonna have to talk about
Robert the impact that this has on time
hop users but for those of us who are
not using that particular service
there's also the the recognition and the
understanding that we gain from these
types of breaches that we really need to
learn to secure our online profiles we
need to be a lot more conscious of our
privacy and security so we do you know
if you're watching this right now live
and and you're wondering you know how
does this impact me just keep in mind
that hey this is one particular data
breach but I think that there are you
know this what we're learning here
tonight with Robert Capps is
transcending time hop and into into
various platforms
it's a whole it just keeps happening
right we're gonna hear about the next
one tomorrow
yeah and the data that's being stolen is
often being intermingled from different
data breaches and compared and what they
do is they create deeper and deeper
profiles for consumers convicted then be
used later on for other sorts of attacks
whether that's account takeover identity
theft or any a number of other things
like synthetic identity assertions we're
starting to see people's identity as
being piecemealed together different
people different there's different
social state of births and addresses
things are put together to create a new
identity that then is used to try and
get credit and eventually open accounts
in that new person's name that's that's
the problem too right so as more and
more data gets out there there's more
and more use useful data for the
fraudsters to attack the financial and
retail systems and I think that that's
the kind of thing that we're starting to
see here is that this data is
culminating together now they're
starting to use it in different ways
what's particularly troubling about
attacks on social media aggregation
sites is that social media has a lot of
contextual information that an attacker
needs to understand their mark they're
their victim the person they're going
after that that information like
mother's maiden name
maybe cousin's name is a color of a car
a lot of that data exists in social
media even if you have that lock down to
just you and your friends products like
like timehop and there's a number of
other companies out of the archive
social media or do other things with
social media posts that you put out
there they have access to that
information without having access to
your logins what happens is when you
register your account with one of these
aggregators they reach out to the social
media platform they get a token to be
able to do specific actions as you
without having your username or password
and in this situation with timehop those
tokens were stolen which could have been
used for pulling additional data about
those consumers down and archiving it
now based on the the blog post that time
mom put out there they've worked with
their social media partners to figure
out if there was any of that sort of
scraping that's occurred and
sound like it did but as you look at
some of the security techniques that are
being put in place and privacy blocks
are being put in place at social media
outlets to keep data within their
networks these are natural next attack
points for getting the information that
is long been of they available to to
these these aggregators and they spent a
these bad guys so for the users who say
oh well my online profiles you know it's
nothing private I don't post anything
online you talk about account takeovers
is is this something that I need to be
concerned with if I would define myself
as one of those people cognizant of risk
versus concern online transactions are
still far safer than some types of
physical transactions if you think about
the protections you're afforded by using
your credit card when you purchase
products online you have almost zero
liability and zero risk for those
transactions even if you interact with
somebody that maybe it wasn't the best
merchants your financially you'll be
made whole by your financial institution
do the regulations list here in the u.s.
other countries you know your your your
regulations may vary but most of North
America is pretty much aligned in that
respect what what I think we're going to
be to be seeing here I actually what I
think we need to be discussing with
consumers is taking the right steps to
protect themselves so you know when a
consumer logs into a new site or creates
a new profile don't use the same
username and password they use as other
sites I know that's a tough one using
password managers on your computer helps
I do have a friend who is ultra secure
in his mindset he has a password journal
it's a physical journal he writes his
passwords in and he changes any
scratches out for the next one anything
is always on him but you know these are
these we're always told don't write your
passwords down I I think some of that
dogma that we've used over the years has
really put us in a bad position when
it's really forced consumers to do the
wrong thing within within
doing is the easiest thing we just reuse
of usernames and passwords it is
perfectly okay to write those things
down as long as you keep them secure
it's perfectly okay to use digital
password wallets on your computer or
your phone as long as you maintain the
security of those devices and you keep
strong passwords on those on those
passwords stores they're gonna be good
tools for helping you keep your digital
life straight and keep your your
accounts secure key accounts to to keep
control over social media you can be
used to pull data about you and to
impersonate you online bank account
records alternate payment systems
PayPal's and and and and companies like
that the your email account people don't
understand that their email account is
the gateway to their access to other
sites if you go and forget your password
for facebook or you'll forget your
password for some merchant site they're
gonna email you a new password and so
once your email account has been
compromised
it is the Gateway to taking over other
sites other other access to other sites
and they have when we spoke about
two-factor authentication
last year a lot of sites that have
two-factor authentication while it's a
great service they do what they send
your two-factor authentication link by
phone or by email and so you know that
just if they have access if you've used
the same password across the platform
that was compromised plus your email
account now all of a sudden they've got
access to your 2fa as well right so back
to timehop if I was a user of time hop
and there are viewers who are users of
time hop what you mentioned that there
was a lot of data stolen and some of
this is private information stuff that
you would rather keep absolutely private
what was actually stolen here so name
email address phone number date of
births they also had gender designation
and then there was the possibility of
some nationality or at least where
you're coming from what was also stolen
were the the tokens that were
representative of the logins he had
provided to
to login to Facebook whatever social
media timehop was accessing on your
behalf the good news is that as soon as
the identification of the issue happened
at Time Hawk they invalidated all those
tokens and so that that was the right
thing to do so as a user timehop you're
secure you should probably go and and
you know change your time how password
as normal just in case something
happened in regards to the passwords
there's no indication that's what
happened but good practice change your
passwords guys and then you know you can
reestablish your connection to to to
your Facebook whatever happens to be one
thing to keep in mind though and this is
actually best practice for consumers go
out there and check on your social media
sites and see what has access to your
social media you'd be surprised
you go to Facebook you go to Twitter you
go to the other platforms almost all of
them have a way for you to go and look
what applications have access to your
data on on the platform and you can
revoke it and you can remove you know do
those sort of things getting a regular
habit of going in and seeing what you
have acts what has access to your data
and turn it off if you're not using it
anymore and and in the cases where
they've archived a bunch of data about
you you might reach out and ask for your
data to be deleted if that's an option
or close your account if you're not
using those accounts anymore or whatever
happens to be but but for the most part
do a little spring cleaning here and
there and and and make sure that you're
not giving up your data it's just any
organization because you're out you gave
them permission six months or a year ago
right and the other thing that we have
to consider I think Robert is that
companies get bought all the time apps
trade hands and we've authorized an app
to have access to our Facebook or our
Twitter profiles and then four years
later we don't even use that app and we
don't even remember having used that app
well how do we know if the same company
even owns it if they're using it for the
same purposes but they still have access
to all that information and and our
profile itself right if two factor
authentication isn't enough as we've
established on the show previously if
usernames and passwords are simply not
enough
what is next what can we do as users and
what can companies do to help protect
private information right so yeah I can
give you a little bit about what my
organization does without pushing the
sales button to art you know there are
things you can do around consumer
behavior right they tend to come back
and interact with the same sites at the
same time it's a day they use the tend
to use the same kind of computer the
same kind of browser when they log in
they use the same cadence of keystroke
they're using the same username the same
password time and time again on that
site hopefully not shared anywhere else
using the same devices they're coming
from the same internet connection
there's enough data points about that
consumer as they're interacting to make
a judgment call
as to whether or not it really is them
that's logging in and out some of they
just happen to have their credentials
that in itself is enough to strongly
protect consumers I would say about 80
to 90 percent of the time oh wow beyond
that point you really start getting into
physical biometric verification so iris
scans selfies fingerprints voice print
there's some other modalities of
physical biometrics that are now
becoming normal in use online for next
next point up or step up authentication
or these like are these ways to access
accounts or are these form of two-factor
authentication well that's kind of one
in the same
so for two-factor authentication they
are additional factors albeit ones with
more friction and take a little more
consumer effort so they should be saved
for the for the points where
frictionless authentication doesn't work
or isn't appropriate like it's just
there's not enough data to make a
judgment call you step up to the next
friction full experience with a consumer
yeah and then you just keep you keep
stepping through the things you you have
in your your your toolbox to
authenticate users until you can't right
at that point you really have to
question whether or not you're dealing
with the right person so is this kind of
what like the what's coming to mind here
for me is the new Google reCAPTCHA how
it used
kind of an intelligence engine to learn
if the interaction that I'm making with
a website is human or potentially a
robot and if it doesn't quite sure then
it asked me to identify the cars and
identify the signs so are these the
kinds of technologies that that we
should be implementing I think that
there's actually technology goes beyond
that right so we we've been producing
technology that goes beyond putting
captures for foreign consumers for a
long time captures it in front of a
consumers is I mean something didn't
work anything technology wise like
they're like a CAPTCHA in front of a
consumer you failed to identify them as
a human up to that point passively you
should probably go back to your human
detection drawing board and figure out
how to work that one out
we started off with a smart CAPTCHA back
in 20 2011 or 2012 and very quickly
figured out that if you put the CAPTCHA
in there you failed and if you've
identified them passively you you've
been able to not put you know friction
from the consumer and and and basically
not tip your hand as to how you're
managing to identify those consumers
versus the the bots that makes your
investment technology go a lot further
when they can't quite figure out what's
going on the from a began from the
capture perspective it's cool for them
to figure out whether or not you're
human but they've got a long way to go
because they keep showing those captures
to people okay so biometrics on the
other hand where I have to identify
myself with a thumbprint er I I think
about the failure that we've seen in
things like facial recognition being
able to open phones buy a picture or an
audio recording yeah
are these even going to be or are they
already effective ways of authenticating
a user I wouldn't start there right so
there's right okay there's multiple
kinds of biometrics there's passively
collected biometrics and these are
things like keystrokes these are things
like if you're holding a mobile device
so I want somewhere around here
you know if you're holding your mobile
device and you're using it you tend to
use it a certain angle in a certain hand
and that information is available
through the sensors in the device that
allows you to profile how that consumer
usually holds the device right because
my arms are certain like my eye size a
certain way I've got the glasses off
right now because there's glare in the
screen but you know when I'm looking at
my device without my glasses tends to be
up here if I got my glasses on it tends
to be down here and I'm comfortably
looking at it there's an angle to that
right and there's a certain amount of
distance between my eye and the device
and as it comes up closer the angle
changes all those data points are
collected it can be collected in real
time during an interaction anonymized of
course they can't say that this is
Robert but they can say that this is the
human that normally interacts with this
account and from that perspective you
can strongly identify someone even with
physical aspects of the of their their
their body how they interact you can do
that without violating consumer privacy
or being creepy or anything with that
what you can do in a friction free way
that allows the consumer just to do
their what they want to do naturally
without having to go to those
multi-factor you know fingerprints and
iris can it's right getting back to the
question on using non live recordings of
those biometrics that's a concern and
there are technologies that are being
used to mitigate some of those issues in
consumer electronic devices so things
like base ID with Apple you know they're
projecting dots all over the face and
they're measuring the actual movement
and the distribution of those dots on
the face in order to make sure that
you're actually a 3d representation of
you oh and and so that isn't gonna be
subject to a photo being used to get
around it but it could be subject to a
mask now we saw that someone built a
proof-of-concept mask and they spent you
know thousands if not tens of thousands
of dollars breaking face ID what they
really did was prove that you spent a
lot of money you could probably break a
consumer biometric product but the cost
to do that and the heavy lifting to get
it done you had to get a 3d image of the
person's face and you had to be able to
print it with enough fidelity and
somebody's head that was small to fit
into it that didn't distort it that's a
lot of ifs in order to actually break
those technologies now Madame Tussauds
might beg to differ do I need to be
concerned if I was some big executive
rep in a company that represents
millions of customers and billions and
billions of dollars do I need to be
concerned now with biometric data of
things like and I hate to say it but
like if someone wants to steal that data
or that do I need to worried that my
fingers are gonna get stolen or you know
those kinds of things or is that going
to be something that is a new concern in
this world where we use biometric data
yeah I mean the way we're using right
now is with consumers is mostly as
convenience it's a convenient mechanism
to prove physical activity or physical
presences in the transaction we do have
not just anecdotal evidence but actual
evidence of crime gangs abducting people
in other countries for exactly that
situation you're talking about this is
not a normal thing it does not occur in
the daily basis it's not something the
average consumer should have to worry
about this is where you know tens of
millions one hundred millions of dollars
we're at stake and they needed
somebody's fingerprints to do something
like that it's a movie theater plots we
don't see those happen in reality that
much that one you spoke of actually does
have some some actual reality base to it
but it's so it's such a rare that's
where they're they're abnormal all
situations yeah all right so yes yes I
need to be worried trillionaire than you
which I'm not but I do think about folks
who got in on the Bitcoin game real
early and and have very real concerns of
having their accounts compromised and
those kinds of people have you know very
real threats that come to them so this
all sounds as you say the consumer
doesn't really need to be quite as
concerned but it does sound more like
this these are things that big companies
like Amazon or
they should be implementing what about a
smaller online e-commerce sites and like
is there transcendence of the these
types of services that we can start to
use as well yeah so passive biometrics
and behavioral analytics are available
to small mom-and-pop web shops the
technology there is is as simple as some
JavaScript and some additional
components that go on the application
server and then some web services
calling data around in order to get
intelligence and provide you am i
dealing with the human am i dealing with
the right human that's accessible to
everybody who has a website and not for
tremendous amount of money as you get
into physical biometrics you need to
have some additional technology built
into your native mobile app which means
you have to have a native mobile app you
start getting into the realm of
technologies they get a little more
expensive or a lot more complicated to
deploy the passive stuff is pretty easy
and and and it gives you the vast
majority of your customers secured in a
way that they just weren't prior to
deployment of a technology like that for
now though most of the large issues most
of the fraud issues that are occurring
or occurring against the large
organizations at scale and so if you
have a small organization starting to
have some fraud issues or can't take
over issues putting these total
technologies we're talking about the
passive biometrics behavioral analytics
products out on their site will solve
for a tremendous number of their issues
that sounds fantastic now you mentioned
JavaScript code availability and things
like that where can I get it I just no I
certainly don't mind I mean if that's
what you guys are doing then then we
need to check out new data security comm
icon and learn more about the technology
that is available to us there I've been
speaking tonight with Robert Capps he is
the VP and authentication strategist for
new data security Robert always always a
pleasure having you here thank you for
sharing your knowledge and your
expertise and we look forward to the
next time as well okay take care we've
got to take a really quick break when we
come back we're gonna be looking at a
brand new
single-board computer that blows the
rest of them out of the water don't go
anywhere whether you shop on ThinkGeek
gearbest B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon
or even if you want a free trial of
audible you'll find the best deals and
support the shows we produce by simply
visiting the shopping sites you already
frequents by using the links on our
website visit category-five TV slash
partners for the full and ever-growing
list and help us create more free
content like this show thank you for
shopping with our partners and thank you
for watching welcome back this is
category 5 technology TV now I've got to
get all the way across the studio
because we're about to unbox yet another
SBC I'm really really excited about this
one
me too but we're talking during the
break there how am I going to transition
to over there so you're gonna have to
talk to them about something and I'm
gonna just grab my microphone and run I
know it makes me so nervous we'll just
talk yes ok we're just gonna end up
talking about how nervous I am about
doing the transition but not at all
nervous about doing another unboxing cuz
it's my absolute favorite thing we do ok
I'm in I'm glad you like it
ready yes let's get right into it now
we're looking at the rock 64 today this
is from Pine 64 you remember them from
last week's show we looked at the a 64
LTS now this week we're looking at this
credit card-sized board so half the size
easily and pretty close to the size of a
raspberry pie I would say we're gonna
find out when I measure it there
this one is should we just get into the
box yes because this is an unboxing
right I'll talk while I unbox here we go
so it kind of actually has a reminiscent
look to of raspberry pie if you
let's get in here the rock 64 is are you
ready for this ash I am 4k 60 frames per
second it's got full-sized HDMI we've
got an AV port there we've got gigabit
ethernet Wow okay this has got a four
core processor it's the arm cortex a53
64-bit processor and are you ready I
keep saying I'm excited about this sash
this one comes in three different models
they all look pretty much the same but
there is a one gig model which would put
it on par memory wise so I'm talking
about the RAM here we put it on par with
the Raspberry Pi 3 B+ as far as the
memory goes there's a 2 gig model which
puts it on par as far as the capacity of
the memory goes with say an xu 4 and
there is a 4 gigabyte model
it's ddr3 1600 megahertz Ram and let's
get a look at the board itself here so
we've got a microSD port at the bottom
here this is for your microSD card which
is pretty traditional for these small
single board computers I've got the 4
gig model yes and then on this side once
again we end up with an emmc partly MMC
interface so that again is a different
type of storage from the micro sd it's
more reliable it's faster and it's just
a chip that we can snap right onto the
board there and this device already has
Android 7.1 available for it it's got a
Debian installation that's available for
it Yocto which I haven't seen and a lot
more or coming now this is a brand new
board so we're gonna see a lot of
distributions coming out on this over
the next little while it has you can see
a couple of different GPIO s here so
we've got the the pi 2 bus we've got the
PI p5 plus bus we've got you move that a
little bit closer to the ruler just for
me you want me to see yes
am I out of the frame a little bit
look at GPIO there thanks Sasha okay I
can't see it like you see it I'm seeing
this live and I want to bring it closer
to me okay we've got USB 2.0 we've got
two of those we've got one blue one what
do you think the blue stands for that's
a USB 3 port my friends I already
mentioned Gigabit Ethernet and of course
just like you would expect with the GPIO
that's available on this board we can do
all kinds of things with this if you're
a maker if you want to add some sensors
to it or other devices connected to this
device you can do that I've got a couple
of other cool little things here first
of all on board we have a power and
reset button that's built right into the
to the circuit board here and there's
also a restore button as well and once
again Oh before I get to the barrel Jack
this is kind of interesting this looks
cool we've got the infrared sensor built
right in as well and over here is the
barrel Jack that's a three point three
point five millimeter barrel connector
which is incidentally the same as the
one that we've reviewed in the past so
five volts three amp and that's going to
take it just like that so that's where
you get your power from there's no micro
USB to be finicky or anything like that
what do you think of that I love it
beautiful not a lot more than I can tell
you on an unboxing video but it looks
well built I'm excited about it
got a heatsink I'm gonna put on it let's
get the measurements for you how am I in
the frame good now
fantastic alright this way we've got
five and a half inches
that can't be right what is it what are
these measurements a she took one crazy
ruler Ravi that is one crazy ruler maybe
there we go bring it a little bit it's
like not a trick bring it up yeah there
we go that'll be zero okay two inches
I'm like that is not five inches Wow two
inches and three millimeters four
millimeters give or take this way I
don't know what measurements these are
I'm gonna have to get this out there
maybe it's like some like we work in
metric this is all oh yeah its
centimeters cool and this way we are one
two three and a quarter inches and maybe
a millimeter or two there you go so
roughly the same size as a Raspberry Pi
three in this box here got a nice little
case for it
can these devices be powered over p OE
this one i don't believe has p OE
as a matter of fact but you could I
suppose do a p OE splitter you can buy a
splitter that has the correct barrel
adapter and power it that way so we've
got these kind of risers once again
similar kind of design to ones we've
looked at in the past from pine
sixty-four so the board is gonna go
right on there then we've got the riser
that goes up there and then the plexi
with the rock 64 logo this time goes
right up there there you have it so
sharp beautiful I can't wait to fire
that one up as well we're gonna we're
gonna have to put these things
head-to-head and this one with 4k 60p
and a very nice processor and four gigs
of ram and emmc and USB three we're
going to need to put some games on there
as well and see how it performs with
retropie or something like that
now we are going to need if you want
bluetooth for controllers or something
like that you're going to need a
bluetooth dongle or possibly a Wi-Fi
dongle if you want to get it on Wi-Fi
instead of using Gigabit Ethernet but
this is a great looking maker board
can't wait to fire her up
I'm gonna head back over I love that
that's awesome
ditch it plugged in there we go super
I'm back yeah do you like that oh baby
yeah getting excited about how SBC's are
progressing getting better and better
all the time and we're starting to see
these little itty bitty things that have
very similar power to what we would want
in a decent set-top box or TV computer
for multimedia and gaming for even a
desktop PC that you know we can strap it
on to the back of the monitor and boom
so cool
loving it hey are you ready to head on
over to the newsroom I am indeed
swell let's do that okay yeah we're
pushing all kinds of buttons tonight
we're making this happen
there you go will you be the controller
yeah I refer that yeah I can I push all
the buttons push the button I do it
wrong sometimes here are the stories
were covering this week in the category
5 TV newsroom engine maker Royals what
Rolls Royce designed a new propulsion
system for a flying taxi which it says
could take to the skies as soon as early
next decade shoppers in the US and
elsewhere struggled to access Amazon's
website as one of its biggest annual
sales prime day would underway on Monday
a solar plane which can stay aloft for
weeks at a time is to be manufactured by
Airbus in the UK and the Atari VCS
console runs a custom Linux distro
called otário us these stories are
coming right up don't go anywhere
Geoff Weston Jemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what
are you alright you're terrible actor
what this we're acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay I'm building
a really cool website are you building a
really cool website just because Jeff is
confused doesn't mean you have to be
visit cap five dot TV slash DreamHost to
sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
dream host this is the category five TV
news room covering the week's top tech
stories with a slight linux bias I'm
Sacha Rickman and here the top stories
for following this week Anjan maker
rolls-royce has designed a propulsion
next decade the British firm said that
is drawn up plans for an electric
vertical takeoff and landing vehicle
which could carry five four to five
people they claim the vehicle could
travel at speeds of up to 250 miles per
hour for approximately 500 miles rurals
joins a variety of other firms in
seeking to develop flying vehicles
speaking ahead of this week's Ferran
burr air show Rob Watson head of the
company's electrical team said we are
well-placed to play a leading role in
the emerging world of personal air
mobility and we'll also look to work in
collaboration with a range of partners
Airbus Hoover and a range of startups
including one called Kitty Hawk which is
backed by Google co-founder Larry Page
have all announced projects so that
means that we are going to have flying
taxi it's really happening they're
actually building this stuff this is
mind boggling cool for me and I'll tell
you why it occurred to me it was just
kind of out of the blue that it means
that we could put less roads down if we
had the flying car
it's you know I've never I've never had
that thought that's really interesting
so it would save money firstly in
infrastructure but it also means less
roads means more trees which means more
health to the earth which is a huge big
deal right yeah if we and and I guess
with autonomous vehicles being the the
next big thing they're gonna know where
they're gonna know the coordinates of
other flying taxis and things like that
or what they may be right that's just
the start of it I think that like
thinking of how they've done for example
drone demonstrations where they operate
like a hive mind and I think about
implementing that kind of technology
into autonomous vehicles and now so
flying autonomous vehicles that allows
them to know their positioning amidst
other ones right so you're right you
don't need roads but well then how do
they avoid crashing well then you think
about this autonomous ability to know
the position of other vehicles I mean
emergency vehicles get where they need
to go basically like it really would be
great on so many levels I am open and
early next decade that's soon I know
that that just means the start it's not
gonna be common yet but I feel like at
some point they'll be able to scale back
a lot of the construction work and a lot
of the road work and they'll be able to
really start implementing some more
things I mean if they did need to do a
roadway then it would be easy to do
something like one of those solar
roadways right because they're gonna
have to put less money in see it's good
yeah absolutely I I think it's a neat
time too because like we talked about
this and it seems like okay this is
far-fetched sci-fi no we actually have
the technology to do this now it could
happen and it's not just something out
of the you know someone's imagination
somehow it seems very very plausible to
me like it seems like it's going to
happen and it seems that way to purpose
right so that's what they're doing yeah
exactly
so if they're doing it you know it's at
least at some level is gonna happen over
the next little while
hi I'm
to buy one are you you just got a car
right you're thinking about getting a
flying car well my next car will be a
flying car there you go it seems even
Amazon can't quite handle its own
success shoppers in the US and elsewhere
struggle to access Amazon's website as
one of its biggest annual sales prime
day when underway Monday many frustrated
users took to social media to report the
e-commerce platform had crashed and was
showing them only an error message that
read sorry something went wrong on our
end the issues were centered on the US
but affected users up here in Canada and
overseas too down detector calm which
tracks outages said the problems began
shortly after the sale kicked off at 3
p.m. in the u.s. in a tweet Amazon said
it was working to resolve the issues
remarkably users even reported
experiencing problems with Amazon's
video streaming services and it's
virtual assistant Alexa during the first
few hours of the sale as well Amazon
launched prime Day in 2015 and by 2017
it was the second business biggest
shopping day topped only by cyber monday
some warned the glitches could make it
hard to achieve the expected numbers
global data retail managing director
Neil Saunders said at the time the
outage is especially problematic as many
of Amazon's prime deals are promoted for
a set window of time something that
could cause a great deal of frustration
for potential customers prime Day ran
for 36 hours and this year saw the
largest number of people hitting the
site at all at once in the history of
the sale it really is amazing so the
sale was so well marketed this year I
don't remember ever getting as much
communication from Amazon as I did and
so is it just me or is there a I getting
so good that it figures out what we want
right and you can say that's creepy but
it's actually really good like I got a
really great deal on a device for the
studio that I think is going to make a
huge difference here yeah I
I know that they know me well and I had
to stay away from it because I'm really
trying to stay on budget but I was
excited they more this year than I ever
have been even knowing I wasn't buying
anything because they really kept
reminding me it was coming they kept
sending me pictures and links and things
and I can't escape it Sasha I know so I
definitely understand why they saw such
high numbers and why interest like
immediately the numbers probably caused
the servers to I don't know
Oh part of the reason that they have
these timed deals is to space out the
usage right right because if they have
you know a certain kitchen deal and a
certain electronics deal in a certain
clothing deal happening right now and
then six I don't know an hour later a
different electronics deal and a
different clothing deal so that you
don't have the same like the everybody
going there all at once as you do on
like black day or something like that at
a retail store right then that's all
gone right so they tried to space things
out there were so many people shopping
it's in just unbelievable I haven't even
seen the numbers yet but we know that if
their infrastructure itself was affected
then that's got to be massive right well
I can imagine next year's gonna be
bigger than this year and I imagine
because they're very smart and they
really want to focus experience this
won't be a problem next year do you
think so
I the technology will be there Amazon
has an amazing cloud infrastructure I
mean they sell their cloud
infrastructure to other services so to
think that those services were quite
possibly I mean people were reporting
that some of these services were
affected by a prime day so their own
infrastructure of CD ends and whatever
else the virtualized servers and things
like that are affected as well
so you know what do they do throw more
power at it throw more storage
they're they'll do something it'll be
it'll be a new story before Prime Day
next year what they're going to do for
prime day how do you make Amazon CDN
bigger how do you make it more powerful
it's got to happen it's going to it's
going to have to if you can't beat them
join them
books claim that they will no longer be
building an Internet toting drone may
have been in the wording they're working
with Airbus and Airbus will build it
Facebook recently retired project Aquila
and it turns out that they've been
collaborating with Airbus according to
Janna Rosenman head of unmanned aerial
systems at Airbus the two companies have
a joint goal to try and bring Internet
connectivity to connect the unconnected
the unmanned craft flies high in the
atmosphere to avoid commercial air
traffic known as the Zephyr it is it's
remote sensing potential has already
seen the u KMOD invest but Airbus also
hopes to develop the craft as a
communication platform powered by solar
energy during the day and solar charge
batteries by night the Zephyr holds the
absolute endurance record for unrefueled
aeroplanes 336 hours 22 minutes and 8
seconds in the air the latest model the
Zephyr s is currently aloft above the
skies of Arizona in the US where Airbus
aims to be days braking the vehicles own
14-day record set in 1900 2010 the
Zephyr will immediately begin industrial
production in Farnborough following
several years of testing its
inauguration was announced at the 2018
Farnborough airshow it seems like a
theme here that were you know yeah now
this is huge and great because I'll tell
you when we found out that that Facebook
wasn't going to be doing
I was worried a little bit about Project
loon which sounds weird but I thought to
myself well that there's no competition
right Project loon does a really great
job with their balloons and they they
have really helped out but I want there
to be a lot of fair competition sure
exactly these are all big dogs right but
there's got to be more than just one
player in the atmosphere picture exactly
so this is great a that they the way
that they did kind of announced that
they were shutting down akela it made it
sound like it was over it was done it
was not happening and then you see this
new project and it looks identical
practically yeah the drones look the
same the these solar powered planes so
it's almost as if you know they've just
known all along that this is the way
they were going to helping with
development yeah they knew their
emotions yeah for those of you who are
not aware of the kinds of things that
are happening surrounding these types of
projects what they're trying to do and
what they are achieving and you
mentioned Project loon and they have
achieved is putting aerial systems up in
the sky that can deliver Internet at
places where Internet is not available
so think about if a hurricane goes
through or a tsunami or something that
something national infrastructure right
so now you know that you've got the
inability to have access to the Internet
which these days is our communication
when our internet went down here at the
studio I also incidentally had no phone
because my phone is also voice over IP
right you called me today that's true
and how did you call me over the
Internet
through the Internet my phone rang and
it was Sascha over the internet giving
me a call so these drones or whatever it
may be up in the atmosphere there then
relaying the Internet to these places
where currently they maybe they don't
have high-speed Internet or maybe for
some reason the infrastructure is on it
to support it at that time and how else
really would you be able to shop for
anything on prime day and let everybody
on Facebook know that you've done it mmm
but for the fact that you have internet
everywhere you go that's their intention
right but be ready for next prime day
see there we go yeah
the Atari VCS console runs a custom
Linux distro called Atari OS if you back
the successful Atari VCS crowdfunding
campaign last month you might be pleased
to hear that you're going to get more
bang for your buck following criticism
of its mediocre internal Mart make up
the Atari VCS console will now ship with
8 gigabytes of RAM by default the games
the RAM bump is just one of several bits
of new information revealed through a QA
blog post from team newcomer Rob Wyatt
best known as the brains behind the
original Xbox system his more direct
approach begins or helps to wave away
some of the vagueness and uncertainty
that continues to surround the system
with close to three million raised in
its IndieGoGo campaign the Atari VCS is
now entering the difficult part
delivering a vile rebuff to journalists
the central cell of a Linux games
console backed by decades worth of
gaming heritage remains both unique and
compelling as previously announced the
Atari VCS will run a custom Linux based
OS and will provide the ability for
users to install a regular Linux distro
on the machine why it expands on this
capability further in his Q&amp;A explaining
our core architecture consists of the
Atari secure hypervisor and a heavily
external storage device is checked and
if a bootable device is found the other
OS on that device is loaded instead we
don't have a typical OS loader like you
boot or grub and because the CPU is
already in 64-bit protected mode from
our boot code the other OS will need its
typical startup code changing although
Wyatt stresses that the changes arm in
the cuff looks like a retro gaming
console from Atari it looks like a 2600
or something like that
this is gonna play to the nostalgia and
all of us but it's a 64-bit gaming
machine with eight gigs of RAM like that
puts it I believe if I'm not mistaken
the ps3 was like nowhere near that the
ps4 is eight gigs of RAM and this is a
different OS right so if indie
developers want to create their own
games create their own distribution for
it we're gonna be able to see like
they're developing it specifically so
that that can be done that's a really
cool idea that they've given a nod to
you know indie games open source that
would be good see Atari
hi Atari dear Atari we love you and we
have ever since the 2600 it's true
please send us a VCS we will talk
unboxing will a box it press it will do
like a three show series on it or more
it'll be great do it thanks our address
is below ah awesome
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our web site from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sacha
Rickman thanks Sasha I'm Robbie Ferguson
and it's been a blast having you here
this week please make sure you comment
below if you're watching on YouTube give
us a thumbs up subscribe to the videos
that we produce here at category-five TV
by subscribing to our channel and you'll
get the notifications every time we go
live there's a lot of fun so you can
join us live and be here with us and if
you're watching wherever you're watching
if you're watching on cable TV or Roku
Kodi Plex you can head on over to our
website category-five TV and comment on
the video this is this has been episode
number 565 we look forward to seeing you
next week
except for me I'll see and to eat oh
yeah you're away I'm away I'll be here
I'll be here you'll be here I'll see you
