hi and welcome to new every day my name
is Carrie and my name is jen and on
stage show tell a lie and you'll cry no
tie dye part 2 part 2
[Music]
welcome back everyone to new every day
we are so thankful that you've tuned in
and so thankful to be able to stop and
for us recording now at the end of our
work week kind of and it's so good to
stop and talk about God and like
actually open the Bible and read it and
talk about it oh yes like even though I
work in the church I it sounds really
interesting for me to be saying yeah
this is the first time at I've talked
about scripture in a few days to someone
yeah and talk about it because it's real
and it has something to say into our
lives today because it's the living in
active Word of God yes and Carrie and I
and we've said this for we don't often I
want to say pre talk before we talk so
as I was preparing I all I could think
was I wonder what carries perspective is
on this I wonder what she's going to
bring to the show because we want to try
to keep it as fresh as possible for you
who listen I so that script is it is not
scripted and so today we are back in
Acts chapter 5 not Acts chapter tues
which I said last week and so I'm going
to read it from the New International
Version okay and sold reading beginning
to reup first one now man named Ananias
together with his wife Saphira also sold
a piece of property with his wife's full
knowledge he kept back part of the money
for himself but brought the rest of it
at the end but brought the rest of it
and put it at the Apostles feet then
Peter said Ananias how is it that Satan
has so filled your heart that you have
lied to the Holy Spirit and have kept
for yourself some of the money you
received for the land didn't belong to
you before it was sold and after it was
sold wasn't it the money wasn't the
money at your disposal what made you
think of doing such a thing you have not
lied to two men but to God when Ananias
heard this he fell down and died and
great fear seized all who heard what had
happened then the young men came forward
wrapped up his body and carried him out
and buried him about three hours later
his wife came in not knowing what had
happened
Peter asked her tell me is this the
price you and Ananias got for the land
yes she said that is the price Peter
said to her how could you agree to test
the Spirit of the Lord look the feet of
the men who buried your husband are at
the door and they will carry you out
also at that moment she fell down at his
feet and died then the young men came in
and finding her dead carried her out and
buried her beside her husband great fear
seized the whole church and all who
heard about these fed and all who heard
about these events mmhmm yeah last week
we talked about how lying can fracture
relationships because friendships close
relationships are all built on trust so
once you fracture that it's it's awfully
hard to develop that again but how much
more how much more severe is it when we
sin and lie because we are speaking the
word the native language ah the devil
who lied from the beginning right look
at the Garden of Eden when he was with
Adam and Eve and Eve went to go take the
fruit and he said you will not surely
die if you lie you will not die he was
essentially saying no God lied to you
yes or was he telling a half truth hmm
because it like cuz in her mind was she
thinking physically dying but did she
know what even that meant because there
was no death I know how can you
comprehend that anyways that's another
that's a side but ya said you shall not
surely die yes what she did I know and
I'm just gonna sidetrack us and if we
get sidetracked for the whole show don't
worry what we were originally going to
talk very well wait till next week but
verse 3 where it says then Peter said
Ananias how is it that Satan has so
filled your heart that you have lied to
the Holy Spirit and have
receive for the land like what does it
mean what does that mean Satan has
filled your heart so I think that's a
great question now I don't think that
okay we read well no I'm reading one of
my commentaries here at the bottom very
good I and this has nothing which is
very helpful um no now it says partly
that it was prompted and encouraged by
Satan okay so i can buy that we
encourage you to wrestle through this
with us because some people would say
well is it even possible that he was a
believer like here he was a part of the
the group right it says um you know they
said it goes back to verse 32 of chapter
4 says the believers share their
possessions all the believers were of
one heart and mind no one claimed that
any of the possessions were of his own
they shared everything and it goes
through talks about Joseph which we
talked about her well Joseph ah yes /
Barnabas now or your version says but
but a man named and nice together with
his wife who was in full knowledge yeah
and so what does the butt mean well it
the word but highlights a contrast right
yes so looking at Barnabas the son of
encouragement he was bringing the money
that he had received from selling land
and laid at the Apostles feet what's
interesting is that Barnabas was from
the country of Cyprus so if land is
often like passed down and families then
I wonder if the land that he owned and
sold was actually from Cyprus which is a
whole lot more valuable hmm then
Muslim so kind of like added weight to
his gift that he was bringing right to
be a son of encouragement and laid at
the Apostles feet right so then I wonder
what the land that Ananias and Sapphira
sold and yet they still withheld some of
it I don't know like right and is it
because I'm not really sure sure sure
where Cyprus is but thinking about what
you're talking about if it was worth
more and it was if it was part of the
family inheritance what was he saying by
selling it because Jesus calls us right
to come away from our family right to
pick up our cross follow him and we are
too we are it says well we are to hate
mother and father right we are to just
be willing to cut off yeah whatever that
is so if we love them but not in the
sense that they they're going to
supersede right Jesus and so was he
declaring this land my family hmm our it
it is not going to hold me back because
if I hold on to that land i'm going to
have to tend it i'm going to have to go
back there and god is calling me to
something else so was that him saying
I've put my hands to the plough and I'm
not looking back I'm all-in yeah and so
then you get the butt or the by and just
keeping that little piece yeah and so
here you know Ananias and Sapphira so
also sold so an agreement they also sold
a piece of property and with his wife's
full knowledge he kept back part of the
money for himself but brought the rest
of it the Apostles feet so my question
is why why did they do that yeah so was
it motivated in fear that you know being
in this community like what if I
actually don't get some of the goods
that other people sold like our needs
really going to be met in this new
community is God really going to meet
our needs was there some fear underlying
that like I got to take care of myself
or was it greed right in which way they
want they want to keep the money Oh
greed in that sense yeah well that's a
good question like what are the motives
of the heart
whoo so on that note we're going to take
a break we want you to think about what
were the motives or what motivated
Ananias and Sapphira to keep back some
of the money or to even only give a
portion what was it that they were
trying to accomplish so think about that
we'll be back in a minute stay tuned
Jeff Weston Yemen you're building a
brand new beautiful website what are you
all right you're a terrible actor what
does we're acting comes into play I
don't know where I think you're supposed
to act okay I'm building a really cool
website are you building a really cool
website you need hosting one of the
things about a hosting account is you
don't want to have limitations put on
your website let's sure how much hard
drive space do you have how many email
accounts how many domains can point to
it well we've got an amazing deal for
you for a very limited time cat five dot
TV / dreamhost for just five dollars and
a bit of change per month you are going
to get unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the roots are your own
com dice to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat5 TV / dream house
just don't put out of the papers on just
don't do it but hey it's a great deal
folks best deal you're gonna find five
dollars and change per month go to cat
five dot TV / dreamhost welcome back you
are watching new every day I'm Kerri
that's Jen we are in the middle of
talking about Acts chapter five yep
Ananias and Sapphira and you asked I
asked the question what motivated them
from holding some of the money back or
only giving a portion of it and I'm
wondering if it had to do with status in
the community okay what do you mean well
because here Barnabas gave everything
and I'm
everybody went Wow here's the JIT like
he's away legit Oh legit yeah like he's
the real deal he just gave up everything
he sold it from his flake out of his
family if that's the case and so Ananias
and Sapphira they might have been
looking around going ah we want to feel
important too oh yeah we want the fame
right and remember how Jesus talked
about I don't look to move yourself to
the front of the line like don't look
for the best places to sit yeah because
the thrower of the party the host of the
party will actually come if somebody
who's greater than you and we'll ask you
to move but actually look to sit in the
lower places and then the host of the
party will see where you're sitting and
he will move you up so is this our
Ananias and Sapphira saying you know
what we want we want we're going to get
our own place to sit right at the front
and so this is about show well it's very
interesting because earlier in acts now
where is it oh no oh yeah Acts chapter 8
that's coming up there's the sorcerer
right has his name Simon yep Simon the
sorcerer yes and he saw the apostles
doing really great things and miracles
and healing people and when they laid
their hands on other people they
received the Holy Spirit and spoke in
tongues in it was amazing right and then
he perceivably came to Christ became a
Christian baptized whatever and wanted
to purchase that ability so that he
could wow people so the motivation to
attain greater spiritual understanding
whatever a relationship with with God
with actually to have to elevate himself
in the eyes of others yes and I'm
wondering if that's what they're doing
here so then I immediately because as
soon as we start pointing fingers right
we have like we would look at all these
other ones pointing back at me and I'm
like okay Jen when have you done
something to sort of puff yourself up in
front of
people I'm just like oh man because we
do that right because we want the
attention we want we want people to
think well of us and like it's it's like
telling the fish story how big was the
fish that you caught oh it's this big it
really it was like this big or we want a
good story you want on a story stretch
the story and it's even interesting
because Carrie and I have started
because we've had this conversation
before about telling the honest truth
right so when sometimes you'll be
telling a story and I'd like to make
yourself look better or whatever then
you'll embellish or you won't tell quite
the right way and then it would be like
and we've started because they'll say
well actually it was this big or it was
this and we'll start correcting
ourselves because we've realized we
haven't told the correct truth and we
are not to puff ourselves up like like
it says humble yourself in the sight of
the Lord and he look at you up and it's
like you know it's interesting I was
speaking with my little cousin who's
eight and he's just I love him so much
he knows I love him so much but he'll
tell me stories and the context of the
story and it's just not making sense
well I did this and then I you know said
this to this friend and then I rode my
skateboard fast or whatever and I'm like
are you telling the truth are you
telling a story because tell me when
you're telling a story I'll listen to it
and I was with another friend all James
jammin yes spin on the show I was with
James and he heard my little cousin
telling his story and he said you know
what buddy you don't have to tell a
story we're gonna love you anyway yeah
we're gonna love you no matter what you
say so you don't have to tell a story
that makes you makes it sound awesome
answered and he was quiet on the other
end and I was struck to the heart
thinking I don't have to tell a story to
for my true friends to really love me
yeah or for God to really love me to say
well I gave this or I did this I know
that he he loves me and
you know my favorite verse the love of
Christ compels us that that should be
our motivation for giving right and yeah
and i wonder if-if Ananias and Sapphira
had encountered the living Jesus hmm
what the response would be or two if
they had seen him on the cross and
realized the implication of him rising
from the dead to bring them new life so
that they didn't have to live in bondage
to that sin anymore what the response
would have been would it not have been
to give everything for him yeah and when
I think about what motivates me to do
some things I have to stop and and check
sometimes and at work sometimes too you
know why am I was I kind or not kind to
that person or what what have you I got
this book from one of my colleagues
actually who got it from an older
neighbor and it was written I think it's
in the late 1800s because there's a note
written in here it says to miss Ethel M
Stoddard st. Luke's Hospital New York
January sixteenth 1900 that's cool and
it's called our work for Christ's a book
for hospital nurses and how to relate to
suffering people and the first chapter
is on motive no way yes and the
scripture verse that's cited here it
says search me O God and know my heart
try me and know my thought and see if
there's any wicked way in me and lead me
in the way everlasting and I love that
last piece because it's a it's a it's a
sentence of hope that God will lead us
in the way everlasting and the Jesus set
the example for us to follow him walking
in the truth and I that's the way
everlasting you know so did Ananias see
the accolades that Barnabas was getting
and when we want that too
and how often do we do that we sui see
of you know we look at someone who's
beings has success in some areas and we
start to you know that jealousy like
were they jealous like were they are
envious of what Barnabas was getting
even though he gave up everything but it
actually probably raised him in status
within the group because he jenny wiley
gave up everything and they were like we
want that too but what is it that
actually makes us desire mmm for other
people to say that about us why do we
like it so much why do we want it so
much why do you want it why do I want it
like what do you think I think it's the
acceptance we so long to be accepted my
people we want to be loved by people we
it's that relationship right it's like
we were created to be in relationship we
were created to be loved but we look in
so many of the wrong places right or we
try to get it for ourselves that it gets
worked and we think I have to lie in
order that people will love me I have to
tell half-truths so that people don't
really see the real me or if they knew
if they really knew that um that I had
done those things they wouldn't love me
cuz even Paul like Peter goes on to say
like you didn't have to lie like he says
you didn't have to give like you didn't
oh yeah you it was already yours it was
already yours and when you sold it
wasn't the money yours too already yeah
you had the choice so do you think that
they could have like given a portion and
been like you know what this is only a
portion we have kept some of it for
ourselves yes I think that was at the
truth cuz that's the truth and that's
what Peter is saying like it was yours
to be ending and it says that um were of
one heart of mine no one claimed that
any of his possessions were his own but
they shared everything but they were
willing to share and I think it's okay
to say I'm not willing to share like
maybe we have the set aside for
something else but Peter saying just be
honest like that's what we want is just
in point
it's a good point and so it goes back to
that first question that I asked you
know that i read somewhere you know
where Ananias and Sapphira saved I want
to say to be honest we can't we can't
judge but I don't think they understood
the fullness of the love and acceptance
of Christ right I don't think we truly
understand the love and acceptance of
Christ because how often at the end of
the day do I go oh dear Lord Jesus yeah
like I lied today or I didn't tell the
whole truth or I puffed myself up like
even I think when we're in our suffering
oh I'm really suffering like I had it
like however how was your day so hard
here he comes in last night just come
from working like what I 5-930 knew I'd
be home with this time and so I'm like
well actually no but I I know nice to
see you I I wasn't waiting but there was
an element of me that said I was like I
had actually had a hard day some stuff
had come up and I was like I really
didn't want to talk to her but I'm like
let's just really AM it up no I'm so is
that but anyway oh it was funny uh yeah
but instead of just saying I'm so glad
you're home I have lots to tell you it's
like no no feel sorry for me feel sorry
yeah and I knew you were joking but what
we do trend to inflate whatever in order
to get the attention and so so I don't
know what was going on totally we can
only really guess but what was going on
with Ananias in sapphire but it does
come down to the motives of the heart
and the thing is the Lord knows the
motives of the heart right says I first
time you'll 16-7 the Lord does not look
at the things that people look at people
look at the outward appearance so all
the people would have been like wow look
at that but the Lord looks at the heart
and the thing that we're going to start
we're going to actually pause on for
this weekend hit up next week is the
fact that
that only does the Lord know the content
of our heart he then will tell other
people what the truth is because that's
what the gift of discerning of spirits
is so on that note we're going to pray
dear Lord Jesus thank you so much that
your acceptance is total and complete
and Lord forgive us where we have not
where we fully don't understand that and
would you help us just to sit with you
and allow you to love us and would you
show us those hurt spots in our hearts
we really struggle with acceptance and
belonging and when we have taken things
into our own hands to gain acceptance
and love of others Lord says to humble
ourselves inside Lord and you will lift
us up so where would you help us to be
real with you in real with others and
let you work it out so Lord we commit
our lives again to you with regards to
truth in the innermost places we pray
for our viewers as they're watching in
their thinking about will what motivates
me to tell lies or to be untrue and and
word that you would draw near to them
and you would convict them to tell the
whole truth nothing but the truth we ask
you out
oh thank you so much for tuning in and
we look forward to seeing you next week
a new everyday TV check out our website
and we will see you next week see you
next week and thank you to all of our
sponsors by the way partners partners
partners
you
