welcome to the show this is episode
number 590 and this week we are looking
at once again at the smart home and this
time we're gonna be learning about
monitoring it from outside of our home
with really affordable smart home
surveillance
Outworld oh you're gonna find out and
your mind will be blown so stick around
for that also Jeff we've had some
problems with editing 4k video footage
oh I know it's like the bane of all of
our editing existence because our
computers just can't keep up with those
massive files tonight I'm going to show
you how to turn it into editable camera
shots we're gonna take one shot turn it
into three shots and edit it down in
real time on just my laptop you don't
want to miss out on that tutorial if you
do any kind of video editing even if you
want to just use it for home this is a
great show coming up for you so stick
around
this is category 5
GTV our lab recordings are trusted only
to solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston FSC category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream wire cast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players the
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech gets here
cat5 dot TV slash TPM and the
international association of internet
broadcasters cat5 dot TV slash iai be
welcome to the show everybody nice to
see you great to have you back again
this week
first of all just want to say thank you
to everyone who has taken the
opportunity to support us on patreon
really cool way to support category-five
TV of course this is free
family-friendly broadcasting that we
broadcast from Canada to the entire
world every single week new content
every single week and you can support us
for as little as $1 a month and everyone
who takes that on I mean one dollar a
month right everyone who takes that on
brings us just a little step closer to
being able to cover our bills every
month without having to find other ways
to do so
I mean that's that's the inevitable
dream right is to be able to broadcast
every single week have everything
covered and all it takes is one dollar a
month and you can check that out at
category five pardon me at patreon.com
slash category five really cool way to
support us and we're always looking for
cool additional things that we can give
you as a patron and one of those things
is our vlog and so that's a lot of
behind the scenes yeah kind of content
today there was a vlog we received a big
package in the mail and and there was an
unboxing that happened early this is
yesterday morning and went up later in
the day so those kinds of things you can
only see those if you are a patron and
that's just an added bonus of your
contribution so thank you to everyone
who's done that never where the makers
of cloud-ready
posted on Twitter and tagged us and said
you ready for this I am ready Sascha yes
this cloud-ready speaking yeah Sasha
want to be the unofficial cloud-ready
home edition spokeswoman it includes
some cloud-ready stickers to replace
that windows seven one yeah yes so
there's I mean what would we do for
stickers I know first of all we would
make it official that we they you I
guess I would be why is it all you
I love cloud-ready I said some nice
things about cloud-ready I love
cloud-ready
do I get stickers super love cloud well
yeah I got ready okay I got stickers
space Hey look at that Dell logo right
there we need to cover that with a cloud
ready singer category-five cloud ready
eyes like just confirmed unofficial
spokesperson because you've confirmed it
you're now the official unofficial
spokesperson okay you may have a sticker
may I
you may Wow I do have actually buy
buying power now what can you access
could I get a new laptop no but you can
for free ready on your laptop can i yes
oh thanks buddy and I can show you how
how's it been going by the way with
cloud ready cloud ready of course we've
shown it on the show here it is a free
way that you can turn your laptop or
desktop computer into a Chromebook or
Chrome OS system so you've converted
this what was a Windows 7 machine right
that we then converted into a boon to
Matei that you then converted into a
Chromebook right using cloud ready how's
it been doing love it wait I see you've
got this quarter I have disk word up so
yeah we had a little bit of a hurdle to
jump to get this court off but it
happened it's up and that was just that
was the final just piece of the pie it
was the one thing that you were having
issues with and right and like I love my
laptop
I love discord why can't you be friends
so how did that come about you Oh
like what did you have to go through to
get discord working because it was
working originally yes it was working
and then all times
cassia's viewers an update right so I
was boring yours for the show you're a
laptop for the show so I could be on
this cord but I wasn't loving how that
felt because this one is the one I love
so I was at my house on Sunday night
popped into discord on my phone doing my
homework on my laptop and making really
good homemade on your cloud ready
Chromebook yes we need to rename it now
it's no longer a laptop it's a cloud
ready Chrome exactly I feel like while
she's relying how wonderful this is we
should like zoom in such just Sasha
right because she is now the unofficial
official spokesperson do we really need
to make it official like so like I'm not
even allowed to know you you better be
in the frame so you go alright on this
chord and I die I am on my phone and I'm
like oh I still don't have my laptop
Marsh man yeah so Marshall you know him
he was here any person he drove eight
hours with his wife to be here in studio
D he for a broadcast on in onto my
laptop oh yeah yeah on to your cloud
ready Chromebook cloud-ready Chromebook
he that's cool
so he popped on in there and just played
around a little bit talk to garv use
what was in the chat room between the
two of them I don't know I could not
follow exactly what they did I like Bill
with every source like it was like a
scene from like Star Trek where the
aliens are talking over Will Riker and
it's just like yeah and you know that
they're operating you don't really know
what they're doing you're awake you're
away can you hear the noises and you
know what the something's happening
right so pretty much I just watched I
was eating I made homemade mango
sherbert it was delicious
and I don't know how we got there but we
got there okay so I'm just eating it
watching it happen and all of a sudden
BAM I have this cord it works yes
how did marsh man get into your laptop
in the first place because that's the
security question that will come up
people will say oh well is cloud-ready
secure can people just remote in and get
access to know I had to install
a thing a thing so if you want to give
remote access this this is the official
unofficial spokeswoman for cloud ready
here you install a thing that's right
can you please expand on that you
install a thing and that thing gives you
a code and you tell them the code so are
you talking about TeamViewer yes oh yes
okay
and then there's like a password
situation it's like it's like charades
really yeah a little bit way to say like
widget or bidet or something like some
random word I got it in first guess so
I'm up two points okay so then I pretty
much right straight after that he was in
it asks a few times throughout whether
or not I want him to remain in the
actual okay like just because it takes
time and I guess it's secure that way so
we'd kick him off if I said no but I was
happy to have him there and I think I
don't know something about a flip flat
Pat is that a flat pack yeah app images
and stuff and I think drop-ins
okay so just reinstalled discord yes in
a different method right okay cool yes
so needless to say it's working
it's fast it's doing everything that you
need it to do how's it been for like
school and everything else
perfect yeah everything about it is
intuitive easy to use I have tons of
space in my like storage isn't that
interesting yeah cuz a Chromebook in and
of itself like if you went and bought a
Chromebook essentially because it's
meant to use the cloud they have very
little storage right internally right so
because you've actually converted an old
school laptop into a Chromebook using
cloud ready you've still got the hard
drive that was originally Windows 7 so
it's however many hundreds of gigs
versus maybe the eight gigs that you
might have had in a Chromebook or 16
gigs or something like that so you've
got massive
of space for stuff right which you don't
even really need it's just like overkill
habit it's overkill yeah if the marsh
man says and you see it there on your
screen oh I guess we're not refreshing
again here on discord on the right hand
side of your screen that's okay we'll
fix that during the break Marsh man does
say in discord TeamViewer did not work
as a matter of fact on Chrome OS it only
works out of the OS not in we had to
install the remote desktop extension
that's interesting okay remote desktop
extension gave him access temporarily to
be able to to help you there we go here
we are again marsh man with the answers
that's right I'm amongst two geniuses at
all times
and and there you go you're you're all
set so that's really really cool yeah I
love it
and now you get stickers and now I get
fingers apparently she's gonna share
those stickers so please send three
that's great we do have to take a really
quick break so that I can fix that
discord when we come back we're actually
going to be unboxing what we're really
looking at how the whole smart home is
evolving and one of the things in smart
home is that we want to be able to
monitor if somebody has broken in or if
someone's stealing Amazon packages off
of our front porch and you know that
there are smart home cameras that are
available for hundreds of dollars but we
found one that is available for just
about 25 or unboxed that in just a
couple of moments time stick around
[Music]
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching all right
we've been talking about the smart home
and cameras are something that are
definitely part of the smart home these
days as that smart home kind of evolves
but wise has brought out two particular
cameras that are just revolutionising
basically the smart home because they're
so unbelievably cheap first of all I've
got the Y's v2 this is the Y's cam v2
and this one goes for $25 I'm gonna open
the box and get into there and show you
what what that comes with and talk a
little bit about it then we've got the
pan as well so this is an actual PTZ
camera so it pans tilts and zooms and
this one is only $38 so if you're
looking at smart cameras for
surveillance or anything else this is
the the most unbelievably economical
solution so let's get into the box and
we'll take a look at what these come
with so we'll get into the v2 first the
wise cam v2 let's pop into the box and
when I think of the Smart Home and
surveillance being tied together
I'm just blown away at how this can be
done so incredibly cheap there it is so
let's get in there the camera is very
very small what else is in the box it
almost looks like a little bluetooth
speaker the size of it anyway is very
very small a small phone what's in here
okay so we've got a USB power adapter
cable oh come on there it is okay so
what do we have this is how many amps oh
it's very very little power thousand
milliamps there we go we've got a USB
micro we've got some magnetic plate that
we can stick on to the wall if we want
to be able to magnetically stick this up
but let's get in here you already know
about all that so this again is only $25
it's 1080p both cameras are 1080p they
both have two-way audio so that you can
communicate with with somebody on the
other side and hear what's going on so
we've got power input there and we've
got a USB jack and this pops open here
it's cute it's cool right so stamp can
be audio you mean you can have two
microphones talking back and forth well
you can talk from your smart app okay so
the wise app so it pivots the one thing
that I don't see here is I do not see
quarter-inch capability and there's
nothing under the sticker here I'm just
scratching to see if I can feel a
quarter inch screw hole and I do not so
unfortunately this is not something that
you can mount on a tripod or like on a
wall adapter such as something like this
for surveillance but it is something
that you can put on a surface or as I
mentioned it does come with this
magnetic plate so if you don't have
something steel that you can mount it to
this double-sided sticker will stick
that to say a wall or whatever else and
then I guess
this has got yeah that's got some nice
strong magnetism that just means it
would stick on your fridge too if you
needed it oh yeah you could put this
right on your fridge and monitor
late-night stats there you go
so that is all that's in the box there
and the only disappointment if you will
I would say it would have been nice if
they would have put a quarter inch hole
on that and they've certainly got room
for it that would have been the one
bonus so that it could have been put on
a tripod or something along those lines
okay so hurry though could you not use
the double stick tape on a try
what do you mean like say you want to
stick it to a wall or something you
could use the double stick tape for that
good news well you just use the magnet
right okay right that's really strong
for me and then that way you can pull it
off and you're not damaging the wall
you'll just have this circle on the wall
it has infrared so we've got night
vision
it's got 1080p and the infrared is about
30 feet view and of course a 1080p
camera which we will be looking at on a
future review this is just an unboxing
just so you can see what comes in the
box but that is something that we're
going to be looking at more closely
you'll notice on the bottom here a
couple quick things we've got a button
here which allows you to look this is
like your set up button and then we've
got an SD card slot for micro SD cards
because you can record directly to your
SD card so that not everything is going
to the cloud it's going to actually save
to your SD okay let's get into the pan
so the one thing about this is this
stationary right it's gonna sit there
and where you point it is where it's
going to be pointed and there's nothing
that you can do to change that now wise
heard the call of the community and said
okay we're gonna bring out another
camera this is called the pan the wise
cam pan and let's pop into the box of
this one as well this one goes for $38
on amazon.com and you can actually get
both of these through our website which
is a way to support category 5 TV if you
appreciate the reviews and the unboxings
that we do please head on over to cap 5
dot TV slash wise and you'll be able to
get them there it's still through Amazon
but you're supporting us through their
affiliate links okay so
a significantly larger unit okay come on
come on come on get out of the box get
out of the box seriously I'm gonna have
to destroy the box to get into it that
is a snug packaging folks oh my goodness
no wasted space I know
oh my there we go we got it okay oh good
holy cow all right there we go
this Oh all right first of all this is
significantly larger so I didn't realize
it was as big as it is in the pictures
it looks like it's quite small this is
you know there's a wise cam what can I
compare this to I mean you look at you
know the power adapter which is similar
to what you'd have for your phone and
you can see the difference in in size
you've got your phone as well you want
to okay I'm just thinking form factor of
that's a Samsung a8 oh yeah all right
there you go yeah so you can see it's a
big boxy thing again this is only 38
bucks and it's got pan tilt and zoom so
the camera will move up and down which
you can control from the app and then on
the base it will rotate and then the
zoom presumably is going to be digital
it has a 1080p sensor and this one does
have quarter inch so nice thing about
this being PTZ now I can in fact mount
this this is just a cheap little
surveillance wall mount that I picked up
is like four dollars on Amazon big deal
right so I can actually mount that
quarter inch on the wall and I don't
have to invest in the overpriced
proprietary like designed for this
particular camera mounting unit which is
good for outdoors but for indoors I
don't need the weatherproof housing and
the problems that come with it with the
the interference that it causes with the
night vision for example you might
read that in some of the reviews but
this too has 30 30 feet of night-vision
two-way audio 1080p and there's not much
to it
there's the power input on the base I
like that it's on the base because as
the camera moves the base is going to
remain stationary see that then we've
got a USB Jack which we're gonna look
into what that can be used for again on
the bottom here we've got a micro SD
card reader writer I should say because
that's where you're going to be able to
store your video and we've got the setup
button as well something else here which
I'm not too sure that must be the
microphone right there in the base and
just quickly there's one other box here
in the package and I presume this just
the same sort of thing
yeah USB cable and there's our USB brick
tic tacs and that's it
as I was saying what's neat about these
is that they use cloud services but they
do something very very different and I
know that this is an unboxing this is
not a product review yet we are going to
be doing that and of course the links
will be below as soon as that's
available for you but what it does is if
there's motion detected it's going to
ping you in your app it also has sound
recognition like intelligent sound
recognition so if the fire alarm in your
house goes off your app is actually
going to tell you that the fire alarm is
going on because the audio in these are
able to determine oh that's a fire alarm
well that's a co2 alarm and it's going
to notify you of that fact that
something's going on that you need to
check out so you bring up the app and
you're able to watch the video see
what's going on now with the PTZ model
you're able to turn the camera you're
able to move it up and down and you're
able to zoom in and out with this one
it's stationary video again twenty-five
dollars thirty-eight dollars the price
point is astonishing so this one has
zoom I thought it was just paying well
it's PTZ so we're gonna review we're
gonna hook it up we're gonna test it
over the next week and then we're gonna
come back on the show and do an actual
product review this of course is the
first time we've been into the box so we
haven't fired them up and tried them yet
but it does market itself as PTZ which
means pan tilt zoom okay
does it have zoom I don't know yet it
may be digital I don't see an optical
zoom apparatus it's just a very very
tiny retina on the on the camera so I
doubt it's optical it's going to be
digital if anything but digital can be
pretty good in this space because we're
talking about a 1080p video right and
you know if you pull in a little bit on
that it's pretty good your standard
surveillance cameras significantly less
than 1080p so something like this with a
1080p sensor the video quality is 1080p
you're getting HD video it's better than
your typical surveillance system and so
it connects through Wi-Fi great does
yeah so could you have this connected
through Wi-Fi say to like your Google
home or or some things that they do have
Amazon Alexa support so if you have an
Alexa show for I beg your pardon an echo
show and I apologize if I just set off
your your device I shouldn't have done
that but so mute your device because I
sometimes mess up if you have an echo
show or another device that has the
screen then you can actually say let me
see the backyard and you'll see the the
camera that's in the backyard that's
identified as such and in your app you
can in fact name each camera and you can
have multiple cameras set up so you
could have five of these guys stationary
placed around your office and then you
can have a couple of these where you
need to be able to pan and tilt right
right and they're all available with
some same use these for like a bunch of
different things absolutely right like
if you have young kids say you have
young kids and you have like a pool in
the backyard now it's fenced off and
everything but you want to make sure
that you're notified at all if there's
any actions I'm not sure to work just
insane exactly just mount one of those
and it would just ping you if if there's
motion yeah if there's something going
on if there's someone stealing Amazon
packages off your front porch right you
know these kinds of things this could be
the answer or somebody dropping Amazon
packages off at your front porch
although I do get a deal when there draw
like waiting eagerly exactly I want
another why's cam has it arrived yet
yeah I do know that like I mean you can
see it right there on disk or that gwg
has 10 of these 10 right he's a price
point so you think about that and you
think that's absurd
ten of these wise cams think about the
price point at 25 dollars so 250 dollars
and this is not a sales pitch and this
is not I'm not selling anything tonight
even though you know I'd encourage you
to buy them through our links because it
does support us yeah but to say that
think about like the the next best
option smart cameras for nest for
example nest cam right 200 bucks even
right so see this you think you can have
10 mole ten of these for just a little
bit more money well this is speaking to
me heavily because about two months ago
I bought a security system for our house
because in our cul-de-sac we've had an
issue of weekly attempted break-ins to
the cars
oh no and a couple times they've gone
into my wife's vehicle but our neighbor
went and bought a nest when they were it
was a Black Friday sale and yes we
picked up a nest over to walk so I got
two of them I'm like I don't want to
spend 200 bucks yeah yeah so but I
bought a camera it's only four cameras
1080p for 200 bucks with a hard drive
that does upload to the cloud 200 look
at this boy okay and you already spent
that Oh burn okay let me just put
something out there so the car break-in
thing is a problem yeah this is what's
happening in the community right now 25
bucks yep okay it's powered by USB okay
what do we know about USB with our power
adapter our charger that it doesn't our
little brick that yeah the charges our
phone right we can power devices exactly
a little portable phone charger can
power something like this for hours
right hours so plug this into your
battery pack phone charger and leave it
in leave it in your car right put it on
the dashboard but as it meant for
Canadian winters of - billions degrees
sure sure absolutely I
give it a try man it's 25 bucks ok so
right so say you say you have a cottage
right yeah and and you don't want to
leave like a whole security setup at
your cottage all the time but while
you're there you want to make sure that
everything is well you've got the SD
card capability so you don't need a DVR
right if you have Wi-Fi available it's
going to have the cloud options so that
you can then bring it up in your app and
be able to view what's going on this is
why I think like putting in the driveway
in the car on the dash looking at the
window put two of them put one looking
at each side and for $50 you now have
full car surveillance connect it to your
home Wi-Fi so from your bedroom on your
phone you can see what's happening in
your car cool somebody walks up to it
there's no more having to oh it's too
blurry of an image from the front deck
looking out at the car this is sitting
right on the dash in 1080p about this
close to the thief mm-hmm think about
that for a second I like that a lot yeah
so hey check them out it's cat five dot
TV slash wise to find out more
information about them or to pick up
some for yourself
again there's no DVR there's no hub
needed you don't need any other
peripherals it's just it connects to
your Wi-Fi it's really easy to set up
you're gonna use your phone or your
tablet to be able to control them and
that's going to give you a really cool
cloud-based home surveillance or
business surveillance system love it
also love how all these mailboxes always
end up products in my home WG mention
that you can get 10 of them for 250
something we're excited about though
because what's happening is with the
growth of the smart home kind of
mentality we're seeing prices come way
down oh yeah
the echo dot 3 for 39 bucks Canadian
still still that's like four dollars
American guys so you think about the
price and how they're dropping dropping
dropping and you can get a surveillance
system like this that cheaply PTZ for 38
bucks in 1080p
with cloud connectivity ridiculous
that's nuts
yeah like unheard of and they're
changing like companies likewise are
changing the entire industry for
consumers because now it's accessible
now it's something that we can all get
in on on and have this type of
protection for our home well exactly I
love that absolutely love it when we
come back we're gonna be looking at how
we can take 4k video footage and we're
gonna turn that into 720p we're going to
show you how to do some trickery to make
it look like you've got multiple cameras
during your edit process stick around
for a limited time get your hands on
limited edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high-quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cap 5 dot
TV slash shirts
welcome back one of the issues that I've
encountered I know Jeff has encountered
maybe you've encountered is as we
upgrade our hardware for video
production mm-hmm
the quality gets better and better so
we're now a problem it can be when it
comes to the editing floor okay because
nowadays the cameras are all 4k so our
camera here at our studio is 4k when you
shoot new every day your camera is 4k 60
I think maybe it's 4k 30 but definitely
definitely a 4k store is in the 720 I
got a home what have you found the
experiences like when editing that video
[Laughter]
very very painful
mm-hm but I think that's because my
computer is probably not up to snuff for
it or any computers up to stuff all
right unless you've got like a rendering
farm and write the latest a I processor
but I find because it's such high
quality video it does take me a very
long time when I'm trying to go from
shot shot okay
yeah when you're editing yes in your
editor yeah can be brutal cuz my laptop
can't handle it run yet somehow I use
this laptop to produce new everyday
every cell we use that's what I use I
had no clue but it can't handle it let's
look at the source video from this is
just for new everyday but it's to show
you what kind of experience we have when
working with 4k footage so this is a
clip from an upcoming episode of new
every day so when I push play I pushed
play by the way I pushed it and I'm
waiting see that's what happens when I'm
at home and you're waiting okay
and Lawrence is there and it is one
frame a second it looks like old-school
webcam it's I have not paused it notice
okay it's brutal and if you start
editing and you've got clips galore and
that's really how it goes down clips
galore by the time I'm done
thing it could be brutal and when you're
working with 4k footage and it's that
stuttery it can be really hard so
tonight what I'm gonna show you is a
couple of tricks of the trade for video
production and and I am using a program
called CyberLink PowerDirector I love it
it's a really good happy medium between
really really cheap software and really
really good quality software so it's not
up there with the most amazing
professional video effects processors
but it's really really good it's better
than any of the free stuff that I've
ever found and it's very very cheap you
can pick up this software through our
link at cat5 dot TV slash pd for
PowerDirector but I want you to know
right off the bat that everything that
we're gonna teach you tonight can
transcend the software okay
so even though the interfaces may be a
little bit different the entire
mentality and the processes that we're
learning tonight can you can do this on
free software you can do this on the
best software but the idea behind it is
the the principles the concepts yeah so
what I want what I know about 4k footage
is it's a huge canvas to work with so we
can zoom in on that canvas as long as we
don't mind down scaling the video so
when I say that I think about new
everyday broadcasts at 720p
so imagine I have 4k can't a fork a
canvas I can now zoom in on that and
it's still perfect lossless quality
because it's 4k I'm only using 720p
right so rather than taking that 4k
footage and scaling it down I'm instead
taking that 4k footage and zooming in on
it to the same dimension so that gives
me a whole new way of working with my 4k
footage because now what is one camera
sitting on a stationary tripod with two
people sitting in front of it becomes
three cameras right so in our case if we
were shooting right now and we wanted to
do this we could have you as one camera
but it's only one physical camera me as
one camera Jeff is another camera and
then a wide shot as a fourth camera but
as from a live feed of the show that's
what we do
we do that here so when we zoom in
something like that that's exactly what
we're doing in real time but not
everyone has that kind of technology
exactly thousands of dollars to have
that but that gives you an example of
what you're talking about when it comes
to what you're going to show us it gives
you a bit of an idea this is a 4k canvas
that we can then zoom in on and we have
a lossless close-up of that video so
what we're gonna do is we're gonna
actually create files that our editor
and our computer can handle so not 4k
okay from our 4k source and then we're
going to be able to transition between
them so keep in mind of course at 4k I
can't even play this video let alone
edit it it's really really choppy
remember this is like 30 PE or maybe 60
P I think it's 30 because it is 4k
footage but what I can do so in
CyberLink PowerDirector again these
tools are going to be different in your
editor but if you want to follow along
in PowerDirector this is great I've
clicked on the the track of the video
and then tools and power tools and then
crop and zoom and then I can click on
crop and zoom the button there now
because Laurence is standing up the
first thing that I want to do is I want
to skim along in the video to a spot
where both of the guys are sitting down
I'm going to create a new keyframe and
then I'm going to put my wide shot on
that frame exactly where I want it to be
so then see the preview over the
right-hand side that's perfect so now
I'm gonna go back to the first frame
first keyframe and I'm going to
duplicate the next keyframe then I'm
gonna go to the next keyframe and then
to the next keyframe which now takes me
to the last keyframe and I'm again going
to duplicate the previous keyframe using
this button here so now all three
keyframes have exactly the same zoom see
that yep so if I scroll anywhere in this
timeline that zoom is going to have a
nice frame and it's going to be a really
really nice wide shot of those guys okay
I like to take it one step further and I
like to take this middle one
don't touch the other two make sure that
they are exactly the same because if you
do any edit points you need them to be
able to be seamless so it doesn't jerk
in all of a sudden on the camera right I
like to have a bit of motion on Mike
I like to make it look like there's a
camera operator even though we know that
it's just a stationary tripod so now
let's take this middle keyframe and I'm
gonna zoom in just punch in just a
little wee bit and then I'm going to
move the center of the frame and put it
right there so now as as this plays it's
actually going to zoom in a little bit
toward the middle and then it's going to
zoom out again to the same because these
keyframes the first one and the last one
match each other so they're seamless but
you'll notice if I start the video here
and it's very very choppy right now
because I'm in 4k mode so starting there
now watch that frame if I skip over to
here it's in a lot tighter see that okay
so you get this really nice kind of it's
like the camera is just kind of softly
moving in and softly moving out and you
just get that little bit of motion that
just makes it look like there's somebody
operating that camera so what's the time
frame on this like a retox like a
three-second or no just for the sake of
this demonstration I'm using a two
minute clip there abouts oh so you're
going from the beginning to it so you
can determine the clip length yes you
want to do it for the entire clip now
when I do the actual show I've got like
a four hour video because you guys clip
a lot right we do taht you record a lot
so so what I do in that is so now I'm
just gonna hit okay because I'm happy
with this so in that case let's say this
was a four hour video I would just
choose a five minute point now that I've
done that crop and zoom and then I would
hit the cut button to to trim that so
now I've got one video here and one
video here that will seamlessly connect
together because remember the first and
last keyframe are identical right so
it's gonna zoom in here about midpoint
and then zoom back out to here and then
zoom back in again right okay so now
I've got this nice framing for the wide
shot so remember we're creating three
shots from this one shot I've got my
wide shot as my starting point so this
is both guys together on the set
then I need to render this so I need to
go produce so this is where I'm going to
output it to a file format that my
computer is capable of working with and
this is going to be the file the final
sighs but not the same not necessarily
the same compression or quality of my
final production so because I know I'm
gonna be producing a show in 720p I can
go down to 720p and then the produced
qua quality is going to be exactly that
right I couldn't go down to 360 P and
then scale it up to 720p it would look
horrible so first of all I'm going to
stick with m2ts because I find that m2ts
file format is very very fast decoding
that's important too because sometimes
offer the camera there compressed files
because 4k is a huge frame so the camera
compresses them into a smaller file so
that they'll fit on your SD card and you
can record more than 5 minutes worth on
a 128 gig card so because it's super
compressed it means it needs to
decompress on your CPU while you're
editing it if you're using that master
file yeah so by creating a file that's
m2ts it's no longer as compressed okay
it's still a pretty small file but it's
gonna take up a lot of space these are
the masters they're gonna be pretty
large but because they're 720p not 4k
they're gonna be a lot smaller but the
rendering time the the the speed is
gonna be a lot better when working with
it now I don't want to work with
interlace this is defaulting to 60 I I'm
gonna change it to this is gonna be 720p
you can do 1080p or whatever you want to
work with but I'm gonna go 1280 by 720
60 P and then I just browse to where I
want to save that file I'm gonna just
slap that on my desktop and I call it
wide I like to just name my shots what
they're gonna be so this is my wide shot
and I hit save I like to turn on enable
preview during production so that I can
see what's going on and then hit start
and you see this is gonna take a while
to render this is moving at a slow pace
but it's scaling it down to 720p at 60
frames per second it's going to take
about an hour to render just that
two-minute clip so it's a lot of time to
get it down there so give yourself a lot
of time but once you have those rendered
down 720p masters it can be the four
hour thing and then you've got files
that you can work with so I do the
entire thing all shots and then I've got
720p masters to work with so I never
actually have to touch the 4k
after that so I've already rendered
these I'm just gonna cancel this so that
I just wanted to show you the process
now I want to create the next one this
is gonna be my stage right shot so this
is going to be there right your left so
now that I've created the wide shot and
will presumably say that it rendered out
I'm gonna then highlight this again and
go tools power tools and crop zoom
because it's already active and now I'm
gonna change this so that this is a
close-up of James on stage right so wait
for it there we go okay so again I start
with my middle frame that's always my
starting point never start with your
first or last frame because those have
to match and because Lawrence is
standing I don't know what their final
position is going to be during the Edit
so here I want this to be a close-up
shot of James that's on stage right so
I'm going to bring it in there and I
want this to be the widest that James
will have at any given time okay
understand this needs to be the widest
shot that he will have and Lawrence is
completely cut out of the shot now I'm
gonna go back to my first keyframe and
duplicate the next one which is the
middle one that I just created and now
you can see that it's a nice close-up of
James see the preview there now I'm
gonna go to the last keyframe and then
I'm going to duplicate the previous one
don't worry about the fact that they're
not standing where you want them now go
back to the middle keyframe now that
every single keyframe isn't identical
and now I want to create in the middle
keyframe it would be any guesses the
close-up of James this is as close as I
ever want it to be to him so now I've
got that nice panning kind of motion so
here it's a nice kind of wider shot and
it slowly zooms in on his face until
finally the closest it gets see the
preview on the top right here it's
really really nice and tight into his
shot but then it zooms back out as
they're having this discussion and then
finally once it gets out to the final
keyframe its back at that nice wide shot
where you see some of the background you
see some of his shirt and and so on but
that middle frame is going to be the
closest that it ever gets
now hit OK
now I've got my close-up of James ready
to render wait for it remember I'm still
in 4k
there we go it's ready to go so now this
is the file that now I want to produce
this file in 720p notice the resolution
is terrible there but as soon as I start
rendering it because it's going to be
rendered at the proper resolution so
let's call this stage right or you can
call it James if you want or whatever
I'm an able preview resolution watch
what happens when I hit start the
quality is going to change because it's
going to be the actual render render
resolution notice I didn't have to
change it to 60 P 720 because it's
already set well that doesn't see how
beautiful that looks so that's the final
kind of close-up on James
okay so now okay I've already rendered
that and so I'm gonna skip ahead and
we're gonna pretend now we already know
the process so we know how to do that
with Lawrence as well right we can do
exactly the same thing you just want to
start with that middle keyframe and and
it's pretty easy now because I've
already got that middle keyframe for
like already set up so let's look at
that third camera here so I'm gonna jump
to my middle keyframe and I'm gonna
duplicate my next keyframe because I
want it to be the wide shot and drag it
over to Lawrence
now notice what's gonna happen here if I
forget to do anything else it's gonna
actually pan over there's gonna be some
motion and it's gonna pan over to
include James in the shot right right so
I actually have to now go to the next
keyframe duplicate the the previous one
go to the first keyframe duplicate the
next one now all of them are on Lawrence
okay highlight the middle keyframe get
that close-up of Lawrence stage left
there you go I can pull them pretty
tight because this is 720p on a 4k
canvas right so there I've got there's
Lawrence done boom we've got a 720p shot
of Lawrence nice and tight so we've
created three shots we've got wide we've
got stage right which is James and we've
got stage left which is Lawrence so now
that we've got those files we'll pretend
that because I did this before the show
just to prepare because I knew it would
take an hour per shot
to render I'm gonna close out of that
and let's start with a new file new
project I'm going to open media files
jump to where I saved those two which is
on my desktop in a folder called 590
samples ready and I've got wide stage
right stage left let's highlight all
those and import them into my timeline I
like to save at this point because
PowerDirector creates swap files which
is kind of nice because it will speed up
the editing process even further so I
call this 590 test whatever okay
highlight stage right because it's going
to be the first file in your editor this
is where things get exciting Jeff I've
highlighted stage right and now and
you'll understand that in a second I'm
gonna hit plugins and then multicam
designer now it puts stage right on the
Left which is actually James position on
camera right now I'm going to click this
plus button over here on to and I'm
gonna go import from media room stage
left which is Lawrence oh yeah
okay now three add that import from
media room wide okay remember I'm using
CyberLink PowerDirector you can use any
software but I want to show you this
it's great software cat5 TV slash PD
it's really really cheap really
affordable only runs on Windows that's
the one caveat but it works great and it
has all these features and some people
said well as a Linux user why are using
Windows editing software and maybe just
showing you will answer that question
for you so I start by let's click on
that shot the wide shot let's go to
where our actual episode starts so let's
get in here okay let's pretend that this
is where it starts I'm going to press
record and now on my keyboard I have the
1 2 &amp; 3 and presumably you could have 4
as well I'm just gonna push 1 on my
keyboard ready for it 1 2 3
I'm pushing those keys on my keyboard
and I'm swapping between the 3 camera
shots in real time as if I was an actual
camera op
sitting there in studio holding the
camera punching in and out
now I'm boom boom lawrence is talking so
i'm nicely zoomed in on lawrence and
zoom wide shot i don't know what
happened to one i think i pressed a
button or something but you get the idea
so i'm gonna pause that oh i think i
only had a half of a file oh no no
worries
that's right cuz you clipped it yeah so
okay so now that I've got that so I've
pressed record now I've hit stop I'm
finished this is not an actual edit this
is just my multicam designer so now when
I hit okay it's actually going to create
those edit points in my editor no so now
when I push play in my editor I'm
already done so I'm gonna skim over here
watch this oh come on see that it's
real-time it's fast it's ready to go and
it only took us three hours to render
that file I mean it's gonna take you
some time to create those master files
right but I do it overnight this is why
now you understand why I say you've got
to have the show to me like seven days
in advance because if you give me four
hours worth of video it takes 12 hours
so I'm 15 hours to render so now that
I've done it yeah yeah so now that I've
done that I can produce my video and
let's just pretend that that's my
glorious editing job it's ready and you
notice it automatically added audio from
one of the tracks make sure all of your
tracks have audio or you can select that
now this is where I choose mp4 custom
and I have what I call low-cost 720p is
my my preset that I created because what
I've done is I changed the average
bitrate to 10000 kilobits per second
which just cost me less money to
distribute so then I create that file
and I call this my final and I hit start
and that will actually now render so
again you're gonna see this in full
quality now look at how beautiful that
looks and look at how fast it renders
now that it's 720p sources and look at
that close-up it's as if I have
cameras sitting in front of those guys
yet I only have one camera sitting in
front of them on a tripod how beautiful
is it I know I'm gonna take that the new
everyday camera and start recording
random stuff just to play with us
absolutely give this a go try this at
home let us know if this has helped you
with your editing process maybe this is
revolutionized your editing process and
certainly with a 1080p engine or higher
camera absolutely you can do this with a
1080p camera as well get it down to 720
or 480p in order to get your close-ups
but you're gonna have a little more loss
enos to it with a 4k camera it's
virtually indistinguishable it just
looks like you've got multiple cameras
this back in November because a three
and a half minute 4k Christmas video
okay church and it was now you know Jeff
I told you they were secret three days I
told you there were secrets to it now
you know my friend you can thank me next
week okay well I hope you enjoyed that
we're gonna jump right over to the news
room I know I've been a little
long-winded tonight but I think that I
think it's all good I think we've
learned a lot it's a lot of fun a lot of
fun so let's head on over there Sasha
here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom Apple
has been ordered to remove some iPhone
models from its stores in Germany over a
patent dispute with chip giant Qualcomm
Windows 10 Home Edition will finally let
you turn off automatic updates hey I
could reduce the tech in your smartphone
and a hidden world in the NES Legend of
Zelda was just uncovered 30 years later
these stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere this is the category
TV newsroom covering the week's top tech
stories it's like Linux bias Jeff Westen
Jemma you're building a brand-new
beautiful website what
are you your terrible actor what this
where acting comes into play you're
supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused
doesn't mean you have to be visit cap
five dot TV slash dream host to sign up
for unlimited web hosting for your
website with unlimited email accounts
MySQL databases the latest version of
PHP WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host I'm
Sasha Rickman in here the top stories
were following this week Apple has been
ordered to remove some iPhone models
from its stores in Germany over a patent
dispute with chip giant Qualcomm a court
ruling in Munich on December 20th found
Apple had infringed patents on power
saving technology on Thursday
Qualcomm paid a 1.3 billion dollar bond
trillion euro bond allowing the ban on
iPhone 7 &amp; 8 models to go ahead the bond
will fund damages awarded to Apple if
the iPhone maker wins an appeal against
the injunction the German case is
Qualcomm's third attempt at blocking the
sale of iPhones the california-based
chip maker has made patent infringement
claims against Apple in the US and China
already the court ruling in Munich
included the sale of iPhones by
third-party sellers such as mobile phone
operators shops and other retailers as
well as those sold in Apple's 15 branded
outlets however Apple and some observers
believe third-party sellers will be able
to continue selling the iPhone models in
question the iPhone XS iPhone XS Macs
and iPhone X our models will still be
available at Apple stores and from other
retailers when the initial judgement was
announced in December Apple said that it
would appeal the decision an Apple
spokesman at the time said Qualcomm's
campaign is a desperate attempt to
distract from the real issues between
our companies Qualcomm insists on
charging exorbitant fee
based on the work they they didn't do
and they're being investigated by
governments all around the world for
their behavior under German law
judgments become enforceable once the
winner of the patent dispute posts bonds
covering potential damages incurred by
the losing party in case the judgment is
overturned or amended on appeal in early
December Qualcomm won an injunction
against Apple that also banned the sale
of some iPhone models in China ranging
from the iPhone 6s to the iPhone acts
that ban was the result of a different
dispute concerning software patents
however Apple said all its iPhone models
remains on sale in China following a
software update from Apple and a pending
further legal ruling there well isn't
that convenient you can just push out an
update yeah BAM I don't know what you're
talking about Qualcomm we're fine
doesn't have what you said it had what I
just can't get is like I know people who
work for Apple and a lot of their stuff
is internally designed built like you
know a friend I know it like chips and
Technology can be from blueprints and
from reverse engineering I guess I don't
know I just
and in this case it's like bad blood
between two companies who have work to
guess and that's the thing with this one
I'm thinking they did have a
relationship at one point it's fallen
apart and now they're just you know
they're nitpicky with each other but the
question becomes at what point does the
line between the coordinated efforts
separate between well that I said that
and therefore it's my idea therefore you
have to pay me like I don't want to deal
with patent infringement stuff or yeah
like no thank you
way too technical right it feels like
it's one of those things that will
flip-flop like you'll go win and then
you'll lose on appeal and then you'll
appeal that appeal and win again like it
just feels like it's that sort of you
know why Germany is it just was it
specifically I think because of the bond
practice in German is that why the
ability for a company to be able to pay
to have them stopped selling iPhones you
know you think with all the like is
Germany a massive company for iPhone se
oh yeah massive market absolutely yeah
like I would think oh you know and while
the challenge in Canada No well well cuz
Germany you think about Germany as a
market yeah it's huge but it also
influences other like European countries
right so you're you're really looking at
it's like you're stabbing it in the
heart there and and you know there's
gonna be ripple effects if the appeal
doesn't go through for Apple yeah yeah I
don't I'm not a legal guy you're more in
that end of things but that's that's my
perspective that's yeah and I stay away
from it because a lot of it is like he
said she said oh I'm I'm I invented that
right well I got the paper to show I did
oh well are mine is a little bit
different well yeah who has the original
patent that is if I were the judge and I
know nothing really about Nikola Tesla
guaranteed exactly that that's just how
it would go I mean you're really the
rightful owner of the idea and then you
will do right when you have a device
that has millions of ideas in it right
then it becomes a really tough situation
right again I'm not interested or into
patent legalities and things but I can
see that it could be very very tough
right on one hand it kind of looks a bit
nitpicky on the other hand it kind of
looks like well just because you're a
big company you can't just take take my
ideas right well calm is just trying to
get a handle on some market share
Qualcomm has other contracts well sure
that you those contracts will continue
yeah during the litigation but why like
I feel like if they're gonna be known as
that that company that goes out there
and kind of legally tries to beat people
up people are gonna eventually say I
don't want to deal with you except when
you are also a company that is
innovative
and has the product that the industry is
begging for right because we don't know
if they're actually trying to be beat
them up or whether or not they're just
trying to stand their ground and not be
bulldozed sure right because it could be
that if I was a company that
manufactures a particular component of a
particular device and it so use this
Apple contract to build up my company
and now my company's established now
okay you know what we're not going to
take anything from you we've got all
these other contracts we're working on
and there are some exciting things
coming down the wire and we know that
Apple their entire release mentality is
let's hold back the features right let's
cut off the features that we can have so
that then we can push for the next
generation that's right so that the next
generation come out and you have to buy
that because that has that feature that
we could have done three years ago but
we refused sure so there's that aspect
of it as well
you turn off automatic updates since the
initial release of Windows 10 back in
2015 users have continued to ask window
or Microsoft to give them control over
when and if they should install the
latest Windows updates trying to avoid
the disastrous Android like
fragmentation issues Microsoft pushes
monthly security and feature updates to
every machine running Windows 10 but
they have more than often resulted in
compatibility issues and other minor
bugs and problems if not major issues
while the reasoning behind aggressively
pushing updates might be legit
it isn't a user-friendly system when the
consumer is scared of the latest updates
breaking their machines Windows 10 Pro
users have are already have controls to
pause Windows updates but the settings
have remained different for Windows 10
home users up until now the upcoming
Windows 10 April 2019 update is slated
to finally bring this control to Windows
10 home users currently being tested by
windows insiders the next version of
Windows codenamed 19 h1 shows this
change in its Windows Update
settings one paused Windows 10 won't
install any new updates for seven days
you can then either resume the updates
when you are ready to install the update
or Windows will resume installing them
itself once the seven day period expires
if everything goes as planned this
setting should arrive to all Windows 10
home users when the next update arrives
in April well seven days might not sound
like enough time to some Windows 10
users the fact is Microsoft wants to
keep as many Windows 10 machines on the
latest version as possible that said it
would be nice if Microsoft would trust
its users to have their own reasons for
delaying or deferring certain updates
specifically since the company has quite
a history of delivering broken updates
and that's been growing too I I had it
happen last night I was uploaded I
upload a lot of video and I was
uploading a show that has to be online
it's supposed to be online this morning
so I upload it on Tuesday nights and and
it uploads overnight well I got up and
saw my laptop and Windows has rebooted
during the upload it got to 98% and was
cut off because we did it so I was just
like I wish I could just turn off these
updates and so yeah seven days sucks yes
really like just let me decide when I
want to run my updates I love that I can
do sudo apt-get update right enter when
I want to do it on Linux windows rolls
like that just not it I mean they they
have now given you a seven-day grace
period and for them that's generous so
to be fair that seven-day grace period
would have helped me had I thought last
night right and if my laptop happened to
have that feature oh well I'm about to
upload a video I will pause updates for
seven days right but I have to still
remember to do that why is it resets
itself after seven days and it keeps
doing it and rebooting whenever it feels
like it's spectacularly bad for a
company that when I shut down my
computer's at work and I see that my
only option is update and shutdown it
gives me anxiety
that's a bat is it going to turn on the
next day right so I shut down the
computers a lot today yeah so tomorrow
morning I'm gonna go in hoping
everything fires up now many times it
does and sometimes it doesn't
right so it's a gamble yeah and it's
scary so if I could pause that and then
no okay well what if I make it so that
it just updates at the end of my week
right that way I at least have the whole
weekend if sign for it right yeah
instead of just these random this is
when we're doing it updates yeah for me
the Windows 10 updates suck because I
have an older version of Photoshop on my
computer you know I think it's like 6 or
7 years old like I haven't I'll carry
because I just I don't have the I don't
do we don't want to pay for their cloud
service well yeah I don't want it now
that a subscription fee but something
has transpired over the years where now
when Windows doesn't update it wipes out
my key
no it's long software but it wipes out
the key but the problem is you can't
activate it their activation servers
gone right and so now in order to get it
to work I literally every time Windows
doesn't update have to uninstall and
reinstall Photoshop oh my goodness
drives me nuts
hmm I so I hate that Windows goes we're
gonna make this happen and seven days
quite frankly that's just a slap in the
face that's that's not it would have
helped me last night right it's better
than nothing like it's seven days it
would give me time to get to the end of
the work week yeah it'll get you to your
weekend guarantee so presumably you know
hopefully you don't have anything going
on that weekend I was in the middle of
running financial numbers and stuff last
night doing a bunch of accounting for
company I'm with and I didn't notice the
alert for the update
logging some stuff it's super sad
I know I it's not fun at all post your
comments below about Windows 10 updates
your experiences give us a thumbs up for
liking this video don't give us a thumbs
down for hating Microsoft updates ok it
wasn't us
who likes Microsoft updates I bill only
the one yeah I'm talking about Bill
Gates we not not Bill Maher so right
bill marshal despises Windows updates
now who's going oh yes yes not for them
hey I could reduce the tech in your
smartphone the Snapdragon 855 and axe CX
chips that Qualcomm announced at its
Snapdragon summit last month include big
leaps in virtually every significant
benchmark such as CPU and GPU
performance the demonstrations made some
of the strongest cases to date about how
AI based computations can enhance the
smartphone experience beyond the photo
enhancement that has been the one of the
leading manifestations to date it begins
with the most primal use for your
smartphone making voice calls by using
AI to identify the voice of the speaker
a phone would be able to virtually
eliminate any background noise from a
call be it some reserved office chatter
or a loud city street noise this
capability extended far beyond that of
even today's best noise canceling
technology and into the realm of noise
elimination another demonstration showed
the ability to improve the focus and
blur of a photo that had already been
taken or to change it after the fact a
third showed the ability to change the
hair color on-the-fly of a woman swaying
against a colorful background in a 60fps
video or to replace that background on
the fly
in a way that would
quickly require a skilled video editor
using sophisticated software but what
may be even more impressive than how
effective these techniques are is how
efficient they are with when it comes to
hardware
today's noise cancelling techniques for
example use multiple microphones in
order to capture and muffle distractions
such as jet engine noises that has
seeped into the cabin
in contrast the AI driven noise
reduction demonstrated by Qualcomm
needed only one microphone
similarily while the kind of of depth
sensing that enables tasks such as
background blurring typically uses
multiple cameras the demonstration that
Qualcomm gave used just one Google of
course is already creating some of these
effects with the pixel threes Sol rear
camera Apple is as well on the iPhone XR
although they claim the two camera
approach on its iPhone X s phones
produces better results all these
applications highlight the ability of AI
to recognize and isolate different kinds
of media objects and then act on them to
improve an experience while the photo
and video capabilities are far more
visually compelling the conversation
noise elimination represents the kind of
utility that stands to dramatically
improve smartphone usage scenarios for a
broad base of users in try and a
transformative way of course taking best
advantage of them will only be possible
with the latest premium smartphone chips
which will easily counteract the cost
savings resulting by reducing the
components it's interesting that that
would come up because we're talking
about well does it
Qualcomm have other irons in the fire
right this is a big deal yeah yeah yeah
it's gonna be maybe pricey because it's
amazing but but AI is so revolutionary
when it comes to the capability of of
computing information right but we think
of AI as like our amazon echo and
whatever device and maybe like robots
and things but AI as a technology is so
fast oh yeah it's so fast
that noise elimination for voice phone
calls that to me would change so much
built into your phone built-ins no other
need for Bluetooth headphones that make
you look like a crazy person right you
know whatever things that your look like
a crazy person yeah you know but it
helps when you're walking around the
grocery store saying do we need bacon do
we need bacon I don't know do we need
bacon course we need bacon I call my mom
every Wednesday now I called her on my
way into work today I was talking to her
while I was driving through my Bluetooth
and then I get I was gonna get out of
the car with my phone and walk into work
while talking to her it was windy out so
I said to her mom okay I need to get off
the phone because you're gonna hate the
sound of the wind blowing into the
microphone yeah with the AI I'm assuming
it would just eliminate that blowing
noise sound I would say yeah my mom
would be happy all this screaming in the
background
yeah conference calls for work regularly
yeah yeah and there's nothing more
annoying than somebody being in a car
running between meetings who's joining
for this call but they forget to mute
their phone right and so then all you
hear in the background
exactly as you're driving on the highway
and it's right could you read your
phones please
could you meet your phone and they take
their muted mm-hmm and they can't stop
now to mute their phone because they're
driving that's right so if this
eliminates those kind of things
Oh exactly I just don't want to have to
pay crazy amounts of money for it cuz
I'm not rich would that just change like
we have our mute buttons right so if we
had that sort of AI right it would just
automatic
I think it's more akin to have you ever
been in a busy restaurant there's lots
and lots of noise and you're sitting
across from your husband and somehow by
some miracle of nature you're able to
hear every word that he speaks right and
in your perception you don't even hear
all the other stuff that's going on
around you
you're just so a I takes kind of what is
naturally available to us and turns it
into a technological item that can now
say okay I'm Sasha's phone right I know
Sasha's voice and so I'm gonna hone in
on that and I'm just gonna de focus
everything else and Sasha's voice is all
I'm going to hear right right
and somehow the AI is able to take that
as a technology and put that into our
telephones I'm okay with this I think
that's pretty neat
I'm suddenly going oh hearing aids like
how oh sure would it be for an AI
powered hearing aid that very quickly
learns who is it that you're having the
conversation with and wipes out every
other sound except for the band or
something yeah boom automatically that
loans in on the frequency yes hones in
on the frequencies Jeff there's
unlimited capabilities here and so when
when people and sometimes I give you a
hard time about conspiracy theories
surrounding AI and surrounding the
clouds but the fact is but the
technology is driving in that direction
where it is amazing the things we'll be
able to do yes what if a hearing aid
could hear your voice and say okay
that's in a frequency that Robbie has
trouble hearing so let's adjust it so
that Robbie can hear it perfectly and
and let's also blank out all the noise
in the restaurant so now I'm able to
hear you absolutely perfectly thanks to
a
well that little chip in my ear doesn't
have an AI built into it it needs to be
able to connect to my phone through
bluetooth and my phone connects out to
the internet through the cloud and
utilizes an amazing multibillion-dollar
computer network in order to do all that
processing so am I going to be afraid of
that connectivity or am I going to your
gonna embrace it absolutely it's your
life in so many ways I have that's my
perspective so and I give you a hard
time
no but that's my perspective my issue
when it comes to things like that is it
always comes down to security and
marketability I don't want my need for
some sort of amended access to be a
marketed thing I would rather just say
hey we got this for service for you
because we're a nice company yes you
bought it you paid into it we don't want
to use it for data purposes that would
make me a happy camper and if that kind
of stuff was more secure I'd have no
issue that I love technology in the way
it's going and this is really cool this
this like drives let's watch for it
let's see what happens next
yeah a hidden world in the NES Legend of
one of the more remarkable things about
the original Nintendo is that many of
the consoles more popular games from
Super Mario Brothers 3 to tech mobile
are still playable and thoroughly
enjoyable in 2019 sure the 8-bit
graphics can't hold a candle to what
you'll find on the more modern-day
consoles but the wild success of a
Nintendo Nintendo saw with the NES
classic underscores just how much fun
many of these older games are of course
if we're talking about some of the
greatest NES games of all time there's
no denying that The Legend of Zelda
needs to be part of the discussion the
original Legend of Zelda which was
released all the way back in 1986 was
such an iconic hit that it would go on
to spawn well more than a dozen
offshoots across a number of different
consoles now seeing as how the original
Zelda game is more than 30 years old at
this point you'd be forgiven for
thinking that every single part of the
game had already been discovered and
conquered alas you'd be mistaken in
something of a fascinating story
developer recently managed to access the
games - world essentially another part
of the game where developers could try
out different gameplay dynamics
naturally develops developers
implemented code to prevent players from
accessing the games - world but a
youtuber with the handle skelux managed
to figure out a way around it
the gameplay on Zelda's - world is a bit
buggy though still playable which
shouldn't come as much of a surprise
given that it wasn't intended to be
playable in the first place that
notwithstanding the video skelux posted
it should be quite entertaining for fans
of the original classic you can watch
the video at cat5 TV slash Zelda that is
so cool just mind-bending yeah I love
retro gaming and to find out there's
something new I like I'm a huge Zelda
fan always have I mean there you go so
go figure that ring is like Zelig logos
look at that like wow it's matched with
Zelda's triangle yes very cool so like
I'm a huge sell defense so this is like
get yourself a no droid go yeah quit
Legend of Zelda NES classic honor yawn
those rums
right but is it a true port which you
legitimately own I know I do but is it a
port over so that it's every component
yeah rom is a copy of the of the
youtubes can't play in the - world my
son speak just quickly thinking of retro
gaming because this reminded me my son
who is 8 years old said to me he came
down after a late-night session on the
Odroid go which had nintendo
entertainment system on it and he said I
can't decide daddy I'm like what is it
son he says whether paperboy is better
on the Sega Genesis or the NES and it's
2019 and I have never been so proud and
he decided the paperboy is better on the
NES I agree it's better on the I agree
100% we have a handheld Sega Genesis
which you reviewed on
and we have an odor I go for NES classic
games right so he plays both of them and
he has both of those versions of the
game all right I've got to take a quick
look I sorry I thought it was you at the
crypto currency market at this point as
of 1800 hours Eastern Time on Wednesday
January 9th 2019 according to coin gecko
things are kind of on the gain we're up
123 dollars and 18 cents us on Bitcoin
bringing us to three thousand nine
hundred seventy eight dollars and 24
cents per coin
litecoin is also up to thirty eight
dollars and 82 cents a coin gaining six
dollars and six cents
etherium is the only one that we're
monitoring that's actually lost a little
bit it's down to 148 94 u.s. Manero is
up to 52 stellite looking at the small
guys is up a little bit two point seven
eight ten thousandth of a cent and
turtle coin is sitting at one point four
ten thousandth of a cent remember the
crypto currency market never closes and
is always volatile so keep that in mind
if you decide to trade big thanks to Roy
W Nash in our community of viewers for
submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category-five TV newsroom I'm
Sasha Rickman and I'm Robby Ferguson and
I'm Jeff Weston thanks everybody for
being here with us again this week
looking forward to seeing you next week
when we actually fire up the cameras
that we were looking at tonight we're
gonna hook those up and see how they
operate don't want to miss that that's
happening on episode number 591 so we'll
see that
[Applause]
