hi and welcome to new every day my name
is Carrie my name is Jen and on today's
show we are in part four of our series
of Acts chapter five if you tell a lie
think you'll cry and then you'll die so
goodbye
[Music]
welcome back to new every day thank you
for tuning in again this week and I just
want to say thank you to all the people
who are watching every week even if you
can just tune in sometimes to check us
out that's awesome but for the people
who are watching every week we just want
to say thank you and some people have
come up to us in our own community and
let us know that they are encouraged by
watching this and that just really
encourages me Jen because I know how I
feel sitting here talking to you about
God and how I just when you speak the
words of the of Scripture and talk about
God like he's real in your life that's
what bolsters your faith and so I really
value this time like we've said so many
times before and robbing in category 5
just want to say thank you so much so
and just last week winning in somebody
said to me so like is it a podcast I
said well no but if you have the
stitcher app you can listen to it as a
podcast yeah and so I thought that was
really cool that somebody came up to me
because obviously they were wondering is
there another way of listening to the
show if I don't if I can't sit down and
watch it yeah I'm driving to work and I
watched yeah at least I'm guessing that
my friend Mark was asking and I'm like
yes if you have a stitcher app and we
want to say thank you so much to all of
our partners who help if you go to our
partners page there are so many areas
where you could help support the show by
just clicking and I make a when I ever i
go to buy a book i actually go to our
website and click on the amazon lamp and
go through that way because every
purchase that I make on Amazon through
our link we get we get support from yeah
so we really encourage you to do two
things to help first one would you
please pray for us it can be really no
it not candy but it is difficult to tell
people about the Word of God because the
enemy says oh yeah I'm going to make
your life difficult like you just start
to rise it raising up things and and so
pray for protection for us and also just
that we would know what to say and what
would bring encouraged
to you but also that through people
supporting us through our partners page
that the cost would be offset because it
is quite expensive to put the show
together so thank you so much for those
of you that are already doing that and
thank you to those of you who are like
oh that's a great idea my Patrian
partners who who helped pay for the show
by each episode they donate a quarter or
a dollar yes and so from there thank you
so much so here we are Acts chapter 5 we
think this will probably be our last
show in this particular time there was a
conversation goes and that's just it so
we're not going to guarantee you that
this is the last one so we're going to
just jump right in we read from
different versions each week just to
help you hear differently first weekend
IV second week james last week was new
vision new vision new ver new living
thank you and what's this this is the
nrsv New Revised Standard Version what's
interesting about this when i took my
hermeneutics class which is basically
preaching class in seminary my prof said
i would like you to have a New Revised
Standard Version so according to that
particular prop he thought that's the
way to go so okay so so I in order to
help me learn Greek and do sermons and
our SB NRSV so here we go chapter 5 of
Acts but a man named Ananias with
consent of his wife sapphira sold a
piece of property with his wife's
knowledge he kept back some of the
proceeds and brought only apart and laid
it at the Apostles feet Ananias Peter
asked why has Satan filled your heart to
lie to the Holy Spirit and to keep back
part of the proceeds of the land while
it remained unsold did did it not remain
your own and after it was sold we're not
the proceeds at your disposal how is it
that you have contrived this deed in
your heart you did not lie to us but to
God now when Anna and I has heard these
words he fell down and died and great
fear seized all who heard it the young
men came
wrapped up his body then carried him out
and buried him after an interval of
about three hours his wife came in not
knowing what had happened Peter said to
her tell me whether you and your husband
sold the land for such and such a price
and she said yes that was the price then
Peter said to her how is it that you
have agreed together to put the Spirit
of the Lord to the test look the feet of
those who have buried your husband are
at the door and they will carry you out
immediately she fell down at his feet
and died when the young man came in they
found her dead so they carried her out
and buried her beside her husband and
great fear seized the whole church and
all who heard these things so we've
talked about we've looked at the
beginning of the passage talked about
what's been what was going on and now at
the end of the passage both Ananias and
Sapphira are dead I remember someone
telling you one time oh he he heard the
words and it shocked him so he had a
heart attack well know the words did not
shocked him he died because he lied yes
and that shocks me so we're talking
about in this final episode perhaps why
did they actually died why so severe
mm-hmm like obviously it was punishment
right for what they had done was wrong
but why jen is it important that this
discipline happened early in the church
well I want to look at a couple of
things and it's interesting she just I
don't okay Gary and I talked about a lot
of things but she said why so why did
this happen so early in the church yeah
like would that not be like a turn-off
okay so this is from Leviticus chapter
10 goes like this Aeryn Sun net nay tab
and Abba who took their sensors put fire
in them and added incense and they
offered uh North or unauthorized fire
before the Lord contrary to his command
now the Lord had just commanded them
just command them I I want you to pick
up on that they had just commanded them
so fire came up out came out from the
presence of the lord and consumed them
and they died before the Lord Moses then
said to Aaron this is what the Lord
spoke of when he said among those who
approached me I will show myself Holy in
the sight of all the people I will be
honored Aaron remained silence so Moses
summoned Michelle and allows the fan
sons of errands uncle use it Alan side
of them come here carry out your
cousin's outside of the camp away from
the front of the sanctuary so they came
and carried them till still in their
tunics outside the camp as Moses ordered
and it says then Moses said to Aaron and
his sons Ali A's are an 8th mar 8th
Alomar I do not let your hair be come on
Captain do not tear your clothes or you
will die and the Lord will be angry with
the whole community but your relatives
all the house of Israel may mourn and
it's like I want to get back to it
because it was so early it was so early
in the israelites coming into an
understanding of who this holy God was
what it meant to worship him in his
holiness because before this they
weren't they were a nation but they
didn't worship Him corporately okay
right because at this point right the
Lord has gathered them as a nation
together has brought them out and he is
he has given his laws and Commandments
and now he's setting up the priesthood
so he's setting up the way things should
go and here they are at the very
beginning right and i think is to set a
standard it's to say look i'm going to
if you're going to follow me you will
follow me in holiness not out of your
own whim it's not about what you want it
really is about what i want and we jump
ahead to first kings
and let me just find out where this
talks about I basically the Ark of the
Covenant had been handed over and I
handed over had been lost in battle by
Saul to the Philistines and so David
when he became king went to get the ark
he did not follow how he was supposed to
get the air because according to
Scripture he was supposed to put it on
those caring poles and people were
supposed to carry it okay but but when I
read the passage it says so this is
chapter 6 of 2nd Samuel they set the Ark
of God so this is where sri they said
the Ark of God on a new car and brought
it from the house of a bin adapt which
was on the hill Rosa and Ohio sons of
ben adapt were guiding the new cart with
the Ark of God on it and Ohio was
walking in front of it David in the
whole house of Israel were celebrating
with all their might like there was a
party yeah it's good and it says verse 6
when they came to the threshing whore
the threshing floor of nikon oza reached
out and took hold of the Ark of God
because the oxen stumbled the Lord's
anger burned against oza because of his
irreverent act therefore God struck him
down and he died there beside the ark
then David was angry because the Lord's
wrath had broken out against oza and to
his this day the place is called
perezosa David was afraid of the Lord
that day and said how can the Ark of the
Lord ever come to me he was not willing
to take the Ark of the Lord to be with
him in the City of David and said he
took it aside to the house of Obed Edom
to get it-- and it's just very
interesting because it caused fear the
fear and in the passage with Nate Nate
AB and Abba who it caused fear and this
is right at the beginning
David's kingship interesting and so when
Kerry mentioned why so early at the
beginning I believe that God was setting
a standard this is how I will be
worshipped and so he was saying to David
like his Davis responsibility and
becoming King was actually to read the
book of the law like when they set up
the book of the lot the king was
supposed to read every King was supposed
to read it and so David should have
known so either he hasn't read it or he
read it and didn't pay attention to it
and God takes that seriously and so it's
just very interesting that in each of
these cases that reread so far the
person died immediately like there was
no room for intercession like yeah like
they knew they knew what it was and so
when we jump ahead to Acts chapter 5 and
it says you know how could you agree to
test the Spirit of the Lord look the
feet of the men who buried your husband
her out the door that will carry out too
and at that moment she fell down at
least he fell down and died and died I
do remember the first time I remember
the sentiment the the feeling I had the
first time I don't remember when it was
but reading about aza mm-hmm and being
like what like same kind of maybe
reaction that David Haslett had like I
am afraid of this God who can act this
way but and there is no one to tell God
whether he has done right or wrong
because he is good at everything he does
is writing good and and what if this
dude like he put out his hand because it
was reflex and yet the holiness of God
was there and it's he died because he
had not holy man touched this so the
question is and we're going to leave
this with you before we go to break is
did God do that to cause people to fear
be afraid of him or to make a statement
about what the fear of the Lord
is so we'll be back Jeff Weston Yama
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website what are you all right you're
terrible actor what does we're acting
comes into play oh I don't know where I
think you're supposed to act okay I'm
building a really cool website are you
building a really cool website you need
hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
let's sure how much hard drive space do
you have how many email accounts how
many domains can point to it well we've
got an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cat five dot TV / dreamhost
for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are going to get
unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name the roots are your own com
dice to put that amazing website that
you've been working on on there if you
run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat5 TV / dreamhost
just don't put out of the papers are
just don't do it but hey it's a great
deal folks best deal you're gonna find
five dollars and change per month go to
cat five dot TV / dreamhost welcome back
after that short break we Jen asked
why the the fear of the Lord sees the
people when they saw with buzz' died
when he touched the Ark of the Covenant
and when Ananias and Sapphira died that
there was a great fear that came across
a school because they were realizing
that a holy God was acting and I want to
read to you psalm 96mm first starting at
verse 44 the Lord is great and greatly
to be praised he has to be feared above
all gods for all the gods of the peoples
are idols but the Lord made the heavens
hmm honor and majesty are before him
strength and beauty are in his sanctuary
give to the Lord Oh families of the
peoples give to the Lord glory and
strength give to the Lord the glory due
his name bring an offering and come into
his corns Oh worship the lord in the
beauty of holiness tremble before him
all the earth say among the nation's the
Lord reigns the world also was firmly
established it shall not be moved he
shall judge the people's righteously hmm
worship the lord in the beauty someone
say in the splendor of his holiness and
what is holding this mean Jen like what
like I want to hear how you describe it
when I think a point is the word is
often like you are set apart and there's
so set apart but also there's no sin
like there's a perfect mess so like I'm
a I'm a free methodist like I'm a
Christian but I worship out a free
methodist church which is part of the
holiness movement which is basically a
call to the people to because God says
be holy because I am wholly so we take
that very seriously that we are to be
strive to be without sin right it's like
we are not to be happy when we do said
oh well don't worry God's grace will
cover us our sin is to grieve us and we
are to strive not to send we believe
that by the grace of God we can actually
willfully choose not to sin and so
because
God calls us to be a holy people set
apart for his purposes and because God
is a holy God unless we are holy to we
cannot be with him now the blood of
Christ is what makes us ultimately right
to be with God but we are to pursue
holiness we are to pursue as has throw
off the old self right and put on the
new self that holy lifestyle and I think
not only is it because we know that it
is the blood of Christ that covers up so
that that makes us right with God but I
also think it's the Holy lifestyle that
speaks to other people yeah and not like
we got it all together but I kind of see
it as like and this is where worship
comes from is recognizing our position
in relation to God mm-hmm that he is to
be revered and honored and worship
because he's the creator of the universe
and the one who made us and yet humbled
himself to become a man and died for us
and that's where the love and worship
comes to a father who would love us that
way and yet the odd the adoration is for
him who in his infinite knowledge made
us the way that we are yeah and that's
incredible but realizing our position in
relation to God I think is is yeah where
that comes from well and I was doing
some reading out prior to our filming
and this is from a website that said my
favorite definition of fear of God is a
mixed with intimacy this is JD Greer so
JD gr EE 8 r.com we are invited into the
closest possible relationship with God
but this intimacy must never overshadow
the majesty of God yeah so it's that
deep intimacy and the thing is when you
truly know someone there is like I just
think of I want to say some of the very
I know some powerful men like just big
strong men and yet when you know they're
art or see them playing with their
children yes you're just like like
there's a you see right but you know the
power of what is possible if they were
wrong like you just know so there's this
there's this element of intimacy like
knowing their heart yeah but it's also
mixed with I don't want to mess with
them yeah because I know what their but
because we're in relationship they're
not going to hurt me but I wouldn't want
to mess with them and not that you even
have a desire to mess with them yeah but
you know what could possibly happen if
you did not that they would have well
they could physically hurt me let's just
bein totally honest yeah um but that's
what it is with God right yeah Wow like
you were such a kind loving amazing
awesome God and you've chosen to love me
but I also know your majesty and your
power and your justness yeah and that
not that I'm seeking to wronged you yeah
but I know what would happen if I did
wrong you and like I know we're supposed
to daily to hide ourselves and taking
off the old self putting on the new
south which is being renewed to reflect
the image of Jesus right and when I
think of David like why was he a man
after God's own heart he knew how to
worship he had fear of God he did a lot
of bad stuff but kind of what came to
mind was um that as soon as sin was
recognized he was quick to turn back to
God yes and so like that makes me
realize that okay when God highlights
something in my life that I do lie about
certain things that I need to be quick
just to turn back to him yeah and then
the awe of knowing that he is
all-powerful and he can strike people to
head DD it's in the Bible all I can do
it and yet the love coming from Christ
that then covers my sin yeah that's
where worship happens and so we go back
because we just want to finish up with
Acts chapter 5
and because I think it happened so early
because God was setting the standard
yeah because they were being an example
like Ananias and Sapphira were claiming
to be a part of this church being an
example of what it meant to be a Jesus
follower and God was saying don't you
dare set this kind of example like don't
test me in this because they were
testing God because that's what I said
how dare you test the Spirit of the Lord
right so that must have been maybe some
part of their motive if he if Peter was
highlighting that right yeah and so as a
result God's like don't test me like and
there are parts of the Bible like
especially in Malachi lore says test me
in this right he's like it talks about
giving your first fruits oh yeah I guess
is that doing what's good yeah so he's
like don't test my grace like that's I
think what are you saying like don't a
good way of putting it yeah don't test
my grace like let's see how far I can go
or let's you know let's sin and think
that I won't get found out yeah and
Peter saying don't don't test the spirit
because you are going to get found out
and you know I think sometimes we can
spurn the grace of God and I remember
being in one of my seminary classes and
they were talking about one of the
fathers of the faith and who would say
if you're going to send sin big because
you know you don't want to spurn God's
grace and I was like what no because in
their mind sing with sin so you know
just sin big and I'm like no don't send
it Oh looks that make any sense I know
but unfortunately some people can think
about that think about sin that way
because they're like well go ahead go
home I've already won this far I might
as well just throw in the towel was like
eating bad and like working out like it
will work tomorrow if I already had this
bag of chips I might as well have the
cake to one piece of pizza I'm I don't
like the whole pizza I wanted a snack
were done yeah we didn't have a good
reason for its ok
we won't until midnight anyway but the
fact is they tested God whether that not
they believe that they could get away
with it or they believe that God really
wouldn't do anything like maybe they
wouldn't find out or God wouldn't do
anything um maybe they didn't really
believe that God was real and I don't
know like I just don't know because we
we aren't there we arts inside there had
we really are just two people sitting
here in 2016 this is one is being
recorded whether you see it in 2017 or
2050 2016 but here we don't know we are
totally guessing at what's going on all
we do really know is that was wrong it
was wrong and God intervened and yet it
you know there's a proverb that says if
you chase it or if you if you discipline
a wise man they become wiser still and
like this is there and zinc as an
example to us and and paul also said the
old testament is there as an example to
us that we should follow and choose to
follow God because it's the right thing
and he loves us yeah and analyze since
its fire chose to test God and they lost
and the good thing is God's grace does
forgive so you might be thinking oh I've
tested God many many times and sometimes
I've even felt like a gotten I've gotten
away with it and you'll hear some people
say oh lightnings gonna strike me or oh
yeah you know he very well could and by
His grace he doesn't cuz yet by the
grace of God there I go yeah and so you
might be thinking oh yeah I've gotten
away with lots of things in my life but
the thing is God has actually chosen not
he's protected you from the
repercussions of those sin of what could
have happened because even this week I
saw I heard about an incident where I my
god you could have intervened in that
why didn't you or why does God intervene
sometimes and not others and it's only
by the grace of God we do not know his
plan so we encourage you today that if
you feel like there is something
separating you from God
don't take his grace for granted get on
your knees or stand to your feet and
reach out to the Lord and say God I am
wrong I have wronged you i have tested
your grace i have i have stood before
other people and claimed that i was one
thing but really when i was another and
so father God forgive me forgive me and
he will so we really into a declaration
to the church like don't test God be
real like real be real let God raised
you up if you're struggling in whatever
area acceptance and belonging you're
needing to get some sort of affirmation
like let God do it he wants to don't
don't try to be wise in your own eyes is
what proverbs 37 a says or yeah 37 a and
you know it's very interesting that
looking at what Jesus when we're talking
about lying and he's talking with the
Pharisees just before our in Matthew 23
he says woe to you hypocrites you do one
thing but you mean another or we'll do
you see hypocrisy you mean one thing you
do something else and that that's lying
in the he ii these are also the people
who are striving to be righteous by
doing works of the law and not believing
Jesus said you search the Scriptures
because you think that an Emmy find life
but those are scriptures that talk about
me and we're righteous by faith in
Christ we don't have to strive to keep
the letter of the law because he's
written the law on our hearts and it
isn't isn't it interesting that you know
that Ark of the Covenant covenant that
was holding the law represented like the
presence of God and yet now he says I've
come and I've written my law on your
hearts yeah and he comes and lives
inside of us now and gives us a new life
in a new heart and the desire to follow
him so why don't we just pray gin and
we'll wrap up yeah God
holy holy holy is the Lord God Almighty
heaven and earth are full of your glory
we look outside we see it we look
inwardly we see it and how you made us
so incredible and PEG thank you that you
made each viewer and each listener so
special so unique so wonderful and you
have chosen to do that you've chosen to
give us life and that in itself as a
gift each day is a gift God and you say
in your word though the righteous may
fall seven times it gets back up again
and we choose to get back up again after
we've come to our knees and repent Lord
to say that we have sinned against you
we do sometimes not tell the truth or do
things with false motives so we repent
of that God and in the same at the same
time we say thank you Jesus the you came
you died for us you rose again and we
just choose to put on your righteous
garments so that when the father looks
at us he sees you and what you've done
on the cross mhm and so now we go we are
going to carry your name and represent
you to other people would you help us
God to do that we submit ourselves to
you and thank you in the name of Jesus
thank you so much what a full full
passage in that beginning part of Acts
chapter 5 i've never taken apart like
that I know so I really am thankful that
you tuned in and that we got to chat
like this Jen so we hope that you have a
wonderful week and we're going to see
you back here so until then ha ha
you
