600 weeks 600 episodes of category-five
technology TV a lot has happened Sasha
during that time so you think about the
fact that category 5 was founded in
September 2007 yes what could possibly
have happened what since 2007 and we
have been here ladies and gentlemen
every single week since that day since
the day that I sat down and said ok
we're going to do a live show we've been
here every single week not not in this
studio this is studio D right so studio
ABCD we're in our fourth studio there
the year that we started category 5
technology TV well it was just me in the
first year and Apple CEO of the time
Steve Jobs had just announced the brand
new revolutionary what iPhone the iPhone
iPhone the iPhone was brand new never
been heard of before and about to change
our world I'd never had smartphones
before right and then all of a sudden
all of a sudden the same year the
category 5 launched was Steve Jobs as
announcement that the iPhone was now a
thing the brand new iPhone of course the
the iPod Touch evolved as well they
introduced Wi-Fi connectivity to the
iPhone the iPod Touch and so that
brought the whole new era to the iPod
line up right because the iPhone was
doing so well so iPod Touch now was a
device that was very similar to the
iPhone in that you had a touchscreen
Internet connected mp3 player in in
essence music player because you had to
have iTunes and so on episode number one
if you had if you had said I imagined
yeah what what could happen in the next
12 years exactly you would never imagine
that we went from like a land of no cell
phones to like well we had cell phones
nothing a little different yeah
than what we're gonna sleep and so folks
are saying well what about Android well
Android was launched the following year
well it was announced the following year
we had Google we had t-mobile we had
other companies that had come together
to announce Motorola was another one to
announce this brand-new open-source
alternative to the iPhone this
open-source operating system called
Android but we still wouldn't see that
for another year two years after the
iPhone came out now we all have what do
you yeah you have it here yeah that's
here you carry it with you everywhere
it's revolutionized our connectivity our
communication our internet surfing our
shopping our camera it's we've got a
camera that fits in our pocket this is
new since category-five started this
never was a thing and now everybody has
one everybody very cool text messaging
another way our communication was
revolutionized since category-five
started right so if I was part of
episode one I may have received a phone
call or an email on a landline on a
landline but messaging kind of like took
off
exactly it's since tapered off yes but
it became it actually in 2007 at the end
of 2007 early 2008 became more commonly
used than a phone call right so now it's
kind of dwindled yeah well but now we've
got so much connectivity except social
media everything else speaking of social
media I think of Facebook right
we saw Facebook's meteoric rise and
slight tapering over the past couple of
years but we saw social media take off
it was never a thing before category 5
not the category 5 had anything to do
with this no not a thing it was not 1.6
2 billion viewers now not a thing when
we started almost 2 billion views yeah
like just but in our first year they
they were considered huge with 20
million users right now one point how
many billion one point six two and they
were higher than that about two years
ago about one point seven four now it's
kind of tapering off Garbi saying the
myspace is no more well myspace the very
year that we started category 5 TV Tom
left the company and it was worth
millions of dollars
possibly billions at that time MySpace
now here we are in 2019 it's being a sad
thing of the past
Netflix launched flags in the time that
we've been on the air we've seen the way
that people watch television movies the
way that we absorb content has
completely been revolutionized by things
like Netflix Amazon Prime video and all
the other services that have risen and
fallen but Netflix is still like number
one
so like episode number one if you wanted
to watch a movie would you go rent it
you'd have to yeah somewhere you would
bring you would take with you you would
take a taxi a taxi not an uber because
they don't exist yet you take a taxi to
the local Blockbuster which did exist
and rent a VHS half the date night is
like let's go and let's read the jackets
let's use a movie and bring it home now
you sit down on your couch with Netflix
on and the agony is in so many choices
you don't know what did you yeah you
spend how you spent as much time looking
at the jackets who lose another one in
America it's not as big here in Canada
sling as well which kind of was like a
Verizon fall that didn't really I don't
know if it's even still a thing but it's
allowed us to cut the cord yes a lot of
us have and there are still some people
who are subscribed to the big cable
companies but there are those of us who
just
what's I say I had somebody come into
the office who uses the the current
version of cable TV which is a wireless
device that uses IPTV okay and I said
how many commercials do you have to sit
through he's like well it's normal you
know yeah it's a 30 minutes of show for
an hour of sitting time twenty two
million yeah saying because I said I
haven't seen a commercial in 10 years
right that's just the way things have
evolved it's the way of it social media
has evolved as well I mentioned Facebook
Twitter - Twitter exist Twitter was just
at the DPD baby and in fact the year
after category five started they showed
up at South by Southwest and that was
the year so the year after we started
was the year that Twitter really took
off because they had like 60,000 tweets
a day but they didn't even call them
tweets they just called the messages cuz
they had figured out their branding yet
so we were pre Twitter we were pre
youtube I remember when gwg himself was
saying you guys need to upgrade to
sixteen over nine because we were pre
widescreen right category five was four
over three when we started this thing
there was no such thing as HD video that
didn't exist yet it didn't exist now we
have 4k and 8k and virtual reality and
augmented reality right all these things
didn't exist you know what we have now a
giggle score you know didn't have then
what single board computers we didn't
even have single board computers can you
imagine that the computer that I had as
a kid was less powerful than this thing
the computer that I learned everything
that I know on the computer that I
learned to program on was less powerful
than this it took up my bedroom yeah
it's it was probably everything
Raspberry Pi came out in 2012 yeah
trying to believe it was that recently
but 2012
they and competitors if you will or
uprising other single board
manufacturers single board computer
manufacturers have risen up pine 64 a
sous is kind of trying to get in there
as well
we've got we've got Odroid from hard
colonel we've got a lot of great
manufacturers banana pie and orange pie
and all these other manufacturers coming
out and these things are incredibly a
complete server yeah
with gigabytes gigabytes of storage in
my palm in my hand right that is
mind-bending to you this might be just
normal this is what this is what maybe
you or your kids have grown up with
anyways mm-hmm let me remind you that
the computer that I had was an XT when I
was a kid I started on a vic-20 the XT
was about this big in this big and it
had a big CRT screen massive this has
built-in HDMI mini which outputs HD
video from something that fits in the
palm of my hand and I mentioned CRT
monitors from computers these are the
big remember the deep yeah the cube-like
things yes those were a thing even until
category 5 did you have one at the
beginning we had a 32 inch CRT TV that's
what that's what I had at home a 32 inch
massive CRT TV so it was deep it was big
but a couple of years after category 5
no I guess probably the Year category 5
launch was the year that the LCD TV took
over the CRT as far as number of sales
so that was the year that everything
started transitioning from those big
clunky boxes to flat screens but
remember when I was a kid flat screens
were a thing of science-fiction right
like Star Trek had flat screens
their desks those didn't exist that
wasn't a real thing now we look back and
you just see it and you think oh that's
a weird look of the future but to us
that was what we had that was a huge CRT
TV rear projection image onto a glass
surface those that's how we watched our
TV and so the flatscreen was a like
something from sci-fi
now they've like flat and curved like
Aladdin curves he may have roll up and
fold up yeah it's that's bananas
this is all new speaking of sci-fi
mm-hmm and sci-fi ideas becoming a
reality you can attest to this when I
was a kid I just want to slow down a
little bit when I was a kid we had
Virtual Boy oh yes
Virtual Boy was red and black not even
black and white literally red lines on a
black surface that you would wear on
your face because we didn't have virtual
reality but we had a dream we had a
dream and when category-five technology
TV started up 600 episodes ago there was
no such thing as the virtual reality
that we can immerse ourselves in these
days right you've experienced tell us a
little bit about how virtual reality has
changed things over the past five years
virtual reality I mean I I got the vibe
what two years ago maybe maybe a year or
two it has changed everything about
entertainment Dave and I we were on
vacation last week in AC we were walking
through Stanley Park Stanley Park and I
turned to David knows I cannot I bet
that this is on Google Maps
oh sure that I can relive this memory
like this isn't just I'm thinking back
on it I'll be able to walk through
Stanley Park in virtual reality it just
it's it's just a dream you can go home
and if you've had a bad day put your
headset on you just I'm just skipping
over here because I wanted to grab this
this is a 360-degree virtual reality 4k
video camera right so you could take
this to Stanley Park with you and take a
picture or a video in virtual reality
360 view and then import it to your
computer put it on the vibe and look
around
ya and see what's going on it's like
that's how like okay video HD video I
said HD video didn't exist now virtual
reality video and you say Google Maps
yes in VR in VR you can actually go to
places in the world you can and teleport
if you will and walk around I I have
done it I I went to Mexico one Sunday
when my mom was on the vive on the vive
unbelievable I know she wanted to take
me back to where she went on vacation
Wow they see this is technology that did
not exist it was something out of
fantasy out of sci-fi that now is a real
thing the cloud is another one we take
for granted that hey our off-site
backups right in the cloud the fact that
that computer that now sits in my pocket
that is way more powerful than the
computer that I had when category 5 TV
started mm-hmm that this is more
powerful that this has artificial
intelligence built into it think about
that for a second another thing from
sci-fi my friends that this has the
cloud it has yeah it backs up it every
time I take a picture Shh yeah it's here
it's there it's everywhere it's on
discord it's wherever I want to put it
instantly that wasn't a thing the cloud
blows my mind actually the cloud is
something that some small businesses
especially businesses are really
starting to tap into these days I
mentioned the off-site backup that's a
really simplistic idea but think about
collaboration we've talked about the
online office suites and how the cloud
is really revolutionised in that the
online that we used to need an exchange
server no we don't not anymore
we've got online collaboration we've got
online
calendaring and sharing and everything
else it's all part of the cloud that's a
technology that Believe It or Not has
only been here for like five years
I mean that rudimentary introductory you
know people were working on things but
the actual hate the cloud is now a thing
this whole interconnected world that we
have so now okay so we're at episode 600
now yeah
what is episode 1200 going to bow oh my
gosh I'm not even gonna be here it's
just gonna be my counterpart
it's my AI counterpart it's gonna be
mental it's amazing well we will we have
well we have real money even like
cryptocurrency
that's another new thing a new thing
that didn't exist it's a big it's a big
idea and it's a big deal right and now
so now in 600 more episode yeah but
imagine 2009 is when Bitcoin was
unveiled right
so cryptocurrency this whole idea behind
it right 2009 now we've been doing
category 5 technology TV since 2 years
before that I'm and finally one final
thing if I may okay that has changed
completely since category 5 technology
TV has started I have to say storage my
computer storage is all solid state hard
drives right I say solid-state hard
drives I know that's an ironic term
solid-state drives SSDs not hard drives
so the old drives used to have this
spinning platter so they still exist
yeah and they have much higher capacity
than solid-state though solid-state is
starting to work its way up but I
understand that
hey those spinning devices they have a
lot more storage but they're a little
old-school in their tech rights so the
the spinning platter has a needle or a
head that hovers above the platter and
reads and writes the data so if it's
running I know this if you're running
and you jostle it you can just
there goes your failed harddrive yeah
but that thing is moving across the the
platter of the hard drive mm-hmm
at very fast speeds and it's spinning at
7,200 rpm right okay so that's an
average hard drive like a standard
desktop hard drive but it's quite slow
because it's a mechanism it's a
mechanical device that's moving back and
forth over this thing it's prone to
failure it's prone to disaster and the
bigger they get the more platters they
have the more heads they have the more
expensive data recovery becomes right
the smaller they are the less work it is
for a data recovery lab to recover data
off of them so the bigger they get the
more difficult they are to recover the
last sacha proof there
so now solid-state drives are the thing
and it's a microchip and that is reading
and writing all your data that's where
your data is stored and then to take it
one step further is the flash drive
which we didn't have we did in that I
had like a 8 gig drive right now just
think about this as one final thought
here we are in 2019 and even a couple
years back Kingston brought out the two
terabyte data traveller think about that
2 terabytes of data in your pocket right
in a device that fits in your pocket 2
terabytes of data I went in I went and
did a thing I think at the mall we went
to the mall you talk to people people
were like oh yeah maybe a gigabyte would
be a big drive now 2 terabytes 2
terabytes yeah 2,000 gigabytes
I can't believe that come on take a look
at it it doesn't look a whole lot
different from your average USB Drive I
guess think about how storage has just
been just blown up over the past couple
of years and certainly since category 5
technologies TV had started 600 weeks
600 episodes of Technology TV every
single week we are here we're doing what
we do we love to show you tech we love
to show you the things that we're
learning and we love to learn along
with you with our family-friendly show
and we appreciate you coming along with
us it's been a fun ride the past 600 the
next 600 are going to be even better
because hey technology is never gonna
stop and it's always gonna give us
something to talk about that's true
[Music]
[Applause]
