we are looking at the xu4 today and we
have looked at the xu4 in the past you
and I have looked at it we've done a lot
of fun stuff we've we've built it into a
big chassis we've done all that kind of
stuff but this week we're working with
just the board just that board okay but
the first thing I want to do with the
xu4 from Odroid is I want to determine
what type of media I'm going to use okay
this week what we're gonna do is we're
going to create a DNS server which is
using a software called piehole p.i -
hol e alright it sounds obscene but it's
not it's actually a black hole for DNS
entries that you want to block that you
can place on your own network and the Y
aspect is it was really designed for the
Raspberry Pi right but we're gonna learn
how to install it on a completely
different system and why would I want to
do that why wouldn't I just go with a
Raspberry Pi Jeff any any guesses
well quad core maybe because the
Raspberry Pi is only quad core yes
yeah with eight cores that's right sure
but a DNS server doesn't really need a
whole lot of processing power consider
this we're looking at this is not a
proxy this is a DNS server right those
who understand what that means know that
what I'm saying is is that traffic is
not gonna flow through this device so
the the Gigabit Ethernet
that's tape abilities the Gigabit
Ethernet capabilities of the xu4 while
beneficial and will actually speed
things up it's not really the selling
point versus the ten over 100 of the
Raspberry Pi but definitely a good
upgrade it's gonna impact performance
but because we're not passing through
data
we're just requesting DNS information
trying to remember all the does it have
to do with like the specs of the Odroid
it does it has to do with what I
mentioned it right at the top here we
have to determine what kind of storage
we're gonna use right but that was a
hint right totally missed that raspberry
pi is limited to a
it's pretty slow microSD card slot okay
so SD cards as you know while fantastic
and they're getting bigger and they're
getting better
they are comparably unreliable yes when
you compare them to SSD storage or emmc
storage and those other types of storage
medium in this case yours is hooked up
to an SSD what VHC one is we're not
using an hc1 today although this could
right we're just looking at the board I
think it's an important I think it's an
important fact to say we could do this
on an hc1 we could do this on a
Raspberry Pi we're choosing to do this
on a no droid xu4 we could do this on
pretty much any of the pine sixty-four
boards I mean we could and they also
have that advantage but what I'm looking
for out of the Xu for this week is that
emmc capability I'm going to be able to
use an actual emmc storage card instead
of SD so I've got that ultra reliability
plus the performance boost that that
provides
Pyne 64 boards they also offer the MCA
MMC capability so this is not something
that you have to use an X you for for it
just happens to be what we are demoing
tonight but everything that we're gonna
learn here can be done on an xu4 on any
of the pine 64 boards on an Isuzu tinker
board on a Raspberry Pi this is where
we're at with single board computers we
can just you can use whatever but we're
looking at it and saying okay we want
emmc so what are we gonna that just
rules out Raspberry Pi yep okay because
we want reliable storage why does it
matter this device is going to become
our DNS server for our network be it for
home or for your office we want to block
things that are not wanted within our
network that is advertisements yeah I'm
gonna circle back to that because this
is gonna have a performance performance
boost on our network as well but also
pornography and things like that things
that we want to block from our office
network or you and I are parents we're
parents of young kids
we're really thinking about it with
March break and the kids are home and
they're on the computers a lot and it's
so it's like it's something that we
really want to protect our kids from and
and that's that's as simple as it is so
but in an office network in a home
network these are all good things as
well so we're gonna do that with these
devices but we need them to be ultra
reliable because if it ever goes down
we're going to have the perception that
our internet is down okay a DNS server
is what resolves domain names right DNS
is domain name server so when I type
google.com it first goes to a DNS server
and says what IP address should I be
routing your traffic to and then it goes
out to the Google server via the IP
address now if my DNS server is down I'm
going to type google.com and it's gonna
say I don't know where to go page not
found right okay so we need it to be
ultra reliable that's why we're staying
away from the Raspberry Pi and instead
we're going with emmc storage so again
Pyne 64 Odroid xu fours any of those
kinds of boards that support the e MMC
card it's gonna be a lot more reliable
and therefore much better suited for
something like what we're doing here
today which is mission-critical for my
network I don't want people calling me
up but while I'm at work and saying you
know my wife or my kids saying
Internet's down oh no it's not the the
Raspberry Pi has gone offline or
something like that or the SD card is
corrupt and that's why you need nems to
let you know it would let me know Emma's
Linux comm all right so now I'm just
gonna jump over here where we've got
that xu4 and let's let's get to it so
you know how an SD card works Jeff yes
obviously the SD card just kind of plugs
into the side there right next to the
HDMI that is an option on the xu4
however as I mentioned we want to use
the emmc but it's not accessible in this
case so I actually leave the screws out
of these cases I'm not really keen on it
because I like to be able to access my
emmc so I actually just kind of unsnap
it and then I've got access oh by the
way this is the real-time clock that I
mentioned on episode number 598 that's
the battery for the real-time clock so
that's a
accessory that you buy for six bucks and
that will keep your time there's the
emmc port Jeff yep that's where I'm
gonna plug in my quote unquote hard
drive alright so an emmc it kind of
looks like an SD card but it goes snaps
onto this USB reader which I use to
flash it the same way I do with an SD
card but it's not an SD card it has this
connector on the bottom and that's going
to connect it directly to the Odroid xu4
or whatever other emmc capable SBC that
you're using and it's as simple as that
so that's the hard drive Wow
the only other thing with the Xu for
that I need to make sure is see the
switch here this determines what your
boot device is so you can see it's
either SD or MMC make sure that you
select that otherwise it's not going to
boot because we don't have an SD card in
and there's the SD card slot right above
there as well so that's really all there
is to do in that now I should mention
I've already pre installed you saw me
take this off of the USB adapter I've
already pre imaged using etcher never
extend stretch cat5 dot TV / nev it's a
free download and that is the debian
stretch install that i prefer for my
Odroid device okay so we'll bring that
over here and plug it in right here at
the desk let's jump back over on the
camera and that's all there is to it so
I've got Ethernet and power Jeff that's
all we need
that's right yeah that's it yeah cuz
hardware is already in it yeah I've
already flashed so remember that's the
first step I need to flash Mavericks
Debian image so it is just a base Debbie
and install Debian Linux on a little
device like that that who can't fit that
on on their network looks right it's got
Gigabit Ethernet it's got a power
adapter that uses a barrel plug it does
have USB 3 and everything else that you
would expect and this particular one
this is the Odroid Xu 4 Q which is the
quiet model Q stands for quiet and
that's the one with the heatsink rather
than a fan which is just one less thing
to fail yes I'm all for let's just lets
rule out
the ability for things to fail let's
make it really like that and these
things are fantastic okay so I'm gonna
first of all you need to determine the
IP address now that it's booted
presumably it is booted it's connected
to Ethernet and everything is lit up
right I do that by because it starts up
as DHCP if you go into your router look
at the DHCP pool and you're gonna see
one called Debian stretch and that is
okay my Odroid
because i've booted it with debian
stretch and that's that's what it's
called on there so I'm gonna jump over
to my computer here I have to do there
we go I've got a nice little close up
window and I've connected to my Odroid
xu4 so I'm at 10.00 dot
for first thing I want to do is I want
to type date I see that it is March 13th
and the time is correct and so that
tells me that the real time clock is
holding its own it's still set from the
last time I booted it right and I don't
have to reset anything but that's an
important step you have to do that first
make sure that your data is correct
because if it's wrong you're not going
to be able to install anything because
all of your SSL certificates are going
to fail because the date and time are
going to not match up with the SSL
certificates so I'll jump back to that
window here so next step is apt update
this is going to download all the
repository information just make sure
that everything is up-to-date make sure
that your computer your xu4 knows what
packages are available to it now apt
upgrade is going to upgrade the
underlying distribution mine says that
it's already upgraded and then apt dist
- upgrade will make sure if there's any
new kernel or anything like that it's
going to download and install that for
me if you received a new kernel and
things like that make sure you reboot
next just type a reboot because I'm
logged in as root
remember with Mavericks image the
username to log in via SSH is root and
the password is all lowercase Odroid
that's out of the box you can change
that all right so let's let's get right
into it so this is this is just a debian
stretch it's running 4.1 for
and I want to turn this into what they
call a piehole okay again it's a DNS
black hole so that when we request
google.com it's going to respond right
rather than my ISPs DNS server so if if
I'm visiting a website and it has
something that I have personally said
I'm object objecting to that like an
advertisement it will block that okay
but not by traditional means but by
saying page not found right ad not found
right so think about that for a second
what that does for your network so this
has an adverse effect okay if we block
all advertisements at the DNS level
whenever I bring up a website that is at
heavy and it goes to download all of
those ads a traditional ad blocker will
still download all those ads but then
will stop them from displaying correct a
DNS system like this instead will simply
say ad not found that not found it never
downloads it does that work only for web
sites or does that work for ads that are
processed through your network on other
devices other devices in apps if you've
got app apps that are heavy on ads
things like that it will block those
because it's blocking them at the DNS
level right so that app is going out to
the to the web and resolving to sites
that serve up these advertisements and
then blocks them before they actually
download so the adverse effect that that
creates is that your internet is
perceptively faster because you will be
amazed at how much ads and tracking are
happening on the Internet it really is
and I this is a double-edged sword
because we are ad revenue supported
right and so what I'm about to show you
is potentially going to cut out our ad
revenue is there a way to allow certain
ad streams yeah however where does the
ad revenue come from category five dot
TV you can whitelist our website
category
TV ad revenue isn't generated their ad
revenue is generated by media net by
Google Adsense those things so you're
blocking Google Google Adsense not
category 5 TV so even if you whitelist
us you're still not going to see ads on
our site because we're not the ones who
are hosting the ads that's true
yeah so so as I say a double-edged sword
consider that as you as you make this
change on your network but I think that
you know there are you know hopefully
other ways to monetize more patreon
there you go
so keep that in the back of your mind
all right so let's get let's get to the
next step so we need to actually install
piehole so first thing I want to show
you this is not a step that you need to
take but I do want to show you what this
is I'm gonna go to install dot pi - hol
dot net it's going to redirect to an
installer script that's hosted on github
I don't ever need to see this I just
wanted to show you that oh this this
resolves to the Installer so we know
that install dot PI - whole net takes
resolve to the Installer scratch right
with that knowledge armed with that
knowledge we can now grab that script so
let's do that let's type W get - capital
o for output to this file name and I'm
going to save it to slash temp slash
call it whatever you want I'm gonna call
it install dot s H and then I go HTTP
colon slash slash that's why our date
and time are very important because I'm
connecting to a secure server if I
didn't have my correct date and time
it's gonna give me an error install dot
pi - whole net and now it's downloaded a
file called /tmp slash install so if I
open that file it is that script that we
were just looking at in our browser so I
want to create I want to make that so
it's executive o CH mod + ex install dot
sh so now it's executive all I am in the
temp folder but you can type /tmp slash
install dot sh here in the dot in the
temp folder I can just type dot slash
install dot SH and now as route I'm
gonna run that and it's going to take me
through the install installation steps
for pi hole on this bear bare-bones
Debbie and stretch system and I say
bare-bones
because you really want this to be a
pure vanilla Debbie and install reaiiy
is the reason for that Jeff is because
if you've been using like someone will
say well why can't I install this on
NEMS or why can't I install this just on
my computer well your computer and and
these kinds of things they already have
DNS stuff installed and DNS routes set
up so if you try to install them you're
gonna be removing packages that are
possibly critical to your OS or other
applications and you're gonna be you're
gonna be possibly damaging the install
start with the vanilla install and then
we know what's gonna work so the
Installer will transform your device
into a network-wide
ad blocker okay the pie hole is free but
powered by your donations visit pi -
hold on net slash donate in order to
contribute to this particular product
the pie hole is a server so it needs a
static IP address to function correctly
keep this in mind now we know that we
are dot 144 on my network because it was
given out by DHCP so it's going to
detect that and it's going to
automatically configure that okay this
is interesting where do you want to get
your upstream DNS from so this means
where will the pie hole get the actual
DNS information from do you want to
Google where do you want it and so it
comes with a bunch of options here the
interesting thing about this Jeff is I
can choose open dns okay and with Open
DNS it has other filters that I can add
to my DNS so it can supplement my
piehole in order to I hate using that
term shut your piehole there Robbie by
selecting open dns I can actually go to
open DNS and let's see open dns dot I
want to say org let's just be sure Open
DNS dot
org yeah so you can actually log into
this site it's a free service and then
you can do things like blocking gambling
sites doing so it can actually
supplement the device that we're
creating it can help to make it even
stronger so I will in fact choose Open
DNS because that will be a fail-safe for
me piehole relies on third-party lists
in order to block ads notice that the
terminology with piehole is all about
ads we talked about what we can also
block things like pornography we're
going to show you how to do that using
the same system but out of the box it is
strictly an ad blocker right so you
don't have to block pornography but
we're gonna show you how to do that at
its base it's just going to block ads
for you just like I've already described
I want to subscribe to all of these
lists that's fantastic I'm going to hit
tab and okay enter it we're gonna block
ads on both ipv4 and ipv6 etting x' as a
static address so it's actually going to
take what the DHCP server gave it
10.0.0.0
set that as a static address now my
router hopefully is smart enough to know
that that address is already taken don't
assign another device to that IP address
if this device has turned off for any
given to any amount of time because 144
is obviously within my DHCP pool which
means my router might give that address
to another computer so you want to make
sure that this is either always-on or
set up what's called a reservation in
your router that's the safest bet but in
this case I'm gonna say yes let's use it
and it's actually giving you that same
warning read the warning okay do you
wish to install the web admin interface
on yeah I want to be able to admit this
thing do you wish to install the web
server yeah I want to be able to
actually get to my admin interface do
you want to log query's yeah I want to
log it I want to know what's going on in
my network you may not need to but maybe
you just want to block it not log it
that's fine too we're using a MMC so
we're not afraid to write things to the
desk right
show everything hide the domains
whatever you know you make the the
choice based on your needs as as dad's
of young kids our needs may be a little
bit different we want to know hey kids
what are you doing on that site right
now you set it for show everything so
nothing's being blocked no no no no show
everything in the logs oh this is a
privacy thing this is like do I want
privacy within the logs keep in mind
this is my server only I have access to
this my wife has access to this if I you
know I'm gonna hook her up with access
to it of course in a network of an
office environment only those who are in
the IT department have access to logging
in that's that web interface how verbose
are the logs
this will show like what computer was
accessing what website because I've left
it as show everything it's going through
it's installing PHP I really don't have
to think about it it's just doing its
thing it's going and going hmm and when
we come back from a really quick break
we're going to be able to actually take
a look at this we're gonna set it up in
our router so that this becomes our only
DNS server for our entire network and
we're gonna learn how to use this to
block pornography as well it's optional
but we're gonna learn how to do it stick
around
[Music]
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cat5 dot TV
slash shirts
welcome back everybody before the break
we learned to turn an au droid xu4 or
any single board computer for that
matter into an ad blocking system using
software called puddle pile
makes sense yeah it really does yeah
it's clever in a way yeah it's clever in
a way
now while the commercial was rolling
there that we had this pop-up oh it's
done Oh make it show it says configure
your devices to use the pie hole as
their DNS server using 10.0.0.0 that's
my IP address for the pie hole device
right okay so there's something very
very important on this screen I want you
to observe its Robbie's DNS server
password okay I'm gonna write this down
it's a capital W the number 8 RPC - well
that's easy 3-3 that's the admin
web page login password it says I can
actually access that by going to
admin now I have a question about that
yeah I know it's your home network IP
but it's not listed as an HTTP is is
there an issue with that
no because it's internal it's not access
from outside ok all right
HTTP signifies that it is an encrypted
connection right so but it's only an
internal it's not something like you
know you're at work and you're not
you're not logging in tough can work all
right
yeah ok you could use HTTPS but then
it's going to be a self-signed
certificate which then leads to people
saying well why am I getting warned that
this is not a trusted certificate yeah
what kind of a self-signed so keep this
internal you don't want your DNS server
outside unless you wanted to share it
but you don't need the administrator
interface on port 80 that's true port 80
is the administrator interface don't
open that up to the web but you could
share your DNS settings DNS server
settings with like family members allow
them to use your DNS
IP address that's that's not for this
discussion that could be done but no
there's no concern there Jeff
so it's done it says its installation
complete see in the red at the top there
so let's zoom out a little bit and let's
actually visit that IP address so
10.0.0.0 that's here about 144 slash
admin here we are Jeff we're in let's
login all right it's asking me for my
amazing password which is w8 RPC 2-3
remember me for 7 days please I don't
have to answer that every single time
alright I'm in so we can see that this
is up and running we're good to go
we don't need to memorize it there we go
nice we can see graphs we can see what
is permitted what is getting blocked and
everything else
nothing is currently being blocked but
there are 112 thousand three hundred and
881 websites that are currently on the
Block list that means that those ads
will be blocked right so let's go to and
that's a low number though it's pretty
huge when you consider it like these are
the ad servers I would have thought
there would have been more though
it's like you could just block Google
Adwords and you've basically just cut
90% of the ads out of all of the
internet that's true really
realistically right Microsoft's media
net is another one so those are all part
of it let's let's go to something like
speedtest.net I want you to see this
here's a great site that is a good
example of a site that see how long that
took to load right look at all the ads
right so that's a site that has a lot of
ads but it's a service that we all like
to frequent well but why didn't it get
blocked I've got a pile all set up did
you not activate it well no it's active
it's running it's up and going you can
see on the screen if we look up at the
top right top left here active right oh
is this because you didn't set your
router to make your D I didn't set
so on my Windows machine here I can
actually go into my terminal CMD on
Linux going to your terminal and type IP
space a on Windows it's IP config slash
all and I get all my IP addresses here
and if I find my neck I can see that the
DNS servers that I'm using are google
8.8.8.8 8.8.4.4 those are Google's DNS
servers so they're completely it's
completely avoiding my piehole entirely
okay
it doesn't even know that that exists as
a DNS server okay so let's let's make
that change I'm gonna actually bring up
my router why would I do this because
that's your router and everything goes
for it everything goes through a Jeff
would you would you want to go to every
computer and change the DNS settings or
or to every phone or every tablet that
ever connect various internet connected
devices at home and ever to go like the
kids bring home friends and connect your
Wi-Fi whatever right but so by setting
it on the router this is the endpoint
that goes out to the internet so
anything and it here's the other thing
it's what serves up your DHCP your IP
address and your DNS information to all
of your computers so by changing it on
the router as soon as the device
connects it gets the DNS information
from the router so let's set it on the
router so that it is for all of our
network yeah so for me it's dd-wrt for
you it may be different it depends on
what device you're using and and it's
gonna be different for every device but
here on my setup screen I'm trying to
get this centered for you folks there we
go
I see static DNS and what is it Google
8.8.8.8 so I'm going to change this
10.0.0.0 and get rid of my secondary so
I need to set that to 0.0.0.0 and it
allows tertiary as well I just want the
one
DNS server so now all of the DNS is
going to pass through dot one four four
okay I'm gonna save that record to my
router here we go
now it's important to know that my
computer is already connected it's
already got its IP address so it already
knows its DNS records it's gonna take
some time for that to flush it's gonna
take some time for it to read get the
new information so you can reboot all
your computer's restart all your devices
and it will probably come good but some
of them cache things right so this
change is not instantaneous on the
entire network no this is something that
ok now it's set now everything here
forward is going to be connecting
through this device it's going to be
using it for its DNS let's see if I can
just simply I don't know if I can maybe
I can just restart my network
connectivity I'm gonna turn off my Wi-Fi
and turn it back on again which is going
to reconnect to DHCP see that at the
bottom there and let's hope that that's
all it takes
there we go let's go into CMD ipconfig
/all ok what is my DNS server it's still
Google C so my my computer still it
still knows that ok IP config slash
flush DNS let's try now now we have a
question in the chat room mo maravilla
and he's wondering should you have your
like the Google DNS as your second DNS
server that without the Pinal ever goes
down no ok your your piehole already
knows to go out to open DNS in our case
or Google if that's what you said if
your piehole goes down it's best just
have it go down if you have secondary
and tertiary DNS set in your router then
it will just choose your computers your
devices will choose one of those three
oh so it's not like a sequential thing
no ok no it's it's going to be just as
traffic as flowing it's gonna be
grabbing DNS settings from wherever so
one minute something will be blocked the
next minute it will not be blocked ok so
we want to avoid that scenario
altogether
let's see if I'm able to get DNS yet I'm
still not seeing the DNS refresh on here
so for the sake of the show I'm going to
manually configure my DNS but keep in
mind this is not a requirement because
I've configured it in my router my DHCP
will start serving that up for me in
some time I don't want to get into how
to flush DNS on every system because
it's it can be very complicated it can
be a little difficult on some devices so
let's let's avoid that altogether so I'm
going to fade to black and you come back
so again I didn't want to show you the
process of doing that because that's not
one of the steps that we need to do for
the sake of the show I wanted to
expedite things by pushing things along
Marsh man in the chatroom was mentioning
maybe we need to restart our router
that's another thing that could kind of
expedite things because maybe it's still
serving up values from the previous DHCP
settings right but know that as devices
start connecting now because I've
removed those old DNS settings and
replaced it with my new DNS settings
it's going to start dishing that up the
other note I like I use mikrotik at the
house
and and on much of my many of my
networks mikrotik are great routers but
I actually had to change a setting which
I made note of in the DHCP client
settings you actually have to turn off
use peer DNS because it will do just
what we were talking about it will
supplement your DNS setting with default
options from your ISP so then it will
sometimes block ads and sometimes not
block ads it's yeah so let's let's get a
real quick look at our computer here so
I've got my settings are now set i've
manually set it but you don't
necessarily have to do that we're just
expediting things let's go back to
speedtest.net and it's done loading
look but wait a minute where's the word
the ads but did you notice how much
quicker the web was there was like
instant it just came up the service
still works just the ads are gone that's
great yeah so that is
fantastic you know it does work I'm I'm
getting full page yeah yeah now we have
a question in the chat room and I don't
know something you know the answer to
it's from you you ghurabaa sorry I said
that wrong
hi is it possible to create some groups
for example some users will see the ads
and others or not is that possible with
this software that I don't know the
answer to okay alright though sorry
something may be to get into the pie -
hole net forums into their community and
ask those kinds of things
I haven't dug that deep into it yet okay
fair enough so all right you got that
far into the hole yep exactly so so
let's get a look at the interface here
let's jump back to our pie - whole
interface and we can see already it's
blocked 65 Wow what that's quick we
brought up one website and there was
only four so or thought so we thought
but what did it actually block like we
can actually look at this now it blocked
this who knows secure us dot I am
worldwide comm z b ZD double click net
that's Google Google Analytics so
tracking me ad services for Google ad
services for Google scorecard research
com
double click net more ads Google tag
services Google tag manager so all these
things are being blocked just from that
one hit 65 blocks just on speed test I
feel like I just on that one site I feel
like we should be loading you know like
one of those Facebook oh yeah you could
like do the experiment do the experiment
at home do the experiment at home and
see how it works for you
so that in its this is complete this is
done mm-hmm this is now ad blocking for
our entire network because every time I
go to a web site or that web site tries
to load assets it's going through my DNS
and blocking things before they're
downloaded so it's faster it's saving
bandwidth it's gonna make things a lot
better that's
so now the next step as we promised was
how can we now take the pie hole device
and use it to protect our family or
perhaps our corporate network from stuff
that's illicit that we don't want them
to be accessing right so we're using the
example of pornography it might be
things like illegal downloads it might
be other you know whatever else now
we've also used Open DNS as our like our
actual source for DNS so we could then
log into them and change as I mentioned
things like we can turn off gambling
sites we can turn off social media we
can get really down to the nitty gritty
but here with our internal device we're
going to block pornography by simply
adding to the available list so if I go
into settings you're gonna see block
lists here and my block lists right now
out of the box all have to do with ad
blocking okay but let's get one that
blocks all well if the block list does
nothing it's it's just a list of
pornographic websites and then our
piehole is going to look at that list
every time anything happens on our web
because it said our DNS server and it's
going to block anything that's on that
list right so anything that is deemed to
be to fall into that category so I'm
gonna grab this from github so I'm gonna
head on over to github calm slash and
Chad Mae field oh I already have it
I guess I've already been there on my
laptop that's great and there you have
it Chad Mayfield slash my - piehole -
block list and the links as always will
be below so if you're watching this
online make sure you check the
description below and you'll be able to
grab the links directly so here we're
just gonna go into his folder called
lists there are two lists here Jeff okay
pie block list porn all lists yep pie
block lists porn top 1 million lists so
pop one mil not 1 million so it's not
the top one it's not 1 million sites
right what it what he's done is he's
taken Alexa results not Alexa
sorry I didn't mean to set off your your
devices oh not that's not the word I was
looking for
but did it what do they call it it is
yes it is okay why did they name at that
I have no clue I know it came first so
it is I'm not gonna say the word again
but the word that just triggered all of
your smart home devices that is a
ranking system on the internet it's been
around since AltaVista days and it is
indeed called that so what he's done is
he's compared the list of all known porn
websites to the top 1 million websites
in the world okay and said okay well if
it's not on the top 1 million it's
probably never gonna come up in
accidental clicking around the internet
so let's just go with the one top 1
million it might be 10,000 sites but
it's going to be like the top ones that
it will block like it's the most likely
you don't have to block all because
that's probably overkill and it
certainly if you're doing this on a
Raspberry Pi that's gonna be a
performance hit on your DNS server on an
xu4 on a rock pro 64 you're probably not
gonna feel it especially if you're using
emmc but it would suggest that you start
with the top 1 million list it's gonna
it's going to give you the the best bang
for the buck now I don't want to click
on this and have a list of bad websites
come up on your screen so I'm just gonna
I'm just going to click on the first
option and then I'm going to click on
raw can i zoom in here would that be
okay maybe yeah well I can so on github
well let's just do it let's let's zoom
way out it's a sensitive subject there
we go
oh can I do it oh but now it's alright
yeah alright so I clicked on the list
and now on the right hand side oh there
it is okay I'm gonna click on raw okay
that's fine whatever okay now grab that
URL okay and then paste it back in here
under block lists in settings now save
now as that has been added yes notice I
push save and not
an update I wanted to just show you that
it's going to get added that's fine so
normally you would hit save and update
now in this case I'm going to update it
myself so I'm gonna go tools update
gravity and gravity being the list of
block domains so now because right now
nothing is being added until I update
gravity so I click that button and it
goes through that list and it creates
all of the entries for the DNS server
and now if anyone on my network using
the pie hole as my DNS server tries to
access any of those sites that are on
that list it will block them excellent
it just stops it it just page not found
okay problem solved
perfect any other things that we could
use pie hole for oh man
you mentioned like games and yes okay so
is I mean I don't know it will this do
specific times of blocking things or is
this all the time like the reason I
asked is like we homeschool our oldest
and so there's been a lot of his
educational programs are online yes so
we don't want to block those websites
and we don't want to block his ability
to research but I've wanted to block
especially I hear where you're going
with this you want to block education
during after hours no gaming so during
school hours
okay the inverse of what I was thinking
but like he uses a lot of dot IO
websites okay and plays a lot of those
games timers no okay however as you saw
here Jeff in my lists if I go into block
list I can disable that save and update
okay so I can actually turn off a list
at will okay right so create a list
create a list of sites that you don't
want your child going to during certain
hours and enable that list at certain
times of the day and then save an update
and you'll be good to go now if it's
just a short couple of sites that you
want to be able to do click on blacklist
and let's let's do it let's go what's
one slither dot IO yes right and then
we'll add that
so now slithery o is blocked apparently
let's find out if it really is
so I'm gonna go into my terminal command
prompt here on Windows and do get close
up for you now let's do a DNS lookup
slither dot IO and then the I'm just
gonna put the note 144
that's the IP address of my server right
nslookup pardon me not DNS lookup I'm
thinking DNS and it's lookup what does
it resolve to the IP address is 0.0.0.0
it does page not found if I try to go
there in my browser slither dot IO this
site can't be reached what what
excellent okay so so now if I remove
that now let's go back oh sorry I just
hit the delete button next to it I
apologize I had the wrong screen up so I
had it here okay now so right now it's
as it was now I'm going to delete that
okay now go back to my command prompt
and let's run that same command nslookup
slither dot IO and notice it's resolving
an IP address now I'm going to move that
up on your screen so you can see okay
so now we're actually getting an IP
address so now if I go there in my
browser it comes up okay see how quick
that was yes floating floating blocked
all the ads okay so you can you can do
block lists like that you can add things
to block list or create your own list
put it on github and then like link to
it or put it on a local server and link
to it that way you can absolutely do
those things no will this work for
things like like games that have to
access to the internet so for instance
say like World of Warcraft okay if you
knew where World of Warcraft you could
block the server that it's connecting to
yeah yeah okay all right yeah unless it
uses an IP address because remember this
is DNA that's right domain name
resolution which most things on the
internet on the World Wide Web use DNS
right okay okay so really the sky is the
limit really is yeah I mean get creative
with it look for lists that are for you
know the things that you want
to be able to do but really it comes
down to okay so we learned a little bit
about how to protect our children from
illicit things on the internet things
that you know that just come up by
accident sometimes - like sometimes
we're doing downloads and all of a
sudden there's an ad that's really
offensive and and and the kids have even
brought it to my attention sometimes
where there is an ad that's really kind
of obscene
it may not be pornography but it it's
something that is offending to them and
that I really as a dad don't want them
to have - yeah I just don't want them to
deal with that right you know what I'm
saying so so I'm able to block those
things and and that's a good thing and
make my internet faster and use less
bandwidth exactly and reduce the amount
of tracking that's happening on me now
this won't stop say like built-in ads on
say like a YouTube feed or something
this is just ads on a web page
yeah well stuff oh no it will play the
video ads so what I mean like you're so
you know the ads that are all
surrounding it right yeah oh yeah this
is not a 100% all ads gone forever kind
of thing this is this is blocking all
the main kind of ads that you see all
around the web you like we saw in speed
test there right just as a good example
all right now and this is just incoming
this isn't outgoing right for like say
for instance you go to Amazon and you're
looking for you know flux capacitors
next thing you know you all your ads
have flux capacitors from Amazon this
only blocks the incoming data not
outgoing ad no idea what you're talking
about if they're on ads if they're on
one of the blocked add servers it's
blocked
no I yes I I meant like the data you're
sending out for the purposes of like
specific a specific ad targeting this
doesn't block that information from
going out to the service it just blocks
what's coming into you yeah again
everybody
I think you're overcomplicating DNS no I
understand that I just from the
capabilities of the software I'm just
trying to point out it's only incoming
it's not outgoing this is a DNS server
so every time my computer or any device
on my network tries to access
such-and-such calm right
so Amazon ads com whatever it will block
it it doesn't happen so if any site is
tracking me or serving up advertising
and is on one of the list that I'm
subscribed to it will simply be stopped
there's no transaction there because it
never downloads it never gets outside of
my network so if what you're asking is
when I go to a website and that ad
normally would actually track me just
from the request so yes add something
dot-com slash Robbie's computer tells it
that hey I'm actually accessing it from
Robbie's computer because it's shared
that information during that request
well the request never happened because
it got stopped at the DNS level so
before it ever left my network it
stopped
that's why the internet seems faster
with this versus the traditional ad
blocker the traditional ad blocker will
will download the ads but then won't
display them this will not download them
will not even allow that transaction to
take place okay because if it happens at
the DNS level makes ups I hope that
helps it does yes all right cool check
out more at pie - hole dotnet and of
course you can get all the links for
everything that we mentioned right there
below
[Applause]
