welcome to category 5 technology TV
episode number 383 for tuesday the 20th
of January 2015 i'm your host Robbie
Ferguson good to have you here nice to
see so many familiar faces in the chat
room and a couple people who haven't
been around lately and a few new people
as well we're gonna say hello to you in
in a little bits time tonight though
we've got a fairly packed show for you
we're going to be speaking with Kelly
lastly in from memories of me Hillary's
actually over in the interview studio
right now getting ready for that
interview we're gonna be talking about
the digital time capsule service that
Kelly has launched in order to give us a
way to reach out to those that we love I
should something happen to us of a
tragedy Sasha's in Jamaica tonight so we
threw the magic of television are able
to throw it over to her Sasha in the
newsroom Hey hi raha hai Ellery awesome
here in Jamaica this is a soulless
history all right
here's what's coming up in the category
5 TV news room the city of Munich has
joined the document foundation advisory
board Linux Mint has announced that a
new pc in its mint box line of pcs is
coming in the spring the myth box mini
Google is ending its sales of its google
glass eyewear German researchers have
built shoe size devices that harvest
power from the act of walking who major
retailers are in Canada are calling it
quits this week in Canada installing
computer programs without consent
consent became a civil offense
punishable by fines and one of the most
glorious near misses in the history of
British exploration beacon to has been
found stick around the full details are
coming up later in the show
this is category 5 technology TV
starring
Sasha donatus
Hillary rumble
Christo wells
and kid
and your host Ravi Ferguson
this category 5 technology TV thanks for
being here tonight first of all I'm not
used to be your way over there how are
you hell I'm under we can hear her we
can't see her but there you go she's
here we're gonna be throwing over to her
in just a couple minutes time category
five TV as a member of the tech podcast
network check them out at five not TV /
and also the American Association of
Internet no the International
Association of Internet broadcaster it's
clear worldwide what am I talking about
it's cat five dot TV / IA ib don't
forget as well check out our mobile
website Doyle gonna have to get over
here so it doesn't find on face MDOT cat
five dot TV scan that code or you can
also burn on your idevice sir chrome on
your android device
your browser thing on blackberry mk5 don
t be big changes to our roku feed this
week you know that last weekend had some
questions about the ability to watch the
live of course that's something that we
really are pushing toward with defensive
devices an exceptional set-top box
online so we've taken the liberty of
making some big changes to the Roku feed
if you're on a Roku device tonight
watching live please let us know in the
chaplain category 53 notes directly
through our website let us know how the
quality is for the live feed now I
understand that on-demand if you're
watching
that live
set of tests where / any pigs will
appreciate that very much so a topic
that is really tough to talk about a
topic that is you know everybody we have
the sense of our own mortality and
sometimes it's you know there comes a
point in our lives where we really have
to start thinking about you know what
should happen what will happen if I'm to
leave this earth and while it's a topic
that is rather sensitive so you know if
you have young kids watching in the room
with you perhaps this is something you
know that they don't want to really
think about mom and dad in this
particular scenario so it's a sensitive
topic but it's something that we do need
to discuss when technology arrives that
allows us to reach out to those that we
love should something happen to us so
Hilary Rumble is speaking with Kelly
lass alene from memories of me tonight
and I'm gonna I'm going to sit back and
let you ladies discuss this wonderful
service that Kelly's introduced well
hello viewers thank you for joining us
we are here with Kelly lastly the
president of memories of me so memories
of me is an online service that provides
individuals with opportunity to to leave
behind messages and and special mementos
for loved ones to receive after their
passing so it is an uncomfortable
subject for some of us and we want to be
sensitive to this but we're also
interested to hear more about memories
of me so Kelly can you tell us a little
bit more about the service and what you
do absolutely the whole idea actually I
got started when my own father passed
away during his eulogy I actually wrote
a dear dad letter to my father and I
talked about you know the different
memories that we had and I started
wondering you know if my father had
written a letter to me would he perhaps
remind me of the time that we play golf
and we got caught in a lightning storm
would he tell me how he wanted me to
take care of my mother his wife of 45
years or what he perhaps have a little
pearl of wisdom that he would like to
share so that's sort of how the idea was
born and I thought you know this is an
opportunity that people before they
passed they can store messages like that
so just imagine for a moment if you come
home from maybe your mother of
father's funeral you know should they
pass someday unfortunately but getting
home and maybe a week later you receive
this joyful message from a parent or a
family member or loved one just how
uplifting and and how warm it would feel
to hear from than just one last time
that would be very special what a neat
idea and a unique and unique service
I've never heard of anything like this
before how does this the service
actually work how do these one go about
getting connected with you it's actually
very easy you log on to the website
memories of me CA and you can register
for free it only takes a few minutes you
register a username and a password and
you can type out the message that you
want to share with the recipients so you
actually start a letter each letter you
can send off to five recipients that one
letter and you can also upload a photo
that you'd like to send with it okay
well that seems very easy i actually did
try making account and it took like two
seconds so yeah it's very user-friendly
excellent that way so why would people
perhaps use a service like memories of
me versus hand writing a letter and
hiding it in the drawer of their desk
that sort of thing but that's a great
question and actually I've heard of
story after story of people who do have
a handwritten letter but people move
letters get forgotten houses
unfortunately burned down or they
succumb to accidents and the letter can
be lost I also checked in the idea of
maybe a safety deposit box because you
could always put your letter or your
items into a safety deposit box but even
a safety deposit box I mean they charge
a monthly fee if you use the example of
a 30 year old who plans on being around
to the age 100 then you have 70 more
years x 12 months a year which adds up
to thousands and thousands of dollars so
they were very vile viable and actually
a very cheap alternative for people who
want to send their their their final
thoughts and memories
interesting so you mentioned before that
people can send one letter up to five
people is there an option to write
multiple letters absolutely absolutely
you can buy as many letters as you like
really the first letter that you
purchase is a hundred dollars and you
can send it up to five recipients each
additional letter that you purchase is
ten dollars ness so your first letter is
a hundred dollars your second letters
ninety dollars and your third letter is
eighty dollars and so on okay so maybe I
send one letter and I want to send it to
my five closest friends that might be my
first letter on my second letter I have
four children so I might purchased a
second letter and send it off to just my
four children right because quite often
the letter that you sent to your friends
will differ from the letter that you
send to your children or your sure yeah
for sure the content would differ for
each relationship you've had up to
silver the lifetime so yeah that's a
cool and every letter that you write you
have the option to upload a photo and
send it off to those recipients as well
okay so how do you ensure that people
receive the letters and how do you I
guess verify that someone has indeed
passed and it is time to send the letter
absolutely well that's a great question
built into the website is a notifier
system so when you have an account with
memories of me you will ask somebody to
notify us of your death so the easiest
people to notify or have notify is you
know a good friend of yours you can also
have your lawyer who does your will or
your pee away you can slip a little
notice into that file ask them to keep
it there and then when they open up that
file to distribute your estate they see
the letter and they'll notify us are
also fear the sort of individual who
free plans their funeral you can lead
the letter with your a good funeral part
with your funeral and they will notify
us that you passed we recommend that you
have at least two people to notify us
just so we can be sure right now we'll
verify that you have in fact passed by
calling the funeral home where your
arrangements are being done or checking
with the newspaper and once you're deaf
notice has been published we know it's
safe to to release the messages so in
the event of say like a nun time
death you weren't anticipating hopefully
family members would be able to access
that individuals email to see that
they've registered or if they hadn't
made the arrangements prior like to let
the right channels know I suppose
absolutely well the the bottom line it
is important if you decide to utilize
memories of me that you have somebody to
notify us and we can make sure that your
messages get safely off to their
recipients very wise and just to rewind
a little bit how long have you been
doing this for well I actually started
about a year ago I had the idea i did
some brainstorming i had a few focus
groups with different people in the
community that might want to use the
service also with some complementary
businesses such as funeral homes and
senior services and just just to see
what they're feeling what their feedback
was it was all all very positive because
it's quite a unique service that hasn't
really been done it's very any guy I
know I have never heard of anything like
this before we're actually talking with
Kelly laughs Celine from memories of me
an online service like a digital catan
capsule to send messages to your loved
ones after their passing so if you want
to check out her website in particular
its memories of me ta but you can check
out our site cat5 TV / mom m om memories
of me and that can direct you as well if
you're interested in checking it out and
having a peek it's a very user friendly
site i have checked it out myself i
signed up very easy very cool unique
idea so i have a question some of us
were watching are fairly tech savvy
users what would you suggest for those
who are not so internet savvy leg say my
grandma or grandpa that's our thing um
how should they proceed maybe working
with a loved one who's more cop so how
do they could maybe if they know
somebody else who is also set up an
account with memories of me they can get
their assistant I know I'm pretty
tech-savvy myself but if I need some
help I always go to my daughter who is
it to nature that's always an option
if you have any questions right on the
site there's a contact us form all
perfect and there's also a 1-800 number
so we beat we'd be happy to help with
any questions or concerns you have yeah
so when a letter is these letters are
typed these are not handwritten and
scanned they're like a tight email your
database stores thumb and then sends
them out via email or prints them and
send it as a letterer yeah how does that
work yes once we are notified of
somebody's death we would of course
verify it before we send any emails out
and it would be sent out via email and
yeah as I'm sitting here I can imagine
you know somebody at their computing
there might be just a little bit
startled to see that all of a sudden
they open up their email so in fact
there would be a little bit of a caveat
so if you open up your email after
somebody passed you would get a message
that states you have a letter for you
from memories of me and there'd be an
opportunity for them to click on a
button to see it so they have a moment
to think about you know who's who's this
loved one that's passed do I want to see
this or not no that's a good um that's a
really good idea because that would be
potentially very shocking to receive it
you know it could be here so that the
email reads from memories of me
initially and then the option to open it
hmm actually you know what in my my
chats it it was suggested to me another
really good use for the letters is for
information when my father passed away
it would have been nice if I had
received a letter from him but now I
only have one surviving suppose of
course my mother and it was recently
suggested to me that that would be a
great way for them to disseminate
information the average internet user
has what 20 or 30 different usernames
and passwords so that's a sort of things
that you could include in a ladder my
mother for her part I don't even know
what bangs she bangs fence so it's a
great opportunity for her to tell me
which bank she's with maybe what her
account number is her passwords maybe
she could tell me the name and telephone
of her account and there's there's no
end of information that she could share
with us like me and my sister of course
her other daughter
after she's passed let's another useful
letter that could be written that's
actually a good idea but one thing that
comes up to me is is in terms of like
security so like if someone is saying
all this personal information how like
do you ever see a letter like you just
see a file that comes to you you would
never see the content well actually
there is uh there is a rather lengthy
terms of use and service and in a
nutshell you have to be 18 years old or
older to use the service and you cannot
say anything that is harmful or
malicious and constant content so there
is a point where we would go through the
information and make sure that there's
nothing malicious before we sent the
documents out okay and then in terms of
storage because I know some of our
techie friends are probably wondering
like could i hack could people hack into
your site people like the tech aspect of
the storage of that information well I'm
going to try and do my IT providers and
justice here and trying to explain it in
my non tech version as best as possible
but we have an ssl certificate it is a
secure website and I know that he worked
very very hard to make sure that the the
password I think I'm saying this right
that it changes it sort of morphs every
time somebody logs in so it cannot be
hacked into it's virtually it's
impossible to hack into there you go
that's I know you're all wondering this
is sensitive information and not even
just like you know bank account or
whatever potentially but like heartfelt
things and you wouldn't want people to
compromise that so absolutely can i
interject erinc over here addy at the
other guy again the the reason I want to
interject is because I am a little bit
more technically knowledgeable about
this kind of thing and I had the
opportunity well when when Hilary signed
up for the service I was given the
opportunity to actually see the content
of the transaction as far as the
database and goes and what memories of
me is using is a cryptographically sound
algorithm that is based on each
individual user's account so
the way I understand it is that for
example if somebody were able to
compromise your your account by say
knowing your password that password
cannot be used to access anything else
within the system so what that means
from a hacker standpoint if I may
interject is that if a hacker were to
compromise their database they would not
be able to decrypt any of the
information that is stored
cryptographically in the database
because they don't have the decryption
keys I didn't get to see all that but
there are multiple decryption keys one
of which is specific to the user account
whose data is being encrypted so from
what I could see it's very well thought
out and probably better than most banks
and certainly sony pictures so many
pictures could learn a couple of things
from you guys that's all I have to say
well there you go Thank You Robbie for
clarifying that because I know people
are now we're always hyper sensitive and
aware of things that could go wrong so
anyways that is good news you guys are
good to go very secure site that's
wonderful i'm glad to hear that i have
another question actually i noticed on
your site you have three local charities
listed with the option of the user to
donate i forgot you said five percent
five percent of the proceeds of the sale
to that particular charity yes which i
think is a really cool idea i was just
wondering potentially in the future is
there way for other charities to try to
opt-in to your service and absolutely
yet no memories of me wants to be a good
corporate citizen so we do believe in
giving back to those charities for which
perhaps somebody's passed from i believe
the charities include the Breast Cancer
Society of Canada Alzheimer's and
there's one more Gilda Gilda thought
that's correct thank you the hospice
care if there are other charities that
would like to be recognized on our
website we'd be happy to post their logo
and have a percentage of the proceeds go
to their charity because I mean we we
want to be good corporate citizens and
we would like to help stamp out some of
these awful diseases that lead to some
people's death
great idea I I think that's an excellent
idea Thank You Larry are there any other
tidbits you think people should know
about your site on why choose you over
it why again it's like a unique service
before um to have any last minute
thoughts you want to throw out there Oh
wha thank you for that I I think if you
look at this standpoint from cost alone
if your cost minded you should know that
a safety deposit box over the course of
well if I'm a 30-year old and I want to
live to 100 another seven years of a
safety deposit box is going to cost me a
lot of money there are websites that a
little bit similar to ours but a little
more macabre maybe a nature that have
tried it and they charge a subscription
base and again 70 years of my life x 12
months a year that's 840 months times
even as low as three dollars it's uh
it's a lot more than we are yeah so and
we'll take care of you if you sign up
with memories of me I would love for
users if they do nothing else when they
go on to the website if you would please
check out the slideshow and maybe you
give you a flavor of the kind of joy and
happiness that we would like to to share
with your your family and friends yeah
Robbie just pulling up the website here
I just saw a little sneak peek of that
so yeah definitely check out their site
memories of me dot CA and you can find
out more information by checking out
cat5 TV / mom memories of me Thank You
Kelly for joining us and for sharing bit
of your passion and a great idea for us
to explore thank you for so much for
having me back to you Robbie thanks for
me thanks Kelly this is category 5
technology TV and thank you for joining
us tonight triple w category 5 TV hey
we've got lots of viewer questions that
are over here waiting for Hillary we're
going to go through the mail bag in just
a couple minutes time but as Hillary
makes her way back to the the studio
desk we're going to throw over to to
Sasha who is in Jamaica tonight hey
Sasha it's Tuesday january twentieth
2015 and here are the stories were
covering this
week the german city of munich wants to
help shape the future of libre office so
they've joins the document foundation
advisory board the mint box mini has
double the performance of its
predecessor and will fit in your pocket
goodbye Google glass we barely knew you
imagine being able to generate power by
walking that's what's being developed by
a team of German researchers who plan to
use the technology to power self-lacing
shoes target is closing all its Canadian
stores not even two years after moving
here Canadian auntie's anti-spam laws
have made it illegal for programs to
auto-update without your consent and the
british-built Mars rovers sent to mars
in search of signs of alien life was set
to land and never heard from again now
eleven years later NASA's got eyes on
its whereabouts these stories are coming
right up don't go anywhere introducing
Beltone first a revolutionary new
hearing aid so small you can hardly see
it so comfortable you can hardly feel it
for the first time ever you can control
hearing aids directly from your iPhone
pick up the phone listen to music and
use your hearing aids like wireless
headphones hear everything that matters
try Beltone first for a free trial call
one eight hundred Bell tone now
i'm sascha through madison here the top
stories from the category 5 TV news room
the city of Munich has joined the
document foundation advisory board
Germany's third-largest city has a long
history of using open source software
much of it well documented more than
16,000 pcs of public employees run the
open source linux linux operating system
and the city makes heavy use of Libre
Office and it's open file formats the
role of the advisory board is to provide
the document foundation with feedback
feedback on how the software is being
used what features or improvements need
to be made providing assistance and
initiatives community projects and
marketing and providing donations to
further development and outreach
companies pay an annual fee is a member
of the board the exact cost of which
varies depending on contribution in the
number of employees with fees starting
at five thousand dollars and topping out
at twenty thousand dollars as a heavy
user of the LibreOffice productivity
suite the city of munich's contributions
will be invaluable in helping to guide
the project towards even greater
usability that is great news Robbie my
goodness who knows what it'll bring yeah
we'll see we'll see good Linux
awesomeness no more Linux awesome
awesomeness Linux Mint has announced
that a new pc in its mint box line of
pcs is coming to in the spring the mint
box mini the new box continues the
distros long-standing partnership with
israeli computer manufacturer compu lab
which began with the release of the
original mint box pc back in 2012 that
was followed the year after by the more
powerful mint box to a device which sold
out in Europe on its Amazon debut last
year the mint box mini is five times
smaller than the original mint box and
is barely an inch tall like the previous
editions the new model is fanless with
the case design working as a passive
cooling system previous mid box models
had a very distinctive look but if we
can be critical of anything with the
mint box mini it
utilitarian design it looks like a
little dsl modem wearing and aluminum
shed that said something this time he is
going to be easy to hide away if you
want the mint box mini offers twice the
performance of the mint box to in a form
factor you could slip into a pocket
inside it out and am da for 6,400 tcp
you which is a 1 gigahertz 64-bit and
boasts four cores it also has a radio on
our 3gp you four gigabytes ram and a
senha 64 gigabytes solid state hard
drive that is a lot Robbie yeah I'll say
I could make a nice little web server if
you ask me with those kind of specs you
could host a website on that would be
screaming fast let alone what else you
could do with it as a desktop but yeah I
slipping into your pocket I just love
how absolutely tiny it is and that don't
use a lot of power to write you think
about the fact that this thing you think
I I think in terms of web servers and
things like that and services and but
the amount of power that a full-size
server uses versus a little solid-state
device with not even a moving part yeah
how how excellent and then one of the
problems with servers is if they
overheat right so if it's that small
it's got to be easy to keep cool you
would passive it's aluminum so it's like
a heat sink right so that what's a
comparison I guess if you've seen the
inside of a computer you've seen a heat
sink but like chips will have like an
aluminum fin on it that draws the heat
away from the chip right yeah so the
whole computer is based on that kind of
passive cooling system yeah looks pretty
good that is awesome the mint box mini
will be 295 dollars when sold to the US
and 295 pounds shipped in Europe not bad
a portion of the sales will go to
supporting linux mint and cover the cost
of the whopping five year warranty since
these are gonna be sold five years Wow
five years whopping five years these are
gonna be sold on Amazon we should add
these to the shop category five dot TV
so if you want one once they're
available why don't we do that that
would be great maybe I could get one
over
view it for my show area perfect little
device for tribal yes Google is ending
sales of its google glass eyewear the
company insists it is still committed to
launching the smart glasses as a
consumer product but it will stop
producing glass in its present form
instead it will focus on future versions
of glass with work carried out by
different divisions than before the
Explorer program which gave software
developers the chance to buy a glass for
fifteen hundred dollars or nine hundred
ninety pounds will close the program was
launched in the united states in 2013 it
was then opened up to anyone and was
launched in the UK last summer it has
been expected that it would be followed
by a reasonably befall of reasonably
quickly by a full consumer launch but
from next week the search firm will stop
taking orders for the product but it
says it will continue to support
companies that are using glass the
things learned from glass will be used
in the development of
yet-to-be-announced future products from
google several companies have launched
smart glasses and various other forms of
wearable technology but no single
product has yet proved to be a major hit
that technology companies are looking
for as they seek out the next big thing
google is tried to present this
announcement just as another step of the
evolution of amazing innovation but make
no mistake Google glass is dead at least
in its present form I'm not really upset
about this because I wasn't all that
impressed by google glass truly honest
but if you had spent the money to buy
one thinking that it was going to evolve
into a more popular project mm-hmm and
then it's basically dead i would like
wearable technology that put people
around you at ease because people
wearing Google glass or even people
wearing like a a watch that takes
pictures or video yeah makes me feel
really uncomfortable like as soon as I
see somebody with one of those watches
on I think to myself oh you were
recording this conversation right and I
never had a conversation with somebody
with Google glass on but i'm pretty sure
that i would feel like they were you
know
recording me yeah I mean and it's kind
of one of those things it's like the
bluetooth headset it was a fad you've
got to wear it but then you realize that
okay don't wear it all the time don't
wear it all the time and Google glasses
is no exception to that rule yeah yeah
that's true i just i serve people that
wear the bluetooth earpiece and i have a
really hard time when they're kind of
looking off knowing whether or not
they're actually okay Julia can tell you
story i grasp it I was in the shopping
center and you know i'm i'm an outgoing
guy and I don't mind you know conversing
with strangers and stuff and this lady
was walking by and she was talking
awareness I said I'm sorry I didn't hear
you what did you say something like that
and she says oh this idiot just started
talking to me randomly just talking on
this bluetooth he's just walking around
with a bluetooth headset yes like come
on there was a commercial about that
about people in a grocery store having
exactly that awkward interaction that
happened to you actually it actually
happened to Robbie so this is why Google
glass is like an ear hit but I'm a mess
so here's a great invention that I would
like as a waitress German researchers
have built shoe size devices that
harvest power from the act of walking
the technology could be used to power
wearable electronic sensors without the
need for batteries there are two
separate devices a shock harvester that
generates power when the heel strikes
the ground and a swing harvester that
produces power when the foot is swinging
both energy harvesting devices generate
power by exploiting the motion between
magnets and coils as the magnetic field
of a moving magnet passes by the
stationary coil a voltage is induced and
an electric current is generated the
energy they generate is still relatively
small in the three to four milliwatt
range at their peak that's not nearly
enough to charge a smartphone for
example which would would typically
require about 2,000 milliwatts but it is
enough to power small sensors and
transmitters opening up a range of new
applications so I wonder what sort of
applications you could have on something
that
like small energy wise you couldn't
charge a smartphone but maybe you could
monitor a heartbeat or something oh yeah
maybe a like something like pacemakers
or things that are you yeah monitoring
yes fitness exactly uh I use the word
stuff cuz I don't know the technical
term fitness stuff I don't you know
referral I don't know anything about
fitness stuff come on but you know why I
at the cottage we've got a flashlight
with one of those magnet with the coils
and you shake the flashlight and it
charges the battery and then you turn it
on and you've got your flashlight you
don't ever have to replace the batteries
on on the flashlight so it makes sense
right you know what actually makes sense
to be honest that in mind is if you had
like a little light on the bottom of
these shoes that when you were creating
energy instead of having one of you know
joggers at night they have to wear all
of those reflective doodads so if you
had like robots we say to the kids the
kids we joke that they your runner you
look like a robot yeah and if you're
with like the kids old flashy shoes
right but if you had something that's
sensed when it was dark then you know
you know alert any of those flashy shoes
though my kids have those flashy shoes
and once the batteries are dead their
garbage right as far as the flashing
goes because two kids that's important
so if it stops flashing it's no longer
any good so something like this all of a
sudden it is able to self charge right
how perfect is that so this is this is
the information this is what they're
going to do with this new technology
clovis you leaf from h.s GI MIT a
research center in Germany said the
swing harvester was developed with the
intention of making a self-lacing shoe
for the elderly way to go Marty but yeah
way to go the shoe would detect when a
user stepped into it and lace itself up
as well as open up again one required
hopefully the harvesting device would
generate the energy for the closing
mechanism details of the advanced are
outlined in the journal smart materials
and structures this is just really
positive great use of new technology I
love it it's so simple I and it's
something that we've been waiting for
for some time from Back to the Future
self-lacing shoes and you
oh that's lazy but no wait for the
elderly the perfect or somebody was like
a real bad like back you jack thinking
yeah mobility issues in any way right so
not just the elderly but even you know
ports injuries and stuff and stuff and
stuff hey I know all about sports
injuries Oh meanwhile in canada two
major retailers are calling it quits in
canada target canada announced on
january fifteenth that it will close 133
stores across Canada the US based
retailer launched in Canada in March
2013 too high expectations unfortunately
due to numerous problems such as higher
prices and less selection in Canada than
the u.s. it never established itself in
the Canadian market due to higher prices
and less stock yes you know what if I
can just say one of the problems that i
had with target coming into canada is
that they bought Zellers which is a
chain that we grew up with and they shut
them all down and people were out of
work so it really felt like the u.s.
coming in and shutting down our stores
so I don't think it's about stock and
those kinds of things so much as boy
maybe an unspoken boycott of everyone
who loved the H like the Hudson's Bay
Company though right okay so here's a
funny story about how passionate and
patriotic I was young when I was younger
so we had a fairly well-known American
big-box store move into Barry and I
boycotted it firm there for years or
maybe even five after it moved in and um
I sort of similarly did the same thing
with target I thought to myself it's
American I can just go down the street
and get all my stuff from and then I
realized that I have become so used to
shopping at Walmart that I've now turned
it Canadian in my head sure and as the
donut don't get us wrong there's nothing
to do with America you know anything
like that it has to do with the business
practice of Anna
and companies and shutting them down
putting their people exactly like my
people who are close to me family and
friends who had worked with Zellers for
so many years all of a sudden losing
their work after after so many years of
faithful service with the company yeah
yeah absolutely it has nothing to do
with the American companies it has to do
with you know losing the Canadian waters
yeah consequently the company lost about
two billion dollars over two years the
closure meet the closures mean 18,000
employees will lose their jobs many of
targets locations were formerly zeller
stores meanwhile sony canada also
announced it will shut down all its
doors over the next six to eight weeks
it has 14 stores with three of them in
the lower mainland I'm surprised they're
that small Johnny used to be a like the
sony store was a big deal we may be in
the day it's true yeah I am i but I
can't remember like I can't think of the
last time I was in a sony store which is
funny i guess they must have been paring
back slowly it's hard when you're when
you're a brand when you're a specific
brand if if like think of any brand and
say let's open a store that is specific
to that brand while it's a premium
priced brand and everything you know you
go to a big box store where there are 10
different brands to choose from and you
can choose based on quality and price
versus walking into a store where
everything is one brand and you have no
say in the price or the selection the
japan-based company has not released a
statement explaining why the stores are
being closed the closures were announced
in the wake of the much-publicised Sony
Entertainment hack linked to the release
of the Vancouver shot film the interview
hmm interesting all right so who knows
maybe the interview caused Sony did I
don't know that there's actually any
relation with Sony Pictures yeah I don't
know all right this week in canada
installing computer programs without
consent we became a civil offense
punishable by fines under the new
regulations that form part of canada's
anti-spam legislation it is
now illegal for a website to
automatically install software on a
visitor's computer or an app on your
phone with to be outdated without first
obtaining express consent from the owner
or another authorized party hmm that's
good I think that's great yeah I mean
except that if you're going to be sort
of malicious anyhow you're probably not
going to listen to the rule that you
ought not to be you know you're not I'm
saying like but I suppose if there are
fines in the hope is that they're going
to be able to crack down on it but how
many of these websites that are
distributing software which is going to
be malicious if it's installing itself
without his permission and without your
permission anyways who else would do
that but malicious users how many of
them are based in Canada and subject to
our Canadian for Yeah right you're not
canadian websites most likely right does
it really have an impact but it might
just set the ball rolling right yeah the
updated rules are designed to protect
Canadians from the most damaging and
deceptive form of spam and online
threats without interfering with
legitimate businesses the revised rules
are targeting nuances such as adware on
PCs and rogue apps on smartphones false
or misleading representations of
products or services are also prohibited
under the new regulations Canadians are
encouraged to report suspected
violations of Canada's anti-spam laws to
the spam Reporting Center at fight spam
GCC a your place to go finally a ways to
go to report it I wonder if this it
would this have any bearing on say
Facebook and you're using the facebook
app and you click on messages and says
you need to have such and such add up
but I guess if you consent and say okay
if you don't then you don't get the
profit of the ability to send messages
so I guess it what good is it really
it's all just legislation of people who
are not actually users who don't
understand the technology and how it
works and they say oh it looks good on
paper you have to consent to install
this stuff but it really does nothing
people blindly consent the things all
the time anyhow I know when I watch
people download apps they just didn't
even read through what they're agreeing
to and they just can
pages and pages of it exactly well the
good stuff is hidden in the fine print
all right one of the most glorious near
misses in the history of British
exploration beacon to has been found the
british-built beacon to began its fall
to Mars on December nineteenth 2003 it
was expected to land on the red planet
on Christmas Day and began its search
for alien life and begin at search for
alien life but it was never heard from
again the aliens may have found it now
high-resolution images snapped over the
last two years by NASA's Mars
Reconnaissance Reconnaissance Orbiter
shows the probe essentially to just
where it ought to be within three miles
of its target landing location it also
appears intact good job so what happened
the theory base the theory based on the
images is that one or two of the probes
four petals holding the solar panels did
not deploy mission manager professor
mark Sims says without full deployment
there would have been no way we could
have communicated with it as the radio
frequency antenna was under the solar
panels that's unfortunate i wonder if
the antenna was not placed under the
panels whether or not even without the
panels it could have been communication
there must have been a reason like it's
protecting it or something like a shell
yeah and then it's supposed to open up
but it didn't open up the antenna can
pop up it's too bad sales any like
there's a Oh pepek fail as a kid say
yeah while the probe can't be brought
back to life professor Sims claims this
is not the end of the story they plan to
do more imaging and an analysis but
since the probe is intact the team can
be proud that they in fact were the
first to successfully penetrate Mars's
atmosphere and land on Mars even if they
couldn't continue from there so
congratulations and way to go you've
done it yeah the NASA website says that
it was a failed mission but technically
technically based on a technicality you
landed on Mars yeah it's good way to go
it completely not fail congratulations
you get at 50
well you got all the way there you
landed you go through the atmosphere a
forever accomplishment for sure for all
your tech news with a slight Linux bias
visit the category 5 TV news room at
newsroom category 5 TV for the category
5 TV news room I'm Sasha taratus
enjoying the Sun in Jamaica thanks Sasha
this is category 5 technology TV you'll
find us online at triple w category five
dot TV hello I'm Robbie Ferguson I'm
Hillary rumble gay world here we are
we're at our desk now and what a show
away it's been a great show busy show
fun fun fun I used to see so many people
in the chat room I was saying to the
chat room there as sasha was telling us
the news because roku is still
experiencing some little glitches here
and there we're working on that we
really really really love you roku and
roku users we want to make this as good
as possible so if you're watching live
on a roku stick around for about 15
minutes after the show and i'm going to
stick around with you we're gonna have a
little after show parte which is really
just neat week instead settings and
you're gonna be my guinea pigs we're
gonna see if we can get this thing
licked all right so join me the chat
room category five on freenode and fire
up the live feed on your roku and we'll
be able to hopefully hopefully work this
out and next week we'll hear good
reports right of course perfect that
would be terrific would be thanks for
your monotonous input that would be
terrific it would be due else is
terrific what is it answering people's
questions I love it it makes that I'm
happy and it makes us happy knowing that
we can help you first question coming to
us from strayer a striker is there a way
to embed a youtube channels upload feed
on a website using PHP embed a YouTube
channels uploads feed on that website
using PHP nice
that's a great question it is a great
that's an interesting question we've
been we've been doing a little bit of
programming on the show and what's
interesting about this question is what
he's asking for specifically is a
server-side way to bring in YouTube so
we're not talking jquery or youtube and
beds or anything like that we're talking
about actually pulling it into PHP on
the server and then you can do whatever
you want with it because it's server
side right so you can generate embed
codes you can generate whatever you like
should we try to tackle this we've got
about 14 minutes to the show so if I can
do this in 14 minutes then I am
basically the champion I'd say what do
you think being of the world right here
champion there was only a song for that
that was not copy written okay I guess
I'm gonna do this hill all right I'm
ready I have for you I have officially
jumped into my temp folder so that's
great watch PHP dash dash version I've
got PHP installed awesome so I can use
this as a test bed so we don't have to
do anything else alright so let's go
touch my file dot PHP okay so we've just
created a file called my file dot PHP
let's edit it gonna do this in the
terminal haha how do you like that i'm
using the nano text editor because i
love how it has color eyes ations and
all that kind of stuff so we're going to
create a file that does stuff so hey hi
there you go I've created the file I've
saved it by hitting control oh you can
whatever you can use a text editor you
can use you could upload it to a server
and use however you want to do it I'm
just doing it this way because it's fun
and it's really really fast watch this
PHP my file dot PHP hi it says now if I
because that's what I told it to do if i
add a PHP end of line there it'll
actually wrap the line okay so we know
that PHP is working on my system I can
start working on stuff so what do we
need to do we need to look at the
the output of the YouTube API the
application programming interface api
api alright so let's do it so how do we
do that well we'll go to google and
we'll do a quick search for YouTube API
add video or no we don't want to add
video we want to look at the users
videos users video video feed types
second option there okay here you go
there's the link that's easier just use
google ok videos uploaded by a specific
user we're going to use the API to get
that and you'll see that it gives you
this URL for the JSON or XML response so
if I copy that URL and paste it into my
browser and then change user ID to the
user ID of the user that I want so let's
say category 5 TV now we get this
disgusting output of now this is not a
JSON output you notice that it's XML it
is but how can you tell because it's
just such a it's minified it's sloppy
crazy so I've copied that to my
clipboard ctrl a ctrl C then I'm going
to go back to Google and I'm just going
to go XML pretteh fire Britta fication
fortification is a word that we use to
make something pretty new it's like
making it pretty so first option that
comes up is XML beautifier that sounds
good let's paste our XML into there
because that's gibberish and impossible
to read and let's beautify it any
beautifier pretty fire will work but you
see what that did I have cleaned it up
we can see tlk yep that's obviously nice
clean XML now so you see now that we've
done that that it did load category 5
technology TV cool right and if I scroll
down you'll start to see episodes of
category 5 TV there's episode number 382
viewer question extravaganza
it's got the description it's got the
files got the links it's got about
everything right how cool is that that
is cool PHP at least some of the the
newer versions includes access to
creating Dom objects which is fantastic
I don't want to go into what you know
the technicality of what that means but
basically simplifies the ability to pull
data from other websites especially
through XML because that's what the the
DOM is is going to be doing so what
we're going to do is we're going to now
now that we know that the API is able to
generate this one xml output we're going
to take this into PHP and do something
with all this data look at it all right
that's basically all our shows in her
life it is right there is this real life
okay so you see that there's my URL for
the API and all I had to do was just
paste in category 5 TV / user ID so I'm
gonna copy that to my clipboard I'm
gonna go back to nano and I'm going to
create a new string called dollar sign
URL and in ' brackets I'm going to paste
in that URL and end it with an
apostrophe semicolon do not fear i will
upload the source code for this to the
web and you will have access to it
through the show notes of episode number
383 okay carriage returns so now what do
I so now I've got the URL that we know
contains the xml output of the YouTube
API for the category 5 TV channel now we
want to actually load it into the Dom so
first we have to create a Dom object so
we're going to go i'm going to call it
RSS and that is going to become our
object now we're going to go new domme
all lowercase document semicolon okay so
we've just created a dom document in the
object RSS now we're going to actually
load the feed so we go dollar sign RSS
and then what are we going to do we're
going to load dollar sign URL
so we're loading the data from that xml
output from youtube nice and easy right
so now let's create an array we're going
to call this one our feed and we're
going to say that this is just an empty
array because we need to define that
erase that we don't generate any errors
and let's loop through now that we know
that RSS is now you know containing the
information i'm not sure but if i do
this let's see what happens yeah so see
that output it to the terminal because I
printed RSS to the screen so just so
that you can see that that's the same
data I've loaded it in okay now feed is
just an empty array and the reason for
that is because we're going to create an
array that is going to contain all the
data from that Dom object hmm it sounds
so fancy but you see how easy it is
right on the screen like don't don't let
the words that I speak throw you off
look at the screen it is so simple look
at that it sounds fandangled but it's
actually really easy and so let's that
now we've already learned about for each
so we're gonna do a for each loop right
that's a loop and we're going to loop
through RSS all right we want to go
through and we want to use the the Don
command get elements if I can type and
talk at the same time get elements by
tag name now this is important we need
to know what are we actually looping
through so we go back to our prettified
source code here you won't have to do
this step because I'm going to do it
right now and I'm going to have the
answer for you it's going to be the same
for any feed that you look at what we
want to go through is the by the ID
entry ok so that's the actual of the tag
name is called entry and then that is
going to be one video and if I scroll
down you'll see the end of the entry and
then another entry and this is another
video this is 381 now and if I scroll
down it's going to close that entry and
open another entry and that one it is
now 380
ok so we're we're going to loop through
the tag name entry in the Dom ok back to
our code here so that is so that's why I
need to define that out now that we know
it we're going to say entry ok so that's
what we're going to go through make sure
that I've got my syntax right looks good
and we're going to call this node so
we're defined it we're saying ok as we
loop through we're going to put the data
into an object called node so now let's
actually create our feed item we're
going to say dollar sign item equals
array like that and I'm just kind of
facing things out in nano so that it
makes sense and i'm going to call this
title right and so i'm going to actually
create that from the node of this off of
this object so i'm going to say dollar
sign node remember I'm looping through
so node for every episode is going to
contain that episodes data so i'm going
to say node get we've already learned
this elements by tag name remember what
that does it's the element by the tag
name right it's pretty straight forward
speed then what do you want to do get
the elements by tag now that makes sense
ok so let's find out what the tag name
is in our entry we want to grab the
title because that's what I'm creating
right so oh its title that's easy easy
ok back to our editor title title it's
French it's we are from kinetic Canadian
so take tell we'll fix it so says title
because that will actually not cause a
syntax error now this is where things
get kind of weird you got to say item 0
because we want to define which item of
the result we want to post in there is
only one and one the first item in PHP
is always 0 counting doesn't start at
one it starts at zero so the first item
is item 0 ok and then we're going to use
the node value of that you know I'm in a
race so I don't put a semicolon so the
node value that I am pulling from all
this is going to be a sign
to title in the item array okay so now
if at the end of this I go and I say
print our dollar sign item notice I've
created feed but I haven't decide
anything to it yet let's play clear my
screen here clear command clear there
okay that's why I didn't work my file
dot PHP okay so did you see that it's
358 securing WordPress is what print our
dollar sign item is and that's because
it ran after the for each so it's the
last one okay okay if I put that and
inside the loop it would output a whole
bunch of them so we just did that to
test and make sure that item works oops
okay next line now let's say we want to
grab the URL because that's important to
us right what am i doing sorry I hit
delete by accident there we go because
remember we're creating an array here so
the value of this array is title and URL
those are the keys and now we're going
to go dollar sign node we learned this
get elements by tag name how much time
we got hell we doing okay you got about
two better here to Dan alright so what's
the link what's the link there it is
link can I just use link let's try it it
has a bunch of them can I just pull one
let's see what test check link item 0 no
value okay outside of that print our
dollar sign item and exit
parse error you are what did I do oh
forgot a comma I know I know punctuation
saves lives it could definitely could oh
boy this is intense yeah we don't have
time to really pull all the information
that we want to do but you can see where
I'm going with it right this is a viewer
question I will gladly finish this code
but what I can what I wanted to do what
I was hoping to do I'm just gonna pull
back and just say okay we're gonna get
the title so I've demonstrated yes yes
you can grab it through PA nice okay in
that loop we need to now assign dollar
sign item two feet dollar sign feed
right we already created that array but
how do we do that I i need to actually
um i need to actually set that up right
let's pull it up I just want to get my
syntax correct don't worries we're good
are we wow really we could go all night
really who's gonna stop us the viewers
love it they are eagerly waiting to see
what's going on here so no worries we're
good okay prevent our double our slang
feed notice what I did is I did an array
push of dollars to an item into dollar
sign feed so what that does is it just
depends over and over and over again so
now my array contains all that stuff so
you can see with PHP now I'm gonna be
able to pull that data I can then parse
it I'm gonna figure you know you can get
the URL get the video file whatever you
want from the data we're completely out
of time that was an awesome question
love it good question and I hope that
I've been at least able to demonstrate
yeah this is doable it might take a
little bit of tweaking here and there
and figuring out the XML structure and
what tag names to use especially when
you've got the rel
the various roles for each tag so we'll
work our way through those but well have
fun happy programming yeah thanks
everybody and few great time tonight
nice to see you and thank you so much
for being here tonight for the flight I
think people should send in more
questions more fun stuff for us yes I so
keep them coming this email you like to
receive emails she loves emails people
live at category 5 TV if you want to
send an email get it into us your
questions are always welcome we love to
hear from you and that don't get stick
around after the show's manager on roku
live
crazy lady until they jump up with the
interview tonight yeah very well done oh
thank you how to be the man hair and all
the work that you do and thank you at
home for watching the show hope you have
a fantastic week don't forget to check
out our website category 5
hair red shirt captain argento
we hope you enjoy the show category 5 TV
broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven pm eastern
if you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV check out the local
show times in your area at category 5 TV
and find out when you can watch live and
interact in the community chat room
category 5 is a production of prodigy
digital solutions and is licensed under
creative commons attribution 2.5 canada
we'll see you next time thanks for
tuning in
