welcome to the pixel shadow I'm Mangal
Fox MD ever since the big ice storm that
hit Ontario Canada a few weeks back our
Internet at the studio has been hit or
miss so last week we had to forego the
pixel shadows since we couldn't connect
to the web but we've got a new internet
provider and we're ready to go tonight
we'll get right into mind test we'll see
an incredible automated bread baking
factory and learn to craft food to keep
us healthy in the game stick around
we've got a great show welcome to the
show
our community has been hard at it
building some really cool builds across
our creative and survival server Nathan
s21 decided to document one of his and
created a fun walkthrough of his
automatic bread mill not only is it fun
but also neat too to see the power of
machine building and - his mill
automatically cultivates we grinds it
into flour bakes the bread and dispenses
it for sale in his shop which
automatically opens during daytime let's
have a look at this the video you'll
notice the doors have now opened that is
attributed not attributed that is
achieved by using these Messick on solar
panels which send a signal to the doors
so when it is light out the doors
automatically open when it's dark they
closed don't worry if you're inside in
the doors close on you we have these
pressure plates here that'll open the
doors as well so if you are on the
inside and you want to leave you just
step on all special plates and the doors
will open for you if it's nighttime you
do have a little flower or a bread shop
here in the corner one dollar will get
you ten loaves of bread now of course
you're seeing my interface here because
again I placed it you would not see that
kind of the screen then we have some
little signs here telling us what to do
such as let's here pay with wheat place
seems another trust first other chest
being this one right here place week
first you'll lose the weeds anything
amount of wheat is you have seeds here
we tells it tells us we'll get one bread
for every wheat seed in the chest over
here this one tells us take your cooked
bread and thank you for using your
service and then this one tells you
check out the locker behind the scene
look so let's let's try this out okay I
have 13 wheat seeds so I'm going to need
to place 13 pieces of wheats so I'll go
ahead and put 13 pieces of wheat into
this chest as my payment now this is
going to operate with a little system
setup here you can't really see too much
of it from this window but we have a
blinky plant there and a item wise
filter injector which is pulling wheat
out and then it pulls all the seeds and
then the seeds turn into bread now this
is actually not 100% really cooking
those seeds you're putting in you're
actually getting out different ones than
the ones you're placing in you can kind
of see the machinery from up top here
you know there's a liberal of pipes and
injectors and detectors and wires but
you know what
seeing as how I'm a service personnel
let's take a behind-the-scenes look
we'll go right through here where it
says service persons only please keep
your hands to yourself and do not touch
any of the devices we are not liable if
you are injured wounded or died while on
this tour all right so I just how to get
that disclaimer out of the way my legal
department told me how to do it
so here we have our first chest that's
where we put our wheat the blinky plant
here every time it blanks sends a signal
and pulls one piece of wheat through as
the wheat flows through it sends a
signal to the somatic on wire which
signals this itemise filter injector
which sends one wheat seed when a wheat
seed travels through this detecting a
pneumatic segment it sends a signal to
this injector which should be preferring
the bread type but uh isn't oops
and every time it gets a signal it is
sending a loaf of bread up in there so
we put 13 season here our seeds are now
all gone and 13 bread are available for
us to take now the way I stay in
business doing this because obviously
this all cost me I had to build
everything here the wheat that you use
to pay goes into this auto crafter once
I get four pieces of wheats I get one
flour
flower runs through this pipe work
system right into the furnace here
furnace ejects it out into this chest
here probably for loafs of bread that
somebody takes through and cooks I
gained one loaf of bread in my machine
this is how I can sell bread at low
prices
because I am basically making bread as
my money that video was filmed on the
pixel shadows shadows survival server to
watch the full video click here now it's
time to get into some of my bills today
we're looking at my restaurant and I'll
be showing you some showing you
something you really need to know before
our extreme PvP survival server launches
how to craft boot as you can see here I
was in the game while I was saying well
that what I got timed out I'll probably
be timed out quite a lot today before
the show
I've already been timed out about five
times maybe
here we go
okay so this is what I was pointing at
before I was I was timed out so this is
what I was pointing out when I was
talking but this is what I've made most
of you can know what this is he right
over here is saying mangle is command
and as you can see the spawn is right
here so when you spawning that's the
first thing you see and then the
villager here is saying yes and I have a
far reach so today I'm on the creative
server just for a bit because there are
some really neat things that I want to
show right here I'm gonna skip past it
because it might take a little bit but
um one of our fellow users named
speckled lady has been building some
quite impressive build slightly let me
just find it including a t-rex a snowman
a ginormous pickle things like that it
is hilarious
let me find it okay here over here so
I'll turn off fuller interview and
that's so this is the Snowman he is
amazing I could never build something
like that so he's got some he's got hot
chocolate I think he's got it with a
candy cane he's got a scarf with um
icicles on it that's just amazing I
could never build something as good as
this we also have the up house which a
lot of you probably know what this is
and I need to update my mentis the fence
texture is a bit broken but inside she's
decorated it with quite a few things and
if you see her online she's magical
pickles with a cape this is basically
what her skin looks like so she's a
derpy pickle with a cape so pickle super
pickle cape you go closer up to this
with the journalist pea
really good and then as you can see over
here there is ginormous tree Rex she has
she's used the cave rooms teeth for that
and that looks neat let's go check that
out
and yeah so she's built lots of things
and I'm pretty sure this is by her to
this Rapunzel oh wow let's see what's in
here shall we
Rapunzel's speckled lady
okay so there's a random piece of leaves
not quite sure why but this is the
Rapunzel castle this is amazing I would
not have the patience to build something
like this oh my goodness what is this
what is this from Rapunzel oh my
goodness
that was not expected some sort of
lizard dude oh my goodness that's freaky
let's go check out the top
really nice doesn't appear to stick out
at the top it would be really cool if it
did it's like the tail was hanging out
that would be really cool but otherwise
she's built quite a lot of very
impressive things I would not have the
patience to do anything like this any of
this sort so she's done a really good
job now we're gonna go over to survival
show you some good crafting recipes on
how to craft food and stuff and show you
off a restaurant me and a few other
friends have helped participate building
this as you can see here is the
restaurant we have chairs all over the
place
and a Tetris machine and awesome as most
of you have probably spotted we have two
chests this is owned by tots food for a
sale with 50 apples and Dan below in the
chest is fit only one mine goes no for
one food so I have quite a lot of food
but in this video today I'm going to
show you how to craft every last one of
these items so yes so I have rainbow
juice which is actually a really good
recipe it I have soda I have meat I've
apples orange juice red apple juice
baked potatoes Bulls chocolate powder
chopped cocoa beans dark chocolate and
oranges tomatoes and every single kind
of food that you can possibly get
that I could probably that I could crash
there are a few types of soup and I have
sold out of a few foods but the soups
need water buckets which aren't odd with
what currently do not have recipes on
our server and the other foods I have
sold outim so if you see it if you
notice foods that aren't in my chest
then it's probably either uncraft a bowl
at the moment or I have sold out so let
me go back into the restaurant and
search up 50 there is quite a lot of
food so I'm going to make every last one
so in order to make a purchase you will
need a drinking glass and an apple so
I'm gonna collect all of these items I'm
not gonna get it out of my chest or
anything because that would be too short
of a video I'm gonna make every last
piece of food the way it so sticking us
let's see how you craft
okay so I'll do one and that'll get me
14 drinking glasses with all of the
glass now let's go to MIT let's go find
enough
if we come to the bits that take a lot
of apples I might take it from the chest
because there are quite a lot of apple
recipes so let's make apple juice so
that'll get you four apple juices with
one drinking glass and one apple juice
so let's make this all into apple juice
and we have 32 from only from only eight
apples
and one two three four five six seven
glass so let's see how to make a baked
potato so cooking a potato so in order
to make a potato you need one apple
wonderful so I probably have dirt on me
7:30 oh my god and let's find another
absolument as well just grab a stack
enjoy but the other teams are trying god
it's just hard to find out those cookies
let's grab stacks of apples you're going
to put these drinking glasses away and
so yes so let's make as much as these as
we can so we can make seven baked
potatoes let's go back into my house and
smell these bad boys out baked potato
one baked for tuna so these are really
good recipes if you're in for food the
move and there's a really good piece of
food that I'll get to at the very end
that kills every single hunger point yes
every single hunger point and it has an
amazing recipe it might seem expensive
but it really isn't okay the next thing
we dabble so let's make some of those
cuz I collected some clearance
off-camera
so let's just make all of them into
bowls because I don't really need clay
at the moment clay you can find in San
um in sand under the water so they just
look they look like sand but gray then
let's see if we can make butter bucket
of milk nope because there are no
buckets to craft but let's make cactus
juice a cactus and a drinking glass I
put away the drinking glass let's just
make some more wine on then let's go
find a cactus if I don't have one on me
already I might I do not think so so
let's go
Wyatt why are there apple trees
everywhere I do not remember these
someone's been spamming the click button
with so those saplings they're
everywhere
so I know there's a desert biome over
here so we can collect some cactus if it
hasn't already been collected just a
little one nice house over there
well those guys are freaky whoa
that's neat minecart track but it
appears to be no cactus cacti it's
disappointing oh wait not now this is
protected this is Earth farm and whoa
that's cool I like that let's find an
unprotected bit to have cactus I think
he collected it all and then started
throwing him
dang it looks like there's some more
i find a huge desert file yet it doesn't
have a single cactus anywhere just mossy
cobblestone
when
not fair
seem to take a long time to find the
awesome the violins that you need and
now the world won't generate generate
generate generate generate please just
generate my time I finished recording
this video I'll be 80 years old where am
i heading mother really is this the same
one how did I not see this this is a
different nose is this a different one
no I think this is the same one so how
did I not spot that single cactus cacti
oh well good thing I spotted it before I
went miles let me go back to it
if I haven't shown you this is the
mansion I probably already shown you
just my brain hasn't arrived in there
today okay let's make some cactus juice
or at least try to so that gave us 16
cactus juice let's try and get myself
really hungry so that we can see how
much stuff actually does Cakes chicken
egg chick let's not make that so I don't
have that in nature let's make let's
make nope let's make tangent
a bit expensive if you're low on apples
but I think it's a fine recipe cheese
nope you need butter but you can do
let's make some cocoa greens
let's make it's made twenty one two
three four five six seven eight
see I told you there would be a lot of
Apple work let's make a bunch let's make
this whole into chocolate bars and then
to my cocoa powder you just have nine of
these but there's really nothing you can
do with it so I'm not gonna craft that
cuz I this is really no point for
something that can't do anything with I
don't even think you can eat it
milk chocolate takes milk but we can't
get milk because there's no buckets
let's make an orange orange is from five
desert sand so let's get ten because if
there's orange juice as well so we're
gonna need some quite a bit so one two
three four five five six seven eight
nine ten
hopefully I counted that right this is a
pretty good location for food there's
quite a lot of apple trees around and
desert one I should have done all in my
inventory is full what can I get rid of
I'll get rid of beans okay the next
thing is orange juice which is just an
orange and a drinking glass so let's
make for those next pasta I don't have
any chicken eggs and it takes forever to
get chickens to find chicken so let's
not do that now you can't make soup yet
ya know let's see if I'm really for yes
no I wouldn't be surprised if I got
timed out again No look at my character
that's just so freaky
emotionless robot demeaning actually
kind of cool though annoying all right
we're back into the game hopefully our
guys in frozen and let's just put myself
into finally let's resume where we were
so I was showing you how we can't make
so chicken soup is from uncooked shoes
since you take meat of all but two water
buckets but you can't get a bucket so
it's really annoying say anything like
this need to water buckets which sadly
we can't use sugar is from Pepe rose and
tomatoes is for
get back over here
Oh little tiny sand bunny
he was so - well if he was
oh we can make a warning tomato and I'm
not getting very hungry for you
eagle eyes out there you have probably
spotted the one that I haven't shown off
let me get out of this so that you guys
who didn't notice yet won't be able to
see it anymore so let's find out
as you have already heard before I told
you that whoa you can't even read
coca-cola on there because of this ooh
spooky
but what this food does it shows every
single hunger point and the recipe is
definitely worth you guys have probably
guessed if you know lots about this mod
but it is rainbow juice 1/9 cat rainbow
will make an entire stack of nine of
rainbow juice so all you need is a
drinking glass and a nyan cat rainbow
will get you 99 rainbow chose nyan cat
rainbows aren't too expensive if you
think about it let's get this it's one
rainbow block which is crafted from pink
dye brown dye yellow dye green dye blue
dye violet dye a piece of stone and mez
crystal and then obviously the this mod
dope can't remember it's cult and yeah
and then you need a dying buck a wrought
iron dog a copper block a bronze block a
gold block in this block a silver block
and a Miss thrill blocked we'll get you
a nine captain before you can just find
it as you can see I have 42 9k rainbows
i cloned
don't tell anyone okay okay so let's get
herself really really hungry so let's
prance around hopefully don't die and
fall damn it hopefully we won't die from
smack fall damage but let's try and get
herself hungry and oh I should try this
this is my automatic wheat farm let's
see how far this is a
last time I checked this was two weeks
ago it hasn't gotten one why isn't it
growing why
see if there's a block above it looking
skies
hopefully not that'd be nice but it's
been like that every second of every day
what what on earth why won't it heart of
it anyway this is one of my farms in
none of my plants have been growing so
strange okay let's get ourselves hungry
shall we and maybe show off some things
on the way try and skip this but let's
try and get down to what no hunger
whatsoever so I'm just gonna Prince
around in this water if I find something
cool I'll show you over here is tea
Smith's little place new garden cool
deep cavern need this cool whatever is
behind it and I can't get up and down
turn get up so they're so much as whoa
that's a lot of stuff I'm just curious
most don't in my quarry is finished so
I'd better get some rest okay
let's show up the amazing dirt house
owned by I'm not sure these by check the
area in a second I can't get in
help me it's just a dirt house it's very
interesting and it no I have frozen
again maybe I'll just eat the rainbow
juice while I can but you get the idea
before I get timed up I'll try to end
the video anyway the rainbow juice will
fill all of your hunger points and you
get 99 from a single nine get rainbow
block which i think is definitely worth
it if you do not have enough resources
to make more than one nine cap rainbow
to use for decoration but if you liked
this video then please subscribe to join
to join our channel and comment what you
like if you found any more fits that I
forgot to mention I know I forgot how to
show how to make bread I know I did but
I'll probably get timed out again I do
not want that to happen I'm really sorry
about the internet problems and I will
see you in the next video goodbye
