world backup day yes that's the Saturday
can you believe it's here upon us
already March 31st every year is the
year that we geeks celebrate your need
to back up perhaps there should be like
backup day a month but world backup day
once you personally should have backup
day once a week maybe but definitely a
day to remind you it's like you've got
to change the batteries in your fire
detector your smoke alarms right exactly
site detector you do that when you the
clock goes forward and back right right
yes I also flip the mattress of my life
in my bedroom there you go you do that
so you change the alarm batteries we
flip the mattress I've got a pillow top
so I'm stuck I'll rotate it how's that
okay yeah perfect and and we're also
going to make sure our backups are
working exactly don't just backup twice
a year
but make sure twice a year that your
back is working I moved everything off
of my laptop onto a USB flash drive that
is my backup and that is very common now
some of you or say oh are you focusing
on me here because I'm you know that I
did that I know a lot of folks who have
done that okay so it's our
responsibility to educate you as to what
a real backup is okay so a couple of
things that we need to think about how
you're backing up how often you're
backing up how many copies of your files
exist what's going to happen if say the
worst happens your house burns down
right and all your computers are
destroyed what's gonna happen here data
and what is going to be lost or also
here's something that a lot of people
don't think about Sasha mm-hmm what is
the process going to be like if I ever
have to restore from my backup good
question and there is a very good
question because a lot even companies
will have exceptional backup systems in
place and then not have the security to
protect them against ransomware then
ransomware hits and they're down for
weeks right and thousands upon thousands
of dollars in IT hours
and so we've got to take that approach
okay so first of all how are you backing
up
can I ask you personally can I ask you
can it be a rhetorical question is it
weird that I don't I assumed that okay
okay so where where is your data that's
maybe that's the first question here's
the thing okay this is going to sound
hoarse is not a good start this is not a
good sir okay I know the importance of I
know the importance of backing up but I
also know who I am and how I survive in
this world isn't generally on your
intelligence and capability okay so
every week I'm gonna say sash I have you
backed up this week where is your data
think about that where are where are the
things that mean the most to you I have
I think Google where Google now is it
your phone my phone does a backup thing
it does a backup thing let's go to the
last question which is how onerous is it
to get the files back should you have a
crash just these are some of these are
rhetorical questions just so that it
makes you think I where is your data it
is on my on Dave's computer okay yes and
on my phone the same data some of the
same data some of okay not I don't okay
so he backs up he backs up some very
important files this is he's better at
this than I am sure okay but he backs up
to an external hard drive but it's also
still in the apartment okay so that
takes us to what if there was a fire
where is your data right it is in the
same place same physical location as the
original files now if we were in the
apartment at the time of the fire then
but but say say we were at least the
external hard drive is easy to get right
but but we are we probably weren't there
because definitely not it that fire was
not our fault so we were not there
no after setting the fire you ran that's
right yeah we couldn't take anything
I would never burn my place so this is a
question that you have to ask yourself
and and that is a horrible scenario that
we we do not hope on any of you but it's
a good reality check for us to say okay
where would my data be if this happened
if the worst happened what's my option
it's more about it's not where should
your data be or what you know what
services should I subscribe to or what
software should I use it's more let's
get into the mindset of understanding
how a backup actually works so a backup
is never a backup unless there are
multiple copies of the files that mean
something to you so if for example
you've taken a bunch of photos and
videos with your phone all your family
pictures and everything are on your
phone and then you transfer them on to
your laptop because you want to back
them up right but then they're on your
laptop and not your phone that's not a
backup it's not bad okay if they're on
your computer and then you transfer them
to an external hard drive and now
they're only on the external hard drive
that's not a backup similarly if you do
have two copies you've got one on the
laptop and one on your external hard
drive but the external hard drive is
plugged into that laptop 24/7 and
sitting on the desk next to it also not
a back not a backup I can answer I know
what is not a backup yeah more times
than not people move things off of their
computers to free space you'll buy an
external hard drive or something you'll
transfer all the files on to it never
thinking that this is now the lone copy
and it's a drive that could easily be
tripped over it could easily be dropped
and if it has spinning if it's a
spinning drive like a terabyte or two
terabyte or three terabyte drive is
gonna be a spinning drive it's not a
solid-state drive so when you move it
you can feel that centrifugal force as
you move it have you ever had that
feeling where if you pick up a moving
heart on hard drive it's moving mm-hmm
so that's a spinning hard drive and if
that ever got bumped while it's spinning
if it ever got dropped while it's
spinning you are going to be hard
pressed to get the data off of that
drive because it's moving at 7,200
rotations per minute and there's a
little teeny-weeny needle that's
floating on an air cushion just above
the platter right okay and there are
actually several of these little needles
and they use magnetic sensors in order
to read and write the
from the hard drive flash and if they
touch if they so much as just touch that
drive 7200 rotations per minute think
about that how fast that is if it just
touches it's not going to just touch and
then pop back and keep going hunky-dory
no right it's gonna edge a big circle
right into the platter surface of that
hard drive I picture this like somebody
walking with like two full cups of
coffee right and trying not to spill
those coffees like that's hard enough
right do you know okay this is your data
so fake so we have to have multiple
copies I'd recommend that you always
have an off-site copy
now if off-site like through the
internet is not an option for you
because that can be pricey you've got to
have storage and you've got to have the
bandwidth in order to do it you can
simply go get a consumer hard drive yeah
an external hard drive copy the files to
that hard drive and put it in a safety
deposit box or take it to work and put
it in your desk drawer and do that every
single week or month depending on how
much information you want to lose should
the worst ever happen always have at
least two copies maybe three of
everything that matters to you okay
buy two of those drives and then you can
just swap them back and forth and take
one off-site and leave the other one at
home that's what you need to do mm-hmm
any other quick questions for me as we
move on I want to see next week you're
gonna say I backed up everything that I
have I feel like yeah yes another common
just a commonplace thing USB flash
drives plugged into a computer moving
the files on to it they get broken
somebody trips over the computer drops
the laptop and breaks the USB port and
that happens more often than you want to
think so definitely you know just make
sure there are multiple copies okay that
is key I want to hear from you I want
you to comment below let us know how
you're backing up what is your solution
to this problem mm-hmm and what would
happen if where your data is was to burn
down right that's what we want to ask
ourselves that's what we want to know
and if this just quick little chat has
helped you to realize that hey maybe
I've got a
something different about my backups and
you actually take action please comment
below comment on our website comment on
our YouTube channel let us know what
what it is that you put into action and
how you're backing up and if you have
any questions or need advice just let us
know I'll probably do what you're doing
[Music]
[Applause]
