welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w dot category 5 TV
or email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's give here's your host Rob a
Ferguson welcome to episode number 187
of category 5 technology TV is so nice
to see you it is Tuesday b19 april 2011
yeah we're single one it's literally
spring and we had snow that was fun
wasn't that great I'm Robbie Ferguson
see ya nice to see you too I guess I
guess how about we have a look at what's
coming up in the new simulator great
alright so the makers of Star Trek are
raising money for a new film in an
interesting way Oracle plans to continue
development at open or of openoffice but
strictly as a community project google
video to vanish from interwebs at the
end of the month ftp is 40 years old and
still transferring files like a transfer
protocol in its 20s cisco is shutting
down the flip video camera business and
will offer you a new way to pimp out
your starship with real-life laser
weaponry so stick around and we'll fill
in these stores and about half an hour
cool i just happen to have a starship
not really not shocking actually this is
this is not quite a cardigan i was a
supposed to be tonight's I failed the
first annual buttons can't cardigans
button yeah they can button look it up
on Wikipedia well then it's a cardigan
is that is that good I don't want any
cardigan sufficient of course that does
they uncovered it dude daddy come on who
else is wearing a cardigan with me if
you've got your cardigan tonight bought
me an email I want you to take a picture
with your cell phone or your
whatever it is your digital camera take
a picture email live at category 5 TV I
want to see you wearing your cardigan
tonight and i will give you 100 viewer
points just for precipitating
precipitating participant I just that
was a purposeful mispronunciation are
you sure yeah just great for those of
you in the pattern hmm bauza all right
lots going on tonight we are gonna be
looking at I don't know if it's part 6
or part 7 of our future in my web
develop most part 7 get enough
technically part 60 I know because the
last was a little bit yeah choppy as far
as how that went we'll talk a little bit
about that and and where things are at
we do have lauda known as joining us
from I for I they are a a company who
took Microsoft to court and actually won
in a patent lawsuit where Microsoft had
infringed on their patent and they were
awarded in Texas 290 million dollars i'm
going to be talking to their chairman in
a few minutes he's very very busy
because they were just in supreme court
with microsoft yesterday morning and so
we're expecting his call sometime this
hour so looking forward to talking to
him uh all right we can check out chat
room say hi to everyone over there
category five dot TV is the place to say
hello to us nice to see everybody mr.
Rogers well hello there neighbor we were
talking just before the show about how I
should do some different accents during
every broadcast that's not even close to
zero
I was a good day I'm the Australian mr.
Rogers then still scared well it's all
about the cardigan fan tastic hey and if
you have no clue what we're talking
about cardigans it rhymes with partying
did you know that before you just said
that was that planned yeah i was happy i
could find out more a cat five dot TV /
tuesday it's tuesday you should
celebrate by going over there we are are
well on our way two thousand million
views at camp five dot TV tat / tuesday
with our hot new dance video 586 views
so far that is still close to our goal
we are so very close to our goal it gets
better every time better every time go
get your cardigan sit down with a mole
cocoa and enjoy the video timeless any
questions right off the top in the chat
room we welcome your questions category
5 TV if you're on freenode you can also
catch us in the category 5 chat room on
freenode just kind of give you the
chance to say hey and if you have any
particular questions right off the bat
I'll mention while we're waiting for for
our call in from Loudoun last week we
had some pretty major issues with that
with our broadcast system as you know
and it's it's a hard time for a show
that that doesn't charge for its
services when when something goes wrong
that requires hardware replacement we
did get a quote we got two quotes
actually three quotes if you count me go
onto the mac store you didn't as i
actually I went to the mac apple website
i was apple com and i went through the
store process and i got the quote from
is that just so you could rub it in my
face it was really expensive for what it
was so i actually took
what I got from the Apple quote and got
a quote from dell and HP to see what it
was going to cost and we are looking at
an expense of almost three thousand
dollars Canadian in order to get things
up and running to the point where we
need to be and it is because of our main
broadcast system which we've been using
for the past about four years is
unfortunately at at the end of life and
that means you know it's it's at the
point where I've talked to several
people and said what do we do do we you
know try really really hard to diagnose
the the many different problems that
we're experiencing it is a hardware
issue do we you know do we replace
individual parts only to find that we've
put fifteen hundred dollars into this
and we're no closer to having it fixed
so everybody's recommendation does seem
to be it's best just to replace the
hardware at this point it's it's failing
or failed and so that's where we're at
so but in the meantime now we've been
able to get online with a temporary
system by stripping down the amount of
things that we're able to do we can't do
green screens we've only got one camera
things like that so so I would encourage
you you know I don't usually ask for
donations but I do encourage that if you
have the means to do so category five
dot TV welcomes your donations to help
us to afford the replacement of that
server you can go over to cat five TV /c
and that'll take you over to the
donation system nice to see everybody
joining us in the chat room nice to see
Hillary who is here with us tonight cool
and yeah I'm hoping that we hear from
our argent from I for I I wonder if we
should get into our our series and and
come back to it when he calls probably
do that I yeah we could probably manage
that it's just a little curveball good
evening keep your eye on your toes
anyways uh-huh yeah so it'll be a skype
interview so cool thanks everybody in
the chat room John
thanks Chris Reich who says people of
Earth greetings and also Robbie F cheers
nice to see everybody ok another comment
about just when it comes to supporting
the show and things if you're not able
to support us financially there are
banner ads on our site do click on those
if you use something like adblock plus
please also add an exception for
category five dot TV as well as play dot
cat five dot TV that would be great and
then that way our banner ads will come
up they're not intrusive and it helps us
when our banner ads come up there we go
it's my spiel ok doesn't get you feel
thanks good at the same time I'm also
clicking on skype comments new things
i'm hoping the interview comes in but in
the meantime as we wait for that let's
jump into web development number seven
as we continue on in our series cat five
dot TV / web dev is the the site that
you want to visit and from there now we
didn't get too far with our files last
week so i didn't i didn't make any
uploads to to last week's that folder at
this point i will there will be files
for episode number 186 unfortunately due
to the corrupt files and things there
was a lot of other things on my mind but
let's take a look at where we left off
looking at our style sheet we were
working on our left area of the header
i'm going to bring up index dot PHP and
we're going to continue the development
of this website that Krista and I have
been working on for the past seven weeks
so yeah it's been seven weeks and that
was your first sight so Krista's been
with us for seven weeks cuz I put up
with me for a long time yeah impressive
put up with you
she's so hard to do it a lot meaner
before their show oh she's terrible
before the show throwing things and
stuff and that's probably why the
servers broken you can't and stuff yeah
that's okay I'll be the scapegoat she
hasn't really all right
talk amongst yourselves for just one
moment and the reason for that is
because we do have this interview that
is coming in this evening and answer so
i need to actually be clicking around
here at the same time here we go
hello this is category 5 TV we're live
on the air oh hi lab okay good to hear
your voice uh we we didn't get a chance
to get loud in the sound check so loud
and I'll just get you to give me a quick
sound check well we're well we're on the
air here sure one two three four I for I
there you go do you have video sir I do
would be fantastic we just see what I
can do here this is a lot of no one who
is joining us he's the chairman for I
for I software company in Toronto we're
gonna find out all about about them in
just a moment here as the video there we
are it's coming in pretty good great
nice to see ya it's now we're just we're
just getting started with the show so
we'll just kind of throw right over to
the interview here Loudon and one of the
things that obviously we'd like to
establish is some of our viewers are
wondering what is I fry software or I
for I I should say and what is it that
brought you to the place where you know
it back in 2007 you are filing a lot of
rather substantial lawsuit against
Microsoft probably the right they like a
software company in the world sure I
craw is a it's a software company based
in Toronto the company has been a leader
for many years in structuring
unstructured data and we have a patent
which was issued by the united states
patent and trademark office the USPTO
and issued in 1998 and it's
affectionately referred to as the 449
patent and our patents it became clear
to us some years ago that our patent may
well be infringed by Microsoft so the
next step for us was to get some
assistance look into it and it
culminated in litigation against
Microsoft by I fry we filed and in 07
and we received our judgment in 09 and
it's now made its way all the way to the
US Marine Corps so we we see in the
media and everything loudoun that your
small development company are a small
company in Toronto how about how big was
your company before this all started
well that's interesting first of all
we're not necessarily a small company
we're a very large company but were in
our growth phase I see in the early day
when they say small they're probably
saying small compared to the giant that
you're up against unquestionably yeah
and the company at earlier iterations in
earlier stages had reached about 150
people we had to downsize or about 30
people today but we work with an
extensive group of systems integrators
and partners around the world so it's a
it certainly is by any measure in
comparison and Microsoft a smaller
company yeah for sure compared to
Microsoft you'd say that about pretty
much any company that I can think of so
after now in 2009 we've all read about
it came your first I guess you would say
a rather substantial victory in Texas if
you could tell us what what exactly
occurred there after you started going
through this process in 2007 to take
Microsoft to court and to get them to be
accountable for their infringement on
your on your patent well I will give you
a sort of snaps August what happens the
first thing that happened was we had
pretrial as one does and then the trial
itself we were victorious in in the
Federal Circuit Court and it was based
in texas we were given award of damages
of two hundred million dollars then
there was a post trial hearing and the
damages were increased based upon what
what they call in the u.s. enhanced
damages based upon the conduct of
Microsoft and if you added the other
interests and frenchman interests and a
variety of other factors it grew to
approximately two hundred ninety million
dollar so it's a very substantial amount
of money mm-hmm but in a different
uh we were granted an injunction yes
prefer using our technology in word so
Microsoft appealed it went to the
appeals court they appealed the appeal
to the appeals court Microsoft fought
for a reexamination in the Patent Office
and there was a very extensive
reexamination which was successful for I
fry all of the any aspect of the patent
was reexamined all of the claims yeah
were held to be valid Microsoft has
filed for a secondary examination that
was denied by the Patent Office they've
appealed it and then they went all the
way to appeal is to the US Supreme Court
so you're right we were at the US
Supreme Court yesterday so backing up
just a little bit loud and just too so
the viewers can further understand what
exactly has happened with I fry and
Microsoft how did like what is it that
they did within Microsoft Word that
actually infringed on on your software
patent and what exactly did your patent
and tail well the the what what its
referred to as custom XML within the
Microsoft universe and within Microsoft
Word so really what we're talking about
his custom XML was introduced in 2003 in
word and that was after having very
extensive discussions with I friant
being well aware however the company is
what the Pat wasn't what it represented
yeah and then in 2007 word 07 it was
introduced across the board so it became
a integral to what Microsoft was trying
to do in enabling word to be this great
powerhouse going forward for helping
people structure unstructured data and
they try to end what happens visually we
realized that there was an infringement
you never know if there's infringement
until you actually see the source code
right so far we were and Microsoft not
surprisingly doesn't offer people a
chance to see their source code right so
we had to go to court we had to start
the action and then during the during
the case we had access we didn't but
experts at
access to the source code near able to
see were the the custom XML components
and were able to certainly to the jury
satisfaction we're able to confirm that
Microsoft was indeed infringing they
were also held to have Whitley infringed
meaning they knew about us they knew
about the patent and it was done with
Lee so with you you having established
this patent in 1998 that's correct and
then they is the neck and they listen
just so you know it's me I have to run
very very soon I understand so I'm gonna
probably have to take off in about a
minute sure because we're still in the
eff is immediate area I understand just
before before you have to go loud and
I'll just ask just quickly what would
you know if Microsoft does win the
supreme court battle that you have right
now or if you win what kind of impact is
that going to have on the patent system
and also what can our viewers do too to
stand up for for the patents that that
should be honored by the courts hey
that's a great question i like the
second part in particular which
interestingly enough nobody's asked so
far the first part is to the
implications are very very broad and you
know if in criminal law somebody
proposed changing the standard from
beyond a reasonable doubt to well flip
with a coin if you're guilty or not I
think you would see the upheaval that
would cause would be momentous and
really what's happening here is
Microsoft is trying to do the same thing
in the patent world so what may seem
like an hour cane legal point about
evidentiary standards and it doesn't
always get people's heart beating any
faster doesn't get their pulse racing
but I think if you put it in the context
of it's akin to changing criminal law
from beyond a reasonable doubt to flip
with a coin so what Microsoft has asked
the court to do if you want to as a
defendant invalidate a patent at trial
to have a standard which is now called
preponderance and that's really a coin
toss that's a
lands on one side of the scales of
justice and then the patents proven
invalid for a long time well back in the
19th century it's been a different
standard a stronger standard which is
clear and convincing evidence so the
implications from this are really quite
quite massive in our view and if you
look not just at what we're saying but
what our supporters said the people had
filed briefs on our behalf and that
included inventors innovators
universities technology managers the
venture capital community large
companies small companies through the
National Small Business Association
that's 150 thousand small companies and
you look at the the Giants 3m GE Pfizer
Merck etc all the companies have filed
on our behalf and then of course most
noticeably the US government the US
government's filed on our behalf so it's
not just I for icing this it's all of
these amica supporters saying the
implications are that it would reduce
innovation it would take away the
enthusiasm of people to go disclose
their inventions there are two things to
do when you invent something keep it a
secret rely upon it as a trade secret or
disclose it and as your viewers will
note when you disclose it you tell the
world so the world has access to your
inventions your technology and now they
can do whatever they want with its
subjects very important subject to
complying with the terms of the patents
in a limited period of exclusivity so if
this change occurs it's going to be far
less useful having a patent because
you're going to have a great deal
difficulty knowing if you can enforce it
right people can have to think very long
and hard if they should actually
disclosed and I think in many many cases
people will not disclose investors will
not invest people not have the
confidence to go forward dedicate years
of their life right to inventing and I
wonder what that with JD open sore toe I
would think that the other horse
community with the open-source patents
on on certain items of software that
that could be detrimental as well so
what can our viewers do loudoun to to
help innovators such as I for I to be
able to stand up to
to the big players like Microsoft well I
think depending on religious persuasion
you can certainly you can certainly pray
and hope that we win at the US Supreme
Court and hope that the law which has
been in place since the 19th century
continues right a different approach to
it and I think a more direct approach is
to be very watchful and weary and be in
touch with the legislators any time
there's a potential change in patent law
and that's you know in the US and canada
or elsewhere and to ensure that the
standards are respected and maintained I
think the third thing that can be done
and I have absolutely no objection I
don't know why people wouldn't simply
contact the people that are on the other
side of the debate and ask Microsoft how
it is that they're somehow claiming that
this patent shouldn't be respected
considering they've cited the patent
four times directly when they filed
patent applications they've said it at
over a hundred times then we record yeah
in fact patients they put it in word I
didn't think Microsoft was in the
business of putting technology into word
that they didn't think was robust and
powerful and added something for the
consumers so you know a consumer power
is a wonderful thing and if the
consumers whether it's at the corporate
or individual stage want to write to
Microsoft and express their
disappointment and the request of
Microsoft actually pay heat to other
people's patents I think that'd be great
that'd be much appreciated okay Loudon
well thank you very much for your time I
know you're a very very busy guy this
week having to be represented at at
supreme court in the US for I for I
thank you you're appreciating interest
in this matter thank you your views
Cheers take Carolina thanks this is
category 5 technology TV and you'll find
us online triple w category five dot TV
and of course I for I it was I for ILP
com there's a lot of information there
that will give you just a little bit
more insight into what's actually going
on with I for I between them and
Microsoft but it's to me you know i
didn't realize that they you know
an employee of 150 staff at when this
all started but really you know it still
feels like a bit of a David and Goliath
kind of thing where it's like they're
really going after you know Microsoft
like he said knows that this is their
patent but yet figures ha well we're
gonna do it anyway yeah you know and
it's like what are you thinking yeah so
stand up to them and and it's good that
there are companies like I for I that
are that are standing up to them and I
hope that the courts will will uphold
their patent as well because that is you
know that's important moving forward for
everybody who wants a patent for sure
like my patent that I have on my super
sonic mount mountain motorcycle that can
fly in outer space yeah that's uh anyone
else have comments I don't on that note
well you said something about you're
gonna teach us how to add a laser to our
spaceship I did cool thanks Lanie it's
fantastic so let's head over to the
newsroom find out exactly what's what's
going on then first music baby bear with
me
go today the makers of Star Trek and
freaking are planning a new sci-fi
comedy iron sky the movie makers are
using the crowdfunding model to raise a
hopeful three hundred thousand euros
within 60 days to fund the project and
in its first week they have raised more
than 2697 euros I mean they're
multi-platform fundraiser at least seven
crowdfunding services are being used and
they are posting the results for each of
their chosen platforms giving a real
bird's eye view as to which are the most
effective services for fundraising
Indies gogo is the first week of the
fundraiser has brought in over twelve
hundred euros for the project whereas
flattered has brought in less than 2
euros it will be interesting to see how
things pan out in the end to learn more
about the project watch a teaser video
or to get involved in the projects
funding visit iron Skynet Oracle is
turning openoffice into a purely
community project and no longer plans to
offer a commercial version of the sweet
it acquired when it when it bought Sun
Microsystems the database giant made the
announcement on Friday Oracle chief
corporate architect Edwards grievin
screven that in a brief statement we
intend to begin working immediately with
community members to further the
continued success of openoffice adding
that or a couple continue to strongly
support the adoption of open
standards-based document formats such as
the open document format it's not clear
it meanwhile whether the document
foundation has a future with it sleep
libri libre libra we have four office
software not sony but can't help but
think about open offices back in the
game much will depend on what kind of
governance model oracle releases open
office under and before they opened i'm
sorry before they bought youtube in 2006
google has its own video sharing site
cleverly titled google video woo in an
email sent out to its users on Friday
Google Incorporated has revealed that
they are entirely removing all hosted
video from google video on april twenty
ninth given users who still have old
videos on google video a chance to
download their content before the
service vanishes forever in may
if you have video hosted on Google video
they have added a new download video
button on the video status page which
will allow you to save your content
before it's too late Friday the 13th
marks a frightful end of users ability
to download their videos as Google plans
to completely shut down use your access
on that date it comes as no surprise but
Google is off or encouraging users to
forget google video ever happened and
simply upload their content to YouTube
same YouTube offers many video hosting
options including the ability to share
your videos privately or in an unlisted
manner file transfer protocol most often
referred to as ftp turns 40 on Saturday
the network protocol was first proposed
by AB hey boo tion mi d and april
nineteen seventy one as a means to
transfer large files between systems
that made up our pant or panet the
celebrated ARPANET ok you're gonna make
fun of me no I just think I I literally
stick these words in there just just to
faze you oh yeah like that name I don't
know who that was i just grabbed it off
google you know aren't you nice stuck it
in there just to make you have to try to
pronounce it see what happens next week
yeah alright well check out this girl
use an ftp back in nineteen seventy one
anyways i'm not going to say that again
but the celebrated forerunner of the
modern internet the protocol ricardo
minimum of handshaking even more
crucially was tolerant of temporary
interruptions during long follow
transfer sessions making it far more
suitable for the job than anything else
available at the time forty years later
the protocols next big step will be the
delivery of managed file transfer
utilizing modern cloud technology Frank
ken yet now network security tools from
ipswich says the fundamentals of ftp are
not going to change and that it will be
enhanced using third-party tools but
there will be no rear eight he also
believes ftp will carry on despite the
other options available today reported
by BBC news cisco systems has set it as
shutting down is flip video camera
business and cutting 550 jobs as it
overhauls its consumers products unit
in recent years Cisco the world's
largest maker of computer networking
gear has sought to diversify and move
into the consumer market Cisco bought
pure digital technologies the maker of
the flip camcorder for a 590 million in
2009 Phillip ailing an analyst with
Atlantic equities says they announced
they're shutting it down so that implies
that they were unable to sell it he adds
it's disappointing they wouldn't be able
to generate any proceeds from the sale
of the business analysts have criticized
the scope for trying to do too much and
last week Cisco Chief John Chambers
admitted the firm had lost its way and
vowed to take bold steps to refocus I
mentioned that the company may be
restructuring the consumer end of its
business so that it can sell the
division from the did it first on Star
Trek file a high-energy laser filed from
a u.s. warship off the California coast
has successfully disabled a nearby boat
igniting its engines well earlier model
laser weaponry presented dangerous waste
gases scientists have more recently
developed solid-state lasers which can
find large numbers of compact theme
generators similar to LEDs which offers
a much more environmentally friendly way
to shoot Klingons and Romulans from the
skies or missiles against if you want to
be realistic Peter Morrison from the
Office of Naval Research says there's
still much work to do to make sure it's
done safely and efficiently they say the
weaponized system will most likely be
restricted to military vessels so
regrettably won't be able to install one
on your motor home which you've
nicknamed the enterprise get the full
stories at category-five TV / newsroom
the category 5 TV news room is research
by roy w natural contributions this week
by john privy and noah and if you have
any news stories that you think are
worthy of mention on air email us at
news room at category-five TV for all of
you in the category 5 TV news room on
crystal ball thanks Krista I'm serious
he looks like a cyclops doesn't he I
know it's just a laser but I envision
that this is his head with one eye and
he's smiling at me and that is his arm
of doom
wow that's pretty fantastic so if I see
something funny installed on your home
like next week we're in the next file
like that on yeah just on the roof oh
boy she got there Robbie on my bike on
the side of the bike I do I have to bike
have to pedal a little lopsided but
whatever Oh dear me stay away from
downtown Barry that's fine definitely
this episode of category 5 technology TV
is brought to you in part by pogoplug at
cap five dot TV / pogoplug is it that
site remember that's the way that you
can help support us also plan a Calypso
cat5 TV / Calypso you can go there to
download the free multi massive
multiplayer online game fantastic loads
of fun tonight we got lots to cover so
far so good no system crashes this is
good we got our alright we've opened up
our stuff we got that up just in time
yeah good there we go how do you to rock
I got my design up I got my files we're
good to go we got to remember where we
was at when we started crashing last
week hokey doodle he got really cool
since last week where we was at yeah
where we was at you think that's pretty
awesome I thought that yeah all right
all the cool people are saying is this
that's all there Sam let's bring it up
demo cat five dot TV / 004 i think is
where we were there we are we make great
things happen so what we're gonna do
next step and again you can get these
files off cat5 TV / web dev and also you
can get a really great deal on website
hosting if you want to get web hosting
you can go to our website cat5 TV / web
dev you'll see the coupon up at the top
for a free domain a year of hosting and
it's only 70 bucks us really great deal
really great deal so looking at what you
know what we're doing with our website
we've got that we make great things
happen
and what I want to do is I want to move
that in because if you look at the
mock-up see it's not actually touching
the edge of the area here with the wood
grain on our site though it is okay so
we're going to add some padding to that
area first of all let's see what that
area looks like we're going to go into
our style here header left i believe is
where we left off i'm in that little
comment there and that's how you comment
in CSS by the way if you like so I'm
going to go border you remember how I do
this solid one picks red and all that
does is it just throws a little bit of a
border around this particular element in
my file so that I can see where that
element falls okay what I'm going to do
though I'm going to make 005 just so we
don't lose what we did last week so go
into a 005 with me on demo cat5 TV okay
so you'll see that that border actually
extends the entire area here so what we
want to do is we don't want it to
actually fill that hole area we're going
to bring up our mock up here and let's
determine about how wide we want that
area to be so i'm using my rectangular
marquee i'm just going to highlight to
the right edge so it's almost touching
the photo there and i can just go edit
copy visible edit paste as new image and
that shows me up here now with that new
image that is 534 pixels wide i'm going
to round up to 535 so in my CSS i'm
going to grab that area here header left
I can go wid colon 5 35 pics pics is
four pixels that's the measurement unit
that we're using in HTML you could have
just had 5 35 but in CSS we have to have
the PX in order to specify what
measurement we're actually using you can
upload my CSS file
refresh and you'll see that that red
border is now only two there okay so now
we do a couple of different things first
of all let's look at our mock-up it
looks like Krista we could we could
probably just Center the text yeah I
think we could Center it within that div
and then that's going to actually put it
pretty much exactly where you want it to
be we've got that measurement and if we
Center it in there then it's going to
it's going to be where we want it to be
so in our CSS for that particular
element that's header left let's do this
text a line colon center now it's going
to take any text that's within that
header left div it's going to place it
in the center of that div refresh and
there we go okay so next thing is we
need to move it down because it's up too
high for the way that our mock-up is
designed now you've got it pretty much
vertically centered as well what we can
do so we can say okay we want it to be
everything's in measurements right so I
could just copy that and I'm again I'm
just using that to measure I'm not
actually needing to copy something I
just want to know how much space is that
as 51 pixels high so if i say i want to
move that down 50 pixels then that's
fine so there's a couple of ways i can
do that i could use relative positioning
to move this down don't necessarily want
to do that i could pad the inner part of
the div to move down the text i could
add a margin to the outside of the div
to move the entire div down any one of
those things is going to work so let's
try for example padding okay what i can
do is i can go padding top and how many
pixels did I say that was 51 51 so let's
just do 50
you can be exact if you want to do the
one pixel but for me I prefer to have
nice clean numbers okay so now I've
padded the top so what I've done
remember padding happens on the inside
of the div so you see the borders in the
same place right but this has been moved
down and there's a pad of 50 pixels now
alternatively just to show you because
I'd like you to learn this what the
differences are here I'm going to change
that to a margin top remember margins
occur on the outside of the div so watch
the difference the positioning is going
to be the same so the app you know the
end effect is really the same thing but
what happens here when i refresh 0 in
this particular case is not because of
the surrounding wrappers so in this case
I'm going to need to use a padding top
because margin-top doesn't even do
anything for me what a margin top does
differently in and it depends on what
what the what this header left is
contained within header left is
contained within header and so header
also controls header left's positioning
and everything like that so in in some
cases a margin will actually bump things
from the outside a padding will as you
saw there add padding to the inside so
that works just fine for what we're
doing tonight so what we'll do is leave
that padding top as 50 pixels remove our
border and our text positioning is going
to be exactly where we want it to be
uploading a game just style dot CSS
because we're not actually changing
anything in our HTH our PHP file okay so
now the positioning there it's pretty
good okay all right so I want to get a
little bit further in the header see if
we can get some positioning done with
our actual graphic as well that's the
the Polaroid shot you remember us
working on that so here we are in images
and a game you can download all these
files at cat5 TV / web dev and what I'm
going to do is I'm just going to I'm
just going to slap that in you know I'm
just going to grab that file and I'm
going to slap it into index dot PHP just
so that we can see exactly what's going
to happen let's put it within our div
and logically you're going to say well I
want this to be to the right of make
great things happen right so you're
going to go we remember how to do this
image IMG space SRC for source equals
quote the location of the file that's
relative to your index PHP so that to me
is I can do that dot / images / Polaroid
or I could just do that either one is
correct okay so that's calling that
image and now if I close off that tag
like that make it xml compliant with a
slash because this is the end of the
image tag there's nothing further that
happens for this tag so I'm closing it
off okay now i can save that and upload
index dot PHP now if i refresh 005
you'll see that even though in my mind I
would have thought while putting it to
the right of that div should have put it
over to the right it's actually putting
it after and that if you do remember
what the causes of that oh do you
remember what we can do to fix it that a
float yes
you float fantastic everybody at home
answer the same thing it's a apple team
death note yes well done okay so there's
a couple of things and sometimes these
things take experimentation so the first
thing I would try is I would add a float
left to my header left okay and then
upload my style.css now if I look at my
file I'm going to see what kind of
effect that has and it did do exactly
what I wanted it to do so I'm not
actually having to specify float right
for the other element pardon me because
it's uh it's already floating right
because it floats to the right of
whatever the left element is so we are
gold in there let's look back at our
mock-up positioning looks looks about
right yeah looks good it's pretty good
okay so now this is where things get
really tricky because now we've got an
element on top of an element on top of
an element and now it's getting into the
point where it's almost like layers in
Photoshop or layers in the GIMP and
we're actually able to put these layers
together on the web and it saves so much
space because you remember how much
space we were able to save by breaking
up this particular image we took that
image that was like over 100k and took
it down to like 40 or something like
that it was ridiculous so it's
definitely worth our time to do this so
let's see what we can actually do here
and go into images there's the photo
that we want to slap into our rapper
kind of thing for the Polaroid so here's
what we're going to do we're going to
create a new div and it's going to have
the dimensions of this Polaroid pin so
I'm going to view that Polaroid pan okay
and get my dimensions which are 372 by
393 so I'm going to have to make a note
of that because i know i'll forget so
let's create the ID first
so an ID again we're going to go pound
and let's call this Polaroid okay we're
going to go wid colon and then what did
we say the width was it is where to go
there we go 372 pics 372 pics height
colon 393 pics okay just like that
alright so now we have that particular
div so no matter what we do now let's do
something here let's go background 000
I'm going to just give it a black
background so that when we place that
div with that ID we can see exactly
where it's going to land so div ID
equals a Polaroid alright let's copy I'm
going to cut that image to my clipboard
or I can just you know i'll paste it
after the site just to have it there and
now if i add a non-breaking space and
then close my div because we always
close what we open ok
alright so that's what it looks like at
this point let's upload those two files
that are affected their that's index dot
PHP and style dot CSS and you'll see now
we have this div which is the same
dimensions as that image but it's just a
black box so what we want to do is we
want to position that div properly
because that dave is going to be come
are wrapping div for the Polaroid so
that we can keep all of the polaroid
elements within that div okay you're
going to you'll understand what the
purpose and that is because really it's
it's going to be the frame for that
element then we're gonna be able to put
anything within that frame and it's not
going to fall outside of them so it
makes positioning a lot simpler so with
Polaroid let's try float colon right and
we might have to do something that's
going to look kind of strange let's see
if this takes just as is there we go no
that looks pretty good okay so we're
good so now let's take this now that
image that we have in our the bottom of
our file right now just as a placeholder
I'm going to do something a little
different here what we're going to do is
we're not going to place it as an image
we're going to instead just grab that
reference tag so just the location of
the image I'm copying that to my
clipboard and then I'm going to delete
this line because I don't need it we can
go back to my CSS file after saving
index I'm going to go to my polaroid and
where it says background is black I'm
going to instead go background URL and
then paste in that reference images
Polaroid underscore b.jpg now what I
need to do is go no dash repeat now of
course the dimensions are exact so it's
not going to repeat anyways but its
proper form to include the note repeat
so that if for some strange reason
something happens where it's going to
actually end up looping the image you
just don't want that to happen so let's
open our image upload our image of our
files pardon me index and
style and if we refresh you'll see that
that image is now there again but it's
in fact now it's not an image it's a
background image see there it is okay so
we can put anything we like on top of
that and because it's within a div
container called Polaroid we can also we
could just wrap anything we want in that
div so i can put text here and if i
upload that
now all of a sudden now it's going to
touch the edges because we haven't added
any padding or anything like that but
within that element there is text if I
color that black just to kind of learn
how this works you tell me if I'm
getting redundant but I want this to be
I like to learn the actual concepts
behind you know how come this is work
and how come this is doing it this way
so all I've done is I've colored at
black and I've added some padding there
just to show you that now
if I upload the right file of course if
I saved up
Oh didn't upload the right pal style
that CSS sorry yang are you laughing
with me or at me a little about ya
little both all right what makes you
feel better except that nothing makes me
feel better yeah yeah all right
essentially though we can see that what
I've done there is put hello world
within that also changed another thing
so alright so here's where I'm going to
fix my text size there reset control
zero here's something that takes some
experimentation but is kind of
interesting I'm going to take this float
floating give the Polaroid and I can
change the order and actually put it
before the one that's floating left
this is a cool trick for search engine
optimization you'll see what that's done
there now I'm what's happening here is
that I've got two elements that are
taking up the same amount of the same
space and so it's saying okay this one's
too wide to have this one within the
header element because remember header
has a specified width so we need to make
these elements a little bit narrow
narrower so that they'll fit side by
side but what I'm showing you there is
that the element hello world here can
occur in the in the code before the
element which is actually showing first
if this was up here which it can be if
we just change the width a little bit so
the search engines see it as the
priority text even though it's occurring
after in the visual representation of
the site so what will often do is will
for example create a menu system that
the the menu could be on the let's say
the menu was the element that you want
the search engines to pick up on so we
can put it on the right-hand side of the
site and yet in the code it's at the
very very top of the code because floats
and positions allow it to be wherever we
want it to be in the code it's no longer
linear as HTML was where you had to code
it in the order in which it was to
display it's not like a table where you
know it has to be the next TD because
you can control it using floats so very
very sneaky it can be very cool probably
beyond the scope of tonight but you can
understand how that can be really
helpful and awesome all right let's see
where things are at here ok there we go
so if I remove the padding then of
course the text goes back to normal and
hello world is up here and I can
position within that so what I want to
do is I want to actually create a div
that is within this image ok so this
here and we're going to place the
Polaroid there and that's going to take
us to the next step it seems like it
takes a bit of time to get through this
this header end of things I think
largely that's because we're learning
you know what two floats do how do we
position element
and how do we change our text once we
get through this which is going to
happen next week then we're going to be
just rocking out the body of the the
website itself because of the fact that
really as we learn we don't need to
spend as much time on the the mundane
details but I do want you to learn these
things and I think it's I think it's
been cool for a lot of people to learn
this stuff so bump me an email live at
category 5 TV and let me know if you
have any questions and certainly if you
have a viewer testimonial I'd invite you
to go over to category 5 TV and click on
interact and submit a testimonial just a
note as you go over to cat five dot TV /
pogoplug to check out the pogoplug
device we've got a couple of those to
give away next week and so I would
encourage you to make sure that you're
in the chat rooms robot just may be
paying us visit and yeah hand head you
don't want to miss out on that nua
definitely mentioning the Humble Bundle
com Humble Bundle com we've talked about
it in the past this is the humble frozen
bite bundle which is a bundle of great
games that you can purchase for
basically any amount so it's it's to
help charity and it's a chance for you
to get some cool games and there is just
one week left in order to actually
purchase that that software bundle I'd
encourage you to check that out its
humble bundle calm and the links will be
in the show notes for episode number 187
and of course all of the links that
we've mentioned tonight and there is a
gain only one week to get in on that so
make sure that that you check it out
roubaix you know we didn't even get I
didn't even get this just like how's
your week going things going all right
well yeah they're good this yeah busy
week yeah school is just the norm I
guess yeah yeah it's been busy oh yeah
school
by the father yeah uh-huh that time here
how's your week it's been it's been good
I I've been really encouraging people to
to get stuff in one of the things when
you get developing websites as you
learned that you really gotta push to
get content for from people and you know
I don't mind that so much but when you
have a whole lot of websites that you're
working on and everybody is taking
months and months to get you stuff what
what people don't realize is that you
start to lose track okay well where was
I at with that project we started that
you know six months ago and then I never
got any content for the site hence pick
up it'sit's it becomes more work really
so my couple of weeks has been you know
really pushing to get people to get
content and then and it's starting to
come about but of course because I've
pushed so many people all of them coming
together at the same time finally I'm
getting the stuff and it's like hoo boy
everything at once and then of course
everybody wants to know when's my I'm
gonna be ready I got your stuff when
you're gonna be ready well yeah okay got
you on the schedule now so we'll we're
gonna yeah you're penciled in so we're
gonna get there that's a good thing but
it's good everyone is equally as
important everyone yes except for me
she's more important that's what she's
saying I didn't know how to respond
there please do get onto our website
category five dot TV you're gonna get us
a bio aren't you oh you know I thought
about that today when I tell you that is
mr. kid you thought about it on your way
out the door oh you know final exams are
almost done I have one more thursday and
I don't have a week or two off you guys
heard her she's gonna have it here for
weeks before we were she's got a week or
two off it shouldn't really take you a
week or two to write it might it has to
be clever and awesome and awesome
it will be it will be more I can see
it's gonna be horrible and boring and
then yes anything interesting that it
will be like way above every batters and
everybody will have such low
expectations that blow everyone away
I'll be like wow look at that bio that's
fantastic yeah uh yeah I got that if
people would like to encourage Christa
to finish her her bio as per gat wills
message here in the chat room just
popping emailed alive at category 5 TV I
will I will print 100 copies of every
email that comes in and I will stack it
on her desk I won't actually do that
because Friday's earth day and so that's
always a treat ya know I would never
ever do that I don't even I you know
this might know around and they could
just do a market take every time someone
does it yeah even my knee my notepads
around here like I use every side of
every piece of paper and then when I'm
done I like yeah I'm just like I'm crazy
that way environmentally friendly I try
to be maybe cat we used to go used to
treat we use eco alkaline batteries for
our microphones which are very cool eco
alkalines calm these are environmentally
friendly with 0% cadmium 0% lead 0%
mercury and I still managed to work they
work fantastically do you remember
viewers when we put this in the cordless
microphone we were having all kinds of
trouble with the mic and we said you
know what we're gonna okay we're gonna
do an experiment because the Michael
only lasted for one show every time on a
battery we put an eco alkaline in it and
last week the battery died Wow so figure
out when that was and how long that
battery lasted for that's fantastic wait
a lifetime my dads are funny it's
fantastic like that yeah it lasted so
long in regular use conditions it's like
and like regular room temperature use
it's just the best and there you know
they say I'm still going to put it
through e waste because I'm sure that
there are metals in here and stuff that
they can recycle but they are landfill
safe is what they say that's how
environmentally friendly these are but
again there's there's some metals in
there and stuff that I'm sure they can
recycle it he wastes so I'll still take
them in there
yeah so anyway nice having you here nah
that's good to be here nice having
everyone join us tonight and thank you
everyone who has donated to the show so
far to help us to offset the expense of
purchasing a new server to get us back
up and running in full force and
hopefully that will come together fairly
fast but I'm very pleased that tonight
was operational and I hope that you
enjoyed the show and we'll talk to you
again next Tuesday night thanks for
being here good you guys see ya
you
