hello and welcome to another episode of
new everyday we're so glad that you've
tuned in my name is Carrie and we have a
very special guest joining us this week
Carmen van essen a friend of mine and
that she's going to talk to us about
mental illness and Jesus
you've got mad skills now hone them
learn new skills or improve your
existing ones with online video
tutorials and training from Linda calm
through our special link at cat five dot
TV / Linda learn software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today to help you achieve your
professional goals join today and start
learning will give you this chance to
try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat5 dot TV / linda
welcome back to new every day and we're
so glad to have Carmen van essen with us
though Carmen is a friend of mine we
actually met when you were renting from
my brother right yeah and then we
actually started training for a race
which I wasn't actually able to run but
Carmen you ran tough butter yeah how did
you find that it was awesome yeah um
don't let the title scare you to truly
is tough but it's not impossible okay
very doable more like challenging mutter
that makes it sound better that's a
little more friends yeah a little bit
more friendly so it was really good so
cool and you've got some bruises to show
off which is yaz nice check it out yeah
well just showed you had fun right yeah
and actually you were doing it as a
fundraiser right for redwood park
communities and you can search for them
redwood park communities and they offer
supporting supportive transitional
houses for women who are coming out of
the shelter system so i think that's
really awesome so it is want to check
that out online please do and also going
to say to you Carmen I remember yes as
we were training for tough mudder Carmen
and I had an opportunity just to talk
about her life we just get had the
opportunity to get to know each other
and you share some really amazing and
wonderful things with me about what God
has done in your life and I was like hey
you need to come on to new every day and
share that because I'm so encouraged
from talking to you so she very
graciously agreed and here we are so
yeah so Karmin you suggested that the
title mental illness and Jesus which i
think is a wonderful title for this show
and maybe if you can just start by
sharing a little bit about yourself like
about your childhood and then you know
where you're at now so okay why don't
you start with what do you up to now
um I'm a personal support worker with
st. Elizabeth health care and so I go to
people's houses and I help them with
basic daily needs right often elderly
people or people with a chronic
disability so yeah I go into their
home's help them a shower get dressed
for the morning it really helps people
stay in their homes and people get
better at home yeah and I find it so
meaningful and I love it I mean you
enjoy it I really do I I I don't know
what else I'd be doing cuz it's really
what I wanted to do to really help
people yeah yeah and you're one you're
married to a nice guy yeah married to a
wonderful wonderful man Joel van essen
who's currently doing the dishes
apparently he's doing the dishes right
now while she's at awesome very cool um
we've been married for 10 months we got
married October fourth to South 2014 and
yeah happily married very cool looking
forward to the first year anniversary
and and we're going to hear more about
that story of it later which I'm so
excited for you to be able to share but
maybe you could take us back to the
story you shared with me about your
childhood and like okay I think we got
started on the conversation when we were
just talking about what God has done in
our lives and how he has molded us and
shaped us and being there for us and
it's really interesting Carmen last
week's episode we finished up the book
of Revelation so if you're just tuning
and now you might want to catch the last
couple of episodes we took we talked
about the book of Revelation and how God
finishes what he starts when he starts a
good work in us he'll carry it on to
completion until the day of Christ Jesus
but we also looked at you know the glory
of heaven and what we're looking forward
to but not only do we have the glory of
having to look forward to but he also
promises to be with us here on earth
through the Holy Spirit and through the
comfort of other people in our
lives and I know you've got an awesome
story to share so it really kind of ties
in with last week's discussion so if I'm
glad when you start by sharing about how
you grew up well okay I will okay I grew
up in a very loving home my parents
loved my brother and I very much my mum
was a missionary in Belgium and that's
where she met my dad and so we moved
here when I was quite young I was two
years old and it was a very loving warm
Christ centered environment when I was
growing up trouble started happening I
say around grade 3 okay um I shouldn't
understand the difference between why
people were doing things different a
core difference from what I've learned
them to be like okay a church I mean I
didn't understand kids swearing okay
okay people would say swear words and
they use Jesus's name in vain and I was
upset by that yeah I was like why are
you doing that so I guess in retrospect
I might have brought part of this upon
myself just by confronting people I
don't think I was trying to be obnoxious
I was just upset probably kind of angry
that they were doing that to my god um
so you would confront these students and
or I wouldn't I I just say you know why
are you doing that because that's not
how I had grown up and I grew up
believing that God's name was to be
treasured right so and there were
different things that I began to notice
separating me from my peers and that
caused conflict it began to be where I
tried to share my faith in elementary
school and I even had teachers you know
tell me not to
really so that really confused me
excited here you know be encouraged to
do this at church and be encouraged like
yeah this is something that we're
supposed to do like because you love
Jesus and then you know my teachers say
you know you're not supposed to do that
so things kind of escalated it wasn't so
much the teachers as it was the students
kids can be very mean if you grew up
very true you probably know this um so
they were bullying yeah and I wasn't
beat up or anything but it was i was
called names I was harassed I would call
it harassment sure emotional and verbal
harassment and I would tell my parents I
know I hate I don't want go to school I
don't I don't want to do that and it
just continued because there were really
no other options at the moment and my
parents I don't think they fully knew
how bad it was ok but they tell anyone
at school yeah I told teachers and that
there really wasn't they would try be
disciplinary but there's only so much
you can do right you can't control
people yeah that's true so it got so bad
that's finally one January afternoon I
was standing in the playground during
recess and at that point i think the
mental strain had just increased so much
that I just snapped and all of a sudden
my reality changed like things that were
very irrational became part of my
reality like like what do you mean um
there were things like I I had delusions
of there being like little bugs error
salamanders invisible ones inside my
hands and that if I opened my hands they
want to go and like touch a picture of
like there's a picture of a totem pole
inside my classroom ok and I recognize
that as a young child is something that
was very negative that was something an
idol of some sort sure and that somehow
these invisible bugs went out and
touched them that that I'd have to
worship that for some reason and yeah
that was totally against what i wanted
and totally against my beliefs but these
are the delusions that were coming to me
and so I wouldn't age I was nine years
old nine years old ok and so I'll keep
my hands clenched all the way through my
classroom because I was so terrified of
these delusions yeah but the like I said
going back to the playground that's when
I finally snapped and I couldn't move I
was I was grounded I couldn't move and
it's a part of I think fear and a part
of just unknown that was caused by this
I thought I thought that if I moved to
the left and touch the left with my foot
the ground that I would become a witch
or something like that and that if I
moved to the right I would have the
worship totem poles like I'm just being
honest this is what was going on my
nine-year-old head yeah and so I stood
there for the whole of recess until the
bell rang and everyone went inside and I
stayed there he didn't move I couldn't
move I was just terrified I could not
move and so finally they had to get the
principal to come over and say you know
why are you standing there and I was
like I can't move so finally she grabbed
my arm and pulled me to the office and
called my mom and told him to come pick
me up my mom was decided to keep records
for medical reasons of the things that
it happens and apparently I would be
staring off into space and really not
very responsive I I wouldn't do things
that I usually would have enjoyed early
on I just I couldn't I didn't want to I
have these things that had touched
things a certain amount of times or even
touch people like on the arm or things
it was so irrational but that is how
things were in my head and it was very
fearful it was I'd say a very much so a
fearful time in my life my parents with
drew me out of out of that school
because there was just no way I could
continue there mmm and it excuse me did
they help you seek professional help or
what happened after that yeah my mum she
brought me to a doctor that we had
contacts with her and he was a very nice
doctor I remember him I'm surprised i do
but i do remember him he would had a
very very nice smile nice and he
actually he saw he saw me and he knew
how desperate the situation was and so
he called in and got me into a child
psychologist psychiatrist actually which
is harder to get apparently he liked
that next week wow that doesn't happen
that ok no seriously like six months
later my mom was getting called and was
told congratulations you are on the
waiting list to get into a child
psychiatrist I and she was like we've
been seeing a psychiatrist for months
already amazing because that doctor had
called in and decided to seek that for
me because he saw how desperate it was
so that is if you're watching this right
now doctor thank you very much because
god used you and
um things that was great but things did
not turn around immediately right away
like my parents were there for me they
were like I would spend hours almost
every night screaming and just being
tormented by these thoughts in my head
same kind of same crashing alot
irrational thoughts and the bugs the
thoughts that I was going to hell that
oh really that's um just because it is
because of stupid things like if you
kiss your teddy bear you love your teddy
bear more than God and therefore you're
going to hell it's just like such
irrational things but they were like
spiritually driven they were so
literally driven almost always rely very
rarely had a fear of often these it's
called OCD obsessive-compulsive disorder
and often there's fear about diseases
like aids or fears about something bad
happening when breaking-in okay mine
were almost entirely spiritually driven
hmm I would say like repetitive
hand-washing is very common I didn't
have that I had basically almost
entirely spiritually driven okay so yeah
I went into a child psych to a child
psychiatrist every week for the next I
play at least a year um what kind of
things did that's like I trust help you
with like what kind of treatment
modalities did he use it was actually a
female doctor okay she was she was
African called doctrine in kullu she was
very nice very understanding um and I
could just be honest with her about what
was going on in my head and I found that
very helpful I would draw pictures about
how I felt about situation at school or
how I had felt she was very good and
they they really did I think that was
very helpful for me they did help me
did she try and teach you how to retrain
your thinking or at that point um I
think what you're talking about is
cognitive behavioral therapy okay we did
try some of that it was
obsessive-compulsive disorder is defined
by obsessions and compulsions the
obsessions are fierce the obsessions are
fears for me it was often spiritual and
the compulsions were not being able to
move like touching things tournament of
times those are things you are
compulsive she felt like you had to yes
and it was very hard to resist them
because your anxiety would go up so you
felt like if you didn't do a certain
action then percussions would be a B and
C or whatever yeah exactly okay but they
actually trained you okay if you give in
to your compulsions and do these things
your anxiety goes down for a little bit
yeah but then it goes back up and it
actually gets worse really so it's kind
of like this endless monster the more
you feed it the stronger it gets and the
more it rules your life so the trick
actually is to resist the compulsions
and deal with the anxiety but act
actually it helps it to go down okay
like it sucks for a for the time but if
you can resist it you won't obviously do
every single time if you're in the state
that I was but if you can it will
actually help for it to go down to two
step out of your head and to realize as
hard as it is that you know maybe I
don't have to do this because my head is
telling me to do it maybe I can only do
half of it even if you can't resist
doing not resist doing the entire thing
if it's telling you to walk all the way
up down to the hallway and back maybe
the best you could do is only do the
half way and go halfway up the haul them
back you're still not feeding it
entirely right if if you're not aware of
OC
if you haven't experienced or have
knowledge about this this is going to
sound very weird to you but thank you
for trying to understand it because
that's that's important it's so
important and I'm just so thankful that
you're willing to share it excuse me we
we talked earlier about the stigma
associated with mental illness and how
really we don't talk about these things
in the church community like at least I
have an experience that I don't know
about you but were you I mean what is
your experience been in the church with
mental as as it and then come up do you
feel that there's an awareness about it
well for me most people in my church
knew that there was something going on
because it was so obvious it was very
obvious there was something wrong cuz
your behaviors were my behaviors were
just totally different i was like a
different person my parents thought it
was schizophrenic for a while because
that's just how delusional I was it was
bananas most of my experience in the
church has been very good like I had
never had anyone treating me like I was
demon possessed or anything and I know
some people with mental illness can have
that can have that thought of about them
I had one guy in my church who was like
oh we should lay hands on her and you
know do that kind of thing and my
parents just said no we're not doing
that because it's probably just gonna
make things worse but my church is very
supportive I had a lady in my church who
really took me under her wing and she
was kind of like a big sister we would
meet like once a month and you would
just go out and talk and she would write
me cards and sometimes I'd be in this
place would be super anxious and feeling
like God wasn't there he wasn't real
and that it was just this pit I would
get a card from her with a Bible verse
and that would just live in my spirit
and would bring hope back yeah and there
were times that were it was very obvious
of God's presence through the church
there was a time where my parents were
trying to get me to sleep it with a poly
eleven o'clock at night and I was still
screaming my head off freaking my
brother out if you've ever been through
with a sibling who's going through this
you're probably aware that it can be
freaky for you I guess they because they
don't might not understand fully what's
going on no like and I remember all of a
sudden after hours of anxiety and fear I
just fell asleep like one night when you
were dancing Lee yeah I was screaming
okay I and my mom was talking to a lady
at church the next day and it turned out
that at like that exact time that I was
able to actually fall asleep like
instantly was a time that lady was
prompted to pray for me like wow and so
those kind of things really highlighted
God's presence despite my illness that
he was there for me even though it was
very hard it was my experience in the
church has been very positive that's a
good thing I would say yeah that's such
a good thing so how did how did God move
you from that place of hearing these
lies and believing these lies and
delusional thoughts and having to act
out on them to being able to control
them or to bring you where you are today
so how did how how do you deal with that
is it an ongoing pressure for you I
would say well when you're young it can
be very hard to distinguish reality from
fantasy like a nine-year-old doesn't
have the same logic skills as an 18 year
old white yeah they don't have the
abstract thinking that we know like they
might still have imaginary friends
like so that can be very difficult as I
got older I I continued to see a
psychiatrist and a venture switch over
to a psychologist I i took medications
for as soon as i started getting the
issues we started figuring out
medications that could help me
antidepressants okay which can also help
obsessive-compulsive disorder and I took
them and so it takes figuring out for
medications and it took seven seven
years of professional help for me and it
weaned off in the later years just being
able to express these things learning
these coping skills and really just
getting healthier socially yeah when I
got to high school I actually had like a
group of friends and that was so helpful
I actually had one girl who's still my
friend now who was very forceful and
wanting to be my friend and she kind of
broke through that she'll of fear and
isolation that I put myself in because
of the pier struggles that I'd had
earlier and the relationships really
grew and that really helped me were you
bullied more after you started to
manifest these symptoms of illness I
would say no because the bullying was
the cause of these things and I was
removed from the situation rather
quickly okay um I was home schools for a
year and I went to a private school for
a year a private christian school and
they were more understanding of the
issues I reacted in a public school
afterward and I was still bullied in
grade 7 and 8 and I still struggled
mentally in that time
but it wasn't beyond my ability to cope
it was still very hard but it wasn't as
bad yeah so I would say it weaned off a
bit afterward and it still continued
when I went back in public school but
high school was much better because the
bigger pool of fish and yeah people
you're not in a small little school
where basically you have nothing to do
but pick on someone sure yeah there's
things to do everything's other interest
groups yeah so that was much better I
found high school to be infinitely
better than elementary and so you were
having these thoughts about essentially
about God's character because you are
believing that God was not going to
accept you if you did a or b so how did
God how did the Lord help you in what
ways and how do you protect your mind
now what's that look like for you I
struggle with acceptance by the Lord for
years because of this and it was on
different levels of your being God's
truth can go you can know something in
your mind but maybe it hasn't gotten
into your emotions yet you so might have
that knee-jerk reaction of fear because
that's what you've experienced it was a
time it took a lot of time I would say
but my parents they were very
understanding and they would tell me
versus about God's acceptance and his
love for his children that my life is
hidden with Christ in God and that would
really help but it was really not I
became somewhat legalistic I guess
because of my fear of rejection by God
in high school I would see people doing
things that I knew were wrong and I
really I didn't know how to respond well
to that okay
I I knew that God loved everyone but I
guess because the rejection that I had
thought I'd experienced or emotionally
experienced I didn't fully understand
grace I didn't understand it in the core
of my being that there is no
condemnation for those who are in Christ
Jesus and that verse changed my life it
was right before I went off to Bible
College and I was so stressed about
going to Bible College because I just
knew I had all I had so many issues and
that I wasn't what I wanted to be for
God and it was on the drive there that I
just kind of broke down and I was with
this awesome lady named April driving
down to Thunder Bay to do some ministry
in among the natives there before I went
to Bible College and she was just
someone that's on fire for Christ and
she was like Oh Carmen there was no
Jesus you might hear that yeah by grace
you are saved but by deed you will live
however that's not how God works and so
that was just I'd say the climax of this
thing of this learning curve that God
was bringing me through before I went on
this trip before i went down to Thunder
Bay I had gone through a really rough
time and I would often go out into the
woods or into a field somewhere near my
house and I would just I beat I go there
to be alone and uh and right at that
time I was just crying cuz to all these
bad things that happened in my life and
I remember I was sitting on a rock in
this field and then all of a sudden I
heard I heard God's voice in a way that
I never had before like it was almost
like a voice that was inside and outside
at the same time it wasn't audible but
it was this is a new a new thing for me
and he was saying Israel I have except
you and I have not rejected you and that
was I think a versatile or and that just
took me back I was like whoa what was
that I never had that really happened
before and it really kind of brought to
mind like okay God accepts me mm-hmm he
doesn't reject me right after all this
rejection that you have maybe from
people and you can put that on to God if
you're not careful and it might not even
be intentional but you can put that on
to God that God rejects you and that's
not the case because there is no
Jesus so and that's no matter what like
you can't earn God's grace and that
wasn't I think maybe because my fear of
him I was trying to do and that's really
that was almost like I felt like I
became a Christian again when I first
went to actually became to understand
that like I knew I'd I knew God but then
it was like my relationship with him
became much more real and it was only
after I realized that he accepted me and
that was a big thing that's awesome it
became about love if the King about love
and not about fear and rules and trying
to be perfect for him um I do still
struggle with that sometimes because of
my past but I altima tlie have to go
back to God's Word and remember the
times that he's loved me when I've been
totally unlovable and yeah it's
something that you have to work through
but that really was a turning point for
me wow that's awesome yeah god awesome
thanks so much for sharing that you
shared a verse with me the other day
that when we come to christ god's spirit
bears witness with our
spirit that we are children of God yeah
it's like he did that for you yeah like
you're my child and I love and accept
you yeah and that's so cool and I'm so
excited to hit for you to hear the rest
of Carmen's story and and all that God
has done and you know in light of what
she said God wants to make you new every
day he wants to renew your mind and I
love and accept you and I've experienced
that in my own life and we've heard from
Carmen and we just have so much more to
talk about um on this topic so if you
would join us for the next episode
Carmen it would be so wonderful I'd love
to and we want to thank our partners
design a shirt you can go on to our
website new everyday TV you can catch
this episode on the website or you can
catch us on stitcher but design a
t-shirt is that you can design a custom
made t-shirt you can catch the link if
you go to our partners page you can
click from there also if you're looking
for some products through amazon there's
a link on our page that you can purchase
christian books you can purchase bibles
through amazon as well if you don't have
one go to our website go to partners and
then click on amazon button so we're so
thankful that you tuned in this week and
we hope that you'll join us next week
can we just pray together as we close
there Carmen smoothly father I want to
thank you so much for your wonderful
grace and acceptance and love for us
that we didn't earn but you just gave it
to us and made it possible that we could
become your children through Jesus
Christ and what he did on the cross for
our sins and I pray for people watching
here or there listening God that you
would so touch their lives and draw them
to yourself that you would give them new
life in Christ thank you for Carmen and
all that you've done for the wonderful
person that she is we pray that you
would bless her we look forward to
hearing more about what you've done in
her life we pray this in Jesus name Amen
we'll have a wonderful week we hope you
tune in next week and we'll see you
later
you
