welcome to category five technology TV
it's episode number 530 and we're
looking forward to a great show tonight
now we've got viewer questions comments
that you've sent in through our email on
Facebook and YouTube and we're really
looking forward to diving into that
mailbag we love receiving those from you
also we've got a really cool device here
that is going to convert any air
conditioning unit that has a remote
control so this is like the window air
conditioner or the one that's mounted on
the wall in your house it's not a smart
AC unit it's not able to be connected to
things like smart thermostats but what
this device will do is it will turn it
into a smart device by becoming a
wireless app connected remote control
for you it's called sensible sky where
you'll be looking at at that in just a
couple of moments time Sasha here's
what's coming up in the category five TV
news or the in browser mining of
cryptocurrency is becoming a serious
issue a new machine is going to print
metal parts at a tenth of the cost of
today's manufacturing systems
potentially launching a revolution in
small part production keep your iPhone
10 warm otherwise it might not work and
Intel vs. AM D forget about it they are
tribals are working together to bring
out a new hybrid stick around the full
details are coming up later in the show
this is category five technology TV
[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every single week on
roku cody and other HLS video players
for local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 TV slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash ia IB
welcome to the show this is episode
number 2 no 2 - can you live yeah we
just going back in time 5:30 and yeah
nice to have you here tonight I want to
say hey to all of our new viewers hey
some of you like vp9 our longtime
viewers but this is your first time
being able to catch the show live at
this time so if you're catching it live
hey if you're watching this on demand or
on cable TV nice to have you here as
well thanks for joining us and it's
certainly a pleasure now we'd love to
get to know you so when I say you know
those who are able to watch live that's
cool that's on a Wednesday night on our
website category 5 dot TV or through any
of our channels but if you can't be here
live or if you're watching on demand
just for any reason I mean cable TV is a
great reason weekend sure tuned in but
we love to interact with you we love to
get to know you we love to receive your
questions which we're gonna dive into
tonight that's true I will tell you if
you're watching this live and you're not
in the chatroom
what are you doing yeah get there but
hey I know that not everyone can watch
live and in fact most of our viewers are
not watching live you were watching on
demand you're watching through our
assess feeds or Kodi YouTube Plex on
channel 33 in the high desert but we
want to hear from you even if you're not
here while we're here in the studio so
get on and onto our website
it's category 5 dot TV you'll see the
contact us button and that's where you
can submit your questions your feedback
your
it's your praise whatever you want to
send us you can do that through our
website at category five TV and that is
that's that's what we look forward to
every week is hearing from our viewers
and getting that feedback so thank you
for those of you who have participated
so far debt effect to VR it's a video
game that runs on Steam we're giving
away a bunch of copies all you have to
do is email contest at category-five dot
TV Sasha what do they need to send us
freely they just need to send us an
email tell them where they're watching
from how you're watching just send us
the email we'll draw I guess one every
week for the next 10 weeks 10 weeks yes
10 weeks that's like the duration of a
computer build on cat so absolutely send
us an email very good very good okay so
you're gaming computers have been going
pretty good I heard some rumor that Dave
is struggling with Linux and that's okay
he is it's hard for him I think hard for
any of us yeah and and I to be honest
I'm like I'm a little bit like
rah-rah-rah Linux without really knowing
what it takes in in full capacity
because I always have Robbie to fall
back on right but then it's a little bit
different for Dave who wants to do
things kind of as much as he can solo
Dave being her husband whoo-hoo we built
a well Sascha built at gaming rig for
but we put Linux on there and if you're
curious about Linux it is an open source
operating system it's an alternative to
Microsoft Windows it's fantastic but it
is a real leap in order to just jump
into that when you're used to Microsoft
Windows or Mac OS or whatever else now
I'm in the same boat because as you
remember Microsoft Windows 10 update
broke my laptop so it's a nice i7 laptop
but the update itself broke my laptop it
won't turn on anymore
so what do I do I kind of bit the bullet
and said you know what forget this
windows broke it I don't want Windows
anymore and so I put boom 2 on there
17-point 10 so the latest version not
the long-term support edition but the
one that is going to roll into the next
LTS in April but it is tough even for me
because I'm having to relearn how I am
used to doing things on Windows and and
it's not a real huge learning curve but
hey CyberLink PowerDirector the software
I use to produce the shows it doesn't
work on Linux it's a Windows only
program so that's a real tough thing for
me and so I can see if yeah if you're
used to playing games on Windows and you
run an exe or an MSI file and that's how
you do it
you're not it's really tough to get your
head around the difference it'll change
and then maybe having to use an
alternative so so I'm in that boat right
now so I'm looking at blender blender is
used for 3d video production really cool
stuff like you know you see cartoons
like think about Shrek and the way that
that looks I don't know what software
they use probably Maya or something like
that but that kind of video production
but it also has a video editor built in
and I love it but I'm having some you
know there are some quirky things about
it that I don't like and that may be my
mindset being used to Windows and I'm
trying to learn the different way so I
can absolutely empathize with Dave and
those of you who are trying to take that
leap entirely into Linux but the cool
thing Sasha is that Dave can install
Microsoft Windows on that computer in
what's called a dual boot environment so
if you're like yeah so if you're not
quite ready if you're not
I mean Linux is fantastic for everything
like surfing the web and doing your game
and stuff but if you're having trouble
with one particular thing like in my
case video production right I may boot
into Windows and then when I'm done
doing my video production I can reboot
and go back into Linux and use that for
everything else okay so in Dave's case
you might want to do that and install
those windows games right exactly but
then it comes with the caveat that yeah
I had a dual boot on my laptop and
Windows Update destroyed everything it
broke it so
have an image of your hard drive have a
backup be ready for it because it may
happen doesn't always happen but hey
Windows doesn't care about the fact that
your dual booting they just run their
update anyways and and overwrite stuff
so so you do have to watch out for that
be ready for it be careful yeah that's
the only kind of warning I would give
you I guess I mean it's better to do a
boot than it is to just switch over to
Windows for me I'm like stubborn shoes
resisting it right like I really want to
have Linux in the house like that's my
that's what this is for Dave but also
yeah like it's a big leap yeah it's a
big huge leap and it's funny it's like
just little things cuz he loves it
eighty-three percent and then the rest
of it he's just like oh I kind of want
Windows yeah yeah when you're used to
certain way of doing things absolutely
it's a dual boot maybe the answer what
do you folks think what is your
experience been what do you suggest that
that's ashland dave and other and
viewers in particular who are thinking
about experimenting with linux and and
trying that operating system out on
their computer if you're not sure what
we're even talking about you're not you
don't know what linux says head on over
to Boone to calm and I say that like as
if I expect you to know how to spell it
it's you be UN tu calm it's a South
African word it means the spirit of
community in unity and it is a Linux
operating system a free operating system
that you can install and try on your
computer and it replaces the need for
Microsoft Windows but again if you're
using particular applications it can be
a bit of a learning curve or having to
use alternates if you use your computer
specifically for internet and more and
more progressively these days it's like
you're using Google Docs and online
things that don't actually require
Windows applications to be installed you
can install Chrome on Linux and do all
of your online stuff but it keeps you
safer because we don't have the problems
that Windows has with viruses and
malware and things like that so
so it's definitely a good thing to look
at so check it out Ubuntu comm Asha
we've got to take a really really quick
break and when we come back we've
actually got a device that is going to
turn your standard air conditioner unit
into a smart AC very complete with an
app on your mobile device stick around
we're going to show you how to do that
coming up whether you shop on ThinkGeek
gearbest B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon
or even if you want a free trial of
audible you'll find the best deals and
support the shows we produce by simply
visiting the shopping sites you already
frequent by using the links on our
website visit category-five dot TV slash
partners for the full and ever-growing
list and help us create more free
content like this show thank you for
shopping with our partners and thank you
for watching welcome back this is
category 5 technology TV bp9 in the chat
room as we're live here on a Wednesday
night says Robbie for a strong machine
like Sascha built why not run Windows in
a virtual machine so what
okay so virtualization and that system
would handle it like a beast is the
ability to install another operating
system into another operating system so
imagine booting up into a boon - and
then opening windows as if it was a
program on your computer and within
windows on your computer you can then do
the things that Windows does amazing
amazing is that is there any problems
over there like it's a pros cons problem
that you're gonna run is that this is
specifically a gaming rig so being a
gaming rig you want the highest frames
per second you can get you want to be
able to do the the best most seamless
gaming and you want to have a great
gaming experience so in a virtual
machine you're not going to get the same
frame rate that you're gonna get on bare
bones architecture the Windows operating
system running on the computer or the
Linux operating system running
as the core OS on the computer so in a
virtual machine you're gonna lose some
of that frames per second you're also
going to lose the ability to say just
plug in an oculus rift and have it work
because remember that it's a virtual
machine so how does it emulate an oculus
rift in virtualization I don't know I
don't know how that how that trend
translates but keeping in mind that when
you plug a device into the computer it's
now then piped into the virtual machine
as a virtual device that can affect
performance in gaming especially now in
a server environment virtualization is
fantastic in an office environment hey I
could probably run my you know if I had
a powerful enough laptop which I don't I
could run a virtual machine with
VirtualBox install Windows 7 Windows 10
and have CyberLink PowerDirector in
there for all my video editing but I
that requires a lot of power but in a
gaming standpoint I don't know that it
would perform quite as well as we need
all right so that's that's great chat
room thank you very much nice to see you
all who have we got Albuquerque turkey
joining us been robbed Oh three to nine
nice to see ya grab dawn hey nice to see
you yeah Linden all right
and I just kind of just read a couple
names off the top of the list there but
now we've got your viewer questions
comments we're gonna be tackling at just
in a couple of minutes time just after
our are reviewed here but first I want
to look at the sensible sky this is cool
because we think about smart devices we
think about the ability to you know I
have a nest thermostat at my house so ok
that means I save money by running a
thermostat that intelligently figures
out when I'm home
turns off the AC or the heat at that
time and then when I get home it turns
it back on or if I'm if I'm making the
trip home if I'm leaving work and I know
that the house is a little bit cold
because I can bring up the app I can
turn on the heat from my app and then by
the time I get home it's nice and cozy
so sensibo sky takes it kind of to
another level because of course
nest and smart thermostats like nest
they require a hardwired central air
conditioning unit furnace those kinds of
things it's a hardwired connection
sensibo is completely different you want
to know so you picture an AC unit that's
in your window or like a you know if
you've got a heat exchanger you know
there are all kinds of devices that you
might use but I think in particular of
you know the wall hanging AC units not
central air but AC units that use a
remote control yeah right you use a
remote control to adjust the temperature
my AC back in the apartment before we
got central air at the house it had had
a remote control it was just in the
window right it was a great little unit
but you had to be home to adjust it and
there was no intelligence to it
whatsoever
so what sensibo does is it's an app
connected device through your Wi-Fi and
it then allows you to control your AC
unit that has infrared remote control
technology you can control it from your
app okay okay so you think about an AC
unit that has a remote control as long
as it has an infrared remote control
sensibo sky is going to be able to
control it so let's get into the box and
actually get a look at what this what
this device looks like so here we are
this is the box for sensible sky and
nice little device let's just get right
into it it's it's so super simple I mean
here's our step-by-step instructions
download and install the app follow the
instructions in the app and joy and keep
cool those are your instructions would
simple simple so there it is that's the
sensible sky as you can see let's get
some of this wrapper off of here
there we go I'll just stick that over
there and we've got a little bit of a
kind of a like a double sided tape kind
of thing going on over here so I can
just stick it to the wall it's also got
a mount that I can screw it into the
wall and then here we've got USB micro
input
and what looks like some kind of a data
port I'm not we're not sure on that one
it almost seems like it's maybe a
connection for a connected furnace or
some I don't know what that is we'll
look it up you can look that up as well
I don't think that that's gonna affect
our use of it today might be for
firmware updates and things like that as
well further in the box how simple is
that now it is sensible sky is powered
by USB Micro as I mentioned there it's
got just the USB micro jack so it comes
with a what looks like a good long USB
micro cable oh yeah oh there we go good
length on that anyway so because it's
USB micro it's gonna work anywhere in
the world we don't need to have any
fancy adapters we don't need to have any
anything that's you know extra special
to work overseas or anything like that
now it came with a little power brick
here so that I can plug that in as well
the brick that it came with is it's one
amp so it doesn't need a lot of power
most of the bricks that you already have
are going to have 2.4 amps or even
higher so this is you know this can be
powered by basically any any little USB
power cable that you have so I'm just
going to simply plug this in like the
instructions say so I'm just gonna plug
in the USB and we'll see what happens
here if I can do this kind of blindly
there we go
and now the sensible logo is just kind
of flash and blue there on occasion so
I'll just kind of set that down there
now I've got this really cool thing on
my phone called miracast and it allows
me to in fact bring up my phone on the
screen for you so I can actually do that
so how cool is that so let's bring up
the sensibo app there we are and back
here so the first thing that I need to
do is select the sensible sky that's the
device that I've purchased and it says
connect your sensibo sky device to the
power outlet which I've done and then
hit next now it says find the QR code
located on the back of your sensible sky
device
click Next okay so on the back of my
device sure enough there it is it's itty
bitty is my camera going to be able to
read that let's see okay so now I can
see the camera there let's see it's
choppy but let's see oh it actually did
it Wow oh yeah choose an icon and name
the AC okay so I I'm gonna say this is
can we call this living room we're just
we're basically pretending because we
don't have an AC unit here at the studio
that we can use with this so we're gonna
say living room next and I've left it as
the default device allow sensible to
allow this to access this device's
location alright in order to complete
the setup sensibo needs to get right
settings permission the permission is
needed to check Wi-Fi and after setup is
complete you may disable this permission
in settings apps configure settings
modify system settings so right settings
permission okay we're gonna enable that
we're gonna trust that this is all good
because sensibo is a legit company and
what do we got here
modify system settings does it just let
me why is it taking me to other apps
cool okay let's go back to sensibo do we
see it oh there we go a living room
okay so now I don't have an AC unit
connected to this as I mentioned but you
can see up at the top right-hand side of
the app there do you see that on your
screen at the Left we've got humidity
levels we've got a temperature gauge as
well and what's neat about sensibo is it
allows us to actually control our AC
unit not only the on/off state of the
air-conditioner if it's got wireless
remote it's going to be able to control
it but it also allows us to control the
fan setting and it allows us to do that
from anywhere in the world because the
app is connecting to the Internet and
the Internet is then communicating back
with our sense of oh device and that is
is controlled by this app so cool what
does it say okay so please observe the
indication LED of this device count the
number of blinks okay one one one
okay in order to complete the setup okay
I did that
oh maybe oh that's why it took me here
it wants me to turn on oh it needs the
right permission okay it allows the app
to read or write system settings it
needs to read those Wi-Fi settings so
this is kind of interesting Sasha
because what I'm reading that is
actually doing here right is it's making
it so I don't have to program the
sensibo with my Wi-Fi settings it's
going to glean those from my phone
settings so now that I've got that set
up here let's go back to the sensibo app
I've turned on the access let's see what
it does differently
could not find sensibo device make sure
your GPS is turned on your phone
location settings oh and I've learned
I've lost my miracast
sorry on just reconnect there for you so
this is just kind of the initial setup
that you're going to go through it is
pretty you know as you see it's pretty
straightforward it's telling me what I
need to do let's retry see if it gives
me a connection this time searching for
your sensible device and it looks like
it okay to connect your smart AC to the
Internet please select ok so sensibo is
now detecting all the different Wi-Fi
networks and my apparently when it does
that it knocks off miracast so that's
why I lose the connection they're going
to try to bring up the screen here again
for you there we go
so it's detected all the local Wi-Fi
hotspots I'm going to tell it which one
is mine and then I need to tell sensible
okay what is my password so I'm just
going to enter that here mm-hmm
I have a really strong password so bear
with me here folks
I have possibly a it's a simple kind of
class password one two three no how does
that connect to your actual Wi-Fi or not
you're right BAC AC that's what's cool
so you think about your AC unit that has
a wireless remote control right it's
infrared so as I control sensibo with my
phone with the app I'm actually
triggering a wireless remote control
signal infrared from sensible so okay so
then it's it's not like céntimos talking
to the remote this talking to the AC
senses correct how could have lost your
remote completely since about is the
remote absolutely that's correct okay so
it's I got it so that's how it's
communicating I yeah all right cool okay
so I'm gonna I'm gonna give it a go
again here what kind of blinks have we
got one one okay maybe I entered my
password incorrectly let's try again to
connect
here we go gonna try one last time never
a good idea to talk and type your
password at the same time that was all
me oh it's me configuring Oh starting AC
Wi-Fi connection and I've lost miracast
but I'll fire that back up for you
there we go waiting for sensibo oh and I
lost miracast apologies let's bring that
back out oh I see what's happening here
Sasha it's connecting direct my phone is
connecting directly to sensibo it says
to use miracast disconnect the other
Wi-Fi direct connection ah that's why
okay so I can't really use miracast at
the same time that we're doing this so
it's trying it wants to connect through
a Wi-Fi connection it's almost acting
like a hotspot so that's kind of cool
okay so now sensibo is connecting to my
Wi-Fi network right I can't bring it up
on the screen because as soon as I do
I'm connecting to my Wi-Fi network and
then I lose access to the sense of oh
that's interesting so essentially that's
all there there is to the setup so you
see that this is flash in a way it's
it's getting the configuration and it's
connecting to the network this is now
your wireless remote so through your
through your internet connection through
the app you're able to control your AC
unit all right so then if they're also
like benefits as far as like if you were
to leave the house like the phone app
does it know that you're leaving yeah
that's what's kind of neat too because
nest does that nest knows that hey if
I've left the house as I mentioned it
start saving me some energy because it's
it knows that I've gone so sensible is
the same thing once my app once my phone
is left the Wi-Fi network it knows that
I'm no longer there and it and it acts
accordingly so I can program it to say
hey let's turn off the AC unit at that
time I feel like they need one of those
for my hair streamer I think yeah
definitely as a safety precaution so of
course you know setting up something
like sensibo here lie
on the TV show is a little bit tricky
and as it goes through the connection
settings and and I'm trying to show it
on the screen at the same time I've
probably monkeyed up a couple things the
setup itself is very easy breezy as you
can see you know the steps are well
defined in the app it shows you
everything and it's stable and it tends
to work very very well so give it a look
head on over to cap five dot TV slash
sensibo and you'll be able to pick one
of these up great gift for for under the
tree this year and certainly you know if
you know somebody who has or if you have
a an AC unit in your window or in the
house that is controlled by an infrared
controller then this is definitely
something that will be a benefit to you
I love that it turns it into a smart
device it saves us energy and it makes
it so that I can control it from
anywhere no matter where I am it's
perfect there you have it that sense of
oh I apologize that I did have you know
I'm waiting on a couple connection
things but that's that's what it is on
live TV but check it out cat five dot TV
slash senseof oh we've got to take a
really quick break when we come back
we've got your viewer comments questions
and we're going to tackle a couple of
those before the news and then we'll be
we'll be right back
you've got mad skills now honing them
learn new skills or improve your
existing ones with online video
tutorials and training from lynda.com
through our special link at cat5 dot TV
slash Lynda learn software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today to help you achieve your
professional goals join today and start
learning we'll give you this chance to
try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat 5 dot TV slash Linda this
is category five technology TV welcome
to the show you'll find our website at
category five dot TV and those who have
loved to send us emails and comments
questions and we do our best to bring
those up on the air so head on over to
our website if you'd like to submit
yours if you've got a question or a
comment related to the show or
Technology in general we'd love to
receive that Sasha what
what have we received so far this week
well Brittany Murray hey Brittany Murray
has said okay so read the following from
Wikipedia which describes the design
intent for the Raspberry Pi so this is
in relation to the Raspberry Pi killer
oh yes last week
exactly and tell me if you still want to
call the Odroid the Raspberry Pi killer
the Raspberry Pi is a series of small
single board computers developed in the
United Kingdom by the Raspberry Pi
foundation to promote the teaching of
basic computer science in schools in
developing countries I just find the
term killer to be a poor choice
considering the PI's target market and
it's a meds user develop a developer
hobbyists community should still think
that that fits don't get me wrong I love
the Odroid and I'll probably order one
there's still a bunch of things that we
would still be running on PI's in my
house oh sure absolutely and the whole
Raspberry Pi killer is a tongue-in-cheek
comment Brittany Murray you know that's
true and really what it boils down to I
mean it's the power it's the strength of
this thing so if you know if you put
David against Goliath you expect Goliath
is the the one who's gonna win even
though it didn't quite work out that way
but in this case no but okay raspberry
pi is a completely different market I
look at it this way I want to build
stuff I want to tinker I want to do I
want to build things that do things
that's what the Raspberry Pi is to me
that's what being a maker is to me I
want to be able to develop I want to be
able to try new things I want to be able
to change my mind go back wipe it and
start over
so the Raspberry Pi does that and does
it well it's perfect for that
educational get your feet wet all that
okay now when we as makers get to the
point where the Raspberry Pi is no
longer powerful enough and it is behind
the times you have to admit Brittany
Marie it is behind the times as far as
technology goes because they haven't
built a new one in too long and and so
the technology has
he doesn't do 4k right well I'm not sure
I think it might but but the technology
itself as far as processing power Ram
those kinds of things are far behind at
the fact that it has a very very slow
USB to controller with a SD card on that
controller it's very very slow that way
as far as throughput goes for but it's
great for so many things so don't get me
wrong the PI is amazing the pi3
especially but if you're if you get to
that point brittany marie where it's no
longer sufficient power wise and
strength wise and then it's time to
bring in goliath and say you know I want
something that's got more power I want
something that's got more RAM I want
something that runs faster I want
something that does away with SD and
switches to emmc and has USB 3.0 and
Gigabit Ethernet so so Raspberry Pi
killer know that's that's
tongue-in-cheek because the Raspberry Pi
has this place it's a very cheap SBC and
it definitely is is good for a lot of
stuff a lot of stuff and does a lot more
than you'd ever expect it to do yeah I
actually I have to raspberry PI's that I
use I have one at work that we use just
specifically for playing music oh yeah
Lumi oh yeah and then I have one at home
that we use the retro pie like just can
use it for retro gaming like and the
thing is I love them both so much
yeah absolutely there's definitely a
place for it yeah but when I want to
build something that has a RAID
controller and is able to render 3d
video out of blender in a reasonable
time and has eight cores on its
processors yeah you know you know what
you know what I'm saying yeah yeah yeah
picking up what you're laying down there
are other s pcs that are in like I'm
looking at the the fit let to which we
were gonna be reviewing coming up and it
is so incredible like the the specs on
it I think it's got 16 gigs of RAM and a
64 gig em - I believe it had I mean
we're gonna be reviewing this in the in
the coming in the coming weeks so but
there are some devices that are coming
out that just blast past the Raspberry
Pi 3 but they're different
cases absolutely different use cases
thank you very much for your comment
okay so we have one from calves I
believe its calves one stilts we'll take
it yeah I hope she's close I think this
is why I give her all the reading so I
don't have to try to pronounce my candy
means that our names I don't know yeah
okay so I have been staring at that red
laptop in front of Sasha for the past
few episodes please tell me what
computer is that I'm extremely curious
as I am an alienware and MSI Apache
owner but figure out what system is in
front of her with the mighty big screen
seriously you have no idea keep up the
great work by the way I loved Orville
and hated that they what they've done in
the name of Star Trek with Discovery
I was already disappointed with those
new Star Trek movie reboots mixing up
the Star Trek cannons characters and
timelines is a supposedly follow-up to
the original what they've done with
discovery is criminal stop two things
one I agree with you or evil is awesome
so my computer like four actually what
it is like it's a red Toshiba it's a red
computer so you're talking to a lien
we're like you're talking like really
high-end stuff compared to a Toshiba
mine yeah mine was a gift from the like
the Christmas gift he got me I say the
first Christmas we were together right
right so just like a like I really nice
how he asked me what I wanted I said I
need a laptop there you go it's done
really well and you've had different
flavors of a boon to and exactly no s on
there it's running mitaina wise running
Zora and I love Guren - so yeah cool
there you have it it's literally just a
little Toshiba notebook and it's it is
pretty sweet though I like the the bezel
on it oh good
looks good it's cool it works really
well Ricky yeah she uses it as a
teleprompter in a chat room computer it
lives here yeah but it has done me well
thank you for your question speaking of
teleprompter we're gonna head on over to
the news and we do have more of your
viewer questions comments they're gonna
be coming up in just a couple of moments
as well let's stick around but in the
meantime Sasha over to you with with the
newsroom soon all right here are the
stories we're covering this week in the
category 5 TV newsroom the in-browser
mining of cryptocurrency is becoming a
serious issue a new machine is going to
print metal parts at a tenth of the cost
of today's manufacturing systems
10 warm otherwise it may not work and
Intel versus AMD forget about it the
arch rivals are working together to
bring out a new hybrid these stories are
coming right up don't go anywhere
Geoff Weston Gemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what are you
you're terrible actor
what does where acting comes into play
oh I don't know where I think you're
supposed to act okay
building a really cool website are you
building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash DreamHost
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
DreamHost this
is the category 5 TV newsroom covering
the week's top tech stories with a
slight linux bias
I'm Sasha Rickman and here the top
stories were following this week it has
now been confirmed the crypto jacking
craze that maxes out your CPU is
exploiting at least 2,500 websites a
researcher has documented almost 2,500
sites that are actively running
cryptocurrency mining code in the
browser's of unsuspecting visitors a
finding that suggests the unethical and
possibly illegal practice practice has
only just picked up steam since it first
came to light a few weeks ago William de
Groot the independent security
researcher who reported the findings
last week says that he believes all of
the 2,496 sites he tracked are running
out of date software with known security
vulnerabilities he further explained
that these vulnerabilities are being
exploited by the attackers who then user
access to ad code the code secretly
harnesses the electricity and CPUs of
visitors to generate the digital
currency known as Manero about 80
percent of those sites he added also
contain other types of malware that can
steal visitors payment card details oh
it's not just smaller sites that are
affected either for example when the
researcher visited the Australia Subaru
page which contained the code the CPU on
his macbook began spiking and the fan
could also be heard he says besides
putting a noticeable strain on my
computer the site also draws additional
electricity from my office the
arrangement allows the attackers to reap
the benefits of my hardware and
electricity without providing anything
to me in return there are other
indications that the in-browser crypto
mining racket is getting worse
- in a report published Tuesday endpoint
security provider malwarebytes said that
on average it performs about 8 million
blocks per day - unauthorized mining
pages that's a lot ok yeah I know a lot
about like the cryptocurrency Bitcoin
but I don't know anything really over
here a lot of
Bitcoin bitcoin is the one in the news
all the time right right so what is
Manero and how and why and just Bitcoin
do this too but how if I does monaro
need to leech CPU and oh well I mean
crypto cryptocurrency mining is the
process of using many computers
hopefully you have many computers at
your disposal to do this to to generate
revenue through cryptocurrency and by
doing that and and the way that Manero
is doing it is a little different
because just the whole nature of kind of
the backend end and there's a JavaScript
that's that's allowing both malicious
and good you know good well-meaning
folks to to you to mine Manero they can
do this in a browser that which kind of
changes the the whole kind of idea
behind it so cryptocurrency of course
has to be generated by mining which you
know I don't pretend to really overly
understand it's very very in-depth and
when you go from Bitcoin to Manero it's
different and you know but similar in
many ways Manero is completely as far as
I understand completely anonymous though
where Bitcoin it is anonymous I mean
they're Bitcoin isn't like you they
can't necessarily track it back to you
but every transaction that happens in
Bitcoin is trackable to the public ID of
the account where an arrow is completely
private the public ID doesn't reference
the transactions whatsoever so people
can't see how much money you have and
things like that so what happens here is
that okay so basically like I could if I
wanted to cut the ads down on our
website I could add code that would
allow my website to use your computer to
mine mineiro so basically generated
generating revenue by way of
cryptocurrency for me which in you know
if I were open and honest about that
which I would be and said you know click
here to say yes to this and to accept
this then that would be fine and that's
legitimate but what's happened here is
that somebody has picked up on this
capability of Manero and the JavaScript
behind it
and has turned it into malware so that
it distributes itself to all different
websites that don't necessarily
authorize it
that whose users don't authorize it to
do this and so now they've got this
massive farm of computers 2,500 servers
that are infected so every computer that
visits those websites are now mining
cryptocurrency for not subaru not the
company that's running the website but
instead the the malicious person who has
created that malware so that's where you
know it's a very fine line of here's
something that could have been used for
good and it's already being used for
naughty purposes a question about the
idea of like creating mineiro so can I
do that at home look could you turn it
home and just yeah install the mining
software and right but you've got one
computer and you know good luck making
any money on it you're gonna you know
cryptocurrency mining takes a lot of CPU
power and that's why they do this that's
why yeah it's like we've talked about
botnets and things like that you you
need a supercomputer to be able to do
this kind of stuff and maybe that's why
some of these botnets exist maybe
they're mining currency I don't know
yeah you could do it on a single
computer but you need to leave it
running all the time and would it offset
the cost of the hydro that it uses in
order to mine that that cryptocurrency
probably not right thanks Ravi no
problem speaking of supercomputers there
is a new machine that's going to print
small part production desktop metal
based in Boston USA has opened up
pre-orders for its studio system which
uses inkjet like technology rather than
laser based technologies to produce
precision metal parts the system isn't
cheap it's one hundred and twenty
thousand dollars to buy outright or four
thousand dollars a month for 36 months
but compared to other ways of producing
metal parts especially in small numbers
it could be a game-changer sure there
are already CNC machines that cost from
thousands up to hundreds of thousands of
dollars but this fad gizmo is supposed
to
be a challenge to that the printer will
be made available in mid 2018 at which
point the company hopes to expand even
further with a product vert production
version of the machine the production
version will offer 3d printing at 100
times the speed and the 20th of the cost
of current systems traditionally metal
3d printing has been used only for
prototyping given the slow speed in high
cost of making each part once a design
is finalized it then goes to traditional
excute extrusion and casting methods for
both production desktop metal claims to
be able to turn that model on its head
bringing the price down so significantly
that it may be cheaper to use its system
for many products rather than requiring
expensive tooling equipment to be
created for bulk production it can print
items with a range of metals including
steel Steel's copper and titanium using
commercially available powders and what
makes their solution unique is the
printing process itself as well as the
quality of the parts manufactured the 3d
printing system works in much the same
way except in three dimensions placing a
layer of ink or in this case metal
powder on top of a previous layer it's
not that simple of course the machine
also sprays plastic plastic binding
agent and layers of wax in a very
specific specific pattern the final
printed part is placed in a D bind fluid
that breaks down most of the wax and
most of the plastic before being placed
in a furnace where the rest of the
binding agent which has a boiling point
of just below the metal is burned off
leaving just the metal the metal fuses
and creating a density of between 96 and
99.8% according to desktop metal amazing
final finishing then completes the
process 3d printed parts are still going
to work out to be more expensive than
bulk production in the traditional ways
but the cost reduction means that
producing a small number of units is
going to be cheaper in some cases that
may mean that a company would not need
to buy bulk product parts at all
unbelievable yeah I love this idea I'll
tell you I worked as a college student
in a car manufacturing plant so we're
talking like really big steel metal
parts and stuff right and so I'm sort of
familiar with stamping of metals and you
know some of the more I guess injection
molding things so I have an idea of what
like a big scale situation would be but
then I don't quite understand small
scale my dream here with this kind of
technology you think about the extruding
systems and think about the quarter of
million dollar machines that are doing
that extruding process and doing the
molds and everything else so picture if
you so right now and this is a problem
that we've had ever since the automobile
came into existence and we'll use that
as the example there's such a demand on
the automobile itself that in order for
a car manufacturer to be able to
manufacture a car they also have to
manufacture millions of parts spare
parts so that 10 years from now when
people are still driving that car they
can still source those parts right so
we've got this overabundance of waste
material that may or may not even be
used and they really don't have any way
to know and so the cost is you know the
cost is unimaginably cheap if you can
get a machine for $120,000 that'll print
parts versus having to print that many
spare parts so you think about that and
then think about taking your car to a
shop and you know how many times have
you heard this oh it's the part will be
here at the end of the week and we can
install it on Monday so instead how
about this yeah oh yeah we've got the
the 3d rendering for that for that part
well we'll manufacture that for you this
afternoon we've got one of those
machines in the back can you imagine
right so now the responsibility comes
off of the automotive manufacturer to
source these parts and now they can
instead source blueprints and 3d
renderings that now a shop themselves
they could easily invest $120,000 in one
of these 3d printers can now create
their own replacement parts would that
be fantastic
so you know better for the environment
better for you know the earth in general
and and just the the amount of waste
that there must be in these kinds of big
manufacturing industries I have a quick
question about the actual way they they
do it because they're saying inkjet
technology versus laser or inkjet like
right yeah they call it inkjet like
because you think about an inkjet
printer going back and forth and
printing multiple colors right so this
is printing multiple layers of the the
various metal materials so lasers are
quite a bit different and and quite a
bit more expensive because you think
about lasers have to superheat the metal
and they're very very expensive they're
big and you know the cost of a laser 3d
printing machine is unbelievable that's
why right now they print one part and
once they've perfected it 3d printed
that one part then they take it to the
traditional extrusion process and all
that kind of stuff so this would if the
cost of that was lower and they wouldn't
have to like make dyes and things oh
yeah and the machines themselves and can
I change modes just quickly before we
move on to the next story and we're
using the example the example of the
automotive industry on the super vette
my wife and and my daughter Tali watch a
show called the super vette there was a
poor dog who had a tumor growing on its
head and in order to operate on this
tumor they had to remove part of the
dog's skull and they were able to save
this poor animal and the animal survived
and is you know lived a great life after
that how did they do it they 3d printed
a replacement part in metal of that
dog's skull and replaced then replaced
the portion of the skull that was that
had to be removed so it really would
work well on them on so many levels
that's like what a stark contrast from
building parts for
an automobile to saving an animal's life
you know what I would print if I could
out of metal new frames for my glasses
like all the time you know I got bondic
and and bondic works really well for
that kind of stuff it's a plastic welder
in that that's pretty cool I kind of
want to bring it on the show just
because it has saved so many little
components that I've been fixing with
melted plastic yeah it's neat I love it
when things like this just are developed
and they become I mean I realized right
now the price point is high but the fact
that it exists means that eventually the
price is going to be lower I'm going
about this forever but you think you
know one company invests in that machine
now let's rent it out to other companies
let's take that automotive part
manufacturing machine and let the vet
the local vet rent it out and right
right no limits what what ideas do you
have for this 3d printing middle machine
all right spaceship parts on Mars all
right so back to some phone issues
apples $1,000 iPhone 10 may have trouble
operating in the winter weather this is
according to multiple complaints from
owners as well as it admission from
Apple themselves that in cold
temperatures the O LED touchscreen in
the expensive new handsets can become
temporarily unresponsive when taking an
iPhone 10 outside and chilly weather
users have found that the device
struggle to notice finger swipes and
gestures the iPhone 10 uses a five point
eight five inch LED display and
apparently it is particularly sensitive
to changes in temperature the timing of
the engineering blender is going to be
particularly troublesome as the autumn
weather turns to winter for most of the
world and temperatures drop so I realize
that phones have like they've been
getting a bad rap right now because like
it seems like every phone that's
released it's something that's happening
yeah this one is interesting because I
mean touchscreens you're now that
they're always available you expect them
to be super responsive so to have
something leggy
it's gonna make you look especially in
the Canadian winter you imagine so is it
I wonder the fact that the temperature
of your finger in the cold weather would
be the same as the temperature of the
phone because when you think about going
outside your hands get cold and your
phone is cold but it's not going to
really notice that like if it's sensing
warmth from your hand yeah I'm not too
sure how the technology works I think
it's it's easy to fall into thinking oh
it's the OLED display that's a problem
well no understand that the OLED display
is the the picture that you're seeing
and the the touch screen aspect of that
display is a layer that's been added on
top of that now Apple has has announced
that you know in a response to this news
story and the reddit discussion that's
been going on Apple responded by saying
that they're going to fix it with a
firmware update so of course everybody
goes what like this sounds so much like
a hardware problem because we're
thinking along the lines of an OLED
display and you know it's the display
it's got to be something wrong with the
hardware but think about that layer of
technology that's on top of that display
that allows the touch sensitivity and
the multi-touch and and being able to
control it with your finger and so if
they're able to release a firmware
update that fixes this then it tells us
that most likely it's something to do
with the underlying programming of that
layer of the device so the algorithms
that essentially sense your ear touch so
maybe they need to make it more
sensitive maybe they need to monitor the
temperature and hey when it gets cold we
need to increase the sensitivity because
that layer is you know it takes a little
bit to come down to temperature or
something like that
I'm not sure they you know we don't
really know yet what the actual issue is
right I know gene yes I'll tell you but
I am going to just hazard a guess it has
something to do with cold fingers that's
what I think I think it's the fingers
and the phone gonna tell us that you
need to you need to breathe on your
hands first before you use your
brand-new thousand-dollar Ivan it's
really cold hands so I feel like I I I
might not do well with it
iPhone 10 this is where you know you
gotta get into controlling everything
with Bluetooth folks that's where pixels
got it right control it with your
headphones
that's right there you go intel has
teamed up with archrival AMD to create a
powerful new processor the unlikely pair
working together on a new unified chip
that integrates Intel's core CPU
architecture with AMD's graphic
technology intel says that the new
processor should deliver the same sort
of gaming performance as current gen
discrete notebook GPUs but in a smaller
less power hungry size this will allow
OMS and system makers to create thin and
light laptop laptops that provide the
graphic power that gamers and content
creators look for the innovation doesn't
stop there however the new fangled chip
will also carry a new low-power HBM to
graphics memory this takes up less space
and provides greater performance than
traditional ddrs GPU memory Intel said
in a press release the new product which
will be part of our 8th gen Intel Core
family brings together our high
performing intel core h series processor
2nd generation high bandwidth memory and
a custom to Intel third-party discrete
graphics chip from AMD's Radeon
technologies group all in a single
processor package when can we expect to
buy this hybrid Intel AMD processor as
early as next year intel says that
they'll be revealing more about the chip
including the branding and devices that
make use of it in the coming months hmm
so is that it blows my mind that in
today's kind of climate that two rival
companies would really like it was let's
do this let's build something better and
I can already see like it's gonna be
super beneficial like it's going to be
amazing
yeah how thin do we need to get here
Intel well we need to get to the point
that you see in all of the movies like
where where they get its if the laptop
is as small as a piece of paper like it
needs to be read it needs to be same it
needs to get like ridiculous the i7
powers if I'm not mistaken the the Apple
MacBook Air and that is super super thin
that's an Intel processor so if they're
saying that hey this team up with AMD is
going to give us something even thinner
could you imagine oh boy that's gonna be
paper-thin for sure man I love life
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of yours for submitting cerise
us this week thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our web site from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Sasha Rickman Thank You
Sasha this is category 5 technology TV
and our website is category 5 dot TV
welcome to the show
we've got your viewer questions comments
we're gonna jump right back into that
Sasha what's next Steve Delaney says hi
Robbie remember my idea of your eyes of
your phone being your main computer with
three type-a USB ports 4 keyboard mouse
flash drives yes I think they're doing
that man did you patent it did you
register the dot-com I hope so yeah okay
so Steve says I think that any cast
device you showed might be better suited
to this then say chromecast I read that
chromecast is not here on all phones and
only streams I also heard that there is
a two or three second delay between the
phone and the screen oh so you can't
play any phone games on your TV on
chromecast worse you can't really use a
word processor because the time delay
would drive you crazy I believe you
that's like me when I type computer
can't keep up I'm like some wind
chromecast didn't just mirrors beyond me
since YouTube videos can be played in
full-screen mode to be honest I've never
even heard of slimport before you
mentioned it oh yeah does anyone
slimport oh yeah under the desk here
that's this little guy that converts
that USB port on your phone into what
does it do
full hdmi output for your smartphone how
cool is that
Steve ends by saying does anyone else
except you care about the end user I
couldn't think they care but they just
don't care as much thank you Steve
okay so we have from Noah hi dear
category-five team I love to watch your
show every Thursday it's very helpful
and fun to watch it gets really
confusing for those who are watching on
Sunday as they hear us saying you know
it's Wednesday and you're watching
Thursday and you're watching Friday
that's the nature of television these
days folks that's how it works exactly
you're watching Thursday's thanks for
tuning in well the thing is no one
doesn't watch it live either because in
Germany we air live at one o'clock in
the morning right so you can stay up
come on no we stayed up no we're up at
one o'clock in the morning your time no
watches on YouTube which is awesome so
that's great so Noah really likes how
the the guide on how to install the plex
media server on the Raspberry Pi which
was episode 459 awesome so as soon as
Noah saw that video
they bought he bought a Raspberry Pi and
installed Plex sweet and since then I've
subscribed to the YouTube channel so
thank you for that one guys for your
subscription one question is there a way
to watch the show on Plex a way to watch
the show on Plex yes get onto our
website it's category-five dot TV so if
I bring it up category five dot TV and
boy it's hard to type on these little
tiny things he says yeah but not when
I'm holding it with one hand and they've
got these crazy keys yeah you guys see
this no I'm serious grass but these keys
what is all this what is that gibberish
I don't know anyway so you get on to
category 5 TV click on subscribe at the
bottom of the page and you'll see our
plex
add on which you can download and
install into flex the instructions are
right there you'll find it we're also on
Kodi Roku pretty much anywhere you want
to watch and you can subscribe the RSS
feed as well so there's really you know
we could be watched on any platform
pretty much yeah including cable channel
33 in the high desert
alright orange man writes hey orange man
dear Robi I was given an old HP ProLiant
Pro server as the owner didn't need it
he told me that it overheated that said
it was kept in a cupboard under the
stairs with no ventilation so it has
well gigabytes of memory Wow and a Xeon
processor with 4 cores it's got 5 SATA
drive bays and eights a space of which I
sent you the drives oh yeah we thank you
for that I hope you saw the video I've
installed a boon to server on it and I
have 8 terabytes of disk space with 2
times 2 terabyte drives ok so 2 2
terabyte drives and a 4 terabyte drive I
used it as a very large file server
holding about 6 terabytes of data and
before you ask I do have two backups of
all the data good cuz it with for three
drives at for 2 plus 2 plus 4 that means
you have no redundancy if you've got 8
terabytes exact Orange I'd rather see
you with some redundancy there like set
up the to 2 terabytes as a raid 1 yeah
yeah so so Orangemen knows that the
server has a lot of processing power but
has some more questions oh yeah is it
worth adding another Xeon processor
there is space on the motherboard for a
second processor is it worth adding more
memory hmm ok so first first who pays
your hydro bill who pays for your
electricity because those eons are
electricity suckers like they just drink
it up and use it up so if you add
another processor it's going to use you
know it twice as much electricity as
that old Xeon processor so I'd imagine
that this is an older server so they
used to be very inefficient
that way so so check out the process or
find out how many watts of electricity
it's going to use and then make that
determination do you need the extra
processing power the extra four cores or
do you think that it's better just to
save the money on the electricity bill
and and leave it as it is but if your
system supports it then like I've got a
two CPU Xeon processor at home which
runs our on raid server and it is just a
cost beast like it cost me so much money
to run it I'm ready to deprecate it but
I need to move so much stuff over to get
rid of it
but it costs us we bought one of those
devices that tells us how much our
electricity is costing us plugged in the
server oh it was brutal like we're
talking half of my electricity bill was
going to the server you want to you want
to get rid of those old things next
question
it can Orangemen disconnect the
controller board connecting to the SAS
drive bays because we have the SAS drive
oh dude he kept the controller sent us
the drive drives but not the controller
so you've got a bunch of drives but we
don't have a controller and then we
could use the drives that would be cool
but but you can pull it or use it or
whatever I mean it's it's in there
already but you've pulled the the SAS
drives can you use it for
SATA yeah if you want to add more drives
to the system unlike SATA SAS is
backward compatible to s to SATA so SATA
buses you cannot connect SAS drives but
SAS buses you can connect either SAS or
SATA I'm not sure if it's as fast as I
think it's only a SATA 2 but you may
want to check out the specs on that
check your SAS controller as well what
the what the specifications are but yeah
that could be used for extra extra
headers for your SATA drives for sure ok
there's one last question why are there
two 12-volt 38 amp power supplies and do
both have to be plugged into the main
power to make the server work
and what does each power supply power
okay well okay think that this is a
server right orange man so what that is
it's not two power supplies per se like
you're not getting two supplies of power
they're called redundant power supplies
so part of a server I mentioned having
redundant storage so having a RAID one
means if one of those two terabyte
drives fails you've got the other one
with the same data so you don't lose
anything so then you stick in another
two terabyte drive it rebuilds and
you've not lost a thing similarily
servers are built to have redundancy and
power so if one of the power supplies
burns out which happens it keeps running
on the other power supply so then you
have to just pull out the broken power
supply replace it with a new one and
then you're up and go you're still
you're still up and going but then
you're back to having redundancy so this
is all because it's a server so it's
meant to be reliable and always on so in
a business environment you don't want
your server being shut off by a power
supply outage you want it to continue
going so that's where the redundancy
comes in then you can just pull and
replace the power supply when it's
convenient similarly with the hard drive
redundancy and everything else it's all
about redundancy on a reliable in-house
server that's what that is
perfect Thank You orange man and thank
you for the sastras thank you very much
I look forward to using them when we
have a SAS controller because as I
mentioned can't plug SAS in to SATA so
yeah the picture that just came up sure
isn't that great that is our website
takes pictures of us as we're live on
the air and that looks like it's like a
posed picture but that actually is
actually happening it's like wow yeah
actually that just looked like a post
shot and it's just random
automatic by our website we've got some
really neat tech here it's pretty cool
stuff I love this show
oh I hope you've enjoyed yourself and
I'm looking forward to seeing you again
next Wednesday night we've got so many
cool things happening i mean christmas
is coming so we're looking at and
companies are sending us stuff that they
want us to show you so tell us what kind
of stuff do you want to see now japaese
has sent us some incredible wireless
earbuds we're going to be looking at
next week I'm really excited about these
they're probably the best wireless
earbuds I've ever ever had the pleasure
of trying so you definitely want to see
those what kind of devices do you want
to see because we've got boxes of stuff
that's been sent in for Christmas and we
want to show you the stuff that you want
to see if you're thinking hey this is
something on my Christmas list I want to
find out whether or not it's any good
maybe Robbie and sash I could take a
look at it for me let us know comment
below and if you're watching this on
cable head on over to our website
category five dot TV and you can comment
by clicking on to episode number 530 so
that's all the time that we have for
this week so we'll catch you next week
