it sounds like there's just some
networking issues going on so I just
explained a couple of fundamentals about
this type of networking scenario and and
as I mentioned avahi Damon which is
spelt a vah I - Dae M om if you install
that using apt or whatever package
manager that you're using if you install
that then it allows that computer to
respond by its host name within your
network if your computer does not have
that and it's a Linux host then you may
have trouble resolving without knowing
the IP address so on my Linux system for
example I'm just gonna bring up a
terminal window here let's get a look so
I'm gonna type and so I'm already root
so you need to be root on Ubuntu you're
gonna type sudo su to become root okay
so apt install avahi daemon now mile
inspire says avahi daemon is already the
newest version so this is something that
I would do not on my client maybe on my
client cuz I want all the computers to
be able to communicate but on the
computer that I'm trying to connect to
this is going to allow me to communicate
with it by hostname the other one that
you may want to be familiar with is
called Lib
pardon me Lib and SS - mdns let's see if
we have that app install Lib NSS - mdns
and again and this shows this really is
showing us how Lin spire kind of has
everything already built in out of the
box which is kind of cool I'm not having
to install these things but you may have
to on other distros what live NSS mdns
does differently as this allows our
computer to to see other dot local
computers within our lands so if you
don't have that installed on your
computer the ghast the one that you're
trying to act
the avahi daemon computers from so my
desktop computer for example or chakotay
you may need to install that as well on
that computer so then you've got the
ability to communicate by hostname and
if you're not getting a response to
XenServer one try XenServer one dot
local and that tells it that it you're
looking within a local you're looking
for a local NS record not something out
on the web and that may help as well if
all else fails Chris I want to point you
in the direction of what's called a
hosts file
Safa any idea what a host file might do
this is gonna be a shot in the dark I
can tell by that a host file would be
the bald nerd the one file that has all
of the things in it Bob nerd dot txt is
a host file right right a host file well
a host file is it tells your computer
what IP address to resolve based on an
NS name so XenServer one is 192.168.1.2
right so if I know that and I'm not able
to resolve that based on my internal DNS
I can actually forcibly set that setting
using a host file and what's nice about
that is it's something you can do in
both Linux and Windows so regardless of
what operating system you're using you
can do this now on my Linux computer if
I go into the slash et Cie and then nano
hosts you'll see that there's this file
here so what I could do Chris is I could
say XenServer like that assert XenServer
one and just before that 192.168.1.3 and
that's all that there is to it so now I
can output that file with ctrl o and
then if I try to ping that send server
one notice that my computer here is
trying to ping 192.168.1.3 but it's
going to bounce it's obviously going to
tell
here in studio D that there is no
XenServer there is no 192.168.1.3 but
did you see how quickly I was able to
basically use a hacky workaround to tell
my computer hey 192.168.1.3 or dot - in
your case I've got the wrong IP my
mistake is XenServer one so now I can
resolve it without having to change
anything just editing my host file I
mentioned that this can be done on
Windows as well so let's get a look at
my Windows system here and on Windows I
can head into my C Drive and in Windows
I think it's under system 32 etc' no
drivers yes
et Cie and there's the host file so see
or your hard drive windows system 32
drivers et Cie open the host file you're
gonna have to tell it that you need to
open it with notepad or Adam or whatever
text editor that's going to be
compatible and notice the similarity
here 192.168.1.2 is the correct address
and you can have a tab or a couple
spaces there whatever the XenServer one
save that file and now my Window System
can also find that via the host name
[Music]
[Applause]
you
