this is something that I think should
probably be in everybody's stocking you
think that a I do the plastic welder
plastic welder right what so what I want
to show you is what's called bondic and
it's this little guy here and you pick
these up at cat5 dot TV slash bondic and
all it is is a simple resin that
solidifies only when exposed to
ultraviolet light ah okay so what could
this be used for so first of all as I
said this is something that should be in
everybody's talking because I have
already used this a million and one
times now we were joking and kind of
laughing a little bit there during the
break because I don't have anything I
can show you to fix because it's so easy
it's so quick that I I have fixed
everything so what I love about bondic
is when my kids bring me a toy when they
bring me something that needs fixing and
this has happened several times in the
past couple of weeks since I got it I'm
able to fix it right then and there so
super dad there you go I'm actually you
know I don't have to
oh well I'll put some superglue on it
and I'll let it set overnight and we'll
hope for the best no this is
instantaneous repair and I can fix
something really really quick so that's
what I've been doing for my kids and
that's what I've been doing for myself
so I got this because my laptop I don't
know if you can see this very clearly
I'll see if I can hold this up right
here see that oh that has been bondic so
the chassis of my laptop snapped it
broke and so the cable the charging
cable was very very loose it was jiggly
and I was afraid that it was eventually
going to snap off of the motherboard so
I got bondic so that I could actually
replace the plastic with this resin and
then make it solid and it is absolutely
solid and now my power supply does not
jiggle on the motherboard I didn't have
to take the laptop apart you probably
wouldn't have noticed it even though you
know the close-up it doesn't look super
super pretty because I didn't do you
know that I didn't care that much about
making it look perfect I could have
taken the chassis apart and done a nicer
job but it's
functional it fixed it and I saved
potentially a lot of money because had
that broken my motherboard it would have
snapped something off of the motherboard
and could have been a hundred hundred
fifty dollars to get that fixed maybe
more if it was a serious issue so how
does it work
so let's actually build this up just a
little bit I'm just gonna take a little
bit of the resin and just kind of
dribble it on here and it's just a
liquid and you've probably seen bondic
before but if you're like me you're
looking at the reviews and wondering
does it really work is it actually worth
the price to go and get one of these now
that I've put the liquid there and it's
gonna stay liquid until I expose it to
ultraviolet light as soon as I'm done I
can just you know if I'm happy with the
position I can just expose it to the
ultraviolet light how long do you have
to expose it for before five seconds oh
it's instantaneous so now that is solid
it's a little bit tacky to my fingers so
I can just expose the light a little bit
more literally in that amount of time
there that is solid plastic now so you
can see that I've built that up just a
little bit more there and that has saved
my laptop essentially so the other thing
that I've done with it Sasha my son I
mentioned earlier in the show if you're
watching the entire full-length episode
that he has a Bluetooth mp3 player well
the buttons stopped working so I took it
apart and it turned out that on the
underside of the buttons is a little peg
that pushes down on the circuit board
and the circuit board has buttons that
get depressed right well the the back
side the underside of the plastic
buttons were not quite long enough to
push the buttons all the way so he'd
have to push really really hard like
just bondic and I just put a little bit
more plastic on there and then I
solidified it with the ultraviolet light
and now his mp3 player works perfectly
the buttons worked perfectly you're like
a magic dad it really kind of feels that
way my littlest is six years old turning
seven next week and he brings me things
like he has a plastic coin that he broke
in half and I don't know how that
happened but dad just pulls this out
fixes it solidifies it and it's instant
fix
and it's just been one thing after
another like that so go get one cap v
dot TV slash bondic again perfect little
thing to throw into into somebody
stalking I think everybody should have
this it's been a real it's been a real
help around the house for sure it's
actually very cool it works I was
skeptical I was skeptical from the
reviews on Amazon right and it does work
uh you know what I'm even thinking in a
pinch if you broke your glasses or
something and just to get you through
glasses are another great example I've
got a pair of my favorite sunglasses got
broken the the basically the side part
here got snapped and I'm gonna use
bondic to fix it they're just in the
other vans so I haven't done that yet
but that's one of the one of the things
I want to fix way better than tape
Robbie that's how I usually do masking
tape
[Music]
