here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
Broadcom has confirmed a 130 billion
dollar buyout frit offer for their
arrival Qualcomm some iPhone users are
fuming over the new letter i bug tour
has been leaking users real IP addresses
and australia's a multi-million dollar
broadband network is under attack from
cockatoos these stories are coming right
up don't go anywhere
Jeff Weston jela you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what are you
you're terrible actor what this is where
acting comes into play you're supposed
to act okay are you building a really
cool website are you building a really
cool website just because Jeff is
confused doesn't mean you have to be
visit cap five dot TV slash dream host
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
DreamHost
this
is the category 5 TV newsroom covering
the week's top tech stories with a
slight linux - I'm Sasha Rickman and
here the top stories were following this
week
Broadcom has confirmed its multi-billion
dollar bid for Qualcomm revealing more
details of the 130 billion dollar
all-cash and shares offer to buy out its
rival chip maker both Qualcomm and
Broadcom are specialists in
system-on-chip products putting arm
compatible silicon into various items
such as smartphones and the wildly drawn
world of the Internet of Things which
all chip makers regard as the future of
chip sales and manufacture broad coms
offer comprises $70 per share which we
now know is a fact and is made up of 60
dollars in cash and $10 in stocks
Broadcom CFO Thomas Kraus said we look
forward to engaging immediately in
discussions with Qualcomm so that we can
sign a definitive agreement and
completes this transaction expeditiously
it's a bold move by Broadcom Qualcomm on
the other hand has sued Apple attracted
the interest of antitrust authorities in
America and earned the an enemy of Intel
on the flip side it's not only
profitable but is in the middle of its
own multi-billion dollar buyout of
arrival so the Internet of Things is
definitely 100 percent the future of
this actual product itself right well
sure yeah the Internet of Things being
like connected devices and and so on
right so if you're a chip manufacturer
you want to be in on that right okay so
what exactly is a system on a chip like
it's well I would imagine I mean we're
talking about chips with firmwares so
that the software is actually running on
the circuit on the chip itself but these
guys I mean Broadcom does I think it's
like broadcast circuits and chips and
Qualcomm does the modems for these
devices so various different you know
different needs you know you think of an
iPhone and you think about a specific
phone you don't think about the fact
that each little chip is made by
different
Broadcom being one qualcomm being
another mm-hmm right exactly but I you
know what my question is if Qualcomm is
doing so well and is actually a good
rival why bother is Qualcomm doing so
well well they're profitable they say
hey seventy bucks a share that's the
offer
okay so Qualcomm is profitable right
right consider the dispute that they've
had since before January with Apple like
they're one of their biggest customers
and obviously one of the biggest
manufacturers in the world as far as
mobile devices and and that kind of
thing goes so they're profitable yeah
we're making money we're in the black
but we're not if they're 90 percent down
on previous years so their their profit
right is way down compared to previous
years so no they're not doing well
they're they are profitable they're
still making money but they're on the
decline right okay Wow so you know the
the thing with that you know why would
Broadcom be looking at buying Qualcomm
well it's it's an opportunity they're
doing poorly right now right and as far
as that goes and I think it really all
surrounds the Apple thing I shouldn't
say that they're doing poorly they're
not then they have other customers but
the whole thing with Apple is they
they've got patents that they're just
you know Apple is disputing the fees
that go along with those patents and
Qualcomm is fighting them and they're
suing each other and there's all these
lawsuits going back and forth right so
it makes me wonder if there's a
perspective on it that you know broke up
sitting there going well if they win
this we get access to all of you
earnings if Apple or oh if they win the
buyer this is it here's the thing so
imagine they're their stocks of their
stocks went down yep Qualcomm because of
the lawsuit and everything else so
they're doing poorly that way then along
comes Broadcom in this perfect moment
and like a vulture says okay we'll give
you this unimaginable like the biggest
buyout in tech ever 100 billion dollars
and in order to take over your company
so if they say yes now Broadcom buys up
all those the patent portfolio now owns
it and settles the
with Apple fixes that relationship
because Apple is already on the fence
about their relationship with Qualcomm
and saying you know maybe we want to
just sever this relationship altogether
so if they say yes if Qualcomm says yes
to the buyout now Broadcom can fix
things with Apple and and redeem that
whole relationship and become this
bigger entity now if if Qualcomm says no
however the stocks go back down the
stocks plummet right and Apple says you
know what we still want out you know now
that's not a sure thing this is just a
theory but you know what what timing
what absolute timing if you're Qualcomm
you pretty much don't have a choice you
kind of don't I kind of feel that way
it's like okay we really need to take
this otherwise we're done yeah
like our stocks are way down now their
stocks rose when they offer came right
like they're like big-time and are
continuing to rise at a slower pace but
you know it's it's happening so as soon
as they say yes it's gonna be a good
thing for you know for everything
involved but if they say no then it's
gonna drop right back down yeah exactly
it's all in relation to broad commenting
Wow thank you well things that happen
behind the scenes
speaking of Apple some iPhone users have
been left frustrated after an update to
the iOS operating system
curiously began to autocorrect the
letter I to a capital a with a question
mark the affected version of iOS 11.1 is
available on iPhones and iPads a
technology reporter shared his
frustration on Twitter saying I have a
one thousand one hundred and fifty
dollar telephone that can't read the
letter I
Apple has outlined a temporary fix for
the problem on its website the fix
involves editing the keyboard settings
so enough in iOS so that the right
character either an upper or lowercase I
is used Apple has said that the issue
will be fixed in a future software
updates and not all iOS 11.1 users have
been affected Wow the Canadian the
Canadian it's not a bug it's a Canadian
upgrade you wouldn't think that would be
a simple patch just fix it upload it and
be done with it in one day
right right you think you would think
that but it could perhaps it's it's not
I'm kind of envying Android right now
where if you have problems with your
keyboard you just install a different
keyboard yeah Apple is like locked in
it's like you're on Apple you can't
change things so cause an autocorrect
issue like that bad dictionary a virus
not a virus I don't think that'd be
pretty unlikely I mean it could be like
a disgruntled employee who you know
having tried to delete the president's
Twitter account and so decided to inject
strange character it sounds to me like
this was an update to iOS 11 point one
that was meant to introduce all these
new emojis so maybe maybe maybe the
emot-- like i think about i and then a
stray or a and then a strange question
mark character this kind of seems to me
like maybe a high ascii issue or
something like that so you know the
programmer me thinks maybe the you know
it's trying to output a unicode
character or something like that so what
that means is maybe it was just that key
that particular autocorrect got
corrupted or changed to something that
it shouldn't have been and so it's
correcting everything because as you
type it replaces words so imagine every
time you press I and hit space it
replaces it with a should be fine unless
you're trying to type in your password
[Laughter]
maybe it seems a little bit too good to
be true is very humor Macs and Linux
versions of the Tor anonymity browser
just received a temporary fix for
critical vulnerability that leaks users
IP addresses whenever they visit certain
types of addresses turmoil as the flaw
has been dubbed by its Discoverer is
triggered when users click on links that
begin with file colon slash slash rather
rather than the more common HTTP colon
slash slash and HTTP
pe : / / address prefixes when the tor
browser for Mac OS and Linux is in the
process of opening such an address the
operating system may directly connect to
the remote host by bypassing tor browser
on Friday members of the Tor project in
issued a temporary workaround that plugs
the IP leak until the final fixes in
place updated versions of the browser
may not behave properly when navigating
to file : / / addresses they said both
the windows versions of tor and tails as
well as the sandboxed tor browser that's
in alpha testing aren't vulnerable
tor statement Friday said that there's
no evidence that the flaw has been
actively exploited on the Internet or
dark web to obtain the IP addresses of
tor users of course the lack of evidence
doesn't mean that the flaw wasn't
exploited by law enforcement officers
private investigators or even stalkers
for that matter and now that a fix is
available it will be easy for advert
adversaries who don't know about the
vulnerability before to create working
exploits anyone who relies on Mac or
Linux versions of the tor browser to
shield their IP address should update as
soon as possible and be ready for the
possibility however remote that their IP
addresses have already been leaked hmm
Wow very tool that's meant to protect
your IP and identity yeah boys I have
used and understand the prefix HTTPS
right would you an HTTP much a secure
website exactly unsecured website I've
never typed in file colon slash slash
well you could click on links on a
website that would take you there right
of course but like I don't understand
why you would even need to use something
like that like what's the okay so file
colon slash slash typically refers to
files on your own hard drive so a
website for example if I was creating a
tutorial on how to access Network shares
I could tell you in my tutorial on my
blog
in order to access your server at IP
address 192.168.0.1 i 2.16 a done so i
could use it in a tutorial and file
colon slash slash tells my browser do
this on the local network or it might be
like a local file for some you know for
some reason or you know a local uploaded
image or something so there are cases
where it could be needed or where it is
legitimately used I know like doc you
week II for example will convert local
network share addresses into links so
that if I'm on my personal network and I
click on that link it will take me to my
local internal server so that's a file
colon slash slash link fairly uncommon
but in the you know in the wild once
this exploit is now known people may in
fact put those links on websites or not
even links but JavaScript redirects for
example to exploit the person's IP
address yeah now that the fix is
available now people are like you know
what happens when a fix comes out is
everybody who is malicious says oh
that's how I can get people people's IP
addresses right now there's a fix I know
how to exploit that browser know for
people they use tor browser they
obviously don't want their IP addresses
to be exposed so what happens in this
case now where their IP address is
exposed is there anything they can do
what can you do if your IP is exposed
right like your isp your internet
service provider controls your IP
address think of the IP as and it stands
for Internet Protocol it's your your
your phone number for your computer
right your network so when you go to
Google and you type in a search it
responds back to your computer with the
results and that is done through your IP
address and that's very very important
and it generally you know if you're on
cable or there fiber or anything like
that
generally doesn't change and if it does
is very infrequent like every couple of
years
I know cable cable internet here in
Canada it might be every couple years
you'll see your IP address changed when
they rolled out ipv6 the IP address is
change
and I think that's the only time that
I've had a change in four years let's
see with mine if I restart my modem
mm-hmm my IP address changes so you're
on DSL no I'm on cable you're on cable
and are you sure it changes your policy
changes yep
so some ISPs do that yeah because
there's a pool of IP addresses there's
no guarantee that it's going to change
when you restart your router no
certainly DSL is a case where it's
probably going to change because it it
reconnects over pppoe with your username
and password and then gets a new IP
address right every time you restart
your router or your modem so it's a
little bit different but with internet
on cable it quite often it keeps the
same IP address and that's what shocked
me is when I saw that mine reset I was
like yeah that's interesting because I
shot it with my ISP about it and I'm
like why did this happen it's a security
feature they have in a business though
in a business typically you're gonna be
sitting on a static IP a correct yes
that means that phone number of your
network never changes so if somebody is
exploited on that IP address you are
never going to lose that IP address it
is now identifiable to you good types if
you're interested in knowing what an IP
address reveals here's a little trick
for you go to Google okay so just go to
your favorite Google search engine and
the reason I say Google is because they
have a tool in the search instead of
doing a search just type in IP so that
stands for Internet Protocol and it will
actually respond with your public IP
address so what Google sees your IP
address is now copy that and go to Mac's
mind comm ma X M IND com Mac's mind is a
geolocation technology that allows
credit-card processors and banks and
online sales portals to use IP
geolocation data to verify people's
identities so that service is used for
legitimate purposes so that people can
verify that
hey yeah you're making a purchase on my
website you're you say you're from
Quebec and indeed you are check if you
say you're from Quebec and you're
actually in Israel I think there's a red
flag there so you go to max my comm and
if you scroll down the page a little bit
there's a little place where you can
paste an IP
to test it paste that IP address from
Google in there and go and you're gonna
see all the information that Mack's mind
reveals about your IP address Oh
interesting little test for you if you'd
like to see what your IP address reveals
I'm doing that today very very cool
thank you take it one step further real
quick it gives you a longitude and
latitude copy that paste it back into
Google Maps it tells you where you are
nope just try it okay gives you a
longitude and latitude result paste it
into Google Maps and see what you find
I'm actually scared all right
Australia's a multi-million dollar
cockatoos the national broadcast network
said it has spent tens of thousands of
dollars so far fixing cables that have
been chewed by the birds they also
estimate the bill will rise sharply as
more damage is uncovered in an attempts
to improve Australia's internet speed
currently lagging behind many developed
countries 11.1 megabits per second a
national telecommunications
infrastructure project has been
instigated and is due for completion in
2021
but engineers have engineers returning
to sites have been finding spare cables
chewed and frayed the culprits are
cockatoos a type of parrot which
normally eats fruit nuts wood and bark
and now wires the company has had to
replace power and fiber cables at the
cost of tens of thousands of dollars
each time so far they say they have
spent $80,000 of local currency which is
roughly sixty one thousand five hundred
u.s. the company says it's currently
installing perfected perspective casings
which cost $14 each and that will
protect the wires from the birds in the
future and save billions of dollars and
saved their 3 billion dollar Network for
further damage stop making the Internet
out of nuts and berries it reminds me of
an old story that we told in the news
about mice were eating the in
like the soundproofing or something
inside a car that was oh yes yes right
they had some kind of biodegradable
insulation
yeah and wiring the traction that was
apparently delicious so I'm thinking
that the birds probably aren't eating
the wires I think that they're probably
using them as as either nest material
because it probably looks like a twig or
perhaps Australia didn't think about it
and put something yummy in there you
know what I think it's more that they're
sharpening their beaks I mean they're no
yes cockatoos are known to pack a sharp
sharpen their beak so you get something
like a good solid wire and looks like a
good thing to sharpen that beat guy I
mean as weird as this story is that it's
cockatoos yeah what I was actually most
shocked about is the fact that their
internet is so slow oh 11.1 megabits per
second and that's high like their
average in Australia is 8.5 like that's
insane how was it that it really is so
far behind on that oh how far behind are
they well think about this ultra HD
video on Netflix is 25 megabits per
second alright so why are they so far
behind Jeff cockatoos no I think you
know it's probably political the the the
company that runs the internet service
in Australia is government-run and in
you know the early 2000s the plan was to
upgrade the infrastructure to fibre
we're gonna do 100 megabit fiber lines
all throughout Australia and upgrade
every one so you know I think the plan
was that 95% of Australia would have
access to fiber Internet that was the
plan now the 2013 election happened and
the Liberals came in and said you know
what we're actually gonna change things
and we're going to instead we're gonna
focus on cost savings we're gonna try to
make you know we're gonna make the black
here and that didn't go so well for the
Internet no no the choice was made at
that time that instead of upgrading to
fiber we're gonna tap into the existing
copper infrastructure and try to work
with that so use newer technologies over
the
proper infrastructure and keep going
with that and so the the idea was that
it was supposed to be cheaper it was
supposed to be faster to deploy and it
turned out it was neither and it's
costing them a lot of money and they've
got this terrible infrastructure that is
being eaten by cockatoos that's too bad
you're tapping into your sector I think
that the solution would be it's
government stuff right like so it's like
a government monopoly over the internet
so imagine if your internet service was
provided by the government that's how it
is in Australia so because of that
infrastructure is completely driven by
governmental budgets and and legislation
and and bureaucracy so you think about
that and you know if they would just
privatize that sector of you know the
infrastructure of Internet
telecommunications if they could
privatized that everywhere cried well
I've got a different perspective I'm
sure but you think about that you know
why are they so slow that's the question
yeah why is their internet so slow
because it's it's not per me it's it's
not publicly right you know it's private
right now I wanted to you know I think
that sorry it should be public because
it was public then we've got competition
we've got fair competition we've got the
price coming down you know the
government says oh well the Australians
don't want it to be faster we don't want
these that's what they say that's what
the CEO of the the broad broadcast
company or whatever they call themselves
that's what they said but the fact
Achilles they don't want to pay for it
you're watching and you're from
Australia yeah please call me am i right
like it's not I mean the government is
misquoting Australians and saying that
they don't want to have it when really
they just don't want to pay the
astronomical fee that the government
wants to charge them for it so if it was
public instead of privatized pardon me
if it was public then there'd be
competition and the infrastructure could
go up and the cost could come down so
now I can get faster internet and it's
affordable that's the key thing so
really the tagline out of this is Polly
want a cookie
for the birds boy oh just bad it's very
punny what are you talking about big
thanks to Roy W Nash in our community of
yours for submitting surveys to us this
week thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our web site from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Sasha Rickman
[Music]
[Applause]
