what you're about to experience is a
free worldwide interactive broadcast
from Ontario Canada we broadcast live
every tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time
get your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live and category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Robbie
Ferguson welcome to episode number 172
of category 5 technology TV right down
here it is Tuesday January fourth happy
new year happy new year to you too hey
we didn't bring any noise makers right
let me show you know you've got the
champagne you got the shirts though we
have new uniforms in uniform but Sean's
very proud over there isn't think I got
the shirt to I got a shirt yes John a
dungeon apart yes there you go what's a
pogoplug there you go here don't get him
to stand up and roll around I know he
wants well you could say yeah I hope
everybody had a great new year and that
big news for for Greg who is engaged to
be married now Greg in our chat room
g-dog yeah congratulation and you know
what else what he quit smoking he quit
smoking that was part of the prenup I
think good i say that out loud that's
fantastic very happy for you and proud
of you on the smoking thing as well yes
indeed congratulations all right what do
we got Hillary is joining us tonight
Hillary how are you my dear hey everyone
I am fabulous and I definitely dig in
the shirts and the new website it's
pretty rad cheers yeah
so what do you got coming up in the
newsroom oh I've got lots going on in
the world technologies coming up in the
newsroom make sure you stay tuned to
hear that wikipedia has met its goal and
raised 16 million dollars all right
iphone alarms were hit by his fries new
year glitch IPS top-selling incandescent
light bulbs in the US stores and lastly
Monday's meteor shower should bring
something spectacular over Canada so
stick around for the latest news from
the category 5 don t mean newsroom
thanks Hilary we've got lots going on in
on the show as well tonight we've got
we're gonna be taking a tour of the
brand new category 5 TV website the
launched thanks perfectly at 11 0 1 0 1
0 1 11 01 our binary launch date like I
said there's a lot of geek floating
around a lot of geek floating around but
speaking of which christmas came and
went and I said I'd bring on one of my
geekiest gifts that I go ok for my
brother and I and I'm Varian I'm very
proud of this as a matter of fact you
know what's scaring me about this is you
said one of the geek one out this is one
of the geekiest one of the geek ladies
and gentlemen this is a genuine article
thinkgeek.com Star Trek original
enterprise pizza cutter well I'm afraid
to use it I said to back I'm like she
washed it I'm like I don't want to use
that she's like well what is it gonna do
to sit on display I'm like yeah it's
already pretty cheesy but most 00 Eric
actually think geeks got a lot of great
stuff they got some great stuff thankee
calm if you never check out a friend of
ours has a good Tara shirt that's right
yeah we should bring them on to show
shirts oh boy oh boy that's a nice shirt
they got some really cool device
creature but hey that's that's a pretty
great gift for for me yes so yeah and I
make pizza so it works out really well
but that's gonna take up a lot of room
in your drawer it is but that's why I
said to pick I'm like I'm not putting
that in the drawer it's got to be on
display but you know what actually I
have a few page of cutters that's way
better it's a really good day to go
that's the ironic thing it's like oh
well got to use
really good I'll stop what was your
geekiest Christmas gift this year and
even if it wasn't a gift even if it was
just okay you were out shopping on the
boxing day sales and you decided to pick
up something for yourself we'd love to
hear about it all right join us in the
chat room category five dot TV and of
course as you're there check out the
brand new website we're very excited
about this and you can launch the
website through web chat right on the
website on the interact menu or of
course you can join us on freenode in
the chat room category five tonight
we're looking at a website that allows
you to sort all of your lists
alphabetically doesn't sound too fancy
but hey it's going to come in handy so
stick around for that also miro internet
TV we're going to take a look at so kind
of where that software is that we
haven't taken a look at it in a long
time so we're gonna be checking that out
miro internet TV is a free open source
software that allows you to watch shows
like category 5 TV through your Mac
Windows or Linux PC so stick around for
that and we've got lots of questions too
we don't have some question here's a
question right here it's from Dennis
Kelly hey Dennis Robbie what are the
real differences between KDE and gnome
I'm almost came out of my nose well way
to start out without a one that sounded
like a small question didn't you know
it's one of the shorter questions one of
the shorter questions with that answer
that I can't possibly answer with my own
opinion because if I do I risk
alienating at least thirty percent of my
audience the gnome and KDE our Linux
desktop environments and each one has
their pluses and negatives and you can
choose which one you want to use but the
nice thing about linux is that you don't
have to choose entirely you could have
both installed so you can install ubuntu
and then install Kubuntu desktop and
you'd have the best of both worlds you
could use both but essentially they're
there are some big differences between
KDE and gnome but I couldn't even begin
to ya quinton 83 saying don't go there
we're going to start a war you're on
category 5 literally a reload view with
fear of commitment you can have both so
I'm going to take the easy way out and
I'm going to refer you to psycho cats
net the reason I say that because
they've written a nice little comparison
unbiased KDE and gnome and it goes
through a list of some of the stuff that
is similar medically sorted list it's
not but we can sort of later stick
around but essentially it shows some of
the pluses in my N and negatives of each
and expresses that basically basically
and there's so many differences but the
basic difference is the KDE essentially
goes more for the graphic approach to
everything like they want to give you a
menu item with 30 different ways to
display that menu item whereas gnome
takes that simplified approach makes
things a lot sleeker as far as stripping
away the the craft if you will like as
they used to call it in ubuntu but
stripping away the extra stuff hiding
some of the stuff that is not necessary
for the end user and may and thereby
making the operating system easier to
use because there's not a whole bunch of
options it's strictly like you can you
can you know exactly what you're looking
for in your menus for example so but
there's so much to it so what I'll do is
I'll post a link to that it's psycho
cats dotnet / 12 / que te gnome cycle
cats yeah and there will be a link in
the show notes for episode number 172
there it is but they make some some good
points there and and of course it's not
something that we would want to touch on
because it would start a war okay but do
feel free to mentioned in the chat room
what your opinion is I'm a gnome user so
I dare not go there and also further to
the idea of not starting a war mmm back
to episode i believe it was 170 the day
i played hooky and didn't write yeah and
you decided oh no no it was the ya too
he decided to take note of how google's
voice to text yeah yeahs was working did
he catch that um yeah I just want to go
on record I don't know what I said but
it was translated as
American with that right underneath my
picture I am NOT AT American why I think
we addressed that all you address yes I
think we addressed the fact that
Google's speech to text is not one
hundred percent reliable and you're
blaming I thought you were blaming my
mumbling but for those of you who didn't
catch the show episode I was wary 70 we
were we were actually testing YouTube's
new feature it's fairly new where they
take the video and they convert it to
closed captions automatically it's
speech-to-text technology from google
eric said i'm eric kid and of course the
caption came up anti-american you can
imagine that made us laugh here this
video is we were watching that and it is
just a knock on the door later that
night it was scary it was frightening
okay so that's that's a story there and
check it out though you got to see it to
believe it Google's on the right track i
think but they are way off and I'm going
to keep them saying let's begin to yeah
we won't touch on that when you have to
watch the show to hear it out okay so a
good another question to eat moving
along oh right well this is a little
longer one all right this is you're
looking at he's looking at it see we've
got the brand new website so this is a
new format to the email so we notice
that when you fill in ask us a question
you're actually allowed to give us the
pronunciation of your name which I
thought was important I'm gonna just
jump in and say I think this is
pronounced Scott Evans hey Scott but
that one's a 91 I could be wrong his
operating system is linux debian and the
question hi Robbie and Eric with the
recent update to the cat5 website how
are you finding the new release of
joomla and is there any particular part
of the new release that will make the
end user experience better as a result
these are silly questions I know but I
was hoping for you to share your
thoughts about it and essentially with
the viewers Scott and
is there an attachment no there is not
an attachment all right so there you
have it I think the big thing about the
the 1.5 version of joomla is that it is
more current so it's not necessarily for
the end user it's more for the guy who
has to update the website it makes a big
difference to to have the newer version
because they've really made some
improvements but that said we say the
new version of joomla but 1.6 is right
around the corner and that was this hard
thing it's like we're waiting to make
this deadline of January first which we
set like six months ago and 1.6 is still
not at 1.6 is still no doubt so waiting
and waiting and it didn't happen so we
are on 1.5 but we're keeping up to date
with that so essentially it really boils
down to it it makes a big difference for
the administrator of the website not to
mention there's there's such a vast a
huge amount of applications that you can
install modules components and plugins
for your joomla website from the j ed
the joomla extension directory so if we
go there it's just extensions dot joomla
org pardon me when we get there too much
basically no it's the coffee Oh makes
makes me burp when I talk nice and thank
you for sure well you asked I you asked
well okay we decided to be that was my
resolution I'd be honest with you oh you
asked about it dear me hanging his head
hanging his head so the joomla extension
directory allows you to get a ton of new
features for joomla because joomla is
more than just a content management
system in the traditional sense it's
more than just being able to set up
categories add your articles blog and do
this in that it allows you to get
components and more features for your
joomla website so much so that it it
expedites the process of creating an
incredibly advanced website you see our
website for example at category 5 TV we
have a lot of very cool features and
many of those would have taken way more
time had i had to reinvent the wheel and
program
everything from scratch so what we were
able to do is get a lot of the
components from the joomla extension
directory from other programmers rework
them for our site and then make
something that that functions the way
that we want so just to give you an
example you can see on the front page
here there's a couple of new and
noteworthy items there's some featured
stuff random extensions but if we go all
categories it'll really give you an idea
of how much is available for joomla if
you see if i scroll down through here
looks like to EG it's pretty huge right
so what is all this stuff is zoom n
we've got ecommerce we've got affiliate
cards auction billing and invoices
donations ecommerce bridges all these
categories for e-commerce over here
clients and communities there's no where
it says by the host of unis doesn't know
you could you could customize it we've
got all this stuff adds an affiliate
programs right so all these different so
you pick what it is that you're looking
for or you can search of course but
let's say you know let's say I want to
do a new photo gallery for example we
can go over here to photos and images
and we've got photo gallery there are 80
different components to choose from
components plugins or modules in the
photo gallery category so you'll see
here the first one that comes up is four
and a half out of five stars 128 voters
and 82 reviews so if you're interested
in that if the description sounds good
to you it's an image gallery plus is a
straightforward way to add images or
photo galleries to a joomla article so
you can click on that and you can find
out more and it has both 1.5 and what
was its compatible with both yeah so the
next thing you want to look at is the
type this one is non-commercial that
means you're not going to have to pay
for it in order to use it so you can
just do a direct download of this
application if you'd like to add it to
your Joomla website which is very very
nice the joomla community is fantastic
as far as providing a lot of different
components for joomla based content
management site and this is that here's
an example right so so you look at some
of the reviews and works like any other
review site you can see what other
people are saying about it and when I
see this I see a lot of 5 out of 5 stars
and that's got to tell you something
then you see the one that's a 112
brought it down a little bit it's one
that brought it down a little bit and
the first thing that they say is I'm
fairly new to joomla and you read on and
you realize okay well this person maybe
didn't necessarily know their way around
joomla so you can real you can kind of
weed out what's true and what's not and
then you decide okay there's a component
that sounds good when you're installing
component you don't want to go and now
I've seen this happen I had a client who
hosted their website with with our
server and didn't have us actually
create the website so I wasn't actively
maintaining it what they had done is
they had gone into joomla extension
directory downloaded a ton of cool
components and said all that sounds cool
that sounds cool that sounds cool that
sounds cool downloaded them all install
them on their joomla website and then
let the website run and for five years
didn't update this website every
security exploit every update patch
every everything that went on during
that time they never maintained it so
keep in mind that you need to maintain
your website just like anything right if
you're installing components you need to
keep on top of is this the latest
version of this component if you have
2000 components installed it becomes
very hard to manage so keep that in mind
kiss left a good approach pretty much
pretty much keep it simple so what
happened with this particular client is
that their website got completely hacked
because one of the components that they
that they had installed at some point 2
years ago came up with a unknown exploit
that would allow people to break into
your website so it's you've got to keep
on top of that kind of stuff and then it
had they patched it have they upgraded
to the newest version it wouldn't have
been a problem but it was a big problem
so that end up to basically destroying
their site so so you need to be mindful
of that kind of stuff it's very
important to keep your site up to date
and so don't go through joomla extension
directory thinking oh this sounds cool
this sounds cool this sounds cool
download it install it rather plan out
your website do that if it's just a test
site if you just want to play around and
figure out how Jim what
do it but make sure you have last that
website off the internet as soon as
you're done playing and then when you
build an actual production site be very
selective about what you put onto that
website read the reviews read what other
people say about it look at the code a
little bit if you know PHP and determine
how things are happening on that on that
component and and figure out if it's for
you and keep it up-to-date very
important so for me with the category
five new website it boils down to ease
of use for for myself which means
expediting the updates on a weekly basis
after every show I do the show notes I
do the on-demand I do the RSS feeds I do
the syndication partners I do all of the
the stuff that that you know that allow
people to watch the show after the fact
that way it never becomes a huge
undertaking to train it was with the old
site it was a pretty big undertaking
with the new site it cuts down probably
tonight's our first night with the new
site but i'm estimating that the first
couple of weeks will probably cut about
an hour work off of my schedule and
possibly once i get that you know once i
get it into a routine new routine look
at me i'm lucky with me in no time well
I doubt that there's still a lot to it
but I think we'll be able to shed about
about two hours off of my Tuesday night
which is fantastic doesn't sound like a
lot but it's a long day so and the
quicker I can get stuff up for the
viewers possibly the more time I have to
dedicate to other stuff writing reviews
looking at other products things like
that so this would be very cool yeah
slick 3d sena Rob he's just getting lazy
old please thanks my guitars older than
you oh I had somebody come into the
office today and and call a CRT
television which is what i have i've got
a 27 inch deep CRT old-style television
when she was referring to CRT TV she
called it old-fashioned
you know the old-fashioned kind of TV
yeah how many people are still using a
CRT and don't have a flat screen love to
hear from you and we will start a little
posse and we'll hang out they do take up
a lot of real estate they did those
cathode ray tube yes okay okay bout we
have another question and this one is
also from the new site and this is from
a Robert Taylor and I'll help with the
pronunciation I figured that it all over
again okay and Roberts operating system
is Ubuntu maverick okay so the question
what system / programs do you use to
produce the show I'm interested in
making video podcast live stream show
and am interested in what you use and
how you do it maybe do a
behind-the-scenes episode it's what you
would say that because we are actually
working on on behind the scenes episode
of category 5 very cool to basically to
summarize it Robert just just to answer
your question without going too far into
answering your question because we know
that we are doing a show on how the show
operates and and how you can broadcast
on the internet do check out cat five
dot TV / Wirecast just as it sounds cat5
dot TV / w IRC is T and from there
you'll be able to see the software that
we use to make it all happen one of the
questions I get asked a lot is
especially as of late is do we use like
a hardware device that makes all this
possible to do the camera switching and
when we when we're able to you know pull
up the computer display or put
photographics put our names things like
that and all the different things that
we do even the live green screen the
chromakey chroma key effects do we have
to have a 20,000 or 30,000 dollar piece
of hardware in order to do that and
truth is we're just using a standard PC
it's a quad-core until computer and
it runs that Wirecast software from
Telestream so again you can check that
out cat5 TV / Wirecast but do do make
sure that you watch for an upcoming
episode where we are going to be showing
you in-depth how that works you could
also consider triad checking out our
halloween special this year there's a
little bit fun just go to your kids it
was pretty scary with the Star Trek
effects stuff like that in the green
screen but at the end of the episode I
actually demonstrate how Wirecast works
with chroma key and you'll be able to
see a little bit about how Wirecast
works during that a little bit of a
demonstration so it would be it would be
worth you checking that out Quentin 83
is asking does Wirecast work on linux um
pardon me whoa whoa that was random go
yeah I think so it'll probably help does
Wirecast work on the next and it does
out of Genesis oh it doesn't it is a
Windows or Mac application and you know
i'm not i'm not the programmer so i
don't know that the ins and outs of that
but it has to do with the way that they
work with their capture cards and the
devices and things like that but
unfortunately it is windows or mac only
so but it is fantastic and and certainly
if you're going to be getting into
broadcasting like that's something that
we ran into at one point where we said
are we going to try to figure out how to
do it on Linux because we want to try to
stay as open source as possible or do we
just you know install one windows system
have that run our stream so that you
know all the cameras can be connected
into that and that's the decision that
we made because there is a software like
Wirecast available for Windows so yeah
it is a shame Quentin but but that's
that's just the nature of you know
sometimes that's the way it is it's like
it's same thing as a planet calypso it's
like it only runs on windows so I dual
boot for it and it's worth the dual boot
and I say that in the promo I can say
that in the promo people so it must be
true
a lot of people are well Troy 70 force
and they're from the Stone Age I've got
a CRT it's actually 14 inches so it's
it's it's not only huge but it's also
small at the same time we've got Raptor
222 one out of two of the TV TVs is CRT
well that disqualifies you because that
means one of them is flat are you writin
down nothing why don't you just say it
I'm not going there and so we've got
we've got a handful of people that that
are using CRT's still I think that's
gonna unfortunately going to quickly
come to a halt because as what's
happening we took our CRT that died in
the bedroom and took it to the to the
repair shop and they wouldn't fix it
they wouldn't fix it literally
fortunately we don't do well it's like
when we try to get the most life out of
it I would rather pay to get something
fixed if I can then replace it so we
ended up fortunately we have e waste
recyclers here in burien you probably
have them at home as well just look look
in the I don't know if you got yellow
pages or however works but look up e
waste recyclers and maybe somebody that
would take your old stuff but because
the repair shops are starting to refuse
them say and you know we're not going to
fix it parts are not readily available
for the many more things like that of
course as soon as that CRT goes we're
going to have to replace it so not long
now not well that old 27-inch was going
to say yeah for goodness sakes don't
touch any of the parts inside unless you
lead the power allow ground that is some
high voltage equipment my friends we
indeed yeah right word that's the hard
way by the way no oh didn't affect you
one bit exactly okay well here's another
name i can pronounce great Greg hey Greg
and his OS is Ubuntu could tie Robbie
and Eric have you used microsoft
security essentials HD
the colon slash ended up w microsoft
security yeah okay if so what's your
opinion and would you recommend using it
over conventional antivirus software
that was the end of the question right
well it's just the Greg said he was on a
boon to he's asking us about microsoft
security essentials and can i recommend
it not for you my friend microsoft
security essentials is i'm not even sure
he's your friend anymore ease up three
that's their their free version of
antivirus and security suite kind of
thing from microsoft and i would say of
the free solutions that are out there
it's a good solution to you know for
somebody who can't necessarily you know
afford the annual fee of an antivirus
because there is that renewal but if you
can get if you can get commercial
antivirus then something like nod32 is
going to be a better way to go it's
going to be more effective but security
essentials is proving itself to be
reasonably effective it's it's one of
its probably be bastyr one of the best
of the free antivirus solutions so it's
definitely it's definitely worth trying
but like I say there's there's that line
of you know the free stuff and then you
get into the better stuff that is
commercially supported software like
ESET nod32 of course there are some paid
for native Irish suites that I find
there are some other ones that I'm less
than a joy to do yeah I'm not saying
that all the ones that you pay for work
no and that's why I'm not mentioning a
little some other ones and I'm like oh
but there's two that I can think of
right now that are really big and I'm
not mentioning them sometimes what you
find on the retail shelves is not
necessarily the best either because the
retailers have relationships with the
software developers and so you know if
you want it was a little quid pro quo
below there's a retailer is law and
Microsoft's product or acidic Microsoft
product is in fact a result of legal
action taken against them for the
security exploits and their operating
system so did not it's them having to
say okay well we're going to have to
provide a solution to this for our users
and it's it's kind of the better of the
free so okay so I'm watching the chat
room I see you a gamoto I can't say it
but I agree gotta be careful yes it
would be hard to disagree with that yeah
you're modal at this point yeah he
thinks well I think Hillary is is
looking to tell us all about what's
going on in the world of technology from
category five dot TV / newsroom and of
course you can check out the newsroom
website we have an RSS feed if you want
to get the the text syndication so you
can actually read the news when it's
when it is released and our newsroom
actually weeds out the good from the bad
news so you don't end up with a bunch of
stuff that is kind of irrelevant though
you know the news sites that is just
like millions and millions of things
about nothing all I thought you were
only telling good news no bad well we
try to we try to bad news in the world
we sift through and and say you know
this is this is relevant to our viewers
we try to make it relevant anyway so
anyways that said without further at you
Hilary hobby from the category five TV
news room wikipedia founder Jimmy Wales
announced this week that the wikimedia
foundation netted 16 million dollar
fundraising goal donations to the
wikimedia foundation will fund various
needs of the wikipedia website including
servers bandwidth development and
maintenance donations will also help
support the 50 or so employees of this
nonprofit group wales notes this
fundraiser had all the ingredients of
what we love about wikimedia projects
people come together contribute what
they have and together do something
amazing the wikimedia foundation
received more than 500,000 donations
with an average amount of a boda 22 US
dollars a glitch on Apple's iPhone had
stopped its built-in alarm clock from
going off leaving many people over
sleeping on the first two days of
thousand and eleven angry bloggers and
tweeters complained that they had been
late for worse and were whisked and they
risked them missing planes and trains
because of it Apple acknowledged the
problem promptly revealing that it would
self resolve on the third BBC technology
reporter Jonathan fide out of Phil des
Velez says the promise problem is
embarrassing for Apple not only because
of the previous problems that came to
light when the clocks changed but
because the company prides itself on the
simplicity of use of its products in
response to apples fans telling people
not to overreact to the alarm clock
issue blogger Nick forel writes on the
inquirer.net maybe Steve Jobs is right
after all apple doesn't have to be
competent it just has to be cool IKEA is
no longer stocking or selling
incandescent light bulbs in into u.s.
stores and is instead offering the
longer lasting energy efficient bulbs
only ideas action comes ahead of federal
legislation that would mandate more
efficient light bulbs starting in 2012
the pullout also applies to ikea stores
in canada stores and france and
australia started phasing out the
incandescent bulbs last year though u.s.
ikea president mike Ward said in a
statement this morning eliminating
incandescent is just one simple way for
IKEA customers to reduce energy
consumption and greenhouse gases one of
the best meteor showers of the year will
peak on Monday night with the quad
ranted quad ranted yes possibly
producing as many as a hundred per hour
the actual number of meteors visible
will vary with the observers location
time and background like making dark
rural areas the best viewing option the
peak will be sometime between a p.m.
eastern time and 2 a.m. according to
media reports although the best viewing
times will differ greatly among the
experts it will get darker sooner in
Easter than Canada's the early viewing
will be better but in Western Canada
even a clear sky won't help for early
viewers because daylight will make the
meteors invisible at that time quad
ranted meteors will appear to start from
the big dipper's handle but will streak
across the entire stack you can get
these
stories a category five guinea /
newsroom the category five DTV newsroom
is researched by Rho W Nash with
contributions from gadget wisdom guru
Becca Ferguson and our community of
viewers if you have a new story you
things worthy of honor mention send us
an email at newsroom at category 5 TV
for the category 5 13 e newsroom I'm
Hillary Rumble category 5 TV is brought
to you in part by planet calypso this
massive multiplayer online game is
available as a free download from cat
five dot TV / Calypso now once you've
got two downloaded and installed on your
Windows computer make sure you say hi
and there's something for everyone here
on planet calypso from hunting to mining
crafting and just plain socializing and
having fun with your friends you can
download it for free at cat five dot TV
/ Calypso if you're a linux user like
myself of course this makes it worth the
dual boot cat five dot TV / calypso i'll
see you on planet calypso
ah raptor 222 is my hero thanks but well
this is category 5 technology TV and
you'll find us online triple w category
five dot TV nice to see you and we've
gone again that's Robbie Ferguson that
American there we go there you go thanks
Roger thanks everybody chat room is
fantastic hey I want to look at the
naruto yet miro internet TV is a
fantastic application you can pick it up
online at get Miro calm and it is
installable on linux windows or mac and
of course you'll see that it has
installers for many different flavors of
Linux and the source is also available
being that it is free open source
software I'm gonna jump over to my
computer here and you'll see that I've
actually already installed it on a boon
to using synaptic package manager just
going for with just typing in mira mi r
0 is all i type and you'll see that on
my sound and video menu now i have miro
internet TV so once you've got that
installed one of the first things that
you want to do is get on to our new
website category 5 TV and you'll see
that if you click on watch the show and
then RSS feeds this is going to take you
to a link that allows you to well with
an RSS feed you can actually syndicate
our show to your computer so that can be
through your portable media device if
you want to be able to get the latest
episode every day every week things like
that but in this case with mural
internet TV you can use it to syndicate
be the show to your mural internet TV
system so on this web page you can click
on subscribe with mirror and that's
going to ask you what you want to do do
you want to open it with and it's going
to give you a mural as the option
because I've got mural installed so
you'll see as this page loads there goes
what do you want to do to open this dot
mural file I'm going to open it with
miro internet TV which of course you can
say do this automatically for files like
this from now on and any time you click
on a mirror link it will automatically
subscribe you using mirror so now that
I've clicked that it's going to bring up
miro internet TV for me and you'll see
that now it is subscribing to category 5
TV there we have it so we've got FS owed
171 as last week's episode and it is
there there is so that's going to
automatically start downloading the
latest episode and look at that yea once
again chat room is warco looking
everything is helping out here in this
thanks again base yeah and God will I
said I'd say hey so we're back to mere
here thanks everybody so the what that
allows us to do now is is is going to
syndicate every episode that is released
of category 5 TV to your computer in
such a way that it downloads the HD feed
so you're getting the the best quality
of category 5 TV right to your computer
you can then copy those over to your mp3
your mp4 player if you've got something
like that you can use itunes if you want
to synchronize it to an iPod or or
something along those lines you can of
course you know place those files on any
number of devices including your android
phones and things like that so here
you've got a one-stop shop to get a lot
of your favorite internet-based TV
programs so that said so now I've got
category 5 here and these ones just
before the show I've set them up to
automatically download these ones are a
little bit older so let's say I want to
watch this show here I can click Play
and I've already started it here but
you'll see that it actually loads
instantly it gets the high the highest
definition version of the video and
allows us to play that using mural
internet TV it's really a fantastic
application so then taking a one step
further is how can we get other shows as
well how can we get more content on our
mayoral internet TV so what we want to
do is up here at the top you'll see that
there is the mural guide just a
fantastic resource of all different
types of shows you'll see from genres
for example you can choose technology
and from within the technology genre and
of course there's so much different
stuff here's unix and free software yeah
you've got to check it out there's
actually a category four lengths and
free software there's there are
categories for everything from food like
learning to cook watching your favorite
food shows being able to I don't know
even like things like like nature
channels and things you have that those
are all here so now that I've clicked on
technology you'll see this great big
long list that keeps growing you see
that loader at the very bottom and this
list as I scroll is going to give me
access to all these different shows so
if you find one that you like or that
interests interest you and they all have
ratings so let's say I want to get TED
talks or linux journal so here's the
linux journal and click on it and find
out more you can subscribe to it there's
more details to find out more about
above Sean show you can see some of the
episodes here you can click to watch but
then if you're happy with it you can go
ok i want to add this feed to my sidebar
and you'll see that now linux journal is
already loading here instantly and once
that loads i'm going to have access to
all of Sean's videos and again these are
going to be giving us the highest
possible quality of each and every show
that we are subscribed to so if you've
got a let's say you've got HDMI going
out for me a computer so you're back to
your flat screen fancy-pants TV than
that you'll really enjoy the the feature
set of mural internet TV again it's
available no closed caption it's all
there it's all there it's fantastic it
is available from get Miro calm and it's
a free download you can also get it from
synaptic package manager or from yum or
from apt-get just look for miro mir oh
cool stuff cool stuff yeah this is
category 5 technology TV you'll find us
online triple w category 5 TV love to
have you join us on the new website this
week we've got lots going on you look
like you've got oh yeah I was just gonna
say talking about joining us on the new
web yeah we've got some newly registered
viewers we've got demon 8 10 hey hey
Tina and REE or is that Ari Johnstone or
Johnson United Kingdom and Michael we
have firmer and des trous from
Bridgeport USA Albert poor t-money 68
and new to linux dot twenty alone so
there you everybody welcome to the shop
welcome to category 5 you can get
registered on our new website as these
people have discovered you go on to
category 5 TV and when you're there
register for the site and you're going
to be able to participate in all this
great new stuff on our brand new website
including we've got what's called the
category 5 TV viewer points and with
those viewer points you're going to be
able to we've talked about them in the
past you can redeem them for a variety
of different things and even you can go
into the forum and if you have a
question for somebody you can ask your
questions in the forum somebody else can
go in and they can help you out they can
answer your questions for you with
regards to technology or anything at all
there's general chat as well and if you
if you appreciate the person's response
to your question you can push push the
thank you button and then that transfer
some of your viewer points over to that
user as the way of saying thank you so
there's all these neat new ways to to
participate in the in the show and the
site has so many great new features I'd
like to point out a couple of a couple
of the new features one of them is the
fact that we have our new viewer
testimonials you can go to viewer
testimonials and see what others say on
the interact menu and on this menu
you'll see here's the new testimonial
system and there are actually video
testimonials so if you would care to
record a video of yourself with your
webcam or however if you've got a
digital video camera you can do that
well yeah you can upload a video
testimonial I'm nice to have a visual on
our viewers and our viewers will be able
to see that on our website category 5 TV
and on occasion we may even you know
come to an anniversary show or something
like that we may take some of those
video testimonials and put together a
montage of viewers talking about what
they love about the show so there
there's a lot of exciting things
surrounding kind of the community
involvement of category 5 now and that's
really what we're working towards so do
you see maybe creating a more of a text
version of this for folks on dial-up
hood or it is pretty feature-rich you'll
notice that it's pretty heavy and
action-packed and exciting and that's so
that's the intention and that's our goal
is to really push towards those the
high-speed end of things we're both the
blackberry people giving yeah all that
move all that's in place you up there so
we're actually working towards now
you'll notice if you one of the key
things is that like things like iphone
don't support flash right so it's in
place that if you're using an iphone or
an ipad or an ipod touch or something
along those lines you're actually going
to receive the h.264 automatically so if
you click on watch the show rather than
getting a flash player it's going to
automatically roll you over to the h.264
so you're going to be able to view it as
well so there's development going on in
not just the the core website so what
you see here but there is also the
mobile end of things being developed
which is already in place and growing
and getting better getting faster and
with the mobile end of things comes
making the site lighter weight so then
for those users who say oh I'm this new
website is really too heavy for my old
system there will be a way very very
soon within the next couple of weeks for
you to actually change the theme of the
website to strip away some of those
really advanced things that are possibly
bogging down some older computers but
for the most part I think most users are
going to find that the experience is
quite quite good but if you do have
trouble do of course don't lose hope
because we are working towards
inevitability of having a version of the
site that is lighter weight for for
users who are using older older hardware
so beyond that we pardon me I've got
this nasty cop today sorry about that
folks that's what the compressors were
I've got the we've got the RSS feeds
which we already took a brief look at if
you use an RSS aggregator which means
that you're able to download these the
show using an RSS file you'll know what
that means if you have it there are
different types of video and audio
available if you want to get just the
mp3 audio there's that and of course
there are the text feeds for both the
newsroom and the community forum so if
you want to be able to get the updates
on the forum itself find out if somebody
has responded to your questions and
things like that right you can do so
through the RSS feed and get that text
updating onto your system and you can
also we looked at we looked at recently
zimbra desktop for example using zimbra
desktop or similar applications to that
you can actually subscribe to these
texts RSS feeds so say the forum for
example using zimbra desktop and it will
show up as another folder in your inbox
so when you click on that it actually
looks like each forum thread is an email
to you and you can click on it and you
can read the forum that way so there
there's a lot of different ways that you
can view the website and it's pretty
exciting that way the new forum one of
the main things we want to do with the
new website is improve social
interaction with our viewers you'll see
the Twitter that Twitter is heavily
integrated into the site and our new
forum is is very heavy with that we're
really trying to push towards a lot of
user interaction with the new forum it's
greatly improved over the old forums we
found that form was just really really
hard to work with so beyond that we've
got a bio for mr. Eric Kidd hi kids so
if you'd like to know a little bit more
about Eric we will get that on the about
Us page
where did you get that oh I know where
you got that picture I know where you
got that you'll notice as well if you're
if you're looking at the new website
that we've got a viewer map which is
basically mapping out where our viewers
are currently watching the show from and
I find this really quite intriguing to
see that it gets the studio route
through that is the studio little
Georgian Bay in a book so we're live on
the air right now and you see all the
orange dots so you can see where the
show is being watched what are the ones
with the once you're the ones that are
flashing are people who are clicking on
the website right now well so they're
possibly looking at the website at this
moment and you can see that there are
people from all over the place this is
that I never even heard of and I'm
looking some of this stuff up just to
see where the wherever youse from yeah
there are people out in the ocean so
what is it about what could be a small
island so there's a lot of neat features
on the web web site when you're logged
in you can find out what's going on with
the viewer points and how you know how
people are using their viewer points you
can see who is most active on the
website and and we're hoping that that
will also raise some competitiveness
among viewers as well so that you'll
really want to become involved in the
show and as such you'll be you will be
presenting awards and things like that
and and you notice that we're actually
wearing some new shirts today you were
rushing off the top of the show that
that we have these new uniforms and
John's got his and we've got one for
Hillary as well you're making a lot of
noise I don't have a little trouble with
my microphone staying thought here we go
there there you can hear me now you can
hear you ladies and gentlemen just a
little bit of an announcement for you
pogoplug as gracious as they are has
sent me this
and I got a t-shirt oh and they said as
they sent this to me that we've got to
give this to the viewers of category 5
TV so we're going to give away this and
we're going to give away another one and
we're going to keep doing that for the
entire year for all of 2011 give it away
it doesn't more than a dozen more let's
just say more than a dozen and so I
would just encourage you to register on
our website you do have to be registered
viewer on our website category five dot
TV it's free and you get all the cool
features that i'm showing you there and
of course we do have those public plugs
to give away as well i'm very very
excited about that Greg in Texas wants
one now Corsi does I've got a map right
here that shows me everyone who wants
one all right fine I understand how that
goes oh oh and that thought we were
wondering about does the island of
Curacao and if you were rubra okay did I
say curacao correctly somebody's gonna
tell me pretty soon I'm sure g-dog there
is a feature on our website category 5
Don TV to allow you to change your
password if you're stuck using a
temporary password and thanks again to
GAD will and the entire betta team
Andrew Jameson and everybody who's been
involved in the bed of team for hidden
for helping along the the process of
developing this website it's been an
exciting time yeah dad will actually
stayed up and and sat and helped me
through everything that that we were
working on for New Year's days launch so
that was that was quite a commitment on
on gavels part and I appreciate that
very much so
and beyond that of course you see on the
website do look around we've improved
greatly the show notes pages really just
improved the the way that you find what
it is you're looking for the old site
was feeling really hard to find what
you're looking for now it's extremely
easy everything's in in a very
well-organized format and it's going to
continue to be that way we've designed
this website to be expandable to be able
to grow to the point where it's a huge
website as it is but it's not me it's
not gonna be hard to find what you're
looking for in the future so thank you
to everybody for your support through
the development phase and of course if
you'd like to donate to the show to help
offset costs and and everything that's
involved in that you can do that off the
website as well and we do appreciate
that but we do not by any means require
that but it always helps very very much
so thanks everybody I'm sure we've got a
couple of questions to go i would like
to look at sorting our lists because i
know that our but let's let's hit one
question before we get into that well we
have dennis kelly and it's paid off
Dennis Kelly great thank you um thanks
for the about the website he has not
received his confirmation email to log
into the website ok if that happens so
you've gone to subscribe to the website
dentist and not seemingly receive your
confirmation email so that the first
thing I would do is check your junk
filter your spam filters and also just
double-check that you had entered your
email address correctly as well if now i
will look this up after the show for you
all right Dennis just to be sure that
you know if it's something that's that's
up but I do believe you know because
we've received so many registrations
this this past week since we launched
the site since Saturday that that the
system is functional yeah so there might
be something there where maybe your spam
filters have picked it up maybe
something like that has happened so so
double-check that and and let me know
but in the meantime I'll double-check as
well just to make sure that it did it
did go out and that your email address
was entered correctly ok
you another one all right we have
another one and if you have a question
for us it's live at category 5 TV to
email us here in the studio or of course
you can get us in the chat room category
5 TV alright and this one is from john s
hey John and he's using Windows 7 hi
Robby and Eric thanks for trying to
answer the kvm switch problem none of
them worked biomega or cables to go
expensive refuse to function even their
tech support couldn't help next venture
is synergy software supposed to work we
will see synergies the opposite of a kvm
yeah kvm is one monitor one keyboard one
mouse oh wait no I guess yeah no it is
it is the opposite except like as far as
the monitor goes because you're looking
at two monitors synergy has two monitors
for two computers but only one keyboard
and mouse Oh cause a little bit
different but that's very weird and did
try kaboom software-based didn't work
either I'd be so curious about your
setup as to why a kvm switch wouldn't
work because a kb m is a hardware based
solution so there's no there wouldn't be
any explanation as long as you've got it
set up correctly that for it not to work
that's just a strange thing unless he's
going with just too much distance and
need the extender as well but I don't
know it was just the set up underneath
his desk with a couple of computers
shouldn't shouldn't have any trouble
setting that up that's very odd but so
what's energy does differently is that
you've got the two monitors okay
actually i'll give you a quick little
tour here just so that you understand so
here's our broadcast system okay so this
is monitor number one and here's my
laptop which is monitor number two
alright so two systems one mouse here's
my mouse you can see the cursor I'll put
it over goldwave so that you can really
see that cursor now with synergy okay
sorry for the non Steadicam with synergy
I'm going to take this mouse cursor
take it over here and you'll see that it
moves on to this is my laptop okay yeah
nice reflection in your love but I do
see that mouse cursor there it is okay
and there's Wirecast which I'm about to
click on the camera and there we go so
synergy is different in that you have
the two monitors but you don't have the
two keyboard and mouse necessarily of
course my laptop has a keyboard a mouse
built in but I don't use those I use
this one keyboard and one mouse but you
do need the two monitors kvm is one
monitor as well so it's a little bit
different but maybe synergy will work
for you but that's kind of the base
difference synergy of course is a
software based solution and can be
sometimes problematic to set up I find
that you do need to have a reasonably
fast Network reliable connection between
all your computers otherwise you're
going to be dragging your mouse over to
the computer that's that's a guest this
could be really jerky when I used to run
this laptop off of Wi-Fi for example
have a lot of trouble when I would move
my mouse over to that screen so now I'm
hardwired and that's resolved the
problem so keep that kind of stuff in
mind because it is a different kind of
setup so the hardware is actually shared
through software it's quite good it's
interesting in it and you'll notice as
well that what isn't interesting about
the setup is that the broadcast system
is windows the laptop of course is
ubuntu linux we could also you could
also then extend it on to a third
computer which could be mac or another
windows box or another linux box and
even have monitors all around you with
it really is synergy that is this energy
they work together very very well it's a
great piece of software i'll post a link
for you in the show notes of episode
number 172 this is category 5 technology
TV and you'll find us online triple w
category 5 TV i'm going to take a look
at a really cool website service called
sort my list calm now this is one of
those things kind of like down for
everyone or just me calm it's just one
of those things that you just you got to
have
this in the back of your knowledge so
that when you need it you can just pull
it up it's so easy to use it's so
helpful it's so handy and it's here it's
free and it's available for you what I'm
going to do is I'm going to grab this
random list that I've created on my
desktop which is filled with random
words rain mist leather jacket really
cute though no clock kitchen television
sandpaper spoon and failure okay it's a
mess my list is a mess I've copied that
to my clipboard and I'm pasting it in
here now I'm using a random list of
words this could be a list of your
customer database that you want to sort
alphabetically this could be realms or
anything at all I can Oprah's yet yeah
it's not always appropriate to you know
that your software may not have an
appropriate means of sorting this
particular list could be anything so
when you need to sort it so I've pasted
that in now up here it's sort I'm going
to click on a to z and you see there's
it if you're in Canada or the kingdom
instantly it's alphabetized that okay
now beyond that we can take a one step
further and we say you know what I don't
just want it alphabetized I would like
to create a comma separated value file
so I'm going to go separate by character
and i'm going to change this pipe
character to a comma and you'll see that
it's not only alphabetized but it's also
comma-separated everything in my list so
now I can control a control C go back to
my original list which is a mess and
paste and I've got this great big list
that is alphabetized the way that I've
asked it to be comma separated and it's
you saw how long that took it was so
easy and pour that into something
anything at all you could say that as a
CSV and open it into Excel for example
or OpenOffice calc you can go tab
separated and instantly it changes it to
tab separated removing the commas
automatically this
in my example I'm using a list that is
separated by new lines sometimes you get
a list where it's like oh I can't
possibly sort this it's a long list
there's this weird character that's
separating all the lines how do I
possibly alphabetize and then break it
up in a way that would work and you can
see that you can actually specify what
the items are specified by are separated
by so you could say that it's a blank
line in my case it's a new line or
perhaps you know they're separated by a
colon and so everywhere that a colon
occurs I want to separate it so that
it's it's very very robust as far as the
feature set that's sort my list calm and
you'll definitely want to check that out
anytime like keep that in the back of
your head and anytime you need to yeah
just keep it back there anytime you need
to sort anything that is textual data
cool there's a way to do it hey thanks
for being with us this week on category
5 TV make sure you register on our
website for your bonus 100 viewer points
of course those who were with us before
we went down for lockdown received their
hundred and fifty viewer points and
anyone who registers for the month of
January is going to also receive 100
bonus viewer points so we encourage you
to get registered this month after that
your chance to get those free viewer
points is going to be gone yes mmm have
a fantastic week everybody yes indeed
alright you next week grab yours buddy
have a go-to job see Hillary
member
