welcome to category 5 technology TVs
what you're about to experience is a
free worldwide interactive broadcast
from ontario canada we podcast live
every tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time
get your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at alive at category 5e weeks
and now let's get here's your host Bobby
Ferguson welcome to episode number 196
of category 5 technology TV it is
Tuesday doing the 21st Wow first day of
summer awesome I mean it's all down here
he'll from here though yeah the longest
day today and then just keep saying
shorter you're such a pessimist Debbie
damn look at the picture on our website
in it and everybody is saying why is she
such a pessimist when Robbie is just so
much fun he doesn't know you do that on
purpose they come and you say you are
not allowed to smell the day so I look
good in comparison I said to remember
just before the show because we take a
picture for the for the website is it
okay serious face serious face and I
just hear me is like what me I didn't
see that coming well tonight we've got a
lot going on we're going to be talking
about how to produce your very own
screencast video that you can upload to
youtube if you want to teach people how
to do a particular item on your linux
system great way for you to contribute
to the community so stick around for
that that's going to be quite exciting
as we continue our video production
series also we've got a lot of viewer
questions i saw that have been coming in
we've got a lot of people joining us in
the chat room fantastic to see you nice
to have you here and i would love to get
your questions in the chat room if you'd
like to message us just go into the
tavern make sure you say Krista or
Robbie F and that will highlight our
no that that you're trying to get a
question in and if we miss your question
in the chat room don't feel bad we do
our best but sometimes the the chat room
flies by the screen very very quickly if
there's a you know if there's a chance
that you don't get your question in
email live at category 5 TV that's a
surefire way to get yourself into the
queue and then that'll be good who we
got mics working tonight we got a camera
working I guess I didn't forget anything
as far as I know cool that's pretty good
so far it's good start horrible if you
forgot the camera oh look at that hmm
the same love to know as I'm speaking
about the chat room would love to hear
from you if you're brand new here if
you've never watched a live show maybe
you've been watching on mural internet
TV or through itunes or through one of
our RSS feeds why don't you pop us a
message in the chat room to our
attention and just let us know that that
you are new here even if I it's just
been over the past couple of weeks we'd
love to hear from you and know that that
you're catching us live for the first
time or one of the first times and also
we've got a couple of your images that
were submitted this way exploit how are
you enjoying this it's fun to get viewer
images I like them it's especially when
people baked with cake oh oh that needs
to happen again enhance that look
delicious it sure did but we do have a
few that came in this week this is a way
for you to participate in the community
get a little bit of on-air
acknowledgment and win some viewer
points first and foremost I got this one
from gadwal who says that just on his
office computer he has been on the
category 5 TV website look at this have
I visited this website prior to today
yes 1130 two times Wow is that and
that's just to remember this is our site
that was launched back in January so
that's just since January yeah and
that's enough as he says just his office
computer not even including his personal
computer so what are you doing watching
the show when you're supposed to be
working well don't you get in trouble
don't say things like that you want to
sell me your office
unit all your boss is watching and
you're in big trouble mister in addition
to to God wills email there when God
will throw some points your way as well
fewer points for that image Harry
messaged us for the first time this week
and he's got a kind of an interesting
way to watch category 5 TV and I can
explain this a little bit too maybe we
can get creative with what what is
actually happening here looks like an
iphone four possibly and and he's pretty
wired for sound here I get the
impression that as you down a cookie
he's actually able to taste that cookie
through this device that you connect to
his eyes my camera or something
something like that or maybe there's
something there there's some I mean he's
wired in I anybody recognize the device
i'd be curious to i think actually he
has that is his little little points all
I'll stuck all over him there and then
whenever you get into one of your long
rants and he finds itself drifting off
you just pushes one of the buttons and
whoa is that i'm thinkin i am ii just
maybe every time Chris Reich tells
people to have a drink that's one that's
when he gets a little electric shock or
some some form of maybe it's an
internet-connected dr. ho he's actually
getting massage while watching the show
haha experience it's double relaxing
versus watching the show just as it as
it is fantastic thanks for the for the
email there fanciful we have no idea
what you're doing that is cool Harry
it's nice to have you joining us in
Harry says you know what this is
actually how i watch the show there's
there's Harry watching category 5 up on
up on the screen and trying to get in
the shot well done trying to get in the
shot thanks for your your images there
Harry and we'll throw yeah I don't know
what a hundred hundred and twenty-five
viewer points sure give
five kind of as a bonus yes bumper up
that's good oh yeah all right all right
you can get York your images in if
you've got a picture of you or even take
one if you if you want to grab a picture
of you watching category 5 technology TV
just bring it up on your device and snap
a picture of you watching the show we'd
love to get that up on the air next week
and make sure you tell me who you are
registered as on the website because
it's free to register on our website but
I'll need to apply those those fewer
points to your account so hello to
everyone who's in the chat room all
right hey everybody a pop-up game from
the seventies a gamoto is assuming who
knows we'll have to ask Harry hmm what
do you got for me today oh I've got all
sorts of great things let's uh let's
have a look at what's coming up yeah so
let's see Apple is being sued by I cloud
communications in Phoenix for obvious
reasons Google will be digitizing
250,000 text from the British Library
Dropbox security has become a concern
after a frightening exploit was
discovered yesterday what's necessary
seriously frightening yeah that's not it
just anyway why are you so serious be
careful here your message on facebook it
may land you in jail you stick around
stars are coming up in under 30 minutes
now you got me
this is category 5 technology TV I have
no idea what your laughing hilarious
thanks for that little brief interlude
you've got to get through those stories
you realize kind a little bit boy sorry
good guy is very offended that you're
having so much okay do I dare ask you
read me some questions Oh seriously like
it's just you I know I teared on my hand
already like actually dripped down okay
I can do this I can't wait to watch it
thanks so first question yes sending
questions in live a category five dot TV
to get them to Krista to hear her read
them and laugh and wow you're not
serious also get into the chat room
category five TV join us on freenode and
the chat room is called category five ah
for good all right right so first
question is from Richard Sebata Marsh he
says hi guys on a few Ubuntu or mint
installs have gone to install additional
drivers and I get a message saying this
drivers installed but not active how do
i activate the driver love the show as
always and thanks in advance strange so
you've got a proprietary driver that's
not activated I wonder if if you've got
another one that's activated but it and
it's kind of superseding the one that
you want I'd love to see a screenshot
because I've never actually seen that
but if you go into let's bring out my
computer screen here system
administration hardware drivers let's
look in there and you'll see that here
come
searching for available drivers once
it's in it's gonna take its time tonight
how goes when we're line there it is
it's coming there we go okay so I've got
a couple of drivers in the list
regardless of whether you've got one is
downloaded it needs to be activated and
in order to do that down at the bottom
here is an activate button which I've
never seen that disabled but I can I can
imagine that if you don't have the
security permissions then it could be
disabled in and what I mean by that is
let's say you installed a boon to and
then you created a new user using user
manager and that user is not the same
user that you use to install of them to
then it's possible that that user
doesn't have the authority to sudo or to
become an administrator so to speak in
which case they would not be able to
activate that driver that would be one
you know it's kind of theoretical at
this point Richard because I'm not too
sure on your on your setup but of any
suggestions in the chat room if you
could post those 44 zebeta and we'd love
to let's see if anything comes in but a
good thought scorpio 55 saying you need
to blacklist the nuvo driver so you're
using nvidia do they mention if they're
using nvidia or not now if you are using
an nvidia Nouveau could possibly take
over it's the open source and video
driver and that's predominantly because
xorg one point 10.1 is included in the
new version of the moon do so so it's
going to automatically default if you
don't get your updates first it's going
to default in the new vote so that
should point in the right direction I
mean just get on to
you're famous search engine
and I'll just get you a website there's
lots of talk in then yeah in the forums
about it
I'm just going to see if just want to
test and make sure this is going to work
for you and goji caicedo G edit and just
bear with me i'm just getting that i'm
just going to test an answer for for
Richard here before I actually post it
publicly on the show
there's a file nvidia graphics drivers
comp nvidia dash graphics drivers comp
in your ET c / modprobe d folder now
mine already has nouveau blacklisted in
your case that that might not be the
case just verify that it says blacklist
nouveau in that file so if you for
example hit alt f2 and what i did is
just type gk sudo g at it so I'm
becoming super user I'm G editing ET c /
modprobe d / nvidia dash graphics
drivers comp now mine is probably
already blacklisted because i installed
the non proprietary driver so that's
already in there but you can use that as
a kind of a start to your quest to get
the answer and hopefully that will will
help you out and watch the chat room
there looks like a couple of people may
have had the a similar issue good
suggestion thanks i hope that points in
the right direction richard and what's
what that means is that it's going to
not allow the nuvo driver to load in
which case you can activate the the
actual nvidia proprietary driver make
sure you're using the proprietary driver
and it needs to be a version that's
compatible also scorpio 55 is mentioning
ET c / modprobe d / blacklist comp cool
so I that's to throw a couple of ideas
your way and hopefully that will that
point in the right direction cheers
thanks for the question great so new
question from Scorpio 55 says hi Robbie
and game well hey Scorpio 55 thanks for
your help in the chatroom and now I will
attempt to help you for all those who
are unhappy with the unity interface but
don't want to abandon boon to then Zorin
OS 5 is definitely worth a look it's
based on ubuntu 11.04 everything appears
to work out of the box including comp is
on intel-based GPUs and older and video
cards on older end video cards then
selecting the proprietary or
experimental 3d open source driver seems
to work fine too it has a feature to
allow you to select one of three items
one of three themes windows 7 gnome 2
point 3 X or Windows XP so apart from
aesthetics it's basically blue to natty
11.04 great for those who are used to
either windows 7 XP or gnome 2.3 so if
your distro distro hokkien then check
this one out Zorin OS I haven't heard of
that and here I thought here I thought
that he was going to submit a question
but no he's just a very helpful
individual thanks for the for the the
post there and yeah if if this is
recommended then I would encourage you
to to check it out I've never I've never
seen it but site looks good looks like
they've got some good work going on I
wouldn't mind you know it were there's
two approaches to the whole unity thing
and my approach thus far has been to say
let's not get rid of a boon to let's not
try to find another distribution of an a
boon to based operating system or
distribution let's instead take ubuntu
and change the desktop environment that
way we've got all the core stuff but
we're in more control over how how we
interact with the desktop this approach
is completely different in that it's
saying replace a boom to with a
different distribution now it's based on
a boon to but it's not a boon to so a
little different approach so I'd be
interested if anyone does end up
checking that out Soren dash OS com I'll
post links in the show notes episode
number 196 if anyone checks it out if
anyone installs it even in a virtual
machine let me know what you think of it
and Scorpio 55 thanks for the thanks for
the tip right here's another question
from Joel Galvin says hi I began to
watch your show recently and I have to
say it's a great show good thank you I
have a problem i recently upgraded my
boon to 10 point 10 system to the new
version 11.04 on a dell vostro 1700 the
video output on my laptop stop sending
the video signal to my TV however it
used to work just fine on 10 point
do you know do you know of a fix or a
workaround I already tried some things
from forms but still haven't been able
to get it working PS i have an intel
graphics card thanks and regards from
mexico hmm ok so it kind of goes back I
think and now I don't have an intel card
and I don't use the integrated graphics
on any of my computers because I just
don't believe in that but with if you
had an nvidia card in that and it was
the same kind of issue you're looking at
a game it could be loading the wrong
driver because when 11-point 04 came out
and vidya was still developing the
driver for that version of xorg so
that's the answer if you're having that
problem in in with an nvidia card pardon
me with an intel chip on the other hand
there it could be a similar issue
unfortunately i don't have a solution
yet and i and i think you're being very
timely with this in that there was a bug
that was filed only six days ago and i
was taking a look at launchpad and this
bug was filed back in the 15th and mr.
courser says that he's using a toshiba
laptop installed ubuntu 10.4 windows
most things work fine including as video
out to his panasonic TV and in this
particular case says i've updated to 11
point oh four and now the s-video no
longer produces a picture on the TV so
it sounds exactly like what you're
experiencing there unfortunately I don't
have an answer yet because I don't have
that hardware and nobody has responded
to that thread yet so instead of giving
you an answer what I'm going to do is
just simply do what i kin which is to
point you to the right place on launch
pad for this so I'm going to shorten the
URL down for you
so I'm going to call this Intel s vid
okay it's going to look just like that
intel has a vid so when you type that in
your browser go cat five dot TV / Intel
essited and that's going to take you
directly to that article that's been
posted okay and my hope in doing that
not to not to say I'm not going to help
you or I don't want to help you can't
help you but here's a little bit of help
this guys having the exact same problem
so follow that you can actually
subscribe to the issue right there okay
and then what happens is if anybody
updates it you'll get a notification I
hope that they're going to be active on
that but it does like I say it looks
like somebody's having the same issue
and certainly if anyone in the chat room
has any suggestions for that beyond you
know I use an nvidia card so i can tell
you exactly what to do with the nvidia
card it's a driver specific issue
because the drivers for nvidia weren't
ready for ubuntu 11.04 because if you go
to and videos website you see legacy
drivers right 96.4 3 brought in support
for version 1.9 of xorg right so that
wasn't that wasn't sufficient then you
get into the where they added support
for xorg 1 point 10 which thereby makes
nvidia compatible with the boom to 11
point oh four you notice that that
didn't actually come out until one month
after kubuntu so that's the problem if
you're running the nvidia button I i
would expect it's probably something
similar ubuntu tries to be bleeding edge
they've really pushed it this time
11-point 04 I think a lot of people are
saying don't even do it I'm not saying
that but I could honestly say that
you'll probably run into some problems
with 11 point oh four if you're happy on
10 point 10 or even 10 point
or if you want to stick with LTS stick
with those until they get some of these
quirks worked out so you might even
consider if you can't get it to work to
go back to 10 point 10 all right agra
moto sang 11-point 04 was simply
released too early and that's definitely
true in a way 11-point 04 had a very
firm schedule and it was released they
pushed and pushed and pushed to meet
that schedule and it happens with so
many projects right and so corners are
cut and and things have to be done that
they'll real you know we'll we'll fix
this for 11 point 0 0 4.1 and they knew
going into it that wow we're we're doing
too much what did i do Chris Reich that
poor Harry is gone soon poor guy it's
gonna be smoking by the other shows yeah
all right cheers thanks for the question
here's a question from the chat room
Sammy says says does the heads up those
internet connection is really touchy
tonight so there's a chance to have to
watch this on podcast for a response but
he's wonder if you have or if we have a
64-bit lucid machine running it that we
can walk through a flash installation
flash installation with ubuntu correct
yeah doesn't specify loosen yeah Lucia
you can do that with perfect boom tube I
mean this is such an easy way right and
that's why I built perfect them to is
strictly just to make it easy flash is
one of the things that you get with
perfect boom to all right perfect boom
to dot category five dot TV now lucid is
going away is back so if for some reason
you find that perfect loon 26 has any
issues with lucid then make sure you let
me know I tested mostly with
with meerkat so but that should that
should let you install it real quick mid
agree perfect boom 2 is a script that
allows you to enhance your boon to
experience just by answering yes or no
questions so it'll ask you if you want
to enhance your internet experience say
yes and then if you want to install
flash and you say yes to that boom it's
done look Chris Reich makes the
presumption that the word projects is
projects I don't think that's why i said
how do you say what project oh maybe
maybe that was just in green in my head
though because i heard it maybe maybe I
actually say projects hmm to say Chris
wreck I knew these things for you cool
thanks for the question I let it let us
know how that works for every Corey yeah
Irish rock everybody's in the chat room
just support me support me see no pro
it's pro projects your pro the jack I
don't know there you go do we have any
other questions we're actually can you
believe we're 25 minutes into the hour I
was probably like that 10-minute
laughing spree that we have that's what
it was yank okay I think that's what it
was well we'll try to talk really really
mad you know don't try to talk too fast
you'll crack up here's a question from
joe says hello Robbie Krista Hilary and
Eric hello on your last show you talked
it about alter hall I can't talk tonight
you talked about alternates to booties
new unity interface Chris would say
that's alternate means i'm pronouncing
it wrong i was just wondering if perfect
bhuntu will still work with these or is
there another way to install with these
different desktop environments Thanks
yeah isn't that interesting Joe you
think that we planned these questions
around what we're talking about
hilarious so happens yeah it just so
happens yes perfect boom two will indeed
work with the suggestions that I made
last week for lxde and xfce because
again like like I was saying a little
bit earlier tonight when you install a
new desktop environment on to Lubuntu as
long as you do it in such a way that
you're not losing your main desktop all
the stuff that comes with gnome and
things like that that's why we went with
the xfce for package versus the xubuntu
package that's why we went with the lxde
package versus the Lubuntu package
Lubuntu desktops Ubuntu desktop because
we didn't want it to remove Ubuntu
desktop so by installing it on top of or
in addition to your basically creating a
situation where you're still running
ubuntu it's exactly what it was except
you've changed the desktop environment
so everything that you do with perfect
bhuntu is still going to impact whether
you're using the xfce lxde or of course
unity as well good question thank you
why do we have time for one more all
right so we got a couple minutes before
you attempt to read it Oh through the
name here's a question from Harry he
says he's a fan of the show hey Harry
awesome going for my a plus certificate
thanks to linux and the command line my
classes have been a walk in the park so
far i'm actually looking forward to the
networking classes I'm the renegade of
the class because of my love for Linux
thanks for a great show and as soon as I
start working outside my grain of sand
to help on recovery thank you that's
funny ain't it your luvin linux would
stand out in a crowd of people that are
studying to be technical technicians so
very good I'm glad that you're that
you're finding that the Linux has helped
you with your course as well I think
that says a lot for for linux and I
think these days though I mean Linux is
so good that it could be a novice user
that that steps in the linux is opposed
to some of the alternatives that are out
there but yet at the same time as a more
advanced user it gives you a chance to
really
experience your computer versus just
have your computer control what you're
able to do so very cool thank you for
the thank you for the the email and
that's nice to know that you're enjoying
the show as well all right this is
category 5 technology TV i'm your host
Robbie Ferguson oh I'm crystal was
Christian I forgot do I like that was
your cue ahead Ferguson you're cute Oh
didn't have a sticky note that said you
know Q Ferguson sorry about that maybe
next time the teleprompters were down
because we're completely scripted here
as you may not have known in fact there
was a point earlier in the show where it
just simply said LOL on the screen and I
had you I just had to until it stopped
rolling we really got to be careful what
how you were your emails people because
seriously we will we will interpret what
we read on the teleprompters like improv
it is all right you ready I am ready
rock
right Oh from the category 5 TV
newsrooms phoenix-based company named i
fog communications of the voice over IP
vendor and they're suing apple with
claims that Apple's comprise cloud
causes confusion with competing products
and has harmed their image because
anytime someone hears the name iCloud
they will now think of apple instead of
iCloud communications I cloud
communications as stated that Apple has
long it has long and well known history
of knowingly and willfully treading on
the trademark rights of others hmm so
now we have to wonder when the original
cloud computer operating system iOS iOS
oh sorry it's going to follow suit over
there browned the British Library has
reached a deal with Google two digit
digitize 250,000 text back dating back
to the 18th century it will allow dritte
allow readers to view search and copy
the out of copyright works at no charge
on both the library and google book
websites the work selected to be
digitized date from between seventeen
hundred and eighteen seventy and the
project will take some years to complete
with Google covering the costs following
a code push at 154 yesterday afternoon a
serious second a serious security issue
was spotted at Dropbox and posted on
pastebin for roughly four hours the
service allowed users to log in to other
users accounts using any password in
other words they could log into someone
else's account and access their private
files simply by typing in the user's
email address given that many people
entrust Dropbox with important data the
concern is huge
oh you like to hear a little bit so
George Olin krill is said to have
positive 6 million pound drug-related
court case to collapse after she
contacted an acquitted defendant via
Facebook in the first UK case of its
kind frail has been jailed for eight
months for contempt of court a certain
sentence was handed down on Thursday
frail cried uncontrollably in court and
gassed eight months as her and her
family were shocked and devastated by
the ruling lord judge who sentenced
frail said in a written ruling her
conduct in visiting the internet
repeatedly was directly contrary to her
oath as a juror and her contact with the
acquitted defendant as well as repeated
searches on the internet constituted
flagrant breaches in the in the orders
made by the judge for the proper conduct
conduct of the trial you guys can get
the full stories at category 5 TV /
newsroom the category 5 TV news room is
researched by roy w nash with
contributions by our community of
viewers if you have a new store that you
think is worthy of mentioning on air
email us at news room at category five
dot TV for a cat the cat frozen for the
category five TV news room I'm crystals
Krista thank you that was almost painful
at least you got a break halfway through
on a cadet fantastic category five
technology TV is brought to you tonight
by pogoplug at cat five TV / pogoplug
and planet calypso join us in the
massive multiplayer online game cat five
TV / Calypso check out our website to
see how we're doing with regards to the
donations in order to replace this
failed server I'm very very thankful and
appreciative of all the donations that
have been coming in and looking at our
at our site right now if you go to
category 5 TV you'll see that our
donations are have been coming up well
yeah and we're really really close now
the one thing that's holding us back is
that
well I mean keep your support coming and
that's obviously that's an important
thing but I'm so encouraged and it has
been coming in and we appreciate that
but you'll see on our on our goals that
we were looking at a used HP workstation
and unfortunately that workstation is
not available to us through the supplier
who said that they had them and I don't
know if somebody bought them all out of
stock at the time and it just lost
access to that so so my friend is
looking into finding another source for
at least a similar workstation so that's
that's kind of where we're at but we're
going to keep our eyes peeled and
hopefully we'll be able to get things
fixed up ASAP let me get Eric back to I
was talking to erica's me and I hope you
excited to come yeah I think so he's
doing well and he sends his regards and
mrs. everybody but but he has actually
been able to use this time to to east
he's been doing a lot of gigs as he
calls him and playing at different
places and so he's keeping busy mrs. us
and looks forward to coming back and
gone and he will be here for our 200th
episode Gary soon monday 196 well july
yeah today's 196 and episode 200 happens
on at june july 19 so make sure that you
are here make sure you watch in category
5 TV don't know if Hillary is going to
be here yet because it happen well it
happens to be her birthday well we'll
make her a cake we will make her a cake
don't worry if you're watching well they
were you a cake make you a cake but it's
going to be really exciting and also big
news is that we have some alumni that
are going to be here in the studio for
that special occasion as well so make
sure you join us category 5 TV on July
19th okay so continuing our series on
video production cat a cat five dot TV /
vid / odd I would love for you to check
out what we've been doing with open shot
video editor and we're just having a lot
of fun learning how
to do some video editing on our Linux
system so we're talking about free tools
and being able to do this absolutely
free and just sounded like like a tree
is no I wasn't I wasn't pointing are you
linux system the same for free thousands
less than what you paid anyways no we're
did I playing that game just yeah I'm
teaching them it just seemed like that
it is they need to teach them and you
keep interrupting what I did now you
invited me on the show I exactly so
tonight what I want to go through with
you is how to create our own screencast
now what we do here at category 5 is a
bit different than a screencast because
we're able to commit the time that it
takes once a week to actually broadcast
a live show but you may or may not have
that ability to commit to a schedule
like that but maybe you still want to
help people out maybe you've got some
ideas about you know what you can do
fancy on your linux computer be at
Lubuntu or whatever else that you're
using and we're going to show you
tonight how you can get involved in in
that kind of community by actually
creating your own screencast so if you
have ideas you can take those ideas and
share them with people through video and
it's it's quite it's you know it's quite
fun but it's also it's I don't know what
betters the word but certainly it can
have a better impact on somebody's
ability to do something if you're able
to just show them when I bring up my
computer screen and I am able to show
you things I mean that's the hopeful
thing is when you ask the question
hopefully I'm able to show you sometimes
it happens where I don't have the
hardware and so I can't but but quite
often it's you know it's best if if you
have a question about Photoshop maybe
Christa can bring up Photoshop and show
you things like that so it really is
helpful if you've got a YouTube channel
you create that it's free and you can
add your own tutorial videos so the
first thing that you're going to need is
an application on your computer is now
i'm using a boom to you
using anything at all there's one called
gtk dash record my desktop now you're
going to find this in synaptic package
manager just type in gtk dash record and
you'll see that you get gtk dash record
my desktop so install that and with that
we're going to do exactly as it sounds
we're going to be able to record video
of our desktop if you've got the check
box on sound quality you can probably
uncheck that because we don't need to
record the sound of the computer itself
instead we're going to do a voiceover so
go into your advanced properties just
make sure everything is good working
directory is temp that's fine
performance zero compression is going to
give you the best quality quick
subsampling you can use if you have a
pretty fast computer as well as encode
on the fly they have tool tips so if you
have tool tips turned on you'll be able
to see what each thing is so but quickly
under miscellaneous I've told it to not
outline the capture area because if I do
it might show up in my video and
everything else can kind of remain
default but these are going to say this
program is going to save dogs fiora or
OGG video files it's an open source
format and it's that it's going to allow
you to save very high-quality recordings
of your desktop so when we're ready
we're simply going to hit record here or
we can go up here and click on the
record button and that's going to do the
same thing so now we can bring up
Firefox and we can say okay so we're at
google.ca or google com or wherever you
are so fancy graphic they've got going
on today you never know with Google and
quite often one of the things that that
I encounter and it's it's something that
seems pretty basic but when you tell
somebody to go to a website sometimes
they don't know because maybe they've
never used the internet or maybe they've
never grown up with the internet
I kind of grew up with you grew up with
it so we know where the address bar is
but somebody you know you say go to
category 5 TV and so they go down here
and they start going okay ww category 5
TV and that's fine they click on search
and we happen to be the first result of
course so that's fine and then but it's
redundant and they go here so in this
tutorial we're going to actually go up
to here and we're going to show them
that okay that this isn't the address
bar this is the address bar what is the
address bar is up here so we're going to
go up here arianna type ww category 5 TV
and now we lose that redundant step of
having to actually go through the search
process so that's as simple as our
tutorial could be when I'm done all i
have to do is go back up here to the
stop button click on it done and done
and it started encoding my file so as we
as we wait for that to encode we're
going to bring up sound and video sound
recorder which comes with gnome so if
you've got a boon to this is going to
come with it but there's the name of the
application gnome damaged sound recorder
you'll need to install it separately but
you should have it installed so what
I'll do is quickly record now I've got a
built-in microphone on my laptop
terrible sound but for the sake of the
demonstration we can use that you can
plug in a microphone to get better
quality sound so here we're going to use
sound recorder to create the voice-over
of this tutorial okay so over here on my
computer I'm going to hit record and i'm
going to say welcome to my tutorial i'm
going to teach you how to enter an
address into your web browser without
having to go through google search
click on control and stop I guess
there's a stop button there was kind of
hidden ok so that's that's my
introduction good an introduction that's
good let's save that I was happy with
that ok create a folder on my desktop
i'll call this clips and i'll call this
one dog ok new file what should we say
this is not where you enter the address
instead go up to the top here this is
your address bar and enter your website
address of here and then hit enter I
know this is simplistic but we're not
actually creating a tutorial and maybe
we are I don't want it I'm going to save
that as to dog now well you know let's
let's end it let's say I just close it
the list thanks for watching my tutorial
and I hope you enjoyed it stop there we
go ok save that so all I've done is I've
created three files that are all audio
only ok so if I bring up that folder as
this is still continuing to encode my
video clips and if i click on one of
those
the audio is there you can't really hear
it at home I'm sure because I'm just
using my mic but the audio is there
Krista could hear that okay so that is
finished and coding so let's come back
to this window and I can save as I guess
it's saved as a default actually so
let's see where it saved ads that you
could have suppressed to save as first
and that would have put it exactly where
you wanted it to go in my case I believe
it's all it's done is it's put it into
my home folder there's a file called out
dot ogv because I didn't specify all
right so I'm going to bring up our open
shot video editor as we've used before
and the first thing I want to know is ok
are my audio files and video files
compatible ok so I'm going to go clips
I'm going to load all my OGG files these
are the audio files and drag the first
one into the timeline and push play ok
so i don't know if you can hear that at
home but it is there and that work just
fine now I'll grab the video of the
video clip there we go and just push
play on that up and you'll see that it
is in fact scrambled and that's because
the codecs for this particular file may
not be installed or available for this
particular application so in this case
what I'm going to do is I'm going to
remove that from my project and I'm
going to bring up another application
called p'tee be and we're going to use
for TV in order to convert the video
into a format that open shot is going to
recognize so i'm going to import the
clip
there we are I'm going to put that in my
timeline okay put it right at the
beginning there and then I'm going to
render the project don't have to do
anything else all I'm doing is just
converting the the show so i'm going to
choose which file i want to output 2 i'm
going to put it in my Clips folder and
call this video clip mp4 I'm going to
convert this to an mp4 file I'm going to
modify the codecs that I'm going to use
they go up here in my case I want to use
ntsc that's my location basically the
region of the players that I'm going to
be using pal is like the UK and tsc is
and us over here and from there change
our container to I said mp4 that a
container is like the the file format
the file extension you've got like avi
mp4 you know any of those or containers
right but then it's the codec that is
within that container that really makes
all the difference and in this case
we'll use xvid as our video codec and
remember audio there isn't any so it
doesn't really matter I'm gonna hit OK
and then hit render and we're just going
to let that go just let that fly and
it's going to actually go through the
video you'll see down here that it's
actually basically watching through the
video and it's rendering that out and
saving that to the mp4 file as they
requested so then we're going to have a
file that's going to be compatible with
our open shot video editor ok any
questions this far oh there was one here
from just jumped up now Greg in Texas
just wants to know what is the name of
the converter that you're using this is
a TV it comes with ubuntu and i'll
actually show you the title here okay
piti VI you see that so to get that it's
under applications sound &amp; video the TV
now p'tee V is another editor which I
guess you would say is kind of similar
to open shot but I like the nonlinear
nature of open shot it's
more I don't know the way that it works
to me is more makes sense as far as a
you know being able to jump into it and
just know how to use it and be happy
with the results the TV's a little bit
different in the way that its interface
works but you can try it out maybe you
be happy with it but the TV does tap
into some of the Codex like xvid inc
which is what i'm using right now but
I'm doing it through a GUI so the TV
becomes the front end for this xvid Inc
encoder so that's what I'm using to
re-encode this file and you'll see that
it doesn't take very long and I'm doing
this at 480p about six seconds left okay
is that the only question at this point
it looks like it okay following along
good so that's a good good so that's
just about done here see it's pretty
quick and and the the comment comes up
well you need to have a really good
computer to do video production and
that's true when you get into HD and
stuff like that for sure but here I am
I'm just using my laptop computer and
it's just a basic or two or a core duo
now this is complete okay so i can close
this it's not an exceptional computer by
any means but it works and it's letting
me do all this stuff that you see me
doing so you could quite potentially do
this on some lesser hardware now I've
imported that video clip Don mp4 that I
just created and you'll see that now
that clip is going to work just fine
okay so going to drop that into my
timeline and putting this under track
one and I'm going to get rid of the one
dot 0 OGG which I just put there just
for the sake of testing so what I'm
going to do I'm going to just scroll
over here and see where I want to start
my actual tutorial as far as editing
goes see what I'm doing I'm dragging
this line
ok so I'm going to cut it there with my
razor tool I'm going to remove the first
clip I'm going to use the arrow tool and
move this to the start and then I'm
going to grab one dog and now I've got
my intro all set and ready to go alright
so something along those lines now I cut
it a little bit too early so what I'm
gonna do is I'm going to move this over
you see there wasn't enough time there
for my intro to happen before the actual
typing took place in Google so what I'm
going to do is I'm going to use my
resize tool I've moved this over and I'm
going to resize the beginning of the
clip so that it starts a little bit
earlier then I'm going to use my arrow
tool move it back again there we go so
let's see if we've got a little bit more
time then
okay perfect timing see now I just
started typing in there so now I'm going
to grab my clip number two and i'm going
to put that into my timeline and then
clip number three place that in my
timeline as well and just see where
that's going to actually fall okay so
that's not quite right so I want to end
that up there I want to put this around
here perfect see that so what I've done
is I've actually positioned my audio
contact in such a place that what I'm
talking about is describing what's
actually happening on the screen so I've
recorded what what I want to show on the
screen and then you can script it if you
want if you want to sound really
professional you can script it in this
case we're just doing a quick
demonstration so it's not really
necessary but this video is ready to go
looks like the clips are in the right
spot and I can render that there's my
intro and you know from our previous our
previous of the first introduction that
we gave to open shot video editor you
know how to add titles and your captions
and things like that if you want to add
some text that's all good one of the
other things that i might do that's a
little bit more advanced if you look at
this audio clip i say this is not where
you enter the address instead ok so what
i'm going to do is going to cut it there
using my razor tool ok so i can actually
turn this into two clips
okay so I want to flip it right there
okay so now i can place that using my
arrow tool a little bit earlier on the
timeline so now i can say okay so you
can put that where it's supposed to go
which is when i'm showing the actual
google input field okay that's it this
is not where you enter the address and
then we've got all this dead space in
between so what we can actually do is we
can again edit using our razor tool okay
remove that little bit of dead space in
the middle there and then we can grab
all those and we can move those over as
well cool but we're just about out of
time I think that gives you a good idea
as to how you can use open shot in
combination with all these other tools
but simply grabbing that moving it
repositioning your files and now we've
got a shorter clip it's nice it works
I'll render that seems like a really
simple way to put her together yeah it
works and then you get onto youtube com
and you sign yourself up with a free
account you've got a chance to tell the
world about all the different tutorials
that you've got in your head and I think
it works you know it can work in
conjunction with a blog if you've got a
blog already you can use this as a tool
to to create new ways for people to
learn from your blog rather than having
to just explain step by step you've got
a chance to actually provide a tutorial
that is its visual cool find out more
about our video production series at
cat5 TV / vid prod and if you have any
suggestions or questions or things that
you'd like us to cover in the series
email live at category 5 TV this is
category 5 technology TV thanks for
joining us tonight I'm Robbie ferguson
i'm cristal got time for another
question sorry I remembered cute that
time that was good that was fantastic
yeah I didn't even heinous and then you
stepped on mine
Shh God keep things interesting we have
literally about three minutes left how
do you like that for timing that's
pretty good any questions in the chat
room live at gerdau at category 5 TV hmm
and now didn't get your questions in
there was one question left in email if
you want to try to run for it quickly
hmm great so this is from Greg in Texas
and it says not so long ago when you
displayed a flash video in Linux you
could simply look at the temp folder for
the video file and we would to your
desktop to save it now that Firefox has
upgraded to version for the temporary
flash files seem to be moved elsewhere
any idea where yeah you remember how we
used to be able to do that well things
have changed a lot because the files are
no longer stored in /t MP so what you
can do instead is well here I'll show
you what what happens here if you go to
cat5 TV / tuesday and you see that the
video on youtube starts to load down at
the bottom here let's see here oh I skip
through here see down at the bottom of
the video it's actually loading you can
see this red bar now once it's
absolutely complete once it's reached
the end of that video then you're good
to go you're golden and you're set so
what I'm going to show you here through
this video that I recorded just a little
bit earlier is that this is not showing
in / TMP there is no file there so
there's a script that you can use and
we're just kind of rushing through this
but if you go to cat five dot TV / flv
okay this script which was originally
coated by desta code is going to do
everything for you so just say that to
your desktop say all right once it's
saved to your computer minimize this
don't close it because you don't want to
lose that video and then right click on
flv copy properties permissions and set
it to executive allow executing file as
program or executing Chris
and then run it double click on it and
click on run what that's going to do is
it's then going to open a folder that is
created in your home folder called flv
and there's your video file now to
answer your question literally literally
your files are now stored in your dot
mullah folder within your home folder
what this script does is go through your
cash it finds all the video files and it
slaps them into this folder flv for you
and it saves you a lot of time a lot of
hassle and you're good to go as long as
you've got that so cat5 TV / flv and
that'll do it for you cool Ezra agamotto
dot Mozilla / and then the blah blah
blah default folder and then / cash and
then there's a whole bunch of folders in
there save yourself some time here's a
great script we created that link to the
script for you so that it's always
available so cat5 TV / flv and do pay
the original author a tribute as well
just go to their website and you'll see
that in the notes of that file and make
sure you let them know how much you
appreciate what they did cool all right
well we are flat at a time I guess
technically we have like 10 seconds
because we lost 10 seconds there during
the news but thanks for this week uh you
know nothing yet just work what we're
good work yeah yeah so far picked up
yeah picked up some busy Greta yeah and
I'm on the opposite end of it it's like
oh you're dying man finally well no I'm
not dying down at all not at all but now
I've got like I there were last week i
think it was like a website a day that
was going out and it was like it was it
was mad and everything and there's
always people contacting who are giving
you revisions and I've got another
website that goes live tomorrow and it's
ten it it's just like constant flow of
code that I've developed so yes yeah
it's fun I don't know what kind of
people would send you revisions to
websites I have no idea hey what was
that email I got from you just before
but I I treat you well and I and I think
that I treat my clients these to my face
right you wait till you hang up the
phone right once the cameras and cameras
are off you watch out I'm this is all a
facade this niceness it's all fake we're
so good at it I just pretend really very
very mean people the laughter is all a
facade I hope everybody had a great week
like on the show that today and I hope
that you have a great week for the week
to come looking forward to next week I'm
hoping that my daughter will be on the
show next week I'm trying to get her to
do a feature on on computer games for
that are enjoyable for someone in around
the four to six year old range so if
you've got kids in that age range make
sure you tuned in next week and
hopefully if I've been able to
coordinate with my six-year-old girl
will be able to have that feature ready
for you so check her schedule yes she's
a very very busy girl I don't get what
with like pet shops and Barbie doll her
new bike very important all this have a
fantastic week and you have a great week
no I will meet you Timeflies I can't
believe it's already tuesday and now
it's done and we're off so take care
Laura will talk to you next week yeah
you
