makes it way more secure sense now that
would be okay so so I just need to grab
the Hangout URL no that is not it
there it is
hello everybody welcome to our G+
hangout just posting the links now here
we are they make it really really tough
to do okay I don't get this at all yeah
hey there so we're on we're on and live
their car be hey hello who's that I can
only see your head Oh Rick Hey
oh we're getting a lot of delay from
your system there Rick that was neat
[Music]
do we get do we get a live feed on the
cat5 YouTube page I'm just working on it
now okay okay hello how are you hi I'm
fine how about you good good hey Rick hi
Mike
just getting things set up here folks
you know Google has some big problems
with consistency
maybe they're just working on getting
everything all bug free still better
they're on it
pretty sure Google Calendar is still
better i havend are you folks able to
find the the Hangout okay because I'm
having trouble posting links to it
they've made it kind of difficult to
yeah I do find it it was under cat 5
excellent okay if for me it's the first
time here and but it was a lot of
problem just finding your posting on
Google+ welcome Mike glad you found us
you guys enjoy the show tonight figured
we'd we present our hangout from the
Enterprise bridge just because we can we
have fire extinguishers clearly looks
like yeah yeah looks like you guys find
us anyways that's good sounds like he's
doing something I know wow it's good you
know that's something that we have to do
here at the studio is get quieter
keyboards cuz that was exactly the
problem I'm like home row is
yeah I've been getting complaints on
that or my video so I bought this cheap
wireless thing but who still makes too
much time where is everybody from
tonight hi Randolph I'm from the
Netherlands that was that was Rick
Netherlands
Eric yeah I'm from Germany near the
Black Forest which is where's Black
Forest is it Germany where they make it
yes it's South Germany it makes amazing
cake send this cake
what's my grandmother came from yeah
well no yes and no she came from
Lithuania but they forged her passport
so that she could get into Germany and
then she came from Germany to Canada so
they've been doing that for that many
years yeah it was forgeries exactly
unreal
they even lied about her age said she
was 16 when she was 14 yeah from Germany
there's a link thank you for hosting my
grandmother hey Doug
well welcome to our first hangout in a
while folks it's been been some time
since we've just sat down and hung out
with you guys
thanks for joining the show tonight it's
a lot of fun mm-hmm I like stuff like
this this is Constantine hey yeah was
everybody able to watch the show tonight
so you know the like how we are sitting
in the studio right now and what
technology we're using yep nobody missed
that I Samuel I'm just impressed that
you could get that to work without a
green-screen because I remember back in
the bad old days Samuel had some green
going on there let me show you again how
this works so if I switch over to this
camera and turn it off that's all it is
it's a gray screen a great gray screen
it's an interesting screen though
because it really it kind of makes you
dizzy to look at it yeah it's got little
glass crystals and they are a very
special kind of crystal that when you
enable the what's called a light ring
that's what it does which just looks
like literally a eight inch or a four
inch ring of just little green lights
all around it which is all I can see now
after this exactly is see what this what
this actually looks like on camera this
is what's so neat about this are you
ready for this look at that that is
awesome oh wow but when when I turn that
on just so you understand the the
coolness of how cool this is
if Sasha turns around Sasha what color
is the screen it's still good
right but I have a green aura around me
Oh like if you turn around you can see
that it's gray right it's totally gray
but yeah I have a bit of a green halo
around my head I wonder what a green
aura means yeah don't push the green
button that's overlay that's like an
infrared or something that allows the
signal it's led I don't carry a mirror
with me I wish I did because I'd love to
show this to you and let's let's show
you the bridge seen how we get that so
this is the bridge
can I show how my arm come out yeah so
this is what actually the seed looks
like so if I turn that on it's as simple
as that it's fantastic it's it's called
chrome at and it's basically the the
perfect chroma key for our studio
because there's no extra lights right
but if I wear gray I would still show up
if I wear green I'll disappear right
right because even though it looks great
our human eye it looks green to the
camera only the camera sees it as green
I want to show you this this is gonna
blow your mind guys if I can bring up
the camera on my iPod
okay so it's completely green right so
here's my face now what color is the
screen you see any green in the frame
mm-hmm and that cool it's still gray so
regardless of whether that thing whether
it's on or not oh but you see there is a
little bit of a green halo behind me you
see though it's interesting
so only refresh reflect certain
frequencies of green oh and you got to
see the ring there see that see there's
the ring yeah so that is in fact around
the lens of the camera I'll see if I can
give you a better view there's the
camera so that's what the camera looks
like to us now
that's what it looks like when it's off
that's on it's like that it's crazy it's
amazing stuff makes it look like we are
sitting very far apart yeah that's the
amazingness
like the just the vastness of this kind
of setup you can build this crazy studio
I wonder if that's how they do it in
newsrooms like the weather man's not
actually that far away do you guys
remember when I think it was CNN that
did the holographic news reporter yeah
you remember that this technology can do
that so we can actually have an
interview let's say one of you guys
wanted to come on the show and you have
this technology in your living room for
some crazy reason we could actually
bring you in and put you on the set as
if you were standing right there
nobody be the wiser you'll be halfway
around the world but here you could be
sitting on the captain's chair like that
so I don't have to drive over here
anymore is what you're saying yeah most
minds you say what's that master right
there old master minds Hey yes II
thought you yeah that's me okay I'm
ready Jake so oh here EV see it's
interesting because we you guys know us
by name but we typically know you guys
from your aliases in the chat room so
look so who all do we have I see Charles
just came in nice to see you Charles
so rev Dee Genk Mike what's your what's
your handle in the chat room oh I was
Mike 69 Randolph what's what's your
handle in the chat room
Oh Otto Otto
I like the
okay so so Randolph's you've been at
Linux for 11 years you said ah that
sounds about right yeah
somewhere around 2002 okay you're at
Linux you can help me we are all Linux
newborn sausage you can't go wrong with
Linux I'll tell you that you can go very
wrong with Windows 8 yes yeah I actually
like Windows 8 better than Windows 7 oh
yeah I do with all those tiles they're
confusing looking you can get away from
them 8.1 I don't know how come Sam how
come you keep muting me dude that's the
wrong button now it is anyone you know
want to ask the question why we don't do
hangouts during the live show we just
keep talking and talking and talking and
you know some at some point jot would
private message me and tell me that I
have no microphone yeah not tonight
goodness me
usually he's really active on here
something must be wrong I hope he's okay
yeah he might be late though
cuz I would go Quinn back already so
yeah because yeah in the Netherlands so
yeah dealing with that screwy turning
the clocks back you're gonna be dealing
with it next week a kimono cuz our
clocks changed this weekend so make sure
their suppliers must be coming up this
coming weekend
gotta love America can't standardize on
anything just wait until he's done
typing I'm blown away by his typing
actually I'll just watch it I took out
my clients a keyboard this is the
quietest I can get yeah people say that
about me when I wear heels that I walk
really loud yeah right you type like I
walk Sasha speaking of new screens you
have new hair right this is yeah this is
not my real hair this is a wig this goes
with uniform this goes with the uniform
aches me looks more more commanding long
hair is more commanding Jamie said
wasn't long well Jane wait is that what
he said baby yeah okay Jane wait
Captain Janeway captain captain that's
right Captain Janeway my hair yeah I
could use a wig I'm gonna get hair
extensions I'm gonna have long hair from
this point on yeah this is the ocean
officially known as captain hangar
button captain here but here by captain
hair bun Oh hair bun okay
maybe I should have liked hey I don't
know how to tie back the hair and a wig
without making it look like it's
obviously a wig yeah looks good though
it looks real nice to my eye anyway if I
ever need to hold up a bank or anything
this is my getup
welcome in nobody's recording this right
there's a $10,000 boost in our campaign
new stupid new studios ago you guys have
any questions for us specifically or I
had to step out right when you started
the the server the free server that idea
idea yeah do they have a cap on that
it's one server so you can't do any work
stations on a network or anything it's
just the one server
no nothing like that Wow okay it's but
it is the software you can buy the
commercial version and it will let you
do entire networks of computers and
multiple servers and all you know
intermixed between Linux and Windows but
the free version is just the computer
that's running on is part of the backup
set and that's it so it's a nice way to
evaluate the software but it also works
quite well as a you know as a good
backup solution the other thing that it
doesn't have that the commercial version
does when you pardon me when you run
your backup it saves everything about
your hard drive and everything your boot
your boot sectors everything but you
can't restore to bare metal with the
free version you have to have the
commercial version but if I understand
correctly the backup itself has its
backing up so that you can restore from
a bare metal so let's say you had a big
crash and then you decided to upgrade to
the commercial version in order to do it
then I think I think you can from your
backup so kind of an interesting
paradigm because it's the opposite of a
standard backup you're not telling you
what you want to save you're telling it
what you don't want to save and it will
do the rest
why would you ever disclude anything
well like my temp folder was the example
I gave tonight I know but if you can you
might as well wouldn't you just leave it
in space it's incremental though it's
it's really does a nice job it and
sometime you should have touched on this
maybe during the show and I think we
will when we actually demonstrate the
product from a backup standpoint I ran a
backup of my virtual machine file so I
could you hear me
oh my virtual machine hard drive while
the virtual machine was running backed
it up from the host so it was like 50
gigs or something like that
then in the virtual machine I downloaded
a couple of episodes of the the show
just to inflate the hard drive a little
bit and see what happens cuz traditional
backup doesn't know how to handle that
because it'll just look at the change
and say ok I've got a Rebeck up this
whole 50 gig file this particular
product in fact did a byte by byte
comparison to the original backup and
only backed up the differentials so my
next backup was only as big as the
downloaded files that I downloaded into
the system huge time saver but also the
ability to be able to revert your
snapshot so say I want to go back with
my virtual machine hard drive to when I
had you know this file on the hard drive
or something so that I can restore that
file I can do that or say I get hit by
cryptolocker and it's in a virtual
machine and it only effects the files on
that virtual machine I might be able to
revert the whole thing to a state where
all the files were ok you're still
worried about cryptolocker maybe you
should be right I think you should be
and watch the episode where I talked to
Adam Kujawa about it from malwarebytes
and also if you if you actually go to
linux tech show com
you'll see that I edited down a nice
clean-cut copy of that tutorial for you
and that's it's something you definitely
need to be concerned with also
cryptolocker since we did the interview
with adam is it's expanded to two
corrupt PST files as well so that means
if you use outlook you'll lose all your
email all your appointments all your
contacts so it's no longer just
documents now is this thing window
specific again or is it cross-platform
it is Windows specific however it will
infect through the network any open
network share and by in fact I
mean run itself it won't actually it can
only affect Windows systems you can only
infect a Windows system but it can
destroy the files on any connected
system it doesn't matter what the type
oh so if you have like I mentioned it
tonight if you haven't open CIFS share
on a Linux machine and the Windows
machines on your network have access to
that share maybe it's your dog or
something and it can kill all those
files it's an important kind of PSA for
you for sure and if you don't want to
take the time go to cap go to linux tech
show calm and watch the little 20 minute
interview I'll make time sorry Charles I
can't make you out some kind of noise in
the background okay just to be just to
be clear about crypto lockers
it would only affect the Samba share
itself it wouldn't affect other files on
this weather is shared yes the the files
have to be accessible from the windows
computer where that can be a real risk
as in businesses say for example or even
home networks like here at home I have a
share on my Samba server that is called
documents we all use Linux computers but
I've got a Windows computer that runs
the show with Wirecast so if my windows
computer got hit they could go out to
that Samba share and corrupt all of our
documents Oh for all of our computers
because they're all shared that's freaky
yeah I can imagine the horror that could
cause somewhere like Home Depot yes
there's been some pretty bad cases where
businesses of yeah plain and simple
people can lose their livelihood because
of this type of a attack
malawach Prague was the only solution
out there wasn't it's it's the proactive
solution that I know of right now I had
I had a meeting with ESET on Monday and
so yesterday and even they don't have a
proactive way to protect against
cryptolocker oh wow
malwarebytes Pro is the one that
currently is able to detect and prevent
the execution of the current iteration
of cryptolocker after look into getting
some of them then the reason that the
reason that I say the professional
Edition is because welcome back
everybody
yeah I can't do two things at once here
mad fact is is that the professional
edition of malwarebytes runs is a
terminal and stay resident kind of deal
that just protects and prevents
execution of malware code so that's why
it protects but the free version will
not because it's a scanner so it doesn't
do anything proactively so yeah it's
unfortunate but it's like 20 30 bucks or
something like that for a lifetime
license it doesn't really matter yeah
although you should be given the 20 or
30 dollars to our campaign and then
we'll see what we can do about the
malwarebytes stuff actually you'll be
getting a check for me shortly or I
might do it through the online PayPal
thing cheers agamotto yeah I'm getting a
nice bonus check right before I go to
the new store oh man
I sold an entire apartment complex worth
of laminate and the ceramic tile no way
that's awesome buddy yeah way to go out
with a bang hey yeah 135 thousand
dollars worth nicely done sir Wow
it's a few square feet yeah just a bit
yeah so the other option is you know if
you have any flooring leftover that's
one of the things we have to purchase
contacted Home Depot's corporate offices
are a free show and such you might be
able to work out a donation that's
enough oh that's great like you'd have
to do it through Home Depot dot CA right
that's a cool time yeah we we're working
on ways to do this in such a way that we
can try to keep costs down and I know
eighty eight thousand dollars sounds
like a lot of money and it is to any
individual but we've got such a big
community I think yeah okay we can
really do it but we're gonna I've
actually been hitting the pavement I
don't know if you notice but one of the
things that's a perk on the on the
campaign is that I will do video
production for companies that are
interested in getting commercials made
and stuff like that so you know I'm
doing stuff like that I did I did a fair
bit of filming for a real estate agent
and so they paid where they're gonna be
paying when I invoice them like a
thousand dollars kind of thing so that's
all a hundred percent going toward the
campaign so just do that eighty eight
more times and we'll be fine it was so
much work guys I never want to see
another real estate video again that was
one of those things where it was so much
work and it was a hot day and it was
they're lovely people that it was so
unbelievably way as far as money goes
you can't be complaining about hot days
right now Kenya for DC mmm you said a
hot day anything exceeding for DC yeah
we had that heatwave where it was like
what 46 or something like that I
forever complaining about the hot
weather just she went to Jamaica I can
complain I went to Jamaica in the summer
just so I can complain all winter about
how cold I am because I run cold all the
time at least the lights are warm
the lights are warm and I'm wearing a
wig which means this is the Sun
beautiful and I had a nice toasty glass
of wine ten layers of Star Trek no
complaints I run so warm I can run
around in a t-shirt when it's about 10
below but yeah just don't be that guy
the joys insulation although I wore
shorts up until it was pretty freezing
here just because I just didn't want to
let go but you know what I saw on Sunday
was a guy wearing a full winter coat
with the fur hood fully decked out like
you know that was me no this was a guy
he was totally decked out in this you
know this huge puffy coat and everything
big puffy snow pant type pants and
flip-flops guys do you live in Jamaica
gets quite cold there I live in the
Netherlands no by the way for anyone
interested I found a URL which gets you
five bucks or 20% of Malwarebytes pro
brilliant Oh throw that into the chat
room if you could yeah just it's October
only so you gotta act fast
oh nice okay a couple days left guys
you'll be installing Linux that's true I
am selling Linux and I'm so nervous
about it it's ridiculous
awesome I'm gonna ask like the craziest
most elementary questions there are
yeah okay cuz that's how people learn
absolutely well and I think you're in
the right place
don't scare us it'll be the Comedy Hour
when I'm on next with my laptop this
could be gorgeous this could open up
some interesting conversations between
the two of us some interesting stuff
I'll be the only co-host never fired
we fired three years ago keeps showing
up I'm gonna say Sascha it took me three
years before I got into clinics full
full time and I saw white it took me a
while to get used to the idea but once I
got in I don't have anything Windows at
home now right yeah that's good and I
literally just have the broadcast
computer and that's for obvious reasons
right something you need to that's
changing with steam on Linux yes that's
true and that's an exciting thing and I
think that's gonna really push us to to
see more and more people making that
migration especially with the consoles -
what for games
yes steam gaming consoles that are
powered by life I think that I might
have to leave early are you done
truth be told it's been a ridiculously
long day out of this chatter you're like
a robot
slash part space pounding category five
right goodbye message
very original we put her keyboard up on
her it's so empty on the enterprise we
have an answer
stepping out of reality just like you
yeah thank you
we lost everybody we lost them because
that's you look in the morning in order
to take care of Mike
well folks who else have we got here
Brian nice to see you nice to see you
good night yeah this is my first Google
hangout I have no idea welcome it's
because they just don't mention the NSA
and you should because that's when the
show I'm this the only thing I'm having
some troubles understanding and like
hearing and I think there's some
feedback coming from somebody's channel
here so yeah these figures are up too
high get Charles muted Charles that I
don't know if that will help
Ryan sorry I didn't hear you there
that's okay I think it might be me let
me go see if I can find these headphones
I can hold on yeah a motor little Isis
tablet so that may have something that
seemed sad all right you're coming in
a tablet Wow yeah hey is the little team
team 300 little Isis tablet depressed
dropping it's really sweet you realize
that that tablet is based on technology
from the enterprise than they oh no it
was a pad pa didi and that yeah yeah
well mean it's a tablet yeah I may
finally get one this year I just have to
figure out what why I tell you it's I
did ninety percent of what I do on this
tablet 90 percent I really do it's it's
Android which is of course Linux so
there's a few things you can't print it
printing is kind of an issue but there's
cloud printing stuff like that but
ninety percent of what I do is on the
tablet sharing files is breeze the
brother printers have a app that you can
install that will allow you to print to
your printer from the tablet which is
kind of cool this paint is stable as a
rock I'm fixing a Rubik's and I give up
the courage google also has a cloud
printing service which works quite well
hmm something is I don't know there's
something about being able to print to
my own device sitting in the same room
that I really like you just install the
app I've always thought that was what
Bluetooth was for this thing works on
Wi-Fi right like my brother printer
works on Wi-Fi I just installed the app
on any device and I can print a website
or documents or emails or whatever yeah
but it is sensitive it will pick up a
Wi-Fi on the next block it's amazing oh
wow really and my phone won't pick up me
and why
father that's this tablet really pretty
impressed and if you get the keyboard
dock you get a full-size USB port and an
extra SD card slot yeah that's the way
to do it mmm yeah it uses a proprietary
plug which is the only thing I hate it
should be my presume it's big but that
that kind of sucks but it's cool tablet
yes
I'm proper the couple of times and it's
still going and it says that cell phone
supposedly working you're switching the
tablets at Home Depot sometimes oh wow
yo Ryan I can't find it but for my
tablet there is a way to route without
having to to UPS to unlock your
bootloader and things like that that is
a safer way to to route oh yeah
yeah check find if yours has that it
also keeps from boarding a warranty
mine's out of warranty but I've just not
prepared to take the chain it
because it involves flashing there's a
couple of steps to a couple of flashes
I'm not you know I just don't want to
break I like the t-shirt that says I'm
not scared I'm just not crazy
yeah well guys I it's nice to hang out I
suppose I should get started uploading
the files Robbie it's been a while now
it's good to see you drum
yeah you didn't have work to do I have
dinner to make and animals to honey I
sure you won't now I hope the you
know you you all you guys are all
wonderful viewers and stuff check out
the the Studio builder right and see if
it's something that you'd like to
support in any amount I try to stress
that but any amount is gonna make a big
difference so I really loved $2 smile
but because that way I can actually do
it a couple of times I just I just find
it amazing like we have such a huge
amount of people to download the show
and watch the show and it's just like if
everybody could give just two bucks then
we'd be done in a day an amazing thought
but yeah but then again people are kinda
spoiled with free stuff nowadays I think
so and we do what we do for free but the
fact is like I said on the show tonight
nothing's free and it's it's free to you
guys and it's free to the viewers but it
cost me a lot of money to do this
sometimes too you have to watch for a
while to realize the true value yeah I
think also the longevity even when we're
when we're trying to pitch the show to
advertisers it's it's the same thing
like our longevity is what makes people
realize that they want to advertise with
us we've been doing this for six years
yeah we're one of the longest standing
we've never missed a single Tuesday
night I did not realize longevity was
such an issue for supporter advertisers
I think they want to know that if they
pay for a year in advance that they're
gonna get their full year out of it
right yeah there's a lot of shows that
start up and then within six months
they're gone you see that in the podcast
networks and stuff and you know it's too
bad but people bite off more than they
can chew and we've been I think we've
been smart about always doing things at
the level that we can that we can
maintain
so we've never jumped into something
that is gonna cost us so much that we
can't possibly cover it kind of thing if
all else fails but you know like here we
are we're growing again right so sorry
what's that I didn't catch I think two
people talked at the same time there and
now we're both holding back feature I
said your sound is great actually this
very few shows to have this great sound
really yeah I think we've we've pretty
much nailed that other than at the top
of season seven we had one of the cables
got frayed you guys know if you can see
this this is the mic cable which is so
like so thin that's it by 24 gauge yeah
and so you know if it gets pulled which
it happens you know sometimes somebody
drops their XLR adapter and they weigh a
ton so puts a lot of weight on there so
we had that time where we had the little
bit of static but I think yeah we've got
awesome sound when you hood when you put
a compressor in the law Oh does it ever
oh boy that was a big change like for
example when I yelled at Sasha for
blowing up the enterprise didn't clip
your speakers blues and wires if he if
he played in bands or done anything with
audio I mean that happen but we're live
every single week so we don't always
catch it right off the bat right
somebody when we can't write but we
don't hear it we don't hear it when
we're live so we don't know until after
the show that oh great there was some
static there so well it also helps that
you don't have the ego of Larry Ellison
so you actually listen to the people you
work with certainly try then
I think I was personally I think it's
just amazing to Jimmy does yeah thanks
we're gonna keep it up and I just kind
of want to you know it's like you say
the audio is awesome but you do you
remember back when Carrie was on the
show and the audio was not awesome so
you remember and we brought in the
headset microphones we brought in the
compressor well we brought in the
compressor first actually and that was
unbelievable change that because we used
to have Carrie what laughs and she had
this amazing laugh that but she would
laugh out of her nose and it would blow
the microphone and so the whole thing
would just open then we brought in the
compressor and that fixed all that so
then we brought in these mics so now the
next step obviously logically is the
camera you look at how Poppins look
compared to how things sound what's that
a professional great cameras are like
expensive right yeah they're expensive
and that's that's one of the things have
been holding us back for a long time and
that's why the IndieGoGo campaign is so
important to us that this at this point
in our show because we are growing and
we've got more viewers than ever and and
you guys don't really see all that
happens behind the scenes but it ends up
you know the more viewers that we have
more viewers we have the more it cost
gimme some static
from me I can hear you Edmond yeah I
probably ought to mind I was saying on
the IRC chat next time I'll probably at
the arm by a microphone I'm I guess I'm
using the built-in mic on this on after
a smile by five years I was saying at
this point we've grown to the point
where the the amount of viewers is
actually increasing the cost of running
the show so one of the things that we've
come up with is being able to bring in
more advertisers but still keeping with
the model that I've held true to which
is never to bother you guys with ads
because a lot of shows will do that you
look at you know a revision3 or whatever
and it's like every 10 seconds is
brought to you but maybe even is flying
by and everything right we don't want to
do that so it's all about product
placement and you know if I'm drinking
from a can of coke versus something else
for example then you know they should be
paying for that kind of thing so but we
can't get those kind of sponsorships
until we have the broadcast quality
visuals so what I don't always say is
that if we can get there then we can
actually bring in more sponsors if we
have more sponsors then we can increase
our numbers of viewers without having to
charge the viewers and that's always
been my goal is to keep it free so right
now we're at the point we've grown so
much we introduced ourselves into China
as you know and that has increased our
costs quite a bit and we have a lot of
viewers they're actually our number two
viewing country now yeah exactly right
yeah as we were blocked there because we
were on blip TV and the other thing
about being on blip TV is that your RSS
feeds were pretty slow some aggregators
couldn't even read the files from blip
TV so part of getting on to a new
distribution mechanism also meant like
my announcement tonight and on my blog
that it's a lot faster because we're not
on blip TV for
pardon me for distribution anymore we're
on there you can watch us on blip you
can watch us on YouTube but now we've
separated that so that those are
different audiences but our core
audience are actually receiving
everything from our own distribution
mechanisms that's where that new
transcoder server came in and all the
new distribution we're on Amazon s3 and
distributing through cloud flare and
cloud front so speaking of the YouTube
is it possible to chromecast I like Ryan
I want to use my tablet more and I'd
like to sit with my small screen in
front of my big screen and chromecast a
cat5 to the TV is that possible or would
think so because as YouTube cast the tab
you should be able to because we're on
YouTube live we have the two feeds now
we we've dropped Justin TV and Ustream
because I don't know if you remember but
they would interrupt the show on you
with no compensation to us with
advertising so now we use YouTube live
which is a little less reliable but it's
slightly better quality if you recall
how Justin looked and everything looks a
little bit better on YouTube I think but
there's no interruptions you don't have
the advertising stopping the show and
then we also have the secondary feed the
VLC feed is what we're calling it right
now but that's actually going to play
into our future distribution model which
is to bring live TV to set-top boxes as
well I tried to Beyonce audio video too
you know for each user I think because
it's not a distributed mechanism it's
it's a centralized server so depending
on where you are located geographically
you'll get better performance
unlike our on-demand our on-demand is a
content distribution network so if
you're in Japan and you turn on the show
you're actually going to be loading it
from a Japanese server for example so I
think Thai Baht was gonna say something
yeah they are the video on the regular
arm launcher that you have on that's
really um you know great quality thank
you we do our we do our best with what
we have and some sometimes people do see
the consumer camera that we have and say
oh it looks great but we're we're
limited with this is that we can't do
the virtual studio so we're still tied
down to a small set with a higher-end
camera what happens is because you have
more pixels to work with we can have one
two and three cameras so we have one
main camera that is the wide shot then
we have a close-up on the host and the
co-host and because the quality is so
high we can actually we can take that
wide shot and we can put them in a huge
room virtually and it will be so clear
with this like this is cool
this is neat but I'm still blurry I
don't know if you can see that but I'm
you know my face is a little bit fuzzy
that's just because it's a yeah it's a
consumer camera so the resolution it's
got a single very small sensor in the
camera it's just a consumer camera
doesn't get the same kind of quality
that something were really really hope
hoping to establish is that broadcast
quality video well hello lamp well folks
suppose Lieutenant Commander Ferguson
should wrap up for the night and get
these uploads done so thanks for joining
us tonight thanks for hanging out too
we'll do this one more times during the
course of our of our fundraiser and
again I'll encourage you to to go to
that page it's cat5 dot TV slash studio
and I I think you guys I'm looking at
who's here and I think that you guys are
a part of our core group of viewers that
you know you guys understand what we're
doing and and where our hearts are at
and why we're doing what we're doing and
so I think I can just be honest with you
and just say you know if you want to
stand by us and you're able then please
do so I can't hear you there right yeah
thanks ma'am and god it's important to
donate so I think i'ma go ahead and
donate it's a worthy cause yeah it's
already been done government but if you
stop wasting it on building a Starfleet
you know this set a million dollars to
build it only cost me 25 cents because
it's virtually I just I just have to get
the screws to do this thing into the
wall that's all this thing just needs to
be screwed into the wall and 25 cents
all right guys nice to see everybody
[Laughter]
fingers together
it's a valiant effort yeah good guys
have been practicing this since I was
just a wee lad it's too easy take it
easy two in the morning yeah go get some
rest
don't you usually get much rest oh
you're one of those
