here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom fake
news is now being used by criminals for
financial and commercial gain we'll tell
you how they're doing it
Tesla had launched an electric transport
truck that it guarantees won't break
down for a million miles drone maker DJI
made a big security mistake and in
trying to cover it up they're going
after that he reported it through their
bug bounty program and a severely
dangerous exploit on Intel CPUs has
users scrambling to update their
firmwares will tell you what you need to
do and why it's you're so serious for
both windows and linux users these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere
Jeff Weston jela you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what aren't
you you're terrible actor what does
where acting comes into play you're
supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host this
is the category 5 TV newsroom covering
the week's top tech stories with a
slight linux bias I'm Sacha Rickman in
here the top stories were following this
week according to new research criminals
are exploiting fake news for commercial
gain fake news is widely assumed to be
political or ideological propaganda or
even outright lies published to sway
public opinion but new research
conducted by threat intelligence firm
digital shadows and released on Thursday
suggested that fake news generation
services are now aimed at causing
financial and reputation damage for
companies through misinformation
campaigns so how are they using this to
make money it's called a pump and dump
scan these schemers are aggressively
promoting penny stocks to inflate their
prices before they inevitably crash and
burn the scammers buy low then promote
their stock using fake news social
engineering tactics and media BOTS
enabling them to sell high
then they flee with their loot and
little regard for other investors
Digital shadows also identified more
than 10 services that allow users to
download software that controls the
activities of social media BOTS the
tools work by controlling large numbers
of BOTS to post on specific types of
forums on different topics to trick
people into believing their fake news
sites the fraudsters have also resorted
to spoofing legitimate sites by altering
characters on a registered domain such
as replacing the letter M with an RN and
using cloning services they're able to
create convincing fake news sites
digital shadow advises that you can
protect yourself by monitoring social
media for brand mentions and seek to
detect the bots using clues such as the
age of the account the content being
posted and the number of friends or
followers hmm and we tend to use what's
trending as that's where we get a lot of
our news right exactly you know what
this spoke to me a little bit because
Dave's really been getting a little bit
more into the stock market so okay yeah
interested in a stock he does a lot of
research on it using the in China
right so what are people talking about
well if there's 10,000 BOTS all talking
about it is it yeah all of a sudden the
interest grows the stock price goes up I
it's dangerous and you see is it going
up right and you know to be honest with
you I kind of give a lot of credit
probably to like the more savvy people I
feel like you could probably tell I mean
RN it does look like um yeah on your
computer it's amazing I feel like there
there are some red flags that probably
you would be able to tell if you were
savvy but the elderly that aren't so
into it and now all of a sudden they're
not getting their news from any other
source except for the internet and
there's that whole like everything you
read on the internet is true thing that
happens with people's minds I'm
wondering whether or not it's going to
end up being like a lesson that they're
gonna have to learn in schools and stuff
like it's gonna be maybe part of you
know you cite your sources when you're
writing an essay now all of a sudden
you're gonna probably have to take that
extra level because you're gonna have to
cite your source and fruit yeah and we
do this here on the show and other
newscasters do this if they're you know
if they care about the legitimacy of
stories is we look for multiple
instances of the story of the news of
the the topic so if I'm looking at a
stock and I see that it's going out
let's see this is a tough thing though
what is driving the stock up so if if
news and social engineering tactics are
what's driving the stock up then yes the
stock is going up so every site is going
to say the stock is going up but what's
causing it that's a really difficult
thing now with something like a spoofed
website that is faking news and tricking
people into reading spoofed information
well I think there are a couple of
things that we can do first of all this
guy over here ESET they have
anti-malware that will help - it's
called anti-phishing
which will help to protect you from
websites that are tricking you into
going to fake websites
kinds of things so it helps but also
knowing the difference between the
address bar and the search on your
computer that's a big deal because and I
see this all the time in our industry
and it makes it breaks my heart every
time that I see someone search for
google write or search for my company's
website address don't do that
if you know you're going to Microsoft
comm or BBC co uk
in the address bar that is the address
when you have someone's phone number you
don't call someone else and say hi I've
got this phone number can you put me
through to Joe at five five five five
five five five it doesn't work that way
so why are we searching for Microsoft
com why are we searching for the news
sites or our banking sites that's where
we get tricked because we're entering
into a search engine which gives us
results and sometimes tens of thousands
of results for those things and so if
somebody happened to get up at the top
of the list for BBC UK
of SEO guess what you're gonna click on
it if that's the way that you surf the
Internet right when you know the address
go to the address in the address bar
don't use your search very good yeah
those are a couple of little tactics but
recognizing the signs too like knowing
that kerning can cause our end to look
like m frightening that yeah you have to
know what the red flags really are and a
big one in social social media is really
like the friends and followers of the
actual person posting true yeah if you
see something happening on social media
that's trending and it's coming from all
of these accounts and you know thousands
of people are talking about it view the
accounts look at the accounts and say
okay who follows this person who does
this person follow and you can usually
spot fake bought accounts because they
use weird names all the girls look like
supermodels and they're wearing bikinis
you know there's these kinds of signs
that
it is BOTS because they grab photos from
various websites in order to create
photos for their BOTS and so you see
those kinds of things and you know
they're they're red flags and if you see
you just gotta kind of watch where it
asks somebody who's really savvy that's
a great way ya there's no shame in
asking absolutely not sometimes I have
phone calls that say I know this is a
stupid question I'm so sorry to trouble
you and I appreciate that I love it when
a customer says that but I have this
pop-up on my computer and it says do
this it says call Microsoft here's the
number mm-hmm do I call no that's
actually an ad that's coming in for an
infected advertisement so close that and
and the near be safe right so thank you
Robbie asking yes
Tesla has launched an electric transport
truck it guarantees won't break down for
a million miles
Elon Musk has launched the Tesla semi
complete with a guarantee that it will
not break down for 1 million miles of
driving speaking at a launch event in
Los Angeles musk said that the truck
will be 20% cheaper to operate than a
diesel truck in part because it will be
faster the truck has a drag coefficient
of 0.36 that's crazy that's less than
some supercars the bullet-like design
means that it can go from 0 to 60 miles
per hour in 20 seconds while hauling a
full 80,000 pound load oh the truck can
reach this speed up hills with a 5%
gradient which is low that which Elon
Musk says will leave Diesel's
eating dust range is 500 my the range is
500 miles on a charge with a full load
traveling at 60 miles per hour this is
starting to sound like a word Pro hold
for longer trips Tesla will install mega
chargers that musk said will add 400
miles of range with just a 30-minute
charge
what's more the research facilities will
be solar powered and Tesla will
guarantee the price of recharge
recharges the truck will have one engine
on each of its four wheels
and musk said will prevent jackknifing
as automation ensures each wheel does
what it takes to avoid such accidents
breaking energy will be recaptured to
charge the batteries autopilot will be
built-in and enabled in all trucks musk
said that in doing so it will ensure
that the vehicles always stay within
their lanes if a driver is incapacitated
the truck will park itself and call for
assistance the truck can also run in a
convoy where one or several semi trucks
will be able to autonomously follow a
lead semi such convoy is Max musk said
will deliver Freight at a lower cost and
rail transport musk says the trucks will
go on sale in the year 2019 but declined
to name a price and instead roof
referred to the cost of ownership
metrics in other words very expensive
very expensive but Wow will save you a
bundle of money and safe keep you saving
will call for a help if the driver is
incapacitated it sounds like you
probably don't even need a driver
probably at some point late some point a
I mean the convoy thing I think about
the the freight liner innovation truck
as an example where the convoy thing
it's so aerodynamic it's so they're so
close together because of the autonomous
driving that it's like a train and it
basically you know you know that if you
get into the wind tunnel of a transport
truck it's going to pull you along and
you can just kind of coast so imagine if
you've got a convoy of trucks that are
driving that close together and these
trucks are incredibly aerodynamic as far
as safety goes one of the things that
aren't that wasn't mentioned in the
story that I had seen in the video is
that it has armored glass as well so the
windshield is armored that is fantastic
so like what trucker wouldn't want this
right and even having something that's
even if a trucker needed to be in the
truck if see I work at a chiropractic
clinic right and because of that I see
people with various numbers of injuries
and ailments especially work-related
pettite of stress injuries postures
truck drivers have incredibly by and
large kind of as a rule incredibly
damaged spines and it's because they
have been sitting for a long periods of
time with minimal breaks wear and tear
on their body is crazy this this truck
you can stand up
yeah there's standing room this would be
a game-changer you'd become less um I
guess confined to the the wheel right
and more just kind of the overseer
that's a phone I'm not sure how
autonomous it's going to be out of the
box but I know that it's going to have
the ability to stay in the lane so you
know if you're driving and you know
hands are off the wheel and it's gonna
stay in the lane it's gonna have
collision avoidance and automatic
stopping to avoid collisions things like
that that you would expect from Tesla
and you know probably you know that's
just phase one right yeah the first
thing that popped through my head when I
read this news story was a couple weeks
ago on a highway really close to here we
had a massive accident
what was the cause Sasha it was well it
was trucks trucks
it was trucks and and one a couple of
the trucks were carrying gas gas and so
when they collided it caused a boom it
was like not great it was catastrophic
catastrophic it was just at a time yeah
it was it was insanely dangerous people
people could have been completely wiped
out luckily not as many people died as
you would have thought it's miraculous
how few actually died but but then it
didn't have to happen at all if these
trucks were already on the road I think
as a you know and if you're a trucker
you can even comment below let us know
what you think but I would imagine as a
trucker you like Sasha said you're
working long hours you're not moving a
lot and if I'm drivin late at night for
long hours in my van
I start to my mind starts to wander and
I and then I snap out of it and realize
oh I better pay attention
but you know how much more so if you're
hauling a load right and somebody all of
a sudden stops in front of you well this
truck will stop so we know about
autonomous vehicles and that's that's
great we know that that's coming we know
that it's here and and it's it's
available what Tesla is doing
differently now is it doesn't need gas
right and it will do 500 miles on a
single charge like you're talking a
two-way transaction of haul and a load
and zero to 60 in five seconds
that is that's insane that's where the
full load folks so you think about a
diesel truck and trying to get onto the
highway and trying to merge into busy
traffic and that's a danger right there
you try to get onto a highway in Toronto
and you take 20 seconds to get up to
speed or sometimes even longer if you've
got a full load this does away with that
problem
I absolutely I'm blown away at how fast
this is progressing 2019 right like
that's tomorrow it's coming it's coming
yeah and kind of out of the blue it
feels like I know they've been talking
about it and they're a little delayed
and in announcing it but it's certainly
gonna be a game-changer I think so we're
starting to see the Tesla gas stations
popping up all around Barrie as well
that's true it actually it makes me want
one very bad now you can start to charge
it right and to know that it's
solar-powered and all this kind of stuff
and guaranteed pricing to charge that's
kind of cool well and the more that
happens the last tanker trucks full of
gas are going to be on the highways
causing accidents yes nobody will need
gas anymore here's hoping
well that'd be neat drone maker DJI has
accused a cybersecurity researcher of
hacking at servers Kevin Finisterre
claims that he access confidential
customer data after finding a private
key publicly posted on code sharing site
github he approached the firm which
offers a bug bounty reward of up to
$30,000 for security weaknesses that are
discovered in its systems DJI said that
the server access was unauthorized the
mr. finis terrae was able to see
included unencrypted flight logs
passports driver's licenses and
identification cards he said despite
initially offering him the money DJI has
now in a statement accused mr. finis
terrae of refusing to agree to the terms
of its bug bounty program which are
designed to protect confidential data
and allow time for analysis and
resolution of a vulnerability before it
is publicly disclosed
mr. finis terrae an independent security
researcher said DJI tried to make him
sign a nondisclosure agreement he also
published an email from DJI telling him
that security issues with servers were
included in the bug bounty program cyber
security expert Professor Alan Woodward
from Surrey University said DJ eyes
actions were outrageous the public has a
right to know when there's a security
problem that's how a bug bounty program
works my friends everybody does deserve
to know one that there is a problem but
not at the expense of people's safety if
a fix isn't in place one they published
a private key on github that's a
publicly available website where anyone
can view the code so this guy finds that
tests it to see hey does it actually is
this what I think it is it is oh my
goodness I'd better report this to the
bug bounty program hey guys just so you
know you published this private key
which you need to change immediately I
was able to using this key access your
server and get this data mm-hmm
that's the right methodology of a bug
bounty program he didn't go out and
blast the world and say hey guys I got
all these credit card numbers and
driver's license numbers hey do you want
them I'll sell them to you for $20,000
no that's not how a bug bounty program
works that's when you would sue a guy
mm-hmm this guy did it right right so
what right do they have to come out and
say okay we're gonna we're gonna give
you a hard up now they wanted a
non-disclosure so in other words they're
trying to cover it up right okay so they
suspect that somebody else has also
gained access to it and probably stolen
for sale that's a theory but if one guy
was able to do it and you know was the
first guy the the the only guy and the
real fear is if they were actually
trying to cover it up which it does seem
like they were doing that's the thing
right then there are like a nameless
number like of real victims that that
could have been exposed in this and
they would have never owned up to it
right it's not it's not fair or good of
a big company like that to do something
I think DJI there's this problem with
them right now in that they're losing a
lot of trust this is not the time to
mess around with people's trust when the
government has said we're pulling all
DJI products from our our military
because it because we have reason to
suspect that it has tools that are
distributing private information about
the flight plans well suspect it maybe
it's because they were right maybe they
found it on github we're able to access
that data who knows all right not a good
time to cover things up and try to wash
them under the under the bridge but this
guy is saying you know he's publicly
said you know this is what they've done
we've got a emails to prove that this is
what DJI is trying to do they're trying
to cover up this thing that I found
that's not how the bug bounty program
works they need to pay up kudos to that
for standing up and not actually just
being swept away and signing the
non-disclosure oh man right it could
have gone the other way and then we
would not be talking about it which is
worse than talking about it yeah Intel
admitted Monday that its management
engine server platform services and
trusted execution engine m-e SPS and TXE
respectfully respectively are vulnerable
to multiple worrying security flaws
based on the findings of external
security experts the firmware level bugs
allow logged in administer
and malicious or hijacked high privilege
processes to run code beneath the
operating system to either spy or meddle
with the computer completely out of
sight of other users and men's meanwhile
logged in users or malicious or
commandeered applications can leverage
the security weaknesses to extract
confidential and protected information
from the computer's memory this
potentially gives miscreants sensitive
data such as passwords or cryptographic
keys to kick off other attacks on
servers and other shared machines this
is especially bad news in short a huge
number of Intel CPUs are secretly
running code that is buggy and
exploitable by attackers and malware to
fully and silently compromised computers
Intel's management engine at the heart
of today's disclosure is a computer
within your computer it is chip zilla's
much-maligned coprocessor at the center
of its vPro suite of features and it is
present in various chip families not
only does this include servers xeon
processors but also sixth seventh and
eighth generation Intel Core processors
Apollo lake and some Celeron processors
the management engine is a barely
documented black box it has its own CPU
on its own operating system recently an
x86 quark core and MINIX
that has complete control over the
machine and it functions below and out
of sight of the installed operating
system and any hypervisors or antivirus
tools present it is designed to allow
network administrators to remotely or
locally log into a server or workstation
and fix up any errors reinstall the OS
take over the desktop and so on which is
handy if the box is so messed up that it
can't even boot properly the M II runs
closed source remote administration
software to do this and this code
contains bugs which allow hackers to
wield incredible power over a machine
the M II can be potentially abused to
install root kits and other forms of
spyware that silently snoop on users
steal information or tamper with files
according to Intel it allows an attack
to impersonate the Emmy SPS or TXE
mechanisms thereby invalidating local
security features Intel advises
Microsoft and Linux users to download
and run the Intel s a zero zero zero
eight six detection tool to determine
whether their systems are vulnerable to
the above bugs if you were at risk you
must obtain and install firmware updates
from your computer's manufacturer if and
when they become available
yikes a great tool if you are a system
administrator you need to access a
server that is not booting that's not
working it's remote we co-locate servers
all the time but scary fact is you think
about all the web servers that are
running Linux or whatever and Linux is
safe it's got CSF lfd firewall on there
and IP tables and it's all protected and
Fort Knox but guess what this bug
doesn't care if you have a firewall yeah
it doesn't care if your operating system
is up to date because it's another
operating system running in the
background of your computer that you
don't even know is there it has its own
tcp/ip stack they mounted on the network
interface controller so that means that
even if you turn off networking in the
in the OS on your computer this this
backdoor can still access the network
can still access the Internet can still
be accessed through that connection how
many devices are out there running Xeon
processors on an internet connection
directly on the Internet to run web
servers right that's a scary thought now
how how does this happen like how is
this allowed how can they be releasing
these to the public well it's it's a
feature if you will an under lightly
documented features one that you know
not everybody knows about not everybody
uses but so as a feature that's
fantastic I mean Dell servers have
similar kind of like you think about
racks and the ability to connecting the
servers reboot them access the BIOS and
change things remotely through a
connection to a subsystem chip that's
like that built into the processor so
it's great from an administration
standpoint it's great for Intel to be
able to fix servers and things like that
you think about supercomputers and they
need to be able to fix those things
without having to physically go to them
and and patch them and and anything else
but now to find out that it's so readily
exploitable which has been a fear of the
Electronic Frontier Freedom Foundation
for a long time and it's true I find it
unsettling I don't hear a lot in the
news about something that affects Linux
users and when I do it kind of makes me
feel a bit you know well when we
mentioned Linux because it has nothing
to do with the operating system
installed in the computer so understand
this is not a linux problem this is not
a Windows problem this is a subsystem a
coprocessor chip running an operating
system mimics on your system at the same
time that you don't even know is
actually running but it is so you want
to definitely use that tool that Intel
is providing we'll put a link below for
you if you're watching this on cable TV
or somewhere else where you don't have
access to those links here it is there
but you can also go to our website
category 5 dot TV and you'll find that
by searching up for episode number 5 31
make sure that you do that and just stay
safe mm-hmm big thanks to Roy W Nash in
our community of yours for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight linux
by it and for more free content be sure
to check out our web site from the
category-five TV newsroom and stash your
Eckman
[Music]
[Applause]
