just a real quick discussion about
security and we've talked about
ransomware we've talked about phishing
scams and people that their business if
you will is to trick users and usually a
novice user into providing banking
information providing lots of
credentials or even providing in some
cases access to your company network or
your computer if it's at home those
kinds of things so we had one recently
that is is something that I wanted to
bring to your attention because we don't
always realize how vulnerable we are and
and I know that our viewership a lot of
you are quite technical so if somebody
phones you and says hi I'm calling from
Microsoft
we noticed that you've got a virus and
we need to access your computer we've
got free support we're gonna remote in
and help you out
you're probably gonna hang up the phone
tell them where to go you know
unfortunately mom or dad or grandma
grandpa brothers or sisters may not be
as savvy as you or I and fall for these
unfortunate it yeah so one gentleman I
was speaking with had that happened
where the call came in actually no I
think this guy actually got into the
search engines started looking for help
oh he was seeking help and we got to
remember when you go to you know if you
if you are gonna go to Microsoft's
website it's Microsoft comm so it's
important to understand the difference
between the address bar the top of your
browser versus a search yes because if I
search for Microsoft com I'm gonna get
30 million results and one of them is
Microsoft com that's right so this guy
was looking for help on installing a
printer or some other thing and couldn't
get it going so got into Google and
started looking for help and found free
support oh we will remote in we will
remote in and take care of your printer
drivers for you and get everything up
and going oh no perfectly fine now in
this particular case the folks know he
gave them access thought they were
legette the folks actually fixed this
printer for him
service with a smile so see how they're
getting yes how smart these folks are
getting the the the people who are
creating these phishing scams they
actually fixed the problem resolved it
for now we've got this amazing trust
going on right wow you guys did a great
job thank you so much how much do I owe
you nothing
what it's free nothing is free now we
also offer a service that we can keep
your computer up and running for you and
help you out and and make sure that
everything's hunky-dory all the time and
so he said yeah opt-in - that sounds
fantastic along comes their remote
administration tool yeah
and now they've got access to his
computer 24/7 you don't really know what
they're doing with it anyways long story
short he started to get suspicious okay
started to think something is not right
about this like that they're starting to
creep me a little bit they're remoting
in and taking over the computer at
random times and things are not quite
what what he would expect so he called
them up and said you know what I I'm I'm
not feeling good about this
I I'm going to take my computer to my
local computer shop I want to I want to
opt out I want to I want to close down
our account so they said because they're
smart remember we're just gonna need to
remove our software oh oh so no problem
no problem at all we're gonna we're
gonna get our software off of there we
need you to punch in this code go to
this website and we're going to access
your computer do this for you we're
gonna cancel your account cancel their
account they did Oh No you ever heard of
our M - our F slash deleted
oh no all of his files oh no urged
everything that was dear to him his
business files all of his pictures
everything deleted
he didn't have a backup date he didn't
have a backup no oh who has a backup
anymore Jeff so it starts with tricking
the user into giving them access yeah it
could be a phone call it could be you
actually seeking it out and going on to
Google and finding somebody who's
providing this service for you giving
them access to your computer letting
them in and then now they're not going
into Destructo mode they're going into
let's build trust mode
you know let's make this person believe
that they're dealing with a legitimate
company we're gonna do do that first so
now we've got that trust don't violate
that whoops yeah
now what would have happened with the
software if he had not have told them
just brought it in to you well there be
a fail-safe to the software or do you
think this is just their skin usually
well a lot of times what I've seen is
they're going to install something like
TeamViewer and okay then what they do is
they remove somewhat like the uninstall
entries they remove some of the visible
elements of TeamViewer so that they can
remote in TeamViewer is absolutely
legitimate software it's fantastic as a
matter of fact but it can be used for
for bad purposes right so they they hide
that TeamViewer in the background so
that you don't actually know that it's
happened you don't know that it's it's
watching your computer right and so
there's I haven't yet seen like a Trojan
horse where if you don't let them access
it it's going to blow up all your files
this was a legitimate hey okay well
you're gonna close this down we're gonna
wreak havoc on your files and show you
who's in charge that's what happened
that's painful but I suppose they could
you know Trojan horse and the software
that if it doesn't dial home once a week
then guess what there go your files and
that's what we see with ransomware we
want to cry and you know cryptolocker
and all the derivatives of both of those
and everything else that gets into your
system infiltrates your files
encrypts them so that you don't have
access to your documents your email
anything at all and then requires you to
pay a ransom in order to get them back
so we see that that's unfortunate
I had a friend about six months ago she
got an email from Microsoft that her
system required a system update on
Microsoft yep yes from Microsoft said
required a system update she needed to
click this link to access the software
yeah and to connect with their live chat
support to make sure it installs
properly well not cluing in she did and
next thing you know she's locked out of
her computer and watching them here like
explore her computer if she can't do a
thing her mouse has turned off her
keyboards turned off that's right
Ethernet cable folks well
that's yes she did not yeah what she did
is she hit the power button okay and
then when she turned her computer back
on they still had control oh yes so then
she was feeding on something yeah and
the other thing is that antivirus
doesn't stop it no because there's a
question that happens somewhere along
the lines of do you want to install this
application that's right and when you
have those folks on the line they're
gonna say oh press yes press ok press
approve press you know whatever it takes
to get this thing in and their smoke
screen is pretty good folks mmm all this
to say I mean if you've got folks in
your life that are potentially
susceptible to these kinds of attacks
it's up to us to educate them because as
I say antivirus is not going to stop
this kind of thing plain and simple it's
not a virus it's social engineering its
smarts and it's trickery and so if they
click the wrong thing or do the wrong
thing or open the wrong attachment and
say yes and sometimes windows doesn't
even require I mean user access control
was put there to make you know put the
hoenn onus on the user you know are you
sure you want to are you sure are you
sure are you sure are you sure are you
sure people get annoyed with that
question aren't you sure sir yes yes yes
how do I turn off the darn are you sure
question oh you just go into control
panel and turn off UAC
you can do that oh yeah oh fantastic I
don't have to deal with that are you
sure are you sure every time I open my
program it has
says this is from an unknown source are
you sure you want to run it yes this is
going to change your hard drive are you
sure you want to really yes see I've
never turned that off I didn't
truthfully I didn't know you could
because I like to see the warning and I
if my kids are on the computer really
what it does though is it just puts the
responsibility on the user right it's
not it's it's not protecting you in any
way realistically just cause you think
security through obscurity and by hiding
things in the background is not really
security at all but what it does yeah it
makes you think if it's activated but it
causes the user to say yes yes and a
novice user is just gonna say yes yes
yes yes yes yeah get out of my face yes
yes it's just like the whole read out
User Agreement nobody does
I did once they do yeah I did well your
firstborn no sign up for some kind of
Wi-Fi and it was it was pretty innocuous
it was actually the Tim Hortons Wi-Fi oh
yeah yeah I was sitting there one day
and I'm like what does this actually say
cuz I'm confident my dad all the hot at
time on his hands an unlimited free
coffee it's true yeah I read through it
and it was pretty good because I deal in
contracts all the time I actually
understood it you gotta summarize it for
people maybe open a blog summarizing I
shouldn't user agreements yeah I was for
the most part it was you know blah blah
blah you know we won't sell your
personal information but you know we may
use we have AK your information monitor
it we can record it exactly yeah you
know for marketing purposes and our
affiliates and subsidiaries and blah
blah blah so they won't say who I was
but they'll tell everybody what I was
doing sure I was reading a User
Agreement Wow
it goes back to encryption for example
you go on a website and it's encrypted
so you're safe right but the URL is
still known mmm-hmm the URL is not
private that's right your ISP knows
exactly what websites you're going to
yep and that's how it works that's the
nature of the Internet
mm-hmm just when it's encrypted
presumably they can't read the passwords
and things like that that are being
transacted back and forth between the
servers so
so educate your friends educate your
family and let folks know that hey
you've got to be really really cautious
of this don't turn off UAC it really
think about these questions I had one
today who called me up and said I've got
this pop up on my screen what do I do
says do I want to accept or not accept
whatever the option is do no I mm-hmm
and she legitimately was not sure what
to do and I say okay well screenshot it
for me she took a picture with her phone
and sent it to me and it was some
obscure website that she's never been to
she's never heard of and it's trying to
install something on her computer
probably an infected advertisement on
one of the websites she's looking at
something like that I said do you ever
frequent that website no I never even
heard of it and yet your computer is
saying that it's going to install
something on your computer do you want
to accept this how do we think we should
answer that question
she was smart Jeff she called
well she's grass to the question if it
was 9 a.m. on a Saturday morning she
might have just said ok because you know
I'm not at my office right right what do
you do in that case so so it is about
education knowing these things so that
we could protect ourselves our family
our friends that's true that is true
[Music]
[Applause]
