welcome to new every day my name is
Carrie and my name is Jen and on today's
show we are totally random and how does
randomness fit into everyday life we're
going to talk about reflection and how
at least being thankful in the Lord both
stay tuned
you've got mad skills now hone them
learn new skills or improve your
existing ones with online video
tutorials and training from Linda calm
through our special link at cat five dot
TV / Linda learn software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today to help you achieve your
professional goals join today and start
learning will give you this chance to
try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat5 dot TV / linda
welcome back and we're so glad that you
tuned in again this week to new every
day we hope that you are following us on
facebook new every day Popeye leave us a
message and we're always just so happy
to hear from you and we would love to to
hear from you so we can be praying for
you and Jen yes Gary we have a great
show today because it's completely
random it is completely random and and
the reason this whole show started is
because when we come home from work we
just start talking about our day and how
the and then as we talk back and forth
we actually challenge each other and
well how did how did the Lord meet you
here and how the Lord meet you here and
so it's been really cool because it can
lead into some totally random
conversations that actually cause for
very deep reflection yeah and before we
actually started the show today we had a
totally random conversation about
baptism and how and what it means and
what a nap time what it means to be
baptized and at what point should you be
baptized and it was just totally random
and were like why did we not turn the
camera um because some time to stop and
and reflect right it is insane no it is
good to stop and reflect and sometimes
it's in the totally random moments that
you think huh I should buy a Christmas
present and you're like Jim God is
random and i say that because christmas
is coming it is november it is november
and it's a time of the year when people
are buying Christmas presents and
thinking about the season and who will
be coming by yes now jen is far more
organized than I am and she starts
purchasing Christmas gifts Oh January
it's you left to get it's incredible
really so but for those of you who are
late shoppers we encourage you to help
support our show because as we're
learning it costs money mm-hmm to make
the show run when I was younger
I just you know would go to the TV turn
it on when oh look there it is having no
concept of oh maybe there's some cash
that needed to happen here what went
into actually producing this and editing
it where we are so thankful for Robbie
Ferguson and it's team at category 5 TV
Robbie is our editor and producer of the
show and he puts in a lot of time and
this is all voluntary and we just we're
happy to talk to you and reflect on what
god has done and just talk about issues
that come up but again that does it
there is a cost to it so we are asking
if you would be willing to support us so
we also know that christmas is coming
and that you are going to be giving you
no money towards family and purchasing
gifts but maybe you can help us by
shopping at the same time Jen yeah so
you can go to amazon com through our
website and do all of your online
shopping and we will get a kickback from
every single purchase that you make so
if you want to pick up a book or DVD or
whatever whatever anything random
blenders toasters tires yep you can go
to new everyday TV and click on our
partners page and you can go to the link
to Amazon from there and then start
shopping and we will benefit from that
and then be able to offer this show
every week to you so if you would do
that we would really appreciate it
there's another opportunity that you can
give back and that is by partnering with
us to donate 25 cents I almost at $25
but it's 25 cents per show mm-hmm and I
always conflicted about asking for money
Jen but I we see all the work that goes
into this and 25 cents a show is
something you know that I can manage to
give as well so it's actually through
patreon so if you go to patreon patr 0n
dot com / category 5
you will be able to sign up to donate
just 25 cents every episode and at the
end of the month you'll get a bill for
one dollar on your credit card so we
have a surprising number of viewers now
Jen I know like we're up over two
million views like is that weird or what
I know it's like Oh thankful thank you
God thank you God but if everyone was
able to donate that 25 cents an episode
will be able to keep going we'll be able
to keep going and keep talking about
totally random things speaking of random
speaking of random what's on your mind
and so many things are on my mind what's
your favorite color okay blue sparkle
really I like it okay this is a total
sideline random did you hear that the
worst gift that you could ever give
someone is putting sparkles inside an
envelope and nailing it to them cuz then
when they open it Sparkle shot just goes
i love that you'd be wearing the gift
all day unless you inhale it and it
causes inflammation and irritation and
coughing and it does it when you inhale
particles sure I'd never really thought
i never inhaled sparkles but you know
i'm sure this is part of the randomness
happens so what we were talking about
why why talk about random things that
happen in your week i was saying to jen
that when you take the time to reflect
on your day or reflect on your week I
found and then invite the Holy Spirit to
highlight the things that you're trying
to speak to you through the week it
allows you to have a change of
perspective about a situation to
actually become more thankful to realize
that God's at work in your life and
maybe highlight areas in your life that
you need to be more prayerful about yes
no there's a verse in the Bible that
says on my bed I remember you I think of
you through the watches of the night and
there's another verse it says on your
beds search your heart and be silent so
the bible does encourage us to be
reflective
and sometimes maybe for you at nighttime
that's the only time of quiet you get
maybe you're a very busy mom you're
chasing three kids all day and finally
at night you have that opportunity to be
quiet and actually search your heart
reflect on the day give thanks mm-hmm
yes psalm for says at the end I go to
bed and sleep in peace because Lord only
you keep you p sources in that you only
keep me safe that idea of of going to
bed in in peace because you've actually
given everything from your day over to
the Lord and and throughout Scripture it
does talk about reflecting and one of
the things that I have done now for a
really long time 20 years is this is my
journal mmm big three-ring 500 notes and
on the inside you can sort of see like
that I've written things hmm well every
day I write three good things that
happen really yeah I didn't know that
see I obviously don't read your journal
that's good she's a good friend but
things like okay this is so this is from
August 25th so my friend James came to
the chapel so we must have had a really
good conversation yes because he wasn't
working at camp I was quite pleased that
I had a chance to talk to him I spotted
on the boat with my friend Trevor that
meant we had a really good conversation
and yeah stayed and talked with a friend
after chapel and then I watched hannah
put dreads in Graydon's hair that was so
cool I've never seen people put dreads
in hair before and so there was great
like with wax and everything well no
well no like just the nodding and how
you have to pull the hair back and wrap
it around and pull the hair back and
wrap it around whoa but those are like
cool little things that I was so
thankful for that I had these wonderful
conversations and
remember that night is going God thank
you so much and it was interesting
yesterday I was quite I don't get quite
sick I just kind of feel under the
weather and kind of monkey um and so you
know when I went to write in my journal
good things that happened yesterday it
was like okay I had a good youth and it
was good and then I she lead to youth
group and then oh we're doing it at a
hand a glow in the dark hand angel mime
thing okay is so cool that was a good
thing yeah and then I I'm like I'm
thinking I'm thinking Lord something
else good must have happened it was 24
hours like there are three good things
in there and so one of the young men in
my youth group his name is Kirkland he
did a really amazing game and he like
many black game he got everyone involved
everyone and we didn't have to get off
of her chairs which was great but then
one of the leaders came to me afterwards
and said he did an excellent job yeah
good and I was like thank you God so
good and it's like but I had to sit here
and I remember sitting here for a long
time thinking Lord revealed to me the
good things that happened yesterday and
it was just because I could have said oh
no I was sick and I felt crappy all day
long so i can create in my mind then
nothing good happened and sometimes this
whole idea of of being reflective
actually challenges our way of thinking
right and we start to see oh yeah well
maybe God was at work there maybe God
was at work here and all I could think
about was but I had to cancel three of
my appointments that had made and i had
to reschedule them and this is really
being sick is really messing with my day
right and yet you know i was able to
reschedule what i needed to reschedule
and I think it's worked out quite well
actually
and but I was really challenged to look
past what I think constitutes a good day
right and really reflect on what's
important and I realized at the end of
the day yesterday it wasn't that I
necessarily had anything to do with the
good things that happened I watched God
work around me in the lives of people
and go wow okay like I watched my
leaders do amazing things with the kids
I watched the kids get the hand mind
thing like they got it and I watched
kirkland do this and I was like yeah yay
God like what cuz it's not about asked
cuz it's not about us or how we feel
yeah like cuz Carrie was on her way home
from her family's last she spent three
days with her little family it was and I
just love them just loves them and I'm
on the phone and I'm not feeling like
being very chatty you could have said
that I know but you didn't but I didn't
because I wanted to hear about your day
you're nice and um and this is where you
know where conversations can go
sometimes because now I'm realizing that
in spite of my feeling ill God was still
at work all around me and this is why
it's so important to reflect to actually
think about you know what what else
what's going on what else is going out
on in the world around me because i am
not the center of things it is not all
about me it really is i don't really
feel like talking right now but because
I you know love and appreciate my
roommate and I know and we might get
around to talking about visit I knew it
was important to you uh-huh and so I
wanted to hear about it so it's like
okay when we're told to love one another
that really means listening and and okay
God you called us to love one another no
help me love even though i'm not feeling
really great right now and it was good
cuz i was so glad that i heard that you
had this
full time so it's a reflection like I'm
sitting here thinking you know what in
spite of my not feeling very well
yesterday got good thank God did good
thing totally psalm 136 says oh give
thanks to the Lord for he is good for
his mercy endures forever o give thanks
to the God of gods for his mercy endures
forever o give thanks to the Lord of
lords for his mercy endures forever to
him alone who does great wonders for his
mercy endures forever to him who by
wisdom made the heavens for his mercy
endures forever to him who laid out the
earth above the waters for his mercy
endures forever to him who made great
lights for his mercy endures forever and
you know sometimes if sometimes I find
it hard to reflect on the day and think
about what to pray and but the Psalms
are great for that you can just open it
up in the face okay give thanks to the
Lord for he is good God Your mercies
endure forever and use songs to guide
your prayer yes yeah and it's
interesting when we were talking about
reflecting on your bed at night and then
you made reference to psalm 4 verse 8
that god gives us peace mm-hmm one of
the proverbs says that anxiety in the
heart of the man leads to depression and
depression can be this great darkness
you know we get anxious about events
because we have blinders on and can't
necessarily see the whole picture or
maybe it seems overwhelming and then the
darkness of depression can come in and
really just pervade your whole life and
I know that one of the therapies for
depression is talking about Thanksgiving
and actually reflecting on what's good
and writing down three things that wow
you're thankful for that day to kind of
turn your eyes on to something else and
who better to turn our eyes to than the
Living God there's a book she's going to
step out of the camera but up there it
says there's a book that says 14,000
things to be happy about can see it at
the very top whoa i don't think i can
get that but i see it ok
with 14,000 things to be happy about
which can be purchased through our
website on to amazon.com shopping I try
to make sure I get it hold the phone
hold hold the phone yes we all here we
go ok here we go she's gonna model at
flora random ok so this book fourteen
thousand things to be happy about when
we talk about reflecting cuz sometimes
we need props right right ok so just
read me some of those things to be happy
about something low it like a list oh my
it is a list of 14,000 rings here we go
blts on English muffins learning words
to songs peace buttons plaster of Paris
can't say I've ever given thanks for
that but play-doh actually that's quite
nice ah beautiful oil lamps hmm ah coin
purses the NFL tiddlywink discs diamond
rings flailing corn head lettuce with
French dressing I am really enjoying
this see it's just very random like it's
it's so interesting that somebody
actually took time to write out 14,000
things to be happy about oh yes or so
many Easter egg hunts camp firewood
pineapple pie fall fashions colorado
mountain roads men with egos hahaha are
you kidding me Oh clearance sale ritz
crackers oh yeah getting a job so many
great things so go on our website new
everyday TV click on our partners page
go to amazon link and check out this
book it's hilarious fourteen thousand
things to be happy about really enjoyed
that thank you and you're right it's
when we start getting our eyes off of
our state whatever state were in because
you said specifically about depression
and how you know it's starting to give
thanks is key yeah cuz sometimes you
just need the prompts yeah or you need
to get into a habit of being thankful
right last week no the week before just
a really
really rough week and just saying God
where are you and I had a choice do I
give up my regular routine of writing
down my thankful things praying reading
my Bible and it's like no because God
has promised to meet me in those places
so why would I give those things up and
what what did is it continue to
cultivate space for God to move in my
life even though I wasn't necessarily
feeling him but just because I don't
feel him doesn't mean he's out there
doesn't mean he's not there so in the
midst of i want to say the darkness I
still continued to give thanks mm-hmm
and so um yeah giving thanks helps us to
you know reflect and focus on who God is
hmm and gets our eyes off of us and on
to Jesus yeah which is where it needs to
be yeah and it allows God to speak to us
like as I was writing my list it was God
speaking to me and saying this is where
I was this is where I was but do we even
take time to sit and think about it you
know to say okay god there must be three
then to allow him to say I was here I
was here I was here um we've got so much
to be thankful for we do why don't we
just take a minute now and just pray why
don't you pray with us and maybe you can
think of three things that you're
thankful for right where you are hmm all
right let's pray gen father thank you
thank you so much that you love us hmm I
thank you Lord that you have given us
the ability to stop and think and you
have been so good and so kind to us
thank you for our lives thank you for
our families our friends thank you for
the show and the wonderful people who
are tuning in all over the world thank
you Father for category 5 and all the
work that they are doing thank you Jesus
that you loved us enough to come and die
for us
and that you rose again to give us new
life mm-hmm so thankful we pray this in
Jesus
thank you so much for tuning in again
and we hope that you will tune in for
some more randomness perhaps we decide
to next week yes same time same place
check us out new everyday TV and also
tune in on facebook so it's good so
until next time cheerio happy reflecting
have this one
you
