hey everyone and thanks for tuning in to
another episode of new every day my name
is Kari and my name is Jenna and on
today's show we are in part two of come
on in
you're all welcome this is new every day
with Jen wagon and Kari web
[Music]
hey everyone thanks again for tuning in
we are in part two in a look at Acts
chapter 10 the life of Cornelius yes I
shouldn't even say life it's just a
brief little snapshot of this guy a day
in the life of a Roman soldier who fears
God there you go there you go probably
the most pivotal moment in his whole
life and actually in the whole movement
of Christianity true isn't it amazing
how a day can change the course of the
world dun dun dun
Dada like should we just take a break
right now oh well so you know like oh
yeah like 9/11
like literally change changed the world
one moment one decision Jannah changed
everything and so here we and it just
sort of starts off with the dream right
like that's what you know thinking back
to last week it was simply I've got a
man who fears God and so then God then
chose him he appeared to him in a vision
with an angel and he and it was just in
the general course of life because
Cornelius being a god-fearing man a
Roman officer of the Italian regiment
hmm made it his routine practice and
this is a 3:00 in the afternoon like
yeah middle of the day he's being
devoted to God and praying and see him
was the heart of his day not just like
all right let's wrap up this day and a
pre at night time it was like throughout
the day yeah it was part of his norm and
that's when he received this this vision
mm-hmm of an angel yeah thank to him
Cornelius and he said what is it sir he
said your prayers and gifts to the poor
have been received by God as an offering
now since I meant to Joppa and summon a
man named Simon Peter he's staying with
Simon a Tanner who lives near the
seashore so basically as soon as the
angel was gone Cornelius was like okay
it's game time
he called his recruits and he sent them
to go and get Peter and so now Jen we're
at the part where we like change scenes
where Peter is at Simon's house to see
what's going on in his MA
before the people arrived yes so here we
go about noon the following day as they
were on their journey and approaching
the city the city of Joppa which is at
the end of chapter 9 verse 43 Peter went
up on the roof to pray you got to
remember this is not a this kind of roof
okay it's a this kind of roof because I
know you're thinking weird well I wonder
if a lot of our viewers live in places
where they have flat normal roof it's
okay because they don't get snow like we
do here in Canada Oh fair enough because
that's for the snow action and the rain
action and all the rain action okay he
became hungry and wanted something to
eat and while the meal was being
prepared he fell into a trance he saw
heaven opened and something like a large
sheet being let down to earth by its
four corners it contained all kinds of
four-footed animals as well as reptiles
of the earth and birds of the air then a
voice told him get up Peter kill and eat
surely not Lord Peter replied I have
never eaten anything impure unclean the
Vote the voice spoke to him a second
time did not call anything impure that
God has made clean this happened three
times and immediately the sheet was
taken back to heaven while Peter was
wondering about the meaning of this
vision the men sent by Cornelius found
out where Simon's house was and was
stopped at the gate they called out
asking if Simon who was known as Peter
was staying there while Peter was things
still thinking about the vision the
spirit said to him Simon
three men are looking for you so get up
and go downstairs do not hesitate to go
with them for I have sent them to you
Peter went down and said to them I'm the
one you're looking for why have you come
the men replied we have come from
Cornelius the Centurion he is a
righteous and god-fearing man who is
respected by all the Jewish people a
holy angel told him to have you come to
his house so that he could hear what you
have to say then Peter invited two men
into the house to be his guests
skin it's so good and you know it's all
about we just talked about how the
course of Christianity was changed in
the course of the day but it wasn't like
the world is going to change today this
is what I want you to do that wasn't it
it was the vision came cornelius heard
it and responded peter received a vision
interacted you know in this trance
interacted with the angel and then is
willing to walk it out like he engaged
with it and never once did either men
think the world is going to change today
they went about just fearing god
obedient yes and what's interesting as
peter does something very interesting he
does well two things first is he's like
surely lord i i've never eaten anything
unclean and that goes back to the
Levitical laws about food and being
separated out and so yeah leviticus
chapter 11 if you wanted yes and read it
it says what animals are clean and which
animals are unclean yes
just want to break from there for a
minute yes is it some people look at the
old testament they're like man it's just
like a bunch of rules like why is that
even the case like why can't they eat
pigs and why if the wash and things but
but they didn't know about germ theory
nope so when God said don't eat pigs it
could be like because they sit in their
poo or wash your hands before your meal
it's because if you have to have clean
hands so you don't get sick yes so there
are all of these laws that had that had
good underlying reasons but it was very
strictly held by the Jews and so once
Peter was like I cannot eat that because
he was being obedient
yes genuinely wanted to be serious about
obeying God yes I will I haven't touched
anything unclean yes so he was being
obedient yes and for some of the food
laws are also related to the fact that
sometimes God just uses things as object
lessons like a call to holiness
I want you to separate yourself out from
eating these foods so whether or not
maybe they were used in idol worship and
in various pagan rituals so gods like
he's calling them out to say no like I
want you to honor me by separating
yourself from these people yeah but this
but this call for Peter to say I have
never eaten anything unclean Ezekiel
says the same thing when God calls him
to be an object lesson to the nation of
Israel that's an exile and and God told
them you know and heat your feet your
food over human excrete Minh and he's
like Lord I have never eaten anything
unclean right wouldn't me this food
unclean because it and that was like a
big no-no because his their holiness
their religion was part of their their
eating practices and so so that was
first of all Peter Peter was saying I
can't do that because you have said
don't and then the second part is that
it said it three times so that's
significant because I went back and I
read the Ezekiel story and so let me
just quickly turn to that because I
thought what's the difference here
compared to the Ezekiel story and while
you're looking for that I also realized
something quite interesting yes that
Peter was not a vegan Peter was not a
vegan he was not a vegan all right
that's all there you go he was not a
vegan ah no I'm gonna say it's Ezekiel
something and I feel bad because I
should have looked it up beforehand
there it is for I did look it up
beforehand it's just earlier it's
chapter 4 talks about him lying on
various sides and it says using so verse
11 it says and 12 eat the food you would
as you would and bake it in the sight of
people using human excrete meant the
Lord said in this way the people of
Israel who eat defiled food among the
where I'm driving them then I said no no
sovereign Lord I have never defiled
myself from my youth until now I have
never eaten anything found dead or torn
by wild animals no unclean thing has
ever entered my mouth very well he said
so what got me thinking was it was said
once right and then Ezekiel says no no
and God relented well you turn over to
the axe passage and he says it three
times and there's something in the
Syrian it's serious it's like no no I'm
not changing my mind I really want you
to listen and there's something about
when things are said two times it's like
really listen yeah right and it said
three times so it's like no no I'm
serious yeah
I want you to listen to what I'm saying
like this is not up for negotiation and
it goes back to the three times that
Peter and Jesus had the dialogue on the
sea right I'm a seashore well he said do
you love do you love me three times
right so there's this ongoing discussion
with Peter and who needs to hear it
three times no this is what I want you
to do so we're gonna pause right there
and we want you to think like how many
times you have to be told to do
something before you do it alright so
they'll be back right after these
messages
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequents
by using the links on our website visit
category-five TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching everyone
thank you for staying with us on new
every day if you want to go to our
website new every day TV check out our
partners page and you can see the
amazing organizations and businesses who
melt whoo-hoo-hoo melt who help make
this show possible
that's so true we are so glad for each
one of them so glad it just melts our
heart that's what I wanted to say yes if
you would like to support us you can go
onto our website you go to our partners
page and click the patreon app and then
you can help support us with each airing
of the show you can make a small
donation even something very very tiny
um is helpful just to make this show
possible oh yeah we totally appreciate
it that's all that's all so here we are
jumping back into Peters vision and and
he was I just love the fact that he
interacts with the Lord right he doesn't
just yes this is not about being a drone
like God does not call us to follow him
as drones yeah like there really is this
no let's dialogue about it right yeah
and the God changes mine no does God
sometimes change his mind yes but he
invites the conversation yeah you know
it's interesting I was chatting with
someone the other day about prayer and
how like she grew up in a very like
strict denomination where like you when
you pray you are kneeling
and you had to do certain gestures and
and it was very very strict and she said
I just don't know how I feel about that
as well
like has God and sometimes it's okay to
be like on your knees worshipping and
fearing God because he is amazing and
worthy of our worship and praise and
then sometimes it's okay I think to be
on your chair and talk to him as your
loving father and sometimes standing
before him with your hands raised yeah
in the car driving like that's just it
right one one one hand raised when
you're driving right when he dressed I
know that's true
but this is a God who calls us into
conversation like Peter felt close
enough to God that he hit me to say and
and yet he relents cuz I think he's he's
willing to listen right and maybe it was
the fact that he said it three times
that was like oh yeah remember what
happened the last time we did this Peter
boy and she like Peter was also close
with Jesus right mm-hmm and when Jesus
was like you you're gonna betray me like
everyone's gonna be training he was like
no Lord I will not I'd rather die with
you than betray you
yeah and sure enough he did but but then
you're like you said Jesus reinstated
him three times and saying that I know
this is the most important love covers
over a multitude of sins and yes is what
it is saying is that in God's love he's
saying that the Gentiles are not unclean
and you can welcome them right and so
here we are like he says while Peter was
spirit sent him Simon three men are
looking for you so get up and go
downstairs do not hesitate to go with
them for I have said them like he's
telling him in advance like this is
what's going to happen and I think I
think God speaks to us way more often
than we think he does we just don't
either aren't listening or don't know
that he's speaking or think
it's the pizza we ate at 3 o'clock
morning but God speaks and God directs
and we're supposed to be we are supposed
to be listening yeah like I think I'm
are watching this video of a woman who
had asked for an answer to prayer had
asked God to answer did she wanted to
know what she was supposed to do in her
life and she went about her day cooking
dinner playing with the children driving
the car getting groceries you know doing
the laundry Mike's home life stuff yeah
and then she got into bed that night and
her husband said so what did the Lord
say to you today she's like I don't know
nothing because she was so busy going
throughout her day that she actually
didn't stop to listen but it's
interesting that Cornelius the stopping
to pray was part of his day yes and
Peter dinner was being cooked and he
stopped to pray yes I must say Jen that
I'm challenged by my Muslim friends who
five times a day they make it a point to
go and kneel and pray mm-hmm and they
are very devote devout devout devoted
mm-hmm that sort mm like at work in our
chapel people from all faiths are
welcome there and I'll see the same
people coming every day to pray and I'm
challenged by that so do I set that side
it's that time aside it's a great
question because God God does speak
throughout the day but are we actually
listening and that's it like with that
video and the woman like did she
actually stop and did you know while
she's doing the dishes did she think
okay Lord speaks me or while she was
like does she have that open heart
towards the Lord or did she just go
through the door the day waiting for the
Lord to speak but it's like you know
coming in here when at the end of the
day I can say how are you how's your day
but you can just keep walking right past
me even though I have said something to
you but you don't actually hear what I
say this really it's the flip it would
be Carrie asking me
my nose and I would keep anything but I
asked yeah we have to stop and engage
yes right yeah and and so here you're
right Peter went up while the meal was
being prepared and you know in a trance
he has this conversation with the Lord
and then Peter invited the men into his
head into the house to be his guess
which means they would have eaten
together they would have eaten to end in
old-school Judaism that was a no-no like
you see Jews did not eat with the
Gentiles and I got to think Jenna that
stems from like when God said come apart
from them and be separate it was so that
they didn't have inappropriate influence
on the Jewish people to turn their
hearts away from God and on to other
gods and idols so they were to say no
yeah but if they wanted to join Judaism
than they could yet to have them as
castes was not right because of that
that peer pressure there but now Peters
like no they're not unclean God's called
them clean and they can also well he
still I think he's still in the
beginning stages Oh cuz he doesn't
realize it till it gets to Cornelius
house yes and that's part of what you
know cuz sometimes when you know the
rest of the text you're like oh yeah he
must have thought that by maybe he did
maybe he was just like okay hey-oh
because Holy Spirit said don't worry
I sent them yeah and you're like okay
and that's just how it is right like
okay Holy Spirit you brought me this far
I guess I going to trust you and so you
take those little steps forward and
that's what Peter was doing he's like
then he invited the men into his house
because the Holy Spirit had spoken to
him right he still doesn't really like I
love to wade God pre warns yeah he did
he gave him the vision he spoke three
times saying don't don't say anything
that I have made is unclean then the men
show up and so Peters probably the
little little things going on inside of
his head going okay something is
happening I'm going to trust the Holy
Spirit okay I'm going to invite these
men in I don't know where this is going
but God is doing something right right
because this would have been totally
weird
it would have been totally weird and
that's sometimes we have to be it's so
hard when we already know the end story
yeah to actually put ourselves in Peters
shoes going what is going on mm-hmm
so on that note oh yeah someone's still
we're to talk about what is going on
next week thank you for tuning in yes
and look at next week have a great week
may the Lord bless you and keep you and
encourage you to just take those steps
