for those who prefer Linux or are simply
curious about Linux and other open
source technologies this is category 5
technology TV
you
welcome to episode number 288 of
category 5 technology TV so nice to have
you here it's Tuesday what is it the
26th of March 2013 welcome to the show
welcome everyone caracal along you how
are you good how are you good you keep
them well yes I've been keeping well and
I am moving into my first house this
move awesome still in school still
school b school I'll be in school all
summer action yeah so this would be like
the the gaming you got like the Xbox and
obviously knows about me going in there
Xbox hopefully yeah and friend of mine
she has a nintendo 64 so we're gonna
move that going in there get her a lot
get my record player then get brand new
speakers so instead of like in red that
seems kind of awkward setting a record
player with brand new speakers yeah well
like in my residence I'm in a dorm so
you're very very small so my speakers
are this big so now in a house with two
floors and it's going to bring a to have
gotta get speakers at least not all that
much figure you realize that the records
just gonna skip right yeah hopefully
nada and I should put the subwoofer
under the record player and just hope
for the best am hoping well then you
know you plug in my video games in there
as well so then it will be knowing that
I'm playing video games in my
neighborhood okay just get like huge
speakers set up very cool everybody in
the chat room I see Swiss Andy I see
masterminds Tik Tok nice to see ya
scooty duck 42 yeah JP nice to see ya
yes it is okay Jameson 55 79 Erica it's
really nice to see you what have we got
coming up in the news would love to know
as we get into an exciting show tonight
I'm gonna tell you Eric kid is going to
be joining us remotely tonight we're
gonna be looking at some really cool
stuff that's going to allow you to turn
your iDevice into a guitar effects
processor so stick around we're gonna be
learning all about that we've got your
viewer questions
it's going on tonight it's gonna be a
jam-packed show so we're gonna have a
lot of fun hope you can join us in the
chat room as well so coming up in the
news tonight Apple has bought Wi-Fi slam
hoping to bring indoor mapping to their
product Nokia and Google are in
disagreement over what web video format
to focus on for web m yahoo has acquired
some lee from its teenage creator for
many millions of pounds oh my goodness a
researcher has scanned every ipv4
address and found an astonishing number
of devices using default passwords and a
boon to may become the national
operating system in china isn't that
exciting so stick around later for these
stories coming up later in the show yeah
I want to hear all about that stuff yeah
very interesting I want to say welcome
also to our brand new registered viewers
on our website this week at category 5
TV who do we have we've got joining us
new this week Cape Farrell Oh metalcraft
nice to have you joining us w Simpson
thank you for the easy-to-read phonetic
username hamrick nice to have you
joining us access web Rev elec pc care
man mcg I 2432 and Dimitri all new
registrants on our website category 5 TV
thank you for joining us and for
becoming a registered viewer so nice to
have you as a part of our community
what's really cool about being a
registered viewers that you get access
to some bonus features on the website
that you don't have unless you're you're
registered which is absolutely free and
so we encourage you to check that out
category 5 TD click on the login and
register button up at the top nice to
have everybody joining us in category 5
TV is a member of the tech podcast
network if it's tech it's here and if
its intent and its international
association of internet broadcasters
thanks Erica hey make sure you also
check out our mobile site we're looking
at some mobile devices tonight we've got
one go to mcat five dot TV that's going
to get you on to the mobile website
watch live you can watch it after the
fact check out our newsroom check out my
blog it's all there at em cat5 TV we got
to take a real quick break and after
that we're going to be back and we're
going to throw over to Eric Kidd as we
look at this amazing group of devices
this can allow us to turn an ipad and
iphone and ipod touch into a multi
effects processor it's great for
musicians out there oh yeah it's gonna
be an excellent so stick around don't go
anywhere we'll be right back after this
at eco alkalines we believe you should
be able to trust your batteries not just
here but here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here Eco alkalines
of the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco alkalines provide
performance the rivals leading national
alkaline battery brands at a comparable
price find out more about the Eco
alkalines difference eco alkalines com
this is category 5 technology TV we are
online at triple w category 5 TV and
we're looking at kind of a grouping of
devices here tonight and software an app
for iOS from two different companies
that are going to turn your iDevice into
a multi effects processor for your
guitar or bass guitar really really cool
stuff I think this is the first time
you've ever seen is even seeing this
before I think we're going to start with
with a jamup line of products what jamup
does now this is the jam up plug and
this is available for about 20 bucks i'm
going to pull this out of the box here
compatible with any generation of ipad
iphone 3gs iphone 4 5 4 s all that stuff
and 4th gen and up ipod touch that's all
there is to it folks dude it's perfect
look at some pad
nice and tiny okay what is it well this
is actually a quarter-inch input for
your guitar and an eight inch output for
a pair of headphones or you can use an
adapter so that you can actually plug it
into a nap and this turns your iDevice
into capture device for you know any
quarter inch input there you go and it's
only twenty bucks now eric is going to
actually be looking at one of these
we've sent one over to Angus board and
music for him to take a look at and that
will literally turn it into a capture
device you can use it with it you know
any of the software that will allow you
to record from an external microphone
right cool that comes with a free piece
of software called a jamup xt it's an
app available in the iTunes App Store
there's also a commercial version which
will be looking at a little bit later as
well okay so that's that that allows you
to capture your guitar play it through
the app it's low latency no latency from
what we could tell what else was out
here we've got the air turn BTW 105 this
is really cool I can explain a little
bit about this what is so yeah what is
so cool about this it looks like a
guitar pedal right better it's like a
this module right here is called the air
turn BTW 105 it's a bluetooth module
that was developed specifically for
musicians worship leaders people who
operate teleprompters and things like
that to be able to control an ipad or an
iDevice with their feet why did they
develop that they developed it because
eric kid is standing there jamming and
he's using his ipad for music nowadays
right instead of printed sheet music so
if he wants to flip to the next page on
the sheet music or if you're a piano
player and you need to flip the page
what do you got to do stop playing flip
the page right what this was developed
for was to allow you to flip the page
air turn that's the name of the company
right and then all of a sudden jamup
said you know what this is Bluetooth
let's take it let's amalgamate our two
products together so we've got our
captures hardware
r processor software and then a
Bluetooth pedal that is wireless and
going to allow us to control our guitar
pedal how cool is that that is awesome
there are a few different models of this
that the to pedal model of course
entirely wireless starts at about 120
dollars this particular version has four
petals as you can see and it's a hundred
and sixty dollars for this particular
model but they start around 1 115 120
we're going to give you all the website
addresses as well just if you want to
check them out right away right away
this is Air turn calm for this device
and this guy here and the software is
positive grid calm so check that out and
we're going to just throw over to Eric
he as I said was that he's at Angus
Borden music dot CA so Eric we're gonna
throw it over to you and let's take a
look at how this thing operates hey
thanks Robbie yes I'm Eric kitten I'm
out here to Angus board music and my
friend Keith white has allowed us to
come in and do a little review on a
product called the jam up plug and also
the air turn which is a stomp box
effectively that you can run through
your iPhone or your iPad so whether
you're a Salesman or a musician if
you're on the road you're sitting in
your hotel don't want to plug in the app
because nobody likes that you can take
this little device which is the jam up
plug and with your high device whether
that's an iPhone or iPad you can put
that in there and with a quarter inch
jack just your regular guitar plug you
can plug it into there and then from
there if you choose you can plug that
into an amplifier or perhaps your
headphones and you can have effects and
software that does everything I'm going
to show you today this is the free
version that i'm not talking about
there's all kinds of great effects there
is a commercial version which has more
features but we're going to talk
31 today
now let's just check our tuning to start
out because it's got a tuner built in
it's lovely i press this little tuning
fork and I get a tuner so i'll just show
you with one string here i can get a
g-string and just we're pretty close
we're just going to go back to press
this little guy here i believe is the
air turn button there it's a groovy
little icon you can I think you can see
it there and now i have on my screen
effectively for different stomp boxes
and i can set those up as whatever
effect i choose and it's going to go
through a couple because we're trying to
fit this into the show here today so i'm
going to go here we've already tuned i'm
going to hit this button here but
actually if you do have the air turn
stomp box which is i believe one hundred
and twenty dollars and it works via
bluetooth and it's pretty pretty nifty
you can control all this through your
feet but i'm going to go here and just
show you see there's no effect on that
first little pedal i'm going to go there
and I'm going to go amp effects switch
and i'm going to pick let's go with
reverb so now I've got reverb and on
this one let's add in another amp
effects switch and add some modulation
that would be things like choruses or
phases etc and how about something else
will add
other other effects which let's add the
amp in there so we can change the amp if
we want with our foot or with just
tapping one of these so now what I'm
going to do is I'm going to go to amp
effects you can see that I can actually
edit what each of those effects does so
if I have the amp in on pedal three and
see it highlights there so a nice
distortion thing going on there that's
with the pedal out but I can also go in
here and change my input volume and my
master volume and come up with a cleaner
sound maybe something a little bluesy
earth and maybe a lot of bass of you
want
maybe very little face and I'm doing
that all with the software so i can take
that pedal back out there's just my
straight amplifier then playing here i
can go back to my modulation device
you'll see that I've added reverb and I
just going to hit this with my foot on
this cowboy boot and I'm going to hit
that and it drags the reverb pedal which
is on this down to our chain so I've got
reverb now and we can adjust the level
of reverb the depth and how long it goes
and what kind of reverb I stomped on it
the reverbs gone its back okay and then
in petal too i believe i put the
modulation so there I've got modulation
is kind of a chorus effect
Oh
so anyway we can add different pedals in
I'm just going to press this cool little
icon the air turn icon and I get back
there so I've got those three things set
up and you could set up for and go and
change them from day to day and if you
wanted to you know for a different song
have a different series of effects in it
you can do that so we're able to do that
this little jam up plug I get to plug my
guitar into it's an interface so you can
plug it into my iPad or my iphone the
software which we can get free or we can
buy the commercial version but the free
version that's on playing with today and
it's great it's got the tuner it's got
defects we can also add in the air turn
stompbox which you know add a little Bob
modulation take it out boom add some
reverb if i change the amp setting etc
so I can do quite a bit plus I can do
this in the privacy of my own home room
island hotel room or wherever I am plug
it in I can put in my headphones if I
don't even want to use an amp and we can
effectively jam out and not disturb
anybody so all in all i'm kind of
impressed with this Robbie thank you so
much Eric that thing looks incredible i
want to show you real quickly just a
couple of the features of the
professional version of this application
this is the jam up xt pro one of the
things we didn't get to look out there
with eric is the fact that we can
actually change our amp models and our
petals themselves so if i actually click
here on the app and I can go choose and
then watch what look at what happens
here I've got access to all of these
different amp models and then you can
see that some of them are actually faded
but I've got six to start right here
with the pro version so if I want to
actually emulate this amp I can choose
the plexiglass amp for example there you
go or if there's one that you want and
it's not currently available in your app
you can actually click on the app model
and you can see it you can test it
whatever and then you can actually check
this out there's a built-in store which
allows you to purchase amp models and
effect models if you can imagine I mean
you think about a guitar effect pedal if
you want to add new effects and things
you've got to buy another pedal for the
day another pedal you quite often have
to deal then with you know the analog
noise of having more petals in your
chain and then you've got to actually
physically by the pedal they're very you
know 150 200 dollars per pedal that's
exactly what I was gonna say when you
told me that the price of the final
product for 120 dollars is a great price
yeah for the to pedal model 120 bucks
for pedal that we're looking at today is
168 plus the twenty dollars for the for
the capture device now if you want this
professional software it's like eight
bucks in the apple itunes store but
check out what you can do so let's say
we go into effect models in the built-in
store and you can see all the different
types of effect pedals that you can
purchase now a lot of these are in fact
included with the professional version
but you'll see installed installed
installed and if you want one here's one
here for example let's say we want an
auto wah pedal we can actually add that
for only three dollars so we're talking
about buying a pedal and adding it to
your chain for 150-200 dollars three
dollars and you add a digital version of
that pedal and it's really quite good
quality Swiss Andy was wondering the
chat room what's the quality like it
actually sounds really really good of
course Nina and play yeah great and
that's with a camera microphone picking
it up right now imagine this plug
directly into headphones or plugged into
a you know if you want to do some home
recording or whatever directly plugged
into your mixer it would be right into
your sound cards line input and be able
to jam it that way and then use your
computer's headphone jack to listen
press record and you're flying right and
it's got some really cool features too
speaking of jamming you can actually
load up sound files and jam along with
them so you can actually you know play
along with your favorite soundtracks or
whatever you want to do there's just a
ton of great features there but really
really impressed with this again the air
turn from air turn calm this is the
pedal unit and understanding kind of the
relationship between these this was not
developed for this particular purpose
but then it was realized that you know
what this is really fantastic for this
really perfect
now Heather I don't know if you can
actually see this but looking at the
architecture of these petals they're
actually very they're silent because
there's no hinges can you see that easy
down and you still can't even hear I'm
gonna hold it up to my microphone right
up close here and I'm actually pushing
down on the pedal just like you would
hear nothing there's nothing there
because it's just it's the type of PVC
plastic that it is it's a little bit
flexible enough that it pushes down on
the sensor and it's good to go so really
good quality Swiss Andy this is I mean
this is hard you know hard plastic it's
it's it's not like it's made of metal or
anything like that but it's I can't see
that breaking any time soon I mean you'd
have to be really rough with it and for
what this is it's not something that
you're you know you're slamming around
on the stage right this is something
that you're you're practicing with and
yeah exactly gives you the opportunity
to try out new pedals before you go to
even purchased oh boy but you might find
you don't you don't need to but no I
think even in a real you know standing
up on a stage jamming and stuff that's
it's quite solid it's very solid and
it's built in such a way that it's you
know you can you can move stuff around
if you really wanted to or build it on
to a different board however you want to
do it so really cool stuff want to say
thanks tonight to Keith at angus boredom
music CA and Borden is spelt with an e
so Bo rden Angus Borden music CA thank
you so much for the use of your facility
Eric kid thank you for jamming for us
you are the best and i mean that that
plan is just astounding and we
appreciate you taking a look at the
device and of course check out air turn
calm for the pedals and positive grid
calm for the capture device and the
software as well the software jam up xt
is available for free in the iTunes App
Store you can grab it or you can get
that professional version to be able to
get those extra amp models and extra
pedal models and be able to really
manipulate your sound in a very cool way
so excellent stuff thank you so much
alright well we should really head into
the news and then we're going to right
after that we've got your viewer
questions tonight lots to cover okay so
for the newsroom you're ready for it we
are ready so tonight in the newsroom so
has bought indoor mapping specialist
Wi-Fi Slam and as it looks to expand its
maps product to complete with Google the
Accu the acquisition could allow the
company to offer maps within buildings
with an eight accuracy of eight feet no
yeah google has stepped up its efforts
to add indoor locations to its already
huge street view product according to
The Wall Street Journal Apple paid 20
million for the Wi-Fi slim wowzers and
we kind of have you know suspicion on
how this is going to go you know Apple
has had it stab it mapping software in
the past and while that looks good we
know it's probably gonna end up more
like that you might get to around the
corner to where you gotta go but usually
careful watch out for the cliffs that's
happened to me it actually is so Nikki
and Google have clashed over software
that has a part of free to use video
encoding technology google wants its
video coding program called vp8 to be a
core part of the web em prod a project
that is making web centered video
production tools nokia says its own key
and patents that define parts of vpa vp8
has filled an official um objection to
google's plan hoping to stop google
software from replacing more open
alternatives an app created by UK
teenager has been acquired by yahoo in a
deal worth dozens of millions of pounds
seventeen year old Nick
DL DL zo suddenly app which launched
when he was just 15 summarizes news
stories from popular media companies
following the accusation the app itself
will now close but its features will be
used in mobile products at Yahoo where
the young developer have been given a
job some ways pretty cool like that it's
able I mean like the kids started this
thing was 15 amazing and now has made
millions and millions of dollars and got
a job for life practically you know
working for Yahoo how awesome is that
that's great but it actually takes it a
grits a bunch of news stories and let
summarizes them almost magically it's
amazing but it's a shame to hear that
they're actually going to shut it down
and just acquire the technology and I
guess assimilated into their own
software but that's kind of too bad for
its users I think well yeah cuz then you
won't have David Malaya you would have a
more preferable Yahoo layout so how
right yeah you would have to kind of
accept the fact that if you it's a yahoo
happy yeah it's a Yahoo app now so if
you don't have a yahoo as your web
browser then you're just gonna kind of
have to accept that layout as the app
now you don't get the original ones
anyway I guess this kid is kind of set
for life though so he don't you think
and you know what company but I I heard
you know he's got a lot of people to
started working with him on this
assembly application to and and Yahoo
actually is gonna integrate some of them
into the staff as well so very good that
we cool you have a team working for him
as well mate k so using custom written
code a researcher who has chosen to
remain anonymous has sent out more than
four trillion messages over the Internet
as an effort to determine how many
devices worldwide are entirely unsafe
and easily compromised by anyone simply
using the default password for that
device of the 4.2 billion devices
scanned
including yours 1.3 billion addresses
responded the scan found half a million
printers more than 1 million webcams and
lots of other devices including set-top
boxes and unmowed amuse the password
installed in the factory letting almost
anyone take over the piece of hardware
often the password was an easy to guess
words such as root or admin China is
working that's creative before we move
on first of all is it just me or does
the heat map look like an octopus I mean
come on that but it's a thing okay you
buy a device you put it on your network
to say your router right and it's got
remote access to that router and you
don't ever set up security on it so it
has a default password they're saying
that they found like like millions of
devices that are set up with those
default passwords you buy a printer and
you think oh I'll connect it to my
network and you never change the
standard password password right but a
router is a scary one for example
because it's really just a it's a small
computer so if you leave the default
password they're saying that people have
so then some somebody can scan all these
IP addresses and they've done it so
what's to stop anyone else from doing it
there's only 4.2 billion of them or
whatever whatever and they just have to
go through the iterations find one
that's easily compromised and turn it
into a botnet right or use it to
compromise your files on your internal
network everything is plugged into your
router your router has got a default
password they connect to the router they
can get the files through your computers
and anything that's connected to your
internal network your Wi-Fi that's a
very interesting study because it really
shows that not just every device every
device that is hooked up to your
computer does need a password on it like
for webcam manger yeah
can like they can find out who's webcam
this is like in you would never think
that you you know like someone can just
label you as a webcam because yeah
obviously looking right yes yeah what a
webcam is kind of surprising as well hmm
so hey if that's you if you've got if
you're a part of the octopus folks time
to update your passwords all right crazy
okay next story China is working with
Canon canonical canonical on an open
source Linux operating system customized
for Chinese users the collaboration will
produce a version of ubuntu called
killin which will be released next month
the deal is a part of five-year plan by
china to get more people using source
software or open source software
canonical is also working with the
Chinese Ministry of Industry and
Information Technology on a version of
killin that will run on servers so
websites online shops and hosting firms
can adopt the software as well the move
is widely seen as an attempt by China to
wean its IT sector off Western software
such as Microsoft Windows or Mac OS in
favor of more homegrown alternatives
since q1 is being created at a
laboratory in Beijing staffed by
engineers from canonical as well as
several chinese rd agencies wow that's
awesome for them yeah I should specify
that that's spelled kyl I n not ki llin
' so just so you know we're not sure the
pronunciation like Thailand Thailand
killing those lines yeah but it's
definitely gonna be killer yeah that's
great and then you get more stories from
category five dot TV / newsroom and the
category five at TV news room
is researched by joy w-what Nash with
contributions by our community of
viewers if you have a news story you
think is where they even on air mansion
please email news room at category five
dot TV and for the category five
newsroom I'm Erica lon Erica thank you
so much hey tonight's show is brought to
you in part by quarter e electric
they're powering the lights here at all
the way from quarter e electric com also
get your free trial of netflix they are
still sponsoring the show they love you
guys and they want to give you a free
month trial so get on over to cat five
dot TV / netflix you also see these
devices in the background here these are
nettalk duo Wi-Fi devices check them out
at cap five dot TV / phone they're the
show is also brought to you by them and
we are using their phone service as well
save yourself a ton of money by
switching go to cap five TV / phone
alright loads to cover this evening
before we get into it I want to greet
everybody who's watching on blip TV
youtube I know that you're watching also
not only after kind of on demand on
YouTube but also watching live tonight
if you're that person make sure you make
note that you can also join us over on
our Google+ Hangout which you can find a
cat5 TV / g plus that's cat five dot TV
/ g plus reason you might want to do
that is because we always hang out about
ten minutes before the show in about 15
minutes after the show have a little bit
of a chat with our viewers if you have a
webcam you can actually interact with us
after the show youtube users can see
that but they can't interact with it
because youtube doesn't allow that so on
google+ cat5 TV / g plus to check that
out it is pretty cool they may do nice
to have you joining us their Swiss Andy
nice to see ya people watching on first
run TV and Roku it's nice to have you
here as well thanks for joining us I was
thinking tonight now I've switched over
to ubuntu recently ubuntu 12.4 various
reasons but the question has come up we
use Telestream Wirecast here at category
5 technology TV that's
we're actually operates all of our
cameras it's very very cool stuff it
runs on Microsoft Windows and so we do
have one Windows computer in the studio
but the rest of our computers here are
in fact all Linux so if I bring up the
computer screen for example you know
that this doesn't look like Windows at
all because it is in fact a linux
computer so one of the questions that
came up recently was okay well how do
you actually do this because you're
using all Linux computers are you
running cables out of each computer
through hdmi and into capture devices do
you have like a capture device that is
able to capture two hundred different
computer screens the fact is is that
Telestream wire cast includes some
software with it that is called desktop
presenter and it is for windows and mac
and so you think whoa okay well and this
is why the question came up how do you
do it to use that to make it stream your
linux screen over to Telestream Wirecast
what desktop presenter does is it allows
you to capture your screen on any
computer through your land and broadcast
it to tell a stream Wirecast in such a
way that it operates just like a camera
so I can actually switch to it in my
sources so if I want to switch I just
click and there's my computer screen and
then I click again and there's I am back
to my camera how cool is that now in
Linux because there is no linux version
of desktop presenter what we actually
have to do is we have to grab the
Windows version so I'm going to go into
my C Drive on the Windows computer this
is my Wirecast computer going to program
files x86 and to tell a stream Wirecast
and within that folder you're going to
find something called codebook dll i'm
going to just create a folder on my
desktop i'm going to call it desktop
presenter this is where i'm going to
copy everything to so notice I've got a
licensed copy of telestream Wirecast
installed on this computer now there's a
couple other files that I need there in
the rsrc the resource folder is hit d to
jump down you need desktop presenter exe
and the desktop presenter hook dll so
copy those and paste those ones into
there as well
now I've got all the files that I need
in order to basically transfer desktop
presenter over to any windows computer
or Linux because what we're actually
going to do is we're going to use a
program called wine and it allows us to
run Windows programs on Linux how cool
is that so now I can actually copy that
program what we just created the desktop
presenter folder onto my linux machine
so we'll just browse over to that on my
network there it is so I'm actually
going to cut it and throw that into my
home folder okay and the other thing
that I want to do here you see that
there's a couple spaces in the filenames
just to keep things simple I'm just
going to remove those spaces as well and
that will just allow me to type it in a
little bit easier in the in the terminal
now I'm going to make the assumption
that you've already installed wine the
program that allows you to install or
run linux applications on my linux
computer the way to do that is to
actually bring up terminal so if you
haven't done this already this is all
you need to do sudo apt-get install wine
just like that once you have that
program installed you'll see if i hit
enter it's just going to tell me that
hey you've already got the latest
version because i've already got it
installed see that wine is already the
newest version I've installed it so I
don't actually need to to do that you
may need to so I wanted to show you that
so now that I've got wine installed now
let's actually bring up that folder
again I'm going to go there through
terminal actually and go into desktop
presenter note that I removed the spaces
there and I'm going to type in wine and
then desktop presenter dot exe and
you'll see one of the things that's
happening here is that I'm missing msvc
m90 dll is a common little issue with
wine is that you might be missing
something so I'm going to run what's
called wine tricks it comes with it and
we want to actually go into default wine
prefix and then install a windows dll or
component and scroll down here we're
going to actually find vc run 2008
because that particular file we're
missing is a part of windows visual c++
so we just highlight that one vc run
2008
then hit ok once we've hit that checkbox
nice and simple stuff that's now going
to allow us to install that microsoft
runtime just go through the prompts just
like any other windows installer nice
and simple and then what we're going to
do is we're going to try running it
again we can close out of wine tricks
now and i'm just using the default
ubuntu repositories here Dave may do
we're not using a PPA or anything so now
I'm gonna run that command again and
you'll see that it actually loaded just
fine on my linux machine i'm going to
turn on 3d compatibility because i want
to be able to send the signal of you
know compiz and other kinds of
transparencies and cool effects and
things that come with with my linux
machine out of the box so now that I've
done that I have confirmed that it's
able to run I'm going to close it out
now and then I'm going to actually I'm
going to rerun it but I'm going to do so
just by clicking on the application it's
an executive will file so we know it's a
windows exe file now that we've got wine
and now that we've installed vb run 2008
we can actually just double click on it
so note the window and the bottom right
is actually my capture from Wirecast so
i'm going to double-click actually on
the desktop presenter exe and you'll
notice instantly I've got a signal i'm
going to turn on 3d compatibility and
let's just click around on my computer
and see the the kind of responsiveness
down on the bottom right there so the
big window is actually my computer
screen and the the little window in the
bottom right is the capture has received
at Wirecast so you see that it's it's
new it's it's instantaneous I mean the
performance is fantastic and this is
over just you know I'm on a Gigabit LAN
so I do get very good performance here
but that's all there is to it to
actually get wine to run desktop
presenter and now I can stream my linux
desktop over to telestream Wirecast i
can use that for broadcasting my screen
we here at category 5 technology TV of
course we use that to be able to provide
you with tutorials that have to do with
Lennox and it's very important to us to
be able to do that there you have it so
that's how you do it folks and thank you
to those who who actually sent in that
question
alright so speaking of questions we've
got about 20 minutes here tonight to
open up the mail bag and and see what
you've sent in this week so thank you
everybody for sending your questions in
live at category 5 TV and of course we
do also watch the chat room it's nice to
see everyone it looks something like
that and if you have any questions you
can also post them there in the chat
room and we'll do our best to to see
them as they fly by on the screen okay
so for me tonight well we got our first
question from m allen west and it is
just down here sir says hi Robbie I
wrote a simple app in zenit ts3 first
grip for welcome artists turning off and
on e touch in a boon to the code is free
and open for anyone that would like to
add to it I would love to see what
people come up with I think some of the
code could be shorter have changed to an
array but I'm not sure how to do that I
would love also too if someone could
have changed the code so I'm boon to
stops turning touch back on when you do
reboot ah so thanks for your time and
Allen West artists of HTTP embryo ione
cart com that's I yeah okay so I'm gonna
take a look at this real quick script so
what he's done and thank you for sending
that in yeah m allen west has built as
entity script to actually control
whether or not your walk on tablet is is
active what it sounds like let's take a
look so we've got an SH file and
actually a document as well here we go
so i can actually I'd be happy to share
this rick will turn off touch turn on
touch oh is that for ok cool what sanity
does the zenit e allows you to in fact
create GUI applications from a shell
script so that's cool so we'll we'll be
happy to post
link to that for anyone who's using a
walk-on device and wants to be able to
to control that thank you for sending
that in cool cool that's very good okay
so we got a question from eight miles
from TJ hey miles from TJ so with the
last useful version of a boon to that is
lucid 10.04 LTS going dark in March is
there a way to preserve the respiratory
is locally for future and store profit
or ease your positive sorry um okay so
here's what's happening we've got ubuntu
10.04 LTS ending I don't know is it
other repositories still up I hope so I
hope so eight miles from TJ if they're
still up the first thing that comes to
mind when you think about backing them
up you know which is to say okay well if
the repositories go away then what are
what are we going to do we won't be able
to install any of the updates and stuff
you won't be able to use that OS anymore
which is true i mean that's the
direction they're pushing here right apt
on CD comes to mind apt on CD and just
as erica was reading the question i just
went into ubuntu software center just to
see if it was available and it is and
this is for removable repositories which
basically is to say it takes the
repository and makes a disk based on
that repository so you'd be able to
actually make it so that it's you know
you pick all the packages that you want
and then you create a DVD that has all
those packages so that's what comes to
mind when I think about being able to
back up a repository apt on CD and it is
available in the software center so and
of course any debian-based distro should
have that in the and whatever
installation program you're using so
cool q I hope that helps
so we have another question awesome such
as hi Ravi in episode 280 you right blip
TV and therefore category 5 technology
TV is now available on iOS android
kindle and xbox okay but it doesn't work
on my linux mint 13 anymore can i still
watch the show by selecting notes and
finally youtube but a via blip I just
hear the sound do you know why right
okay well I think what you're describing
there is a issue that occurred when
Firefox and some of the other browsers
made some changes and they all kind of
surrounded Google and YouTube's
advertising and I think maybe youtube if
itself actually made some changes to
their system so that basically what they
wanted to do is create a way to block
people from circumventing the
advertising that you see on youtube now
in our case of course we're not
circumventing we want you to see the
advertising because that's what pays you
know what helped pay for the show it's
very important that you see that
advertising and click on it but that
said because everything is embedded into
our website if you have an ad blocker or
some other kind of strange thing going
on which is why I bring up some of the
updates that happened with chrome and
firefox and I squeezle and things that
that caused a little bit of an issue so
that has since been remedied so if you
go to category 5 TV now you should be
able to click Play and you'll see that
it actually comes up just fine and
there's our YouTube window
there you go the cartoon from last week
so category 5 TV everything is working
great and we showed some great new
features on their last week and we're
always expanding the website so really
excited to to have everything kind of
growing all the time and it's a
challenge sometimes they'll be honest to
keep up with when this kind of thing
happens because you've got to be on top
of you know when people change you know
you to changes the way things operate
and so we're you know always trying to
be proactive and make everything work as
well as possible for you and we
appreciate you emailing us I'll just
make mention Mike Davis was instrumental
in helping us fix that problem one of
our viewers who simply you know even not
as a programmer but just as a viewer
just sending information back and forth
and and doing some testing for us
because he was experiencing the problem
as well so thank you to to Mike as
welfare for sending in his feedback
thank you so we got we got a question
from Smitty Smith thanks Minnie sweat
what is it Erica i just purchased afford
to be so she was waiting for me to prom
okay oh don't be more polite next time
oh there is a question what could be
there is a question this is I can't
understand the question just rereading
your questions that's what's happened
this is always a long question she's
gonna be staring like a deer in a hail
and the headlights there for a long time
so keeping short it just it didn't
make sense but it makes sense okay axel
after a couple reads at me so share
Sue's MIT yes thanks man i just
purchased an FB code TB drive for a
massive storage didn't make any sense to
me i'll let c 0 for 4 terabytes okay or
tear
but ok guys in your short forms come on
come on killing me because there is a
two point two terabyte drive limitation
how exactly do i format this drive I
would prefer using GUI but I'm good
great at copy and paste okay well how
are you at typing verbatim to what I
show you on the screen well that work
GUI I'm not too sure because G part ed I
believe falls back onto tools that are
it I don't think that it has the ability
I'm going to pull it up here on my
screen I don't think it has the ability
to format outside of the ms-dos of
partition system so take a look at my
hard drive here I'll show you what's
happening if I here's my STV drive
device information notice the partition
table even though my file system itself
is what is it EXT to right which is
Linux but my partition table is ms-dos
and ms-dos as you can imagine has I
think it's a two terabyte limit might be
3 i'm not sure i don't have a 4 terabyte
drive 4 terabytes that's massive it is
wild so you see what's happening there
is that it's an ms-dos partition table
so we need to get your hard drive out of
the ms-dos partition table environment
we need to switch it to something that's
going to actually support what you need
which is a GPT I think GU ID partition
table so in order to do that let's bring
up terminal again we're going to do a
few things through the terminal tonight
because it's fun so let's just say we
know now I'm gonna here's a little
disclaimer for you I know that we have a
small one at the end of the show what
I'm going to show you is entirely
destructive this will destroy everything
on the hard drive that you specify for
it to do okay so if you're not sure get
out now
that's that's my disclaimer so okay you
need to know what hard drive it is
you're going to format so be it sdb one
like sdb SDC alright so make sure if you
don't know what that means stay away
from what i'm about to show you i'm not
going to explain it because that's too
dangerous okay so i know the mine is sdb
i'm not actually going to do it cuz i
don't want to wipe out my hard drive
what i would do is first of all we need
to make a GPT so we need to go sudo
because we need to be super user and we
need to use the gnu part ed not g part
ed but the gnu part ed application so
it's just part ii d in terminal and we
would go dev sdb if that's my hard drive
ok notice I'm not specifying a partition
that is obvious then we need to make
label GPT okay so you will hit enter on
that I will not if sdb is your drive now
make sure that that is specifically your
hard drive okay so next command we're
going to use part yet again because we
need to actually create the primary
partition so we're going to go again dev
sdb and we're going to go make part o
primary because we're creating the
primary partition let's say you want to
do ext4 that's what we're going to do
for this example because it's a little
more modern and we're going to start at
zero and go a hundred percent of the
drive so we're going to fill all for all
four terabytes with the partition table
that we're creating right now okay so
now that we've done that because you're
going to hit enter on that now we're
going to actually format the drive so
this is where we're not going to use
part out we're going to use make file
system dot ext4 because that's what
we're going to be creating here dash V
dev sdb so this is actually going to
format that drive entire capacity for
terabytes and you're going to have
access to that drive as a 4 terabyte
drive in Linux it's a EXT for the the
issue that you can run into obviously
the four terabyte drive can't be your
boot drive it's got to be like a data
storage drive or something along those
lines I think a lot of biases they're
going to have big trouble with you if
you try to make it your boot drive but
makes a great storage Drive make sure
you're keeping a backup what are you
going to back up to if you ever fill
that up you're going to have to have
like a couple of these laying around
just in case your sectors are so close
together they're so itty-bitty that it's
like one little scratch deletes millions
of Meg's I don't want so we'd have lying
around like to do fact that I'm backing
it up like if you had a four terabyte
drive in your computer this is the risk
that your run is then you tend to fill
it right you just tend to keep putting
things on at all your family photos
everything just goes on that right
because it's got so much space and then
where do you back them up to if there's
if that hard drive crashes that's scary
that's where it is so backups are very
very important I guess I could be a
problem in the future of people so
definitely sorry getting more like not a
lot of the normal users like just I
would say just regular users have even a
terabyte drive in the first place I've
taken the opposite approach in my
computers even in the the system that we
use to broadcast the show I have a 120
gigabyte hard drive there's a reason for
that because I don't need a lot of
storage space because where do I want to
store my stuff I want to store it on the
server which is an unraid server so I
have single Drive fault tolerance which
means out of the seven or eight hard
drives that are in it one of those can
fail and then I just replace it and I
lose nothing it's fault tolerance so
that means it's a safe place or a safer
place for me to store my stuff than a
single hard drive in my computer so I
keep all to keep myself safe I put all
small hard drives in my computers which
means I can be doing SSD which means
things run faster which is bonus anyways
and then I just store everything on the
server and then I back up the server
every day so but yeah when you start
getting into huge hard drives like that
that can be dangerous but now you know
how to format it and create it with GPT
in such a way that you'll be able to use
all four terabytes good luck let us know
how that goes sorry I don't have a GUI
solution but I think that's fairly
straightforward anyways using parted
yeah all right do we have any more
questions that have come in no we don't
have any more questions over today's Oh
what do we have but we did get that a
Swiss and they created a remix remix of
them candy from the category 5 theme
music Cupid's migration yeah from Nick
repin sure and he sent us some links so
maybe in an upcoming show why not on
this show or the show we could just
right now please ok and then can we can
we link to this what's the license here
so sandy um the license is that are
licensed under CC BY felt ok to recycle
the episode for my purposes we're giving
credits to category 5 thanks buddy ok
listen i'm looking at interesting when
if you were puts together a remix or a
mashup or we've received lots of you
know photo collages and things people
have put things together from from
pictures we encourage you to send in
that kind of stuff because it is you
know it's fun for us to to see that we
love sharing it with our viewers to i do
the same hope their Swiss Andy in the
chat room says here's the license do
what you want do what you want all right
look it sweet I even got on YouTube
let's just how does that work press
record and let it go kind of thing ok
anyways here we go through the magic of
television yeah just like that right
swizz Andy I want to hear more that's
awesome ready so what we're going to do
is we're going to post a link to that
YouTube video in the show notes for
episode number 288 so if you want to
give it a listen and give some props
with Sandy make sure you go over to the
show notes at category 5 TV look for
episode number 288 and we'll have a link
there so you can hear the full length
video cool thank you very much for
sending that yeah we're sir calm Swiss
Andy DJ DJ Swiss sandy rocks thanks man
all right any other comments or
questions in the chat room we've got a
whole two minutes for you two minutes so
if there's any other questions i'll post
that link in the in the chat room here
as well just so that you have it folks
there you go just a reminder get on over
to our website category 5 TV sign up as
a registered viewer and you'll be able
to actually receive a notification
before each show which is really getting
really cool I was speaking to the chat
room a little bit before the show and
you know people are receiving this email
that you know as a registered viewer you
just go into your profile and just
activate this and you're able to receive
a notification at the beginning of the
show basically an hour before we start
this is by the way here's what the show
is about we're going to have Erika
lalonde on the show we're gonna be
talking about this pedal thing from jam
up and air the air turn device as well
you know this all comes out in an email
so you know how cool is that to receive
that just before the show just to remind
you yeah then you can kind of get
questions together related to the show
mm-hmm and it's and it's a free email
that you receive so go check that out
category five dot TV I think everybody
it's been wonderful having you here
tonight what is coming up next week
Erica you you've got your notes there
okay so next week Hillary
we will be checking out of
classic-looking lennox desktop and using
mate domain let go home to fork don't
miss it next week on category 5 the
known to for what is known to I love
gnome 2 and gnome 3 and and unity I just
I just could never quite get there mate
is a fork of that so it's it's based on
gnome 2 we're gonna be looking at a
distro that is that's using that so
check it out that's happening next week
with Hillary rumble so thanks everybody
have a wonderful week Erica what was the
pleasure having you here yes though it's
nice to be here actually today have been
here for a year is today the day today
is the day we would have worn today
that's a man well happy anniversary no I
thought I was coming down on the bus I
was like it's been here it's been here
Wow me that's hard to believe in that
hard to believe bang yeah well it's good
up now that you know I'm all settled in
i'll be here making a lot more
appearances through summer now excellent
yeah we've got your schedule as well so
you can check that out again on our
website as well so i guarantee what did
you in touch always always thanks Erica
I'll have a good show guys have a good
night have a good one see ya
we hope you enjoy the show category 5 TV
broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven pm eastern
if you're
or through cable TV check out the local
show times in your area at category 5 TV
and
you can watch live and interact in the
community chat room category 5 is a
production of product or digital
solutions and is
commons attribution 2.5 canada
fix for too many
