here are the stories were covering this
in category 5 DB news Samsung have
clarified what was causing those sevens
to catch fire a dad found a really
creative use for 360 video giving his
daughter the first the first person
virtual reality view of her dollhouse
the star trek film accent are has
settled out of court with CBS and
paramount a robot can ripe news articles
in just one second and car makers are
using soy based products under the hood
and it's causing all kinds of issues as
rodents find it's delicious these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere Jeff Weston Yellin you're
building a brand new beautiful website
what are you all right you're terrible
actor what this we're acting comes into
play oh I don't know where r think
you're supposed to act okay I'm building
a really cool website are you building a
really cool website you need hosting one
of the things about a hosting account is
you don't want to have limitations put
on your website that's true how much
hard drive space you have how many email
accounts how many domains can point to
it well we've got an amazing deal for
you for a very limited time cat five dot
TV / dreamhost for just five dollars and
a bit of change per month you are going
to get unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the roof of your own
comm site to put that amazing website
they've been working on on there if you
run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat five gb flash
dreamhost don't pop out of a paper song
just don't do it but hey it's a great
deal folk fest feel you're going to find
five dollars and change per month go to
cap five dot TV / dreamhost I'm sassage'
Madison here is the top stories for the
week of February's first 2017
during a press conference sunday samsung
said two separate battery defects caused
both the original back galaxy seven
notes and the replacement units to
overheat the first battery it said
suffered from a design flaw the
batteries external casing was too small
for the components inside causing it to
short-circuit and ignite the second
battery which came from another supplier
didn't have the same flaw rather in the
rush to pump out enough batteries for
the replacement units the supplier
introduced a manufacturing defect that
led to the same result the explanation
puts to rest the mystery behind the
exploding note 7 but it kicks off a new
challenge for the embattled company
winning back your trust after a
disastrous several months that included
two recalls and the decision to kill the
critically-acclaimed phone the sunday
press conference marked to start of a
samsung from a campaign to rebuild
company credibility which will include
the upcoming launch of the flagship
galaxy f8 phones as well as another note
later in the year having not one but two
batteries from different suppliers fail
for different reasons is a bizarre
coincidence that might that may surprise
and frustrate some who were looking for
a single clean explanation three
independent testing firms reach the same
conclusion as Samsung that it was the
battery and not the phone's design or
Samsung's manufacturing process that
caused the note 7 battery issues the
problem I have with this new story is
absolutely they completely clearly set
the first battery it was the casing with
you small for the actual internal
components overheat BAM explosion second
battery just a flaw like they don't
actually kinda like the flood just a
flaw keen observation yeah like we want
to tell you some of the truth but we
want don't want to tell you that exactly
the same thing happened twice with two
different manufacturers yeah like
exactly the same we want all this power
in this small little thing do it and
then they did the same thing twice I do
sometimes I wonder with these kinds of
flaws and this is a big deal right
sometimes wonder if just the pressure on
companies to release stuff is all it
takes to cause this kind of catastrophe
I think it's ridiculous I think it's a
consumerist idea that you need to buy a
new phone so often sure that's looking
at the consumer oh right because we are
wanting bigger and better and prettier
and stronger I don't even know like we
just want a really great phone all of
the time like the cutting edge oh I'm
bored with my six month old phone I want
a new phone yeah I don't subscribe to
that but I look at the manufacturers
perspective and think are they pushing
too hard to be competitive and I think
yeah but what's weird working I really
wanted one of these yeah I know I know
do we want it not so much now no no but
you notice how Samsung puts it all on
the battery manufacturer now I'm not
saying that it is Samsung's fault i'm
not making any claims or conspiracy
theories here but I we got to take some
bonus for our own right okay take some
responsibility for what manufacture
right if they buy parts from another
company and put them in their car is it
the other companies fault if something
goes wrong right well no I think that
it's yaks what your heart company that
is I think at least the car company
should take ownership for that right so
maybe Samsung it just feels like one of
those big box super stores oh we didn't
know that we were manufacturing jeans at
a sweatshop so we'll stop dealing with
that sweatshop and make them somewhere
else so now that big box manufacturer
not to name any names but you know who
I'm talking about doesn't have to take
any responsibility for them Mackley
basically funding those kinds of
operations I just there's something that
sits wrong with this and I love samsung
like I'm not even drew i am not even
like I try and try not to bad mouth
samsung because i really love their
products but it feels like half of an
explanation which also leads to kind of
half an apology you know I just don't
love it anyway because the technology is
so new to mainstream users the benefits
of virtual reality are still being
discovered but we're increasingly
finding the VR can bring families
together in new ways the latest example
comes from an HTC vive user who decided
to give his daughter a tour of her
dollhouse in a new way that's never been
possible before using a Rios beta SC 360
degree camera Toby Newman captured all
the rooms in his daughter's doll house
and I gave her the unique opportunity to
stroll around alongside her dolls inside
the tiny structure Newman also posted a
series of 360 photos to give everyone an
idea of what his daughter can see when
looking through the VR headset and while
the setup is an amazingly clever use of
the air technology parents thinking of
duplicating the effort should be aware
that the age restrictions around the air
headset use although the HTC vive
doesn't list a specific age limit its
site does state that the product was not
designed to be used by children
similarily the oculus rift advisors that
this product should not be used by
children under the age of 13 and the
PlayStation VR suggest that the VR
headset should be used by those age 12
and up so yeah it is this dad came up
with an incredible idea yes and waited
way to go dad I mean I'm always looking
for ways to like do something fun with
the kids right now it's stop-motion
videography and they're just loving it
this dad did something great and then
all of a sudden oh by the way you're not
supposed to you know this is the news
right well what's the reason behind it
why aren't you supposed I think it has
to do with and I'm not I'm not a medical
professional at all by any means but it
doesn't have to do something with still
developing your your kind of visual
cortex and run all the frontal lobe and
all that stuff like it's it has to do
with your affecting development if you
use VR she's not going to live in her
dollhouse she can take a little stroll
in it now and again you know super cool
it's so cool don't stop doing what
you're doing that's a cool dad I love
exciting I honestly think that maybe
it's one of those like you can't swim
for 30 minutes after
you eat which is really just how I you
might just I swim while eating yeah have
you ever been to the Caribbean and
listening to music yes exactly Harry
water okay awesome new story for today
over a year after Star Trek's copyright
holders engaged in illegal war with the
sci-fi series with only own fans over a
crowdfunded unofficial prequel film the
two sides and infringement lawsuit
announced Friday that their battle will
not head to a courtroom after agreeing
upon a settlement oh I settlement
reached well that's that's good that's
awesome yeah but axon are can't happen
maybe it was the settlement involved
shutting her down right so not awesome
in that regards I wonder if it's it yeah
I wonder if it'll lead them into a new
direction though like to maximum yeah
well will they take the route of Star
Trek renegades and just become renegades
drop star trek from the name and change
their uniform so that the communicator
pins on this side and excuses I'll be so
don't worry it's Star Trek yeah
obviously they don't know how loves they
are accident knows they got that I know
I know whatever they choose to do from
this point they have the full support of
everyone telling ya fiction in December
2015 Paramount Pictures and CBS Studios
filed a copyright infringement laws
lawsuit against producer Alec Peters
over his plan Phil Acton are and it's
prequel prelude to action are which they
claim to use an innumerable copyright
elements of Star Trek including its
settings character species and themes
however the end of the year long legal
battle ended friday was a joint
statement via The Hollywood Reporter
paramount pictures corporation CBS
studios inc and accent our productions
inc oh and alec peters are pleased to
announce that the litigation regarding
action ours filmed prelude jackson are
and its proposed fell oxen are
has been resolved actioner and mr.
Peters acknowledged that both films were
not approved by paramount or CBS and
that both works cross boundaries
acceptable to CBS and paramount relating
to copyright law it's unclear if Peters
had to compensate CBS and paramount over
axon are if the lawsuit had gone to
trial Peters face damages ranging
anywhere from 1.4 million the amount of
his grassroots campaign which raised and
produced the film to upwards of 100
million or 150 thousand dollars for
every setting every character theme or a
piece of wardrobe that a jury found
violated Star Trek's copyright ouch okay
there is something to stay you can't
just take like a you can't you can't
just do it without saying first but
right this is sold to you by somebody
who act yeah right like somebody can't
just walk around and be like hey that's
Ashley she's a cool girl i'm just going
to like be her and impersonate me and do
different things okay sorry guys you're
going to have to stop doing that you
can't you can't just like you know like
I can't just be like I really like the
show what's a really good show like Game
of Thrones I can't just like take all of
the characters from Game of Thrones and
make a new show based on that idea let's
just think about the term fair youth
here on category 5 technology TV we're
wearing Starfleet uniforms in honor of
Star Trek we're excited about the
upcoming show we're excited about the
Bluetooth communicator that they brought
out officially licensed product we're
not we're not benefiting from it
directly mm-hmm when you have a campaign
that you've raised over a million
dollars in order to fund this project
now rather than just being a couple of
folks dressed up in Starfleet uniforms
having a fun time right you're a
professional operation you're you're
making a feature film at that point so
that's I think there is no gray area
there it's
simply you are doing a commercial
production you've got millions of
dollars to do it with you you know
that's that's tough wonder if things
would have gone differently if there was
just like a little heads up about that
if there was no if there was no Star
Trek discovery coming out in a couple of
months then I think some of these things
might have slipped through you think
about Star Trek renegades the first
episode it happened but then after
discovery was announced they shut it
down they brought out the new rules
about fan films and they literally shut
down any professional fan films yeah but
I mean clearly there's a huge fan base
behind this guy and behind Marie Anthony
oh yeah maybe just go in a different
direction do something but then the
cells on the side great how was a tough
thing yeah we'll watch it will see what
they come up with but zactly now Peter's
initially argued that action are was
created under fair use production of
copyrighted materials mmm-hmm however
the judge overseeing the case struck
down the fair use argument in a January
summary judgment ruling steering the way
towards Friday settlement as part of
their settlement Peters agreed to make
substantial changes to accent are to
resolve this litigation oh they are so
maybe they're just changing it up
Peter's also promised in the future to
adhere to the fan film guidelines CBS
and paramount created in June 2016 after
tracking expressed their dismay
concerning the litigation a gamefaqs an
hour and the effort to squash fan films
so it'll still come out just everything
will be different completely different
they're pulling and it sounds like
they're pulling a renegade yeah we'll
see how it comes out oh good luck to you
okay newspaper reporters be aware of
down and the first Chinese robot
journalist who wrote an article in just
a second wow how I'm gonna take you to
write the news these news stories asked
a few hours yes more than just a second
right
yeah maybe get it down man I need one
yeah let's get him in I'll read it for
the first time a robot journalist named
down man made its debut in a Chinese
daily newspaper on Thursday the robot
wrote a 300 word article in just a
second the article by the robot was
published in China and was about the
travel rush during the Chinese New
Year's also known as the Spring Festival
Nan's lead developer said when compared
to staff reporters van man had a
stronger data analysis capacity and if
quicker at writing stories the staff of
the state-run media outlet were rather
uneasy with the experiment as they
feared that they ran the risk of losing
their jobs to the robot hmm this
experiment proved that presently robots
are still unable to carry out
face-to-face interviews as they can't
map spontaneous reactions nor come up
with follow-up questions also they are
not intelligent enough to choose a
significant news angle based on a
conversation or interview like humans
are but he claims robots will be able to
act as a supplement helping newspapers
and related media as well as editors and
reporters see okay it's an enhancement
tool sure well you're like I'm arguing
with invisible Jeff yeah I Robot Jack
you're gonna have to argue with yourself
because Jeff not here tonight so what
Jeff would say is he just another thing
where robots are taking over humanity
but I'm saying that this robot is a
friendly robot it's going to write
eighty percent of the story and it just
needs your human influence to just like
angle it and a great or could it be like
akin to spell check on your word
processor and grammar check is taking it
one step further but now using a I to
say no no that's worth it like this
right Oh can't imagine did your analyst
they're going to go to come up with the
bulk of the story so quick and yes they
can take care of the human factor give
it to the robot and let it do the
writing I guess in some ways some jobs
will get cut because now maybe three
reporters can do the job that fifteen
reporters could do before or if it's so
incredibly accurate do you need the same
number of editor
do you need proofreaders right i mean i
can't do face-to-face interviews so it's
not stealing everybody's job yet at
least not the interview interviewers
yeah yeah okay in the cold winter months
it's not unusual for rodents to sneak
their way into car engines to warm
themselves up but an eco-friendly
soy-based insulation being used by
automakers may be tempting these
critters too much one vehicle owner had
rodents 2 out it's the wiring in his
Honda CRV causing hundreds of dollars in
damage they had yeah they had nibbled
through the insulation and exposed the
bare wires which caused them to short
circuit causing things to go haywire
mechanic max Chang believes the issue is
becoming even more common as automakers
like honda toyota and subaru turn to
soy-based insulation he said they love
it it's delicious for them action
vegetarian I really likes a big fella
well you know you just get under the
hood of your car and there's some
delicious yes sounds now I know if I
never liked hankerin for a little save
April you know the rose get pretty rough
if you ever need to like pull over and
it's too cold out in the engine won't
start in the engine well you know the
survival kits where you can like light a
candle or you can eat it like it's an
edible have you not seen that I haven't
seen it but I think it's a great idea
Yeah Yeah right up there with edible
engine parts parts apparel 30 it some
car owners are fighting back launching
to class action lawsuits against Toyota
and Honda in the US Brian a cab cavotec
the attorney representing a toyota
tundra owner said you don't make the
wires out of something that's edible
maybe you don't maybe you do yeah the
suits claim the automakers are aware of
the product but we refused to cover
repairs under warranty the plaintiffs
claim it's a defect and should be
covered okay so as a car owner now i'm
taking my self away from like the love
of delicious soy based products but as a
vegetarian car owner I don't like our to
get eaten by anybody else or anything
else over even me it's
kind of funny but it's like did you not
see this coming like you do not leave
open candy and chocolate bars it when
you know there's mice yeah you know
animals are going to get into your car
you know that cats and kittens die all
of the time when they go into the wheel
well because they want to be really
close to the really warm night in New
they do that because they're animals and
they are just there seeking pleasure
they're seeking Keith they're seeking
food and shelter you have provided all
of those things when you have like a
warm soy based product to like nestle
nestle into because the car
manufacturers start making it
distasteful like I know when I put foam
to seal up holes around the house I
actually specifically by one that is
it's meant to taste disgusting to
rodents so that if they do start chewing
on the phone they're not going to like
it akimoto thinks will you know as a car
owner you can sprinkle something like
cayenne pepper into your engine well
couldn't the manufacturers actually make
that part of the bad thing if they're
going to do this because it's
biodegradable and it's smart for the
environment but couldn't they make it a
little less appetizing we would make a
new car so delicious how do you do it
like a salad on wheels to the trip
thanks for watching the category 5 TV
news room don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight linux ious and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
and the category five TV news room I'm
fascinated
[Music]
