tonight we're getting into part 7 of
Sasha builds her own gaming PC for days
which is an absolute surprise hey I
mentioned last week was our tenth
anniversary show so much fun oh my gosh
so much fun answer Dave in the live
audience
dave was here in the live audience I
went to all this effort to hide
everything yeah I actually hid it behind
you can't see it here tonight but we've
got a green screen here so our Virtual
Set is thanks to a green screen I hid
everything behind that yes and bless her
heart Gary Webb came to join us I love
her too and the most hilarious thing
happened because the the first thing out
of her mouth was I've been checking out
the show love what you guys are up to
like for example building a sweet gaming
rig and Dave goes what I I watched bits
and pieces of that show of you and Sasha
building a gaming thing computer
don't know what she's talking about so
what else have you thought on the show
it's been interesting well exactly
okay so here's the thing and Dave caught
himself real fast he knew that it was a
surprise and the thing is it's because
I've been oddly quiet about the show
usually I go home and I like tell him
all about what we talked about and
everything I've just been like just
don't watch it like you did not be part
of my life right now
so he was in the audience and good guy
that he is he's like mmmmmm pretending
he didn't hear and didn't understand
like me on Christmas morning when I'm
sure I know what it is that I'm about to
unwrap but I'm like oh yeah so many of
the viewers know I ride my bike from
work to the studio and it usually takes
me about 35 40 minutes to ride my bike
and today it was raining rain in the
forecast so dave says to me nice as can
be he's like well it's supposed to rain
all drives you to the studio but I'm
gonna be busy so I can't come in to
watch and that's how I know he knows
because there is no way he wouldn't have
just it happened folks oh okay surprise
is kind of out of the bag dave has an
inkling that he's probably getting
something like a sweet gaming rig but
here's the thing now you haven't been
following the series this is part 7 you
can go to cap 5 dot TV slash CPU 2017
and if you go there you're gonna be able
to catch the first 6 parts right you're
gonna see how we selected the hardware
you're gonna see why we selected you're
gonna see when even unboxing all the
pieces and then Sasha getting it to this
point last it will two weeks ago when
you started assembling the computer
itself so we've got a really sweet
gaming rig it's gonna have Linux on it
an open-source operating system it's
gonna have steam it's gonna have VR
capabilities to be future ready we've
already installed an m2 on the
motherboard you're ready to get into it
I totally into it tonight what I want to
achieve is start assembling the internal
components so we've got the motherboard
we've got all this stuff you're gonna
need to move your stuff off of the
motherboard box there let's now look
at what we actually have here who's
gonna set that aside and right here so
here is the motherboard now I just kind
of put it back into the box after a
couple weeks ago part 6 so that
everything would be kept together I love
this board there it is and not beautiful
this is the hero 8 from a sous supreme
effects supreme awesomeness it does look
pretty it's sharp
we've already put the CPU on there we
did that on part 6 ok so a couple things
here first of all I want to know what
they've included in the box because I
want to know if there are things like
provided screws things like that because
the screws that I have in my tool chest
are all silver like you know the silver
screws so because this is a really sweet
black rig with lights and everything if
I have some black screws that'll be
great so what do we got we've got some
SATA cables for hard drives which we're
not going to need right now
we've got an SLI adapter for video cards
we've got more SATA cables and they
provided lots of SATA cables and zip
ties some zip ties but that's it ok ok
so no screws provided there so let's get
into another box here there we go we're
just basically picking it up exactly
where we left off two weeks ago so ok
now one of the things that we noticed a
couple weeks ago sash is that we've got
a couple of drive bays here and when I
pulled this out I did notice that there
is a satchel of screws and things
Thermaltake has thought about it with
their case and provided a bunch of
screws and stuff so we're gonna be able
to use proper good-looking screws to put
the motherboard into the chassis ok so
you ready to do it I am ok ok we have to
install the motherboard we have to
install the cooling system all that I've
got some thermal paste and before we
actually set this up we got a message
from C 128 D on YouTube I am going to
read this we can paraphrase some degree
I Love You Man c128 D is a longtime
viewer on YouTube and always gives us
heck whenever we mess up now full
disclosure here I'm not a professional
gaming rig developer and neither is
Sascha
truth be told we've be told but what we
do know we share and we're gonna have
fun doing it okay so there's three
points in this and I will tell you
quickly what they are number one rubbing
alcohol and isopropyl alcohol are two
different products okay my mistake so
rubbing alcohol is not the same as
isopropyl petroleum in it which is oil
which will not be good okay don't listen
to Robbie
use isopropyl alcohol okay okay number
two - I was installing number two
Phillips head screws with a number zero
Phillips bit screwdriver OC 120 ad you
are getting so particular way to go this
just goes to show that HD cameras are
gonna be the death of us yeah because
they can call us on things like which
screwdriver we use like at ten pounds
that's like smaller oh yeah even this is
a number one okay but just for you see
120 ad I pulled this out of the the this
is like a number ten no that's like a I
don't know I don't know my numbers I'm a
computer geek yeah number two should it
be number two yes okay okay Adam thank
you the third point the point Artic
silver is a poor choice for a long term
installation come on now you're getting
picky which comes directly from Artic
silver no okay I've been using this
stuff for years my man
okay arctic silver this is a thermal
compound I'm sure maybe there are better
thermal compounds in the universe I'm
sure there there are a variety of
thermal compounds here's the trace one
works really perhaps we could have gone
with a different one this one is going
to be the one this is the one because
it's here and it works yes and at some
point I may have to clean it off and
reapply and
point I will reapply it with something
either that or something else yeah
that's cool I guess this would be the
gauge so C 128 DS argument is that the
thermal compound which is the connector
between the CPU the central processing
unit the chip we've learned all about
this on part six so make sure you go
back at cat5 dot TV slash cpu 2017 it
was actually a tricky little fourth
points oh okay the power supply draws
air from the bottom and expels it out
the rear not the a let's get let's get
to the power supply but first with the
thermal compound this is the connector
for o2 make sure that there's a thermal
connection between the processor and the
heatsink this okay okay so if this fails
you it's gonna go all crusty and you can
wash it off with isopropyl alcohol
thank you that's the one okay so that
will get it done okay so the final point
this was a semantic thing this was my
own Freudian slip where I had said that
it's going to blow air out the bottom it
is not it's going to pull it see how
there's this particular computer has
this case has a vent here with a cover
to catch any dust that's coming in it's
gonna pull air in and out the back so
it's coming in from the floor and out
the back of the computer that's fine
okay so just a semantic thing so that's
cool okay you're ready to do this I am
alright so first of all now I'm gonna
get right in here with close-up shot for
you okay in our computer case we've got
these screw heads here to screw into
you'll see also that we've got these
kind of what do you call these like
grommets or you know they they are for
the cables so that you can hide all the
cables this is a fantastic case this is
where the power supply is so our power
supply cables are going to come up
through here we've got all of these all
over the place nice yeah so the
motherboard is gonna go right here so
what you need to do we're just going to
kind of get this cable out of the way
and you need to set the motherboard in
in such a way that it is going to be up
against this guy that we installed last
week you remember that right I do a
couple weeks ago okay okay so let's get
right in there
you ready for it well I think now we
have grounded ourselves and so we don't
have to worry about static electricity
now you're looking at this show the
viewers at home what we've got here so
this is the the back header okay that's
the part that needs to show up the back
it needs to line up yeah okay all right
so you you do that I've got a camera
here so that we can get a nice back shot
I just throw her in here yeah and you
kind of you don't want to scrape it
across the the bottom you want to put it
in there right at the right I am going
to get this and we also want to make
sure that this you you saw those schools
the other screw holes for lack of a
better term we need to make sure that
they line up with the motherboard as
well there aren't any extraneous ones Oh
circuit the bottom of the motherboard is
right okay okay so the way that we're
gonna do that
Sasha is just kind of get in here and
can I touch it
no this is all you this but we're just
gonna kind of look at the bottom of the
motherboard what hurt me the bottom of
the case and look at where the screw
holes are and we just kind of line those
up visually I can see the holes in the
motherboard here and I know that yeah
those are all already pre placed in the
correct spots so we don't have to worry
about that right and you were right on
the right track here let's get that out
of the way and then just put that right
in there and are they lined up yeah
looks pretty good okay pretty close
pretty close
so you you go at it so that you can show
them okay here see the screw hole yeah
so okay oh yeah okay so we've got screw
holes all over the motherboard that are
gonna connect in and we need to make
sure that those are nicely lined up so
we can screw those in so we'll have to
do a little bit of pushin well you kind
of do one corner and then shimmy it a
little bit and then do the next thing
let's get into our bag of screws that
thermaltake blessed us with so what are
you gonna do first with your gaming rig
any ideas no ideas what are you into you
guys like shooters you like I white Sims
I like like that oh I guess the shooters
to be honest
more than anything I don't like flight
Sims too much hmm okay so these these
bad boys so we need to make sure that we
get the right ones so this guy here has
a really really thick threading that's
not the right one for the motherboard we
need a nice thin threading there it is
you're gonna know because it's only only
one type is gonna go in but you don't
want to cross thread it you don't want
to strip it okay so should be magnetic I
hope okay now which one should which one
do you suggest they start with is it I
would start in like a corner so right
back there is good okay young - do you
remember where the m2 is yeah so this
guy here okay it's probably a good good
starting place and that'll hold the
board back for you you're nervous
yeah just be careful that you don't like
let the screwdriver go and accidentally
misfire don't tighten it right up no it
needs to be loose oops it needs to be
loose because we need to be able to
shimmy that board
once it's already in I think so now
start with the next one okay and we're
just gonna kind of go at it so here you
go get her get her down sass so just
right over here yeah okay yeah each one
you need my help
I'm not allowed to help you I don't know
Sasha's doing this all by yourself well
it doesn't seem to it's not really lined
up is it no if I push it is it going in
I think so yep yeah that's not so bad
all right great okay next up here's
another screw all right the gratuitous
close-up shots okay
so you're pushing kind of toward the
back of the computer with your hand I
see any left hand doing that you got
this you're like a pro that's right have
you done this before
I once built a pie nice I baked a pie
you'll notice that I put the cover back
on the CPU that's just to keep it clean
we cleaned it last week and so that's
that one's not it's nice okay okay so we
need to make sure that everything is
yeah everything looks nice and snug back
here so you're doing good okay so here's
what needs to happen anything this is a
full body workout this
okay I think that's better some good TV
right there folks
all right she said do we need more than
three screws in here
okay so let's can I give you a hand just
for ya yeah I'm gonna get in there here
you be you be camera folk is that a term
it is now I just made it up okay so
let's make sure that ya see that so I'm
just gonna go and give it some elbow
right there get that lined up I
definitely did the difficult ones to
start
oh absolutely no you got started for
sure okay we got another one down over
here and the only reason I'm helping out
here sash obviously knows what she's
doing I am just helping out for the sake
of time as we drop a screw this is not a
three-hour special this is oh my
goodness let's try this yeah Kingston
always comes to the rescue
okay
all right I know that you did your
learning Tech Sasha but I just got to
say you're holding the camera upside
down oh all right
let's get in here oh this is not
magnetic that's what's happening you
know what
sorry c128 dee this is just a better
screwdriver all round I can always
tighten it up with the bigger one so
we're gonna blame it on the screwdrivers
and forget one more okay now is this
starting to look like a computer session
yes it certainly is man I like this
motherboard and I can say that I've
never said that in my life
I like this motherboard have you both
gonna come over to our place I'm like so
check out Dave's motherboard what is
some motherboard it's the mother of all
boards okay so now I've got those in and
I'm just gonna get these nice and snug
so just gonna get in there just tighten
them up now that they're all in make
sure there we go
sweet Oh Sasha looks like a computer now
okay so what do you think we're gonna do
next we are going to put the heatsink on
mmm
install the RAM I would suggest that we
start with the littler stuff let's start
with the the RAM the okay cables for the
well maybe not the cables definitely
install the RAM first because the RAM
let's get in here okay these are all
tighten down our RAM modules are gonna
go right here so if I install the
heatsink first it's gonna be this big
honkin thing right here in my way as I'm
trying to install the RAM modules so
we're just kind of kind of changed the
order okay show me the RAM module there
so we have kingston ddr4 ram this stuff
is sweet it's HyperX fury so it's a nice
fast gaming ram and I'm really really
hoping it's gonna fire up on this
motherboard I was looking at them at the
motherboards manual so I'll just say
right now I was looking at the manual
and they said that it it only wants to
take
8gig Sims wait hold on I'm a little
old-school here and sometimes forget
that I'm in 2017 early RAM modules say
circa 1980s into the early 90s had one
row of electrical contacts and were
called Sims single inline memory modules
now today RAM modules including the ones
that we're installing here tonight have
two rows of contacts or dual inline
memory modules also called dims so every
time I say Sims I mean dims and I'm only
showing you that the commodore shirt
that I'm wearing is from the same era
when I learned to build computers I was
looking at the manual and they said that
it it only wants to take 8 gig Sims ah
but then I'm like how is that possible
if it takes 64 gigs of RAM and there's
only fresh lots so these are 16 gigs
Sims each so 32 gigs together and we are
installing ddr4 2666 Ram and I'm really
hoping that's gonna fire up it's gonna
fit yeah ok I can open packaging for you
ok so can I just for the sake of the
demonstration can I install the first
one certainly I want to show you how to
put ran into your computer here you go
I'm gonna let you kind of get that
close-up shot here so the there are only
two modules here and the reason sasha
that i did two 16 gig sims which again
really hoping you're gonna fire up on
this motherboard these are beautiful
Sims the Kingston HyperX fury Ram as you
know is really really good and it also
has built-in heat sinks so think we're
gonna keep that Ram cool when it's
running super fast ok the reason I did
two 16 gigs is because the motherboard
claims that it'll take up to 64 so
that's 32 gigs if we go in the first two
slots but then we can add two more 32
gigs right in maximum out of your
computer so we need to determine which
is dim zero or the first one and here we
see dim a one I'm gonna get right in
here it says dim a one let's see if I
can show you that
and a - so that's our first - DIMM slots
so I want to install in a1 and a2 or
pardon me no I want to do a 1 and B 1
and then I'll do a 2 and B 2 the next
time if we wanted to add any more RAM ok
I'll give you that
ok now Sasha get in here nice and nice
and close so there's a pin here right
you see that yes this this is where the
pin that you see there on the
motherboard is going to line up okay it
makes sure that you don't put it in the
wrong way because those two things are
not going to line up if you have it
backwards right if I turn it around now
you see that it lines up perfectly
excellent
so I'm going to start with with b1 okay
actually color coded so I've got black
and gray so I'm actually going to skip
one so b1 is here and I'm just going to
kind of put it in an angle like this
yeah and then very carefully oh and
pardon me I've got to open these up
first okay oh oh that one doesn't okay
this one's a little different so I'm
gonna go from this side okay and then
feed it down in and you'll see that kind
of line up now push down a letter click
there it is okay so that's now in the
motherboard its installed okay it's good
to go so we're gonna open up this side
here for you okay and give you a limb
module go for it just go exactly the
same way and it's gonna go in here yes
okay I put it in this side first other
side other side yeah just because of the
way that this one's set up it doesn't
open on both sides okay and just make
sure you rock side to side not front to
back so that you don't break the the
connectors that makes sense there you go
okay so it's nice and snug I believe so
and then we just kind of grab our finger
here and just push right here to make
sure that it's locked and just kind of
feel that it is indeed
lockdown believe it you've got RAM in
there here we go ready to go okay
so next up we've got the CPU cooler to
install and we've got to get power going
into this thing right plus we've got the
graphics processing unit which is a
sweet one from Nvidia stick around we're
gonna be installing those right after
this
you've got mad skills now hone them
learn new skills or improve your
existing ones with online video
tutorials and training from lynda.com
through our special link at cat5 dot TV
slash Lynda learn software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today to help you achieve your
professional goals join today and start
learning we'll give you this chance to
try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat 5 dot TV slash Linda
welcome back this is category five
technology TV and tonight is part seven
of our series where sasha is actually
building a gaming rig that's a full
gaming computer so if you've never done
anything like this we're learning a lot
of stuff now if you're just coming into
this at seven make sure you go back you
can go to cat five dot TV slash CPU 2017
you're gonna be able to see those past
six episodes and everything to come
alright so next up we've got the RAM and
we've got the motherboard everything is
looking good we gotta get that CPU
cooling system right which looks a
little something like this
right okay okay so put that right there
it's got a big old 120 millimeter fan
now we want this to blow over the the
cooler okay so the way that we're gonna
make sure that that happens and I
apologize for having to lean forward to
get the camera but there is a very very
tiny arrow oh that tells you which
direction which direction the air is
gonna blow right yeah so that's we want
that pointed at the cooler because it's
going to blow that cool air over top of
the the fins of this guy that may
and make it cool down your CPU all right
so this particular one sorry I don't
mean to keep stepping on you no that's
this particular one though sash has a
couple of Clips every CPU coolers just a
little bit different we got a big one to
keep this nice and cool for you a lot of
the purchasing decisions were made just
to make this thing future-ready make
sure that it runs cool make sure it runs
fast so that you don't have to go out
and upgrade it you know a year from now
two years from now five years from now
thank you for that yeah so this so we're
gonna look at that observe that arrow
and these guys can I do it once and then
I'm going to show you how it's done so
again this is just specific to this
particular fan these kind of clip-on
there you see that so it goes into where
the screw holes are and clips on then
that's going to clip on to the fins of
this fan oh right oh okay it goes just
kind of like that there you go okay
pretty simple and then the other side
same deal yeah I gotta let you do it
this is your thing there see she did it
folks there we go had nothing to do with
it other than just kind of standing here
that's it so the fan is on we've
observed the the arrow that says it's
it's going to blow this way so it's
going to be blowing over these fins and
that's going to keep your computer nice
and cool that's CPU super very cool now
I can see you know I'm gonna lower it
down just a little bit because we've got
quite a bit of air blowing out over the
top here right so and that's my fault
I'm just gonna kind of release that and
we're gonna move that down or make sure
that this is done completely you know as
correctly as we can being that we're not
system builders or anything like that
but we wanna do the best job that we can
yes yeah so here we go
does the styrofoam need to stay on it
aside it's just to keep it clean Sasha
okay because as soon as I if I
accidentally touch that then I've
basically created like a finger grease
on the contact that's right it's keeping
your computer cool so we don't want to
do that so I'm keeping it on there just
for safety sake okay we don't want to go
through that problem come on bad boy
that makes sense yeah there we go so
that just gets rid of that extra space
up at the top I'll show you what the
bottom looks like okay oh and it's got a
sticker on it we could have done it all
this all this time we could have lost
the foam cautious and stuff yeah
please peel off label before you use it
it says that's good advice
all right sash let's get this car this
guy off of here again oh it goes okay
all right that's just the protective
coating the cover that came with the
motherboard right that kept our CPU nice
and clean through this whole process now
we've got our thermal paste which is
just like toothpaste you want to pull
the cap off now I'm scared okay it's not
that bad not that Kay okay so it's it's
a thermal compound that you're gonna
squirt into the very middle of that CPU
right down about the size of a pea a
little bit larger Oh golly okay let's go
for it
right in the middle a bit more a bit
more more more great okay okay
does it matter that existed yeah try to
keep it as even as possible so that is
our thermal compound the reason that
we're doing it like that sash is because
as soon as we clamp down the CPU cooler
it's going to squish that down oh and
it's going to make it so that it's it's
a good thermal contact okay so I guess
our final step here is to remove the
sticker from the bottom of this right
and then we mount it to the motherboard
okay just go ahead and take that sticker
off we just don't want to touch the
contact there
okay look at that alright so there are
two little flippy floppies that's the
technical term folks lippy flappy's and
those are going to connect into this
which we installed on part six of the
series right so if it goes on on it can
be messy okay thermal compound so you're
gonna do this so in hindsight we could
have test it we could have practiced
without the thermal combat but you want
me to do this more would you be able to
get right in you know what just get
right in there and I'm gonna show you
what I'm gonna do here sash it's
upside-down okay so this flippy-floppy
yeah right that's what we've named them
is going to clip on to this guy right
here on the this mounting apparatus of
us all right okay and then on the other
side we're going to clip the other
flippy-floppy
on to the other side but we got to start
with one side first we're not going to
do both at the same time okay so I'm
gonna get right in here it's gonna be
hard to film something this tight folks
we're gonna do our best let's see what
can you see well we can see nothing yeah
it's all good it's all good and before I
do that one last thing I'm just looking
at the headers here so there's a chassis
fan header I want to see where the CPU
fan is going to connect there's another
chassis fan header to do water pump CPU
fan so the CPU fan plugs in over here
okay so definitely that's a good place
to have that cable okay that's where
it's gonna lie and then it's going to go
that way alright so here we go going
down on the CPU sash okay feel good
almost there okay I purposely try to
make her nervous guys
[Music]
and one is on okay see that one was on
so now I'm gonna get over to this side
here and this is gonna be the tough one
cause that motherboard has that fin
there that's kind of getting in my way I
know you folks can't see this but see
that fin it's getting in the way of the
CPU cooling mounting so that's a bit of
a problem for us see that so I may have
to turn that around which is gonna be a
problem as well because the fan is
blowing this way and out the back so I
may just have to see if I can get that
on there which is not liking this this
bezel okay I'm gonna show you what it
looks like when I pull that up oh it is
messy yeah it is messy okay so can you
guys see that this guy here is in the
way of that guy there so what we're
gonna do we're gonna flip this around
problem-solving is part of building a
computer and and troubleshooting and
realizing hey there are other ways to do
things big part of this is also patience
Sasha okay because you need to be really
really patient when you're doing this
kind of thing because you don't want to
make a mistake that's going to cause
much damage problems so what I can
actually do here the solution for me is
I want to put the fan on the other side
so that I can turn this around
okay so I'm gonna try going the other
direction and that is the solution
that's going to work so now if you guys
can see that
I can get right in there
and she's clipped they're perfect okay
so flipping it around was the answer you
know but and originally I thought oh
that's gonna be a problem cuz the fan is
blowing this way but then I realized
well we install the fan we can put it on
the other side okay no problem so we're
gonna do that I'm gonna mount this on
the other side of the CPU cooler just
like we did Oh perfect how's that
looking it looks great
we're gonna need that rubbing alcohol
just get all my fingerprints off I get
belted myself really yeah what all these
man thumb prints I'm just pitching in
just pitching in believe me he'll be
very happy when he sees the episode tada
there you go sorry there you go so
that's on that's clipped on looks
beautiful so what this is doing this is
drawing heat away from everything in
here it's pulling it across the the RAM
here
yes blowing it out over top of this
cooling system and then blowing it out
the back with this other 120 millimeter
fan beautiful that was intense and
that's that it's not that bad though way
no so we still need to do a fair bit of
wiring we need to get you know that
we're not gonna be able to get to the
cabling today no it will not we just are
running short on time so what we still
need to do is we need to get the power
coming from the power supply which we
installed on part six we're gonna get
that into the motherboard we're gonna
get it into the other peripherals but
first we also need that graphics
processing unit so if we can grab this
let's see what this bad boy looks like
so what do we have here this is a and I
wonder what this box looks like on a
virtual reality set because it's green
so this is an 8 gigabyte GD gddr5
overclock addition of the GE Force gtx
1070 from nvidia this is anna soos card
so it's high-end very very good it's
ready for VR it's got tons of HDMI ports
and DisplayPort and everything else so
it's ready for you it sound good I am
ready for it there we go alright let's
put it in the box and this is really
we're getting there we've got pretty
much everything installed so this is
what the card looks like Sascha
huge so a couple of things about this
now we've got two DisplayPort to HDMI
and a DVI output they're all covered by
these covers to keep the dust out keep
it clean we've got two giant fans going
over the heat sinks which I can see
there that are nicely hidden underneath
of there looks really beautiful and
we've got huge heat pipes I don't know
if you folks can see that I check out my
pipes look at those pipes now there's a
couple of things about this now we've
got PCI Express right x16 which we're
gonna pull this protective cover off
because that's just there for shipping
and transport then we've got power here
flat PCI Express power input because
this card it takes more power than what
the PCI Express bus can provide right so
if you plug everything in you fire it up
and you're finding that it's not booting
or you're not getting any video you
probably forgot the power adapter to go
into there so that comes from the power
supply
and goes into the PCI Express power
input for the graphics card okay so
talking huge sash this is to the depth
of 2 standard video cards okay so that
means we're going to have to first of
all plot at which PCI Express port we're
gonna put it in now obviously it's not
going to go in the one over here I'm
gonna get in a little bit tighter for
you so that you can see you grab that
and so it's not going to go here we're
not going to put it here because that's
going to take up three slots you'll see
that on this motherboard they've been
smart they've planned for it we've got a
PCI Express x16 and a blank spot here
because they've planned that you've got
a
nice thick gaming graphics card there so
that's the one we're gonna go into so we
need to look at this and see that we
need to remove one and two screws here
to get okay I'll just start these with
my itty-bitty screwdriver okay I'll let
you take over okay this is your thing
Dave she's doing it she's doing the
build man I'm just helping out okay
that's right and then just pull those
protective covers off that's right there
we go okay oh this way okay yeah there
we have it so now our video card is
gonna go into the slot okay a fourth now
you've done this with RAM you know
exactly what you're doing
oh yeah this is gonna go into this x16
right here okay and that's already open
so we can see that if you ever need to
change your BIOS battery guess what
you're gonna have to take out your video
card okay this is our tea yeah that's
open so you see that folks Asha was
smart there make sure that that's open
cuz Robbie tends to forget these little
minor details rests so yeah you just
kind of push her down and locks in yeah
and then use your finger to get into
that thing that was unlocked and make
sure that that is now clipped and locked
yes yes so now screw it back in right
where the screws came out of and there
you go folks look at that so we've got
two DisplayPort to HDMI and a DVI all
coming off with the same graphics card
ready for VR I feel nervous why are you
doing this she's doing it she's got this
it's gonna be a sweet gaming rig folks
if you've got any suggestions for you a
for Sasha we'd love to hear them first
of all because we're so close to being
ready with this gaming rig we're going
to have to start selecting software we
know
that we want Linux on it and steam so
the real deciding thing as far as you
know which Linux distro are we gonna go
with Sasha it really boils down to which
one is going to play steam games really
really well so if you've got any
suggestions if you've already tried this
out on your own and you know what is
great for steam or video games virtual
reality and so on hey get on to our
community forum go to forum dot
category-five dot TV and submit your
posts there or better yet get right into
the particular forum thread that has to
do with this build at cat5 dot TV slash
cpu 2017 it's done just like that so we
got some wiring to do still Sasha but
essentially there you go there's your
gaming rig dave is gonna be thrilled
happy so far yes now you've been
building this thing from scratch yes
have you found the process because
there's a lot of people that are
watching tonight that have thought hey
if you're really cool to build my own
computer but it looks really daunting I
don't know where to start
it is as serious as taking a rake
through it's doable like using really
tiny screwdrivers and yeah it's it's
actually really cool to be a part of
this like to actually get in there I
would have been petrified to do it alone
but you know what if I knew that I could
watch me future me doing I don't know
yeah perhaps watching this video will
give some confidence and and so that you
know kind of what to expect every
computer is a little bit different but
you can get our product list the
hardware that we've purchased for this
particular rig at cat5 dot TV slash cpu
2017 it's all listed there and how we
decided to get those
[Applause]
