hi and welcome back to new every day my
name is Carrie and my name is Jen and on
today's show we're going to talk about
the man who motivates the mission so
stay tuned
welcome back to new every day so glad
that you have tuned in again and we have
we're jumping back into the book of Acts
we have we're on chapter three now and
we've gone over a couple topics Jen you
want to just recap for us well we talked
about the first of all what the mission
is that Jesus gave the disciples a
mission to go into all the world
proclaiming who he was and then secondly
Jesus after he laughed well then what
were they to do well they had to build
the team so they prayed and they built
the team and the team was comprised both
of men and women and then thirdly they
talked while we have the mission and we
have the team but now where's the power
so we talked about what happened at
Pentecost with the coming of the Holy
Spirit and how it equipped Peter to
proclaim the word boldly and then
fourthly we talked about how they worked
together as a church right and so they
had the mission they had the team and
they had the power now how do they
actually work together so that's where
we've been over the lot during that
first section of ax ax 1 and 2 and so
day today we thought well let's jump
right back in because the mission that
Jesus called them to has really nothing
to do with them you're right which is
why anyone is part of it yes it has
nothing to do like okay you you you are
a part of the mission so you can get
rich so you can you know get success so
you can get honor so you can get glory
it has nothing to do with that and it's
not about like what skills can you bring
to the team no so as a sidetrack a
friend of mine said you know what if
there was a zombie apocalypse like I
would think about who I would build on
my team you know to be with me she's I
carry what could you bring I was like
awful I don't know I can run I guess you
know it seems like and I would probably
need someone who could hunt and I could
probably need and she's building the
team you know based on the skills it was
a big joke but anyways the Lord doesn't
do that it's not about you it's not
about what you can bring no it's about
him
in the name of Jesus yes it's about
taking the name of Jesus throughout all
the world because only Jesus can deliver
which is what his name means so for the
next few weeks we're actually going to
look at chapters three and four of acts
and how the disciples moved in the
mission with their team through the
power of the Holy Spirit to proclaim the
name of Jesus so let's just jump in
we're going to start reading in Acts
chapter three alright so I'm reading
from the New International Version one
day Peter and John were going up to the
temple at the time of prayer at three in
the afternoon now man crippled from
birth was being carried to the temple
gate called beautiful where he was put
every day to beg from those going into
the temple courts when he saw Peter and
John about to enter he asked them for
money Peter looks straight at him as did
John then Peter said look at us so the
man gave them his attention expecting to
get something from them then Peter said
silver or gold I do not have but what I
have I give you in the name of Jesus
Christ of Nazareth Nazareth walk taking
him by the right hand he helped him up
and instantly the man's feet and ankles
became strong he jumped to his feet and
began to walk then he went with them to
the temple courts walking and jumping
and praising God when all the people saw
him walking and praising God they
recognized him as the same man who used
to sit begging at the temple gate called
beautiful and they were filled with
Wonder and amazement at what had
happened to ya think about that life
transformation like so much of your
employment depended on your physical
ability at that time yeah I mean
nowadays if you are a quadriplegic
paraplegic and you can still speak you
know you can work on other jobs or you
know there's there are positions in
certain companies that accommodate for
disability yeah but back then if you
could not move walk talk use your hands
it was a big
you had no means of making money and you
had to just bag or rely on a a
benevolent family member yes so this
life transformation is incredible not
only you know does it provide the
disciples with an opportunity to share
about Christ to other people whose side
right but for this man like when I think
about everything that has to happen
physically to make this happen it is
it's astronomical like I don't know if
you ever seen someone who is who is
incredibly contracture like after you
after some people have had a stroll mean
like contraction contracture also all
kind of crippled up there's deformity in
the bone tissue there's there's
sometimes like abnormal bone growth
there's muscle wasting on a cellular
level for this type of healing to happen
it's amazing everything that had to be
reversed instantaneously but if Jesus is
the one who holds every atom together
this is not a big thing for him to do
know the power of the Holy Spirit when I
think about you know creation I'm not I
don't always walk around when wow this
is incredible but then when you hear
something like this that instantaneous
life transformation I think wow that's
incredible but really he's doing it all
the time yeah so it provided the OP of
the opportunity for the disciples to
actually share about who God is and how
amazing this miracle really is well and
what's interesting is it says now man
crippled from birth was being carried to
the temple gate called beautiful so he
actually had like you said a benevolent
family your friends actually carried
this beggar to the temple at a specific
time three o'clock why because that's
when the Jews would go and pray it's
like more people know exactly and one of
the things that the Jews I want to say
prided themselves on or built their
faith around was the fact that they had
to take care of the poor so it was
almost like well the beggar knew if I go
at this time they are required pretty
much
by their law to provide like to take
care of me like to give me arms and so
there's this understanding from his
perspective if I go now there will be
people there that will give me money to
look after my needs and I got thinking
about that and I thought do people come
to me because there's an expectation she
is a believer she is a Christian so she
has to respond because of her
relationship with God she has to respond
in a certain way and that's challenging
it is and I actually think of a story
that a colleague was sharing and about
another believer whom I had worked with
and I guess something came up and I
guess he didn't respond and maybe the
best way and she said that was a real
Christian response a so she knew that
the way that he behaved to this person
should have been more welcoming should
have been loving because that would have
been like Christ so this person who does
not know anything about church knew that
that was not the right answer because it
becomes the expectation but that is how
someone behaves when you know the Lord
Jesus and you've been transformed by his
love and his power interesting isn't
that interested should yes Jesus says
like people will know that we're his
disciples by our love and what was the
most loving thing for Peter to do not to
give him arm but to give him the the
opportunity to hear about Christ but
through a physical healing yeah yeah
that is a loving thing to do well cause
Peter said he he does a couple things
here right when he saw Peter and John
enter he asked them for money which is
what the norm would have been so they
the disciples would have been very used
to people asking them for money right
which any was a pause I know I have
couple thoughts Peter looks straight at
him as did John then Peter said look at
us so the man gave them his attention
expecting to get something from him so
they and they probably thought or he the
beggar probably thought oh
what is it because we're not just
throwing money down to me they're
actually getting my attention so what
exactly are they going to give me do you
think why do you think he said look at
me let's think about and take a
commercial break all right very back
Jeff Weston Yemen you're building a
brand new beautiful website what are you
all right you're terrible actor what
does we're acting comes into play I
don't know where I think you're supposed
to act okay i know i'm building a really
cool website are you building a really
cool website you need hosting one of the
things about a hosting account is you
don't want to have limitations put on
your website let's sure how much hard
drive space do you have how many email
accounts how many domains can point to
it well we've got an amazing deal for
you for a very limited time cat five dot
TV / dreamhost for just five dollars and
a bit of change per month you are going
to get unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the roots are your own
com dice to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat5 TV / dreamhost
just don't put out of the papers on just
don't do it but hey it's a great deal
folks best deal you're gonna find five
dollars and change per month go to cap
five dot TV / dreamhost welcome back we
are coming back from our commercial
break thank you to all those wonderful
people who have partnered with us the
amazing we're going to
partnered with us to make this show
possible if you want to check them out
go to our website new everyday TV click
on our partners page and check them out
there so we were just talking about how
Peter and John are going to the temple
through the gate called beautiful
they've run into a beggar the beggar is
asking for money and Peter and John are
like i'm going to give you something
better yeah and let me say to him look
at us and so I asked Jen why did he say
look at us why couldn't it just be like
we yield yeah because he's probably
still would have been healed well and so
we talked about when when somebody says
look at me what are they trying to say
like what why are they saying look at me
and weave the picture that immediately
came to mind is I've looked after
children carys looked after children and
they will actually grab your face and
and they'll say like look at me like
they and they will squeeze your face
like I want your attention I have
something important to tell you ayer
keroh died are saying or when you have
to have that serious conversation with
someone in there like we need to talk we
need to talk but you know you need to
sit down and look at them this can't be
a text message yes and so so it's
obvious that Peter has something
important to tell him and so the man
gave him his attention expecting to get
something from them I love this part and
I've actually said this to people before
silver and gold i do not have but what I
walk I just love the fact that Peter was
straight-up honest like he couldn't meet
the man's financial need right but let
me give you something that's that in the
end will meet all of the needs that you
could ever have because as soon as he
was healed he then had the meet the
means of taking care of himself and
making money which is interesting when
you really think about it so like all
the man wanted was for his financial
needs to be met because that's all he
ever had hope for all he ever I'd hoped
for was that his financial needs would
be met and that he didn't have to rely
on
other people's finances but here Peter
is offering him far more than the man
could ever expect or hope for like it's
so interesting right like we come we
come to Jesus and we're just like oh
yeah I'm just feeling bad could you help
me but we don't even imagine that he
could fill us with such joy that would
just lift us off our seat and you know
proclaim it to everyone right we just
see the very immediate this is my
situation we ask for the minuscule
miracle yeah do you think that's a lack
of faith or just that like we've become
so focused on the details of our life I
wonder if it's because we don't think
there's anything else beyond that what
could possibly be on just my financial
need being met like we just we see it as
the miniscule thing well this is the
thing in my life that needs to be met so
I let's check this off let's get this
della yeah but we don't think of it as
you know I want to say the greater and
we have talked in John where it says and
you will do even greater things then
Jesus says that to his disciples and you
will do even greater things than me and
I think sometimes you know I one of the
reasons well before I get out of bed
I'll say Lord could you show me what you
want me to wear today that it for the
purpose of not just clothing my body in
a decent modest way but also for your
kingdom and your glory like I want to
see beyond just the getting dressed I
want to see how the Lord can actually
use the wee little things that I pray
for for even greater things so when I
read this passage it got me thinking
about this man all the man wanted was
money the minuscule miracle the
minuscule miracle yes and Peter's saying
hold on I have so much more but it's in
the name of Jesus like we don't even
like he didn't even think about going
there the man just said I need money and
Peter's like whoa we have something way
more better to offer
in the name of Jesus like you're healed
like he didn't even do it himself like
Peters like because Peter had the power
of the Holy Spirit right my Holy Spirit
is flowing through him and so Peter
didn't say in the name of Peter or he
didn't even say I heal you it says in
the name of Jesus the Christ of Nazareth
walk and he was saying what I have I
give you in the sense i have the Holy
Spirit yeah I have the Lord Jesus living
inside me and and you might say what do
I have to offer people you know what do
I bring to the kingdom you have the Lord
Jesus you have the Holy Spirit and
that's what Peter had yeah they didn't
have anything else I know we can offer
people these things we can pray for
people who are sick I didn't do that at
the grace of God yeah and that's why I
just love that passage silver and gold i
do not have but what i have i but what I
have I give to you in the name of Jesus
the Christ of Nazareth walk right and
it's like he had like he said the holy
spirit and so often you know i'll pray
for people and i've said that i say i
don't have any money what can i pray for
your comfort can I pray for your peace
can I pray for whatever it is that
you're going through because I believe
Jesus can heal you yeah and it's like so
often we you're right we just look about
what we have in our hands but it's not
about what we have in our hands so what
we have who we have in our heart right
it's it's to the who it's the who and
it's Jesus Christ Jesus Christ can bring
us more than we could ever Matt ask or
imagine that's what you know it's not
just about them he wants to heal the
miniscule but in healing the miniscule
are we actually open to him bringing so
much more to our lives and so I just and
the fact then I think they totally blew
his socks off if he had socks or sandals
let's say sandals right cuz it says he
jumped to his feet and carry talked
about that and began
to walk and he went in with them into
the temples court walking and joy
because he didn't know that God could do
this he was laying from his mother's
womb that is a long time yeah carry a
burden and not ever experience walking
ever yeah he would be on one latitude
the ground his whole life and God
elevated him to standing leaping jumping
praising God yeah I remember when one
man I asked him a question I said um you
know your believer now what difference
has Jesus made in your life and he said
I'm never alone hmm and I don't think
that's why he came to Jesus but it was
just a bonus it was a bonus and it's
like I want to say because this man was
in a place he he went to the temple
knowing that those Jewish people were
actually they needed to take care of him
they needed to give him money and yet
his encounter with someone who knew
Jesus radically changed his life yeah
and I wonder even this week now that
we've talked about this if someone's
going to approach you mm-hmm with a need
or a question and because they know that
you know the Living God yes they are
expecting some kind of of help of
comfort of something because they see a
difference in your life that God has
made even if you don't see it people can
see it because it's not about us yes
that when God transforms your life there
is something different about us and
people should be able to recognize it
yes and so when someone comes to you
this week and I pray that you'll take
that opportunity to maybe it is offering
them some
money maybe it is offering them
something else that they need but then
offering them Jesus Christ yes yes
what's interesting before we closes we
had a dad come with his daughter and his
wife to our church because he wanted
help for his daughter mm-hmm and then he
has continued to come there Muslim which
is so cool but he came to a church
because he wanted help for his daughter
so may May you look for those
opportunities this week I'm so blessed
by our church they've totally reached
out to this family and our love and on
them every time they see them I have
been the recipient of that yeah my
family I've seen what God has done yeah
and how he has used other people to help
us so so it's awesome we don't know we
don't know what God is going to bring to
you this week we don't even know what
God's gonna bring to us this week but we
are excited to say you know what I have
the power of the living Jesus at work in
us and so you know we don't have a lot
of money but we are willing to give
whatever God wants us to give whether
its finances or whether it's the hope of
glory of you know that peace comfort joy
healing whatever it is that God asks us
to share with someone and we need to be
willing to share that with them because
because of who we are in him what he
calls us to do to help continue the
mission of telling people about Jesus so
why don't I just pray for us and then
we'll wrap up father I just want to
thank you so much that you because of
the cross because Jesus rose again that
you have enabled us to receive Holy
Spirit and I pray this week for Jen and
I and for all the people watching and
listening that you would help us to have
open eyes and ears when people come to
us looking truly to have their needs met
but ultimately you are the one can can
meet all of their needs yes you exceed
expectations god help us to have big
picture thinking and to realize that you
are the answer Lord Jesus
I pray that for the at all our viewers
this week in Jesus Lee ulema thank you
so much for tuning in we have really
enjoyed talking about this and we're
going to see you next week then we pick
up on the book of Acts chapter for later
Jennifer carry fur
you
