what you're about to experience is a
free worldwide interactive broadcast
from Ontario Canada we broadcast live
every tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time
get your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live and category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Bobby
Ferguson welcome to episode number 181
of category 5 technology TV it's Tuesday
March the 8th 2011 nice to have you here
you look like a rock star over there
thanks seriously that right off the top
she's doing blue steel fantastic bring
it all or nothing yeah like to welcome
crystal Wells who's joining us in studio
tonight and you'll be able to kind of
talk a little bit about what you do but
Krista is a professional graphic
designer here with her Mac professional
to show us how to build websites we're
actually starting a series tonight we
talked about it a few weeks ago where we
are taking it right from the get-go
building a website right from graphic
design and concept all the way up to
programming and actually building it
into an actual website so stick around
there's going to be a lot of fun and if
you have questions get us in the chat
room category 5 TV cool
you got everything up and chat rooms
rolling by Hank thought I think we're
good yeah good good tonight we are going
to be explaining to you how you can win
that wire cast for broadcast software
we're finished taking our qualifiers we
got lots of qualifiers in and those have
been narrowed down and so we're going to
be giving you your chance to vote on who
is going to be our winner so stick
around for that as well and big news for
pogoplug if you're a pogoplug fan that's
going to be pretty awesome nice to see
everybody joining us in the chat room
yeah it's rolling by if you're watching
then you're not in the chat room and get
in at category 5 TV and be nice to have
you there and Hillary is also let's see
Hillary is joining us hey Hill hello
world I am back good to be back in a
category 5 land and let me tell you
people I've got news for you coming up
in the newsroom according to a report
our Lions on GPS units could be a big
problem should the network fail Spotify
has announced that it now has 1 million
paying subscribers across Europe the
name of next October's release of ubuntu
11.10 into scally a repay nearly 2.5
million pounds to customers in the UK
and lastly a high-tech blonde scanner
could eliminate the need for traditional
invasive autopsies so stick around for
the latest news from a category 5 TV
news room interesting John is asking
Hillary what happened to the sheet where
are you at tonight it looks a little bit
different tonight I'm constantly on the
move and so my lovely bed sheet backdrop
is no more I have changed cities
temporarily because i'm doing an
internship at a TV station so i have
moved and for the next two months I will
be here so that is why that's why you
see the new decor behind ya know that's
that's great and it's so nice to have
you joining us Hillary through skype
video for those who are wondering about
about the
quality of that video and and where
she's joining us from she is there doing
her internship that's really awesome so
this you say it's a couple months so is
this going to lead to bigger better
things or do you know what's what you
have in line at this point I'm really
not sure what's gonna happen just taking
it day by day but the purpose of the
internship is to gear neat Awards more
reporting aspects so today I was
downtown Toronto shooting some Streeters
tomorrow I'm up to so that was you I
heard about that on the house yeah I
know kind of a big deal right how shoot
yeah yeah Hilary care about their game
play on words but anyway yeah I don't
know what's gonna happen will the sea
Guam winging it yeah keep us posted nice
to have you here game this week we've
got a couple of emails that have come in
and I'm not going to burden you with too
much over here so I'm going to hop right
into the to the email box and you can
email us live at category 5 TV got one
here from James Kizer who says I enjoyed
learning about clonezilla during the
last two episodes that's great nice that
nicely you enjoyed that feature says I
was wondering if it would be possible to
clone a DVR hard drive for the purpose
of installing a larger drive it's a
magnavox such and such I would love to
replace the 160 gigabyte drive with a
320 or 500 gigabyte drive when using
clonezilla and removing the drive and
installing it in an external drive
housing work to transfer it to a larger
drive also do you know if the DVR would
recognize the larger drive and be able
to use it thanks for your thoughts and
help that you may have I really enjoy
watching your show and this comes from
James thanks James basically first
question there I'm just going to go back
over the email is it possible to clone a
DVR me a DVR hard drive for the purpose
of installing a larger drive yeah it is
absolutely should be because that hard
drive is really just a computer hard
drive so you'll be able to clone that
with clonezilla and our demonstration
for our demonstration we backed up our
drive through the network you could
however as you say put that drive into
an external enclosure do it through USB
or something along those
lines and then putting it onto that
bigger drive you'd be able to then take
that drive put it in into your device
and be good to go so that should work
different devices will have different
limitations with a 500 gigabyte drive
it's not too likely that that's going to
exceed any limitation of a modern piece
of hardware but you may want to check
the specs of your actual DVR just to
make sure that it's compatible alright
so I hope to hope that helps I think
it's a yes na yes so a slam dunk or what
do you go at home run mmm three strikes
you're out John you're not being very
helpful double positive I like that
could you kindly pass me the bowl candy
yeah I got this crazy cough thank you oh
that's what I'm good for it helps I've
always wanted somebody to hand me the
candy cane yeah Eric's always just such
a snob about it yeah well Tuesdays are
free so I asked him for any push it need
not dump it everywhere we miss Eric
tonight but thinking of him he is
playing honky I believe as always a
Tuesday night having a good time I hope
kubuntu says hey Robby and Eric let's
see here I have an ongoing problem
whenever I run virtual box open office
will crash if I try to use it strange
will also crash after virtual box is
closed if open office was open but I
don't use it while virtual box was open
happily openoffice recovery is excellent
of course so only my pride is hurt when
this occurs and it's also kind of
frustrating for sure
let's see excusing the boom to 10 point
0 for 64-bit VirtualBox four point oh
four just read in here version which
comes straight you're horrible rather
than the repository okay I see you're
using the non free version that's fine
openoffice org 3.2 I've never had that
actually occur I'm going to actually try
to emulate the the problem that you're
experiencing there I just bring up an
instance of each
and if anyone in the chat room has ever
had something like that happen please
let us know here we go is openoffice 3.2
I think our specs are fairly similar as
far as the software goes except that I'm
on 32-bit other than that we should be
pretty close there goes my music four
point oh four release 70 1 12 so pretty
similar but if I close out of virtual
box it's not doing anything to open
office so I there's got to be something
up with your open office install mine
here's three point two point oh so just
kind of out of the box and no kind of
issues there whatsoever so anybody in
the chat room encounter that anybody
saying anything in the chat room there
Krista that stuff they've had that kind
of thing happen what you could do just
one suggestion I would try is hop into
terminal so I'm going to go applications
accessories terminal and from my
terminal and it's do two things first
thing I'm going to do is go virtualbox
capital B capital B that's going to
launch VirtualBox ok so what it's going
to do is behind that in the terminal are
any kind of error codes they're going to
be output there and at the same time
bring up another terminal window right
and go I'm not sure what the command is
for openoffice ever let's try open
office ok so let's go like this right
click on my menu edit menus
office open office word processor whole
office the commands I want open office
there we go text document whatever it is
they're so now I've got these two
windows open oh no the office right back
sir hopefully that's going to show you
if it does crash if there's anything
weird that's gone on there because we've
run it through the terminal so therefore
it's going to output anything to the
terminal that if there's an error not
sure if we could emulate something like
that I close this so it won't tell me
things put in an event of a crash you
should get some kind of output from the
terminals give that a try notice be back
in the chatter about that one so over my
head yeah you been fonts on this mac
here itty bitty fonts I doesn't Mac I'm
not making fun of the Mac but can you
read that at home seriously how do you
honestly do that the normal yes yeah
that's not really normal I mean if I
want to I want to bring up my chatroom
pretty sure most people can almost read
that if not I can can you do that we're
just having a little bit of a bad Mac
versus that look at that hold ctrl + S
or is her zoom I don't know what is it
it's not control + is it no I'm just
giving this awesome track pad that what
of this thanks big guy everybody making
fun of my age in the Chapman fantastic
thank you
we're gonna get to make fun of your mac
a little bit later on okay sure look for
it's good okay pogoplug had a cool
little call speaking of mac and apple
and discuss what I do have an ipod touch
she's good yes a little bit cool a
little bit a little bit this is the
gauge of I'm a little bit cool it'sit's
did I mention it's an ipod touch for
with the dual camera impressive and I
think it's turned off right now so it
doesn't really do much that was smart I
had this guy's call today with pogoplug
are you familiar with polka book um I
leave a little bit i've used a few
actually okay it looks like this you've
never actually physically seen it now
yeah so it's like this and you plug your
external hard drive into it Krista's
actually shared visual like Photoshop
files and stuff through this before
because it gives us a way to transfer
big files really really simply so for a
little bit of money you're able to share
this thing and there's no monthly fees
or anything like that so I had a talk
with them and they have some very very
exciting news coming up this week on
Thursday so make sure you're following
me on twitter twitter.com / Robbie
Ferguson and then also you can join us
at news category five cheesy as soon as
the embargo is up and the information
can be released I'm gonna be sharing
that with you but I tell you right now
very exciting stuff I know that that you
as viewers are gonna be very excited of
what to have a total club is going to be
offering but that said I'm not going to
wait until Tuesday tell you about it so
make sure you check out our website on
third thursday mornings that is marks
the 10th thursday it was he a superb
category 5 TV or on my twitter feed cool
so we're going to look at tab I kind of
want to give a fair amount of time to
creating a website today what's up yeah
it's just that I look kind of that chili
I got I got yeah but the things in my
teachers it's all good sense maybe one
of these days we'll like take it a
little just to that that just fluffy
bunny marshmallows tricks sure yeah or
do you the kids in there where they take
a bunch of bag of marshmallows and they
just shoved them in their mouth until
they can't talk and they have to say
something but if left and the schedule
is spitting everywhere so just tell us a
little bit about what it is that you do
and and and then we're gonna take a look
at actually developing a website tonight
okay so what I do um kind of a broad
spectrum so technically my titles
graphic designer oh man what that
entails with everything from billboard
design' logo design brochure design
business card design website design
pretty much anything that you see a
visual I can create so we use our
excellent photoshop adobe CS programs
and we should have happened to labor at
the beginning of the show what about
Mack she's gonna be talking about macro
she's gonna be talking about Photoshop
she believes in non-free she endorses
that she supports it she preached it and
uses it actually if you realize we're
going to be redoing this whole thing and
again
you really should hey just make sure I'm
not around ok so so with that like what
is there how long have you been doing
this I've been doing the actual graphic
design portion for I guess about three
years now professionally before that I
kind of tinker it a little bit yeah so
about three years what did programs on
earth is it largely experience-based
profession where you know you get better
and better and better as you it really
well it's one of those things where um
you can be born with a talent um but you
do need like the the skill set behind it
the schooling and the everything like
that to get better yeah how do you use
your photoshop exactly yes um so yeah it
does help to have the talent it does
help hope to have the schooling but to
have moved at the same time is kind of
where you get your great designers I'll
pull this to those people who can cool
um yeah so it's really not that
complicated just fun art art freely I
guess that's the that's the fun thing
about that kind of work is that you're
doing something that you basically
probably grew up loving yeah exactly
well I think of my daughter who is
trying all the time so I can see her
using something I can be like me there
you go you trained her out she's got the
wacom intuos4 tablet here which can
really see I don't know if you can hold
that outlooks a beautiful tablet it's a
not clean but it's great i highly
suggest it so this is a for those of you
who aren't familiar with the tablet it's
like a digital pen this one doesn't use
batteries doesn't nope no it actually
plug them by USB onto your computer the
pen itself is actually powered by by the
tablet and over the tablet yeah so no
having to change batteries or things
like that accuracy someone fantastic oh
it's great it's got I don't remember
exactly what all the specs are but
pressure and everything sensitivity so
if you're a new person yeah I fear in
Photoshop when you're painting a picture
you can out you don't have to change
your brushes you don't have to change
Cassidy's it just all does it for you
according to pressure so it's fantastic
do you use the different nibs um no not
going to but it does include yeah it
doesn't come without kinds of plate
three or four different time or
different kinds but yeah I just tend to
stick with the one cool that's the walk
comment to us for I just wanted to kind
of just express what it is though she's
using here but we'll have a link to that
product in the show notes for episode
number 181 so with this you're basically
controlling it like a mouse yeah but
then artistically you're able to bring
up Photoshop and just blow away yeah
exactly it's like I'm drawing on a sheet
of paper but the paper is on my computer
screen so learning curve lies because
you're seeing what you're doing up here
but you're actually doing it down here
was that um it took about a week to kind
of master it yeah well but after that
it's hard to go back to a mouse after
yeah yeah could you even actually
demonstrate for us a little bit about
with what you did with the tablet oh
well just maybe bring up Photoshop we
can see a little bit about see she's
working this thing just like it's a
mouse working away she said there's a
cs4 this is yes the cs4 ah
she just want me to get into it yeah
sure this is a website that you were um
this was just a yeah just a sample of a
website that I I did and then just an
example of a logo with a just a fake
company on here but so you can do things
like that the logo we actually do in a
program called illustrator so it's all
vector whereas in Photoshop we do our
websites and our images and stuff
because it's rostered so if you were to
actually do i'll go ahead and start
creating the woods now you're well and I
figure there's there's more to just the
creating the website than just sitting
down and going at it like there must be
a planning process or a creative like
sit down and get some ideas or do you
just basically you're not using
templates but you're using experience to
say okay well this is the kind of layout
that we want we want a menu we want the
content we want big bright images right
well where does it start for you there
are for every website there's a general
everyone website has a navigation every
website has your content usually has a
logo usually has some kind of big
picture on it so we can take those and
then what happens is I sit down with a
client and they tell me what kind of
feeling they want from their site or
what kind of a business they are what
they want to portray and then I take
that and sometimes I'll have an idea ray
off the top of my head sometimes it
takes a little muddling around through
some inspiration pieces I've grabbed but
then you take that and you take their
their a vision for what they want and
and
the pieces of the sighting you just cut
up for lunch really is mash it together
yeah yeah so it is very much experience
creativity and talent kind of all
combined yeah so might be good to hire
someone like you if we don't have so
much talent it would be right or just
hire you know ant ant but yeah I guess
like if you don't like I'm I'm a
programmer and I do a lot of programming
but as far as my weak points go i would
say graphic design would be my weak
point because I never grew up as the
artist in the family right mm-hmm I
would be lost with a pen and paper if I
went to do a drawing or something like
that so just great for me there you go
yeah I'm sure I'm sure I do some things
on sites that as a programmer would
drive you crazy like option as a
designer I love big pictures and I love
to make to make the website more
complicated as though it's an art piece
so I like difficult navigation items and
definitely Madden do you find that you
have to hold back some time for the site
so that it can be programmed because we
don't want it to be a 30-minute download
yeah and some things where you want the
the text and everything to be readable
so I can't do some really fancy text or
font treatments because then it has i've
been a picture and then you can write
searching read my thoughts come into
play so it does end up pulling you back
a little bit button right right usually
you can work around it okay well if you
can take us through a little bit about
what it is that you've got going on here
sure so this is just a sample of
something I had done and if we want to
go through just quickly kind of how we
we brought it together so this one here
it's made up of different layers and we
take this and then Robbie would take
this afterwards and then he would slice
it all up so I just have to kind of make
the look so that he has something to go
by
so we were to start we would probably
start with a background so I'm going to
put a gradient on here sometimes it just
takes a little bit of playing around
more than anything I can mess around
with a gradient for 10 minutes before
I'm actually happy with it right we're
going to do a little bar up on the top
here
okay so that's just our basic background
there and then we have to add in all our
stuff that actually makes it a site so
no particular order I'm probably a
little more scattered than the average
website designer it's called artistic
artistic my parents told me yeah well
there's our logo so you basically know
where you want to go with it and then
you're you're able to basically you're
putting this together pretty quickly as
it is yeah well once you sometimes
they'll sit down and we'll have a three
or four pages of sketches or or
sometimes I just know exactly what I
want to do and I just start creating it
on the computer or sometimes I have to
sit on the internet for hours and search
through posters and book covers and
everything before I got a an idea what I
should go for it right get that
inspiration from other other people's
art which is essentially our burden as
long as imitations sue she does she does
this honestly John like she's playing
the piano she's going with she's mad
waving this magic wand oh that's great
but ok maybe lose train of thought oh i
begged I'm sorry we're going to throw
another background in here so I'm going
to try to be fancy and make this box
have rounded corners
name you
the good old rounded corners in
Photoshop actually more difficult than
you would think yeah did I actually
mention that it's a lot easier in the
GIMP that you can right-click on your
selection go round it Rick I think we're
talking about Mac right now oh sorry
don't want to get you confused right
click rounded rectangle so yeah let's
cut it for 10 oh ok I've learned it all
right ctrl L or whatever it is in yeah
alright change your levels you already
know this I don't ok I feel icky alright
so so far in the past time she's created
a square and she says she's been able to
round that square and now she's gonna
I'm not gonna I'm still making fun of
Photoshop oh yeah I'm a firm believer in
in the GIMP as an alternative to to
photoshop for sure oh I understand okay
sorry you don't understand I do
understand so I'm going to put in our
background here and we're just go put in
a little cheesy wood background
fantastic it might take a second
I'm going to take that shape das bomber
in the chat room says Mac half the
computer at twice the price hey beg to
differ as you think yeah i did pay twice
the price for this hey I really did but
oh I didn't Brown I feel foolish okay
well it's gonna be a sharp edge sure
yeah we're racing through of course
because we're limited to the time of the
show itself so
I'm happy about that
okay well we're gonna live with that
sure sure sure okay so you're creating a
mask there are you oh my chin and I
actually use a lot mass but that was
actually question I have for you I'm not
sure if you can take masks and if they
mess you up because i like to use a
longshot well when you take it from
photoshop sure yeah and then slice it i
don't know if it translates oh you're
gonna have to watch next week oh cuz
she's tuned in yeah no masks are great
no I am NASA help obviously the same for
me as a programmer helps me to be able
to reposition photos but also if you
want to for example if you send me
something with a rounded header in it
and it doesn't have a mask I'll usually
do a ctrl click on the layer create a
mask on that layer so that i can add
other images and then reapply that same
mask oh okay so max very good thing
Master an awesome thing yeah and that of
course goes for the gimp as well the
gimp supports masks the givers are
thousand dollars cheaper than photoshop
because it's free hmm
okay sorry are making navigation items
okay I wrap it in the menu Vaughn okay
well as you as you get the menu go in
there Hillary actually is I would love
to jump into the news it's just about
that time so if you're if you're good to
go I'm ready to go I've got some news
room and then years in the UK are
working of our alliance on individual
services such as the global positioning
system what they use the spaceborne
positioning and timing dad and now
widespread the Regal Academy of
Engineering ears the two applications
such as GPSS I'm little or no backup if
the systems were to go down they say
receivers need to be capable of using a
variety of data sources dr. Martin
Thomas who chaired the group running the
report says what we're saying is that
there is a growing interdependence
between the systems that people think
are backing each other up and it might
very well be that a number of these
systems fail simultaneously it'll cause
commercial damage or even loss of life
Oh while the researchers say they're not
claiming a calamity is around the corner
it is important that government
end-users take the issue seriously
before it's too late online music
service Spotify has announced that it
now has 1 million paying subscribers
across Europe news of the milestone
comes as Spotify continues of
fundraising from investors in advance of
the launch in the US the company has six
point six seven million users the
majority of whom use a free service
subsidized by advertisements Spotify in
the process of 100 million dollar
funding round that analysts estimated
values the company at around 1 billion
dollars canonical the makers of ubuntu
linux have always had an affinity for
hard to pronounce or at least easy to
mispronounce naming conventions get
ready for this people in an announcement
yesterday a canonical mark shuttleworth
announced that bluetooth october 2011
release will be called one narrow
also laws may be officially leading the
way in bleeding edge linux technology
and hard to say dis remains according to
Shuttleworth one eric means dreamy and
the combination with Ocelot reminds him
of the way innovation happens part may
dream and part discipline ubuntu 11.04
after UK telecom firm talk talk brought
to skali telecommunications regulator
Ofcom began receiving complaints of
customers being aggressively pursued for
build they do not 00 Tom said that two
firms with their combined user base of
4.2 million customers have taken steps
to resolve the problem nearly 2.5
million pounds has been paid back to
customers who were built for services
which they had previously been cancelled
people who have paid erroneous bills
since January first of last year should
automatically receive a refund and
anyone affected by the error should
contact their credit agency to ensure
the damaged credit history has been
repaired Ofcom launched an investigation
in july of last year following the
complaints the firms were told to pay
compensation by december or or face a
financial penalty all the while talktalk
take a little responsibility and blames
a new billing system introduced after a
brought to scollay in june 2009 and
another breakthrough that they already
did on Star Trek is fast becoming the
talk of a diagnostician this week in a
study that would make dr. phlox shrug
and say tell me something I don't know
full-body CT scanners have now been
shown to provide eighty percent accuracy
when used to find the cause of death
suit back using 3d scans of 33 bodies
the scanner detects trauma fractures
cancers and produces a 3d image of the
dead person's organs that is related to
an HDTV for examination by a pathologist
professor guy rutty chief forensic
pathologist at the East Midlands
forensic pathology unit said
post-mortems are not popular with the
general public and are viewed with
greatest distaste great his case mmm he
also added that forensic science was
very excited by this new development you
can get the full story online a category
5 bikini / newsroom the category 5 dal
TV news room is researched by women w
ash with contributions from gadget
wisdom guru and our community of viewers
if you have a news story you think's
worthy of on-air mention send us an
email I museum at category 5 TV for the
category finds out TV news room I'm
Hillary rumble sorry Hillary I didn't
catch the name of that new ubuntu
release whoa what was that okay guys I
don't want Eric awesome not I don't know
oh so not one made it one Eirik I don't
know I don't know if he wanted something
that was going to be kind of sly and yet
focused he should have went with like I
don't obsessed octopus that would have
been better I think Lee's pronounceable
at least thank salary wow this is
category 5 technology TV you'll find us
online triple w category five dot TV
this is episode number 181 and I'm
joined tonight by crystal Wells a
graphic designer from Barrie Ontario and
she is showing us how to design a
website we were trying yeah how's it
coming one um alright yeah I think so
well i was working away here we just put
in our navigation at the top this blue
bar across the center here and then this
white down here where content is going
to be okay so when you're planning out
the navigation obviously you've sat down
with a client and/or if this was your
own website perhaps you've decided okay
i need home about he about my company
contact us obviously yeah absolutely
usually they already know exactly what
it is that they want to say they want to
usually tell a little bit about their
company they want to show what they can
do they want people to contact them
easily or have an easy way to contact
them and
depending on the company maybe there's a
few other different kinds of navigation
I'm in items but yeah generally that
kind of stuff is all laid out for me
ideally is holly so we're going to put a
little drop shadow here so this is where
just so you know this is where the GIMP
and photoshop their path stop colliding
is when you're using layer effects
because the GIMP doesn't support those
Photoshop layer effects so what she's
done there is out of the the drop shadow
to the lair in such a way that it's it's
just an effect on that layer rather than
a rasterized filter that's been applied
to the lair it's a lot easier time do so
it's really a nice feature of photoshop
for sure promac stop it no okay and
something else that we can do here just
to make our lives a little bit easier
and I cheat a lot um I want to put some
links down here so just go steal I mean
navigation items and rename them okay so
can you group those and just read and
just oh okay I see what you're doing so
you're using the you're creating a sub
link like yeah this isn't a duplicate of
something I guess is a designer that I
kind of like to do is when we have a
smaller Client i like to make their
websites look a little bit bigger than
they actually are so if they only have
three pages sometimes it's nicer to look
like they're bigger company or how am I
gonna have a lot of text to so exactly
so even though the links aren't going to
separate pages we add additional links
on there to say something a little bit
different maybe it tweaks someone's
interest in a different way and then
they end up on the same page that's in
our main navigation up here anyways okay
I do that sometimes with images like all
even on our website something that's on
the menu I'll certainly
have another link to that same item
somewhere else but just a little bit
differently you can go to for example
watch the show and that's the same and
then you'll see a list of the different
episodes but then you could also just
get them right off the front page great
alright so same sort of idea okay so I
ball for navigation and then for this
particular site I decided to be really
cool and put in some Polaroids basically
just make a white background I'm going
to please her image
and I'm guesstimate I find Brooks the
best
and that's why I want something like
this it's not something that we could
really sit down and say here's how you
do it because it does take that that
talent and the guesstimation as you say
but that comes from no doubt a lot of
experience as well
just okay that so it looks like we have
a couple boards that's cool
and that quickly you're able to get that
effect of actually having a Polaroid
there yeah very nice they're going back
to the good old days yeah what is it
about us regressing like that it's like
that's what looks cool is the Polaroid
yeah from the 80s well no one actually
prints out pictures anymore they're all
on your computer actually principal oh
that's where we talk about backups a lot
yeah very important that's a good point
that's kind of a scary thing I am so
afraid of electromagnetic pulses
yeah next year with the solar flares
yeah John just sang just wait till next
year Solar Flare activity it's going to
be very dangerous to computer hardware
okay 35 millimeter and negatives slides
agamotto recommends that's what we
should go with it's all over my head he
solves we're going back too far here
guys a little slogan there and this is
also something else i'm not really sure
is easy for robbie to do on his end
where I make things different sizes like
this yeah I imagine you can just put
like a like a tag around it or something
in it especially when you're doing what
font Joseph him yeah I actually stole
her off of the Google API oh this is
from google api ok well that's good
because what you encounter with that
with the internet when you're going for
the internet is website fonts and if the
font is not available as a website safe
font what that basically means is you
can be you can trust that everybody in
the world has this font installed in
their computer so if you use you know a
sans serif well it's gonna it's going to
work or Helvetica is probably on every
system as a safe font but there are
certain font families that you can use
as a programmer which we'll get into
further in the series so that you
understand what fonts you can and can't
use because if you use a fancy font you
think oh this looks beautiful it's a
nice script and then you create the
website unless you create that as an
image which is a bad idea for search
engine optimization and for load times
screen readers can't read those as well
then it's not going to look the same on
other people's computers unless they
have that font installed so it's never a
good idea
the Google API allows us to link into a
repository of fonts that normally would
not be considered web safe and using CSS
it allows us to include fonts like this
one that are indeed webs like now
web-safe based on the inclusion of
Google's API Plus that gives us the
access to Google's cloud which basically
because they've got so many servers all
of those all over the world you're
getting those fonts from their server
rather than the user getting the font
from your server so it's super super
fast and it takes bandwidth it puts the
bandwidth on Google rather than on you
and they've got lots of it so so yeah as
far as sizing there goes I would create
each line as the span looks like we make
and awesome or probably the same size I
think they're approximately
approximately the same size so they
probably be the same so I call that a
span ID or span class of you know sighs
one or whatever or something and then
the other one might be a different span
that same font or I did a mighty within
that span so and we'll we'll cover all
this so you'll understand what I'm
talking about in future episodes but so
yes I can work with that no problem
because we want to add that to the site
basically we'd have that background
image but that text would be actually
text because you want the search engines
to be able to index that you want people
to be able to copy and paste people to
be able to print things like that so uh
yeah this is basically our site how can
you be done so quick it doesn't have
like this when I was a little more
finesse to it sure sure so it does take
time yeah yeah so after you you kind of
get everything together I usually go
through and take a couple hours to kind
of tweaking and nudging an image right
or left a little bit crazy like that
though right so yeah that's essentially
that's what I do very cool if you have
any questions for Krista she's joining
us in the chat room right now category 5
TV it's the category 5 chat room on
freenode and of course you can email us
live at category 5 TV would love to hear
from you
cool this is category 5 technology TV
episode number 181 we're talking about
Wirecast you heard of line cast you're
so new here I don't know any of the
stuff that we're using this software
that you see over here on my monitor is
called Wirecast you can see all the
different camera angles and as we flip
through the different angles for example
if I want to bring up your Mac it's just
a simple mouse click that's her mac
computer through our network so there's
no there's no video cables coming out of
your computer we didn't have to do
anything fancy other than install
desktop presenter which was how easy it
took literally of five seconds literally
five seconds she timed it with the bring
Tim approx 5 SEC all right so with that
wire cast is then able to treat your
computer screen as if it were a camera
connected to our broadcast system if we
it's very cool so very quickly I was
able to add that and then take it one
step further and say ok now here's a
view with us demonstrating computer
screen I'm pointing the wrong way I'm
pointed it there it is there you go
fantastic and then last week if you were
watching the show you notice that we
also went so far as to incorporate the
green screen which allowed us to
superimpose our self over virtual sets
as well as in this view we were able to
not have the background so that we could
actually kind of float over the the
image more effectively without the
square around us so Wirecast is a
broadcasting sweet it's a recording
sweet we're recording two discs right
now live as well as broadcasting live
too many different distribution servers
around the world and this is all
available through teller streams
Wirecast you can find out more
information about the software at cat5
TV / Wirecast but we are giving away a
copy it's worth 400
450 bucks us and we've got a copy to
give away so what we've done we took
some qualifiers over the past several
weeks and and we had a lot of qualifiers
send in their emails so we originally
were going to start selecting from those
but it was too tough so what I did is I
created a random script that the picked
six of the qualifiers emails and those
have been posted directly on our website
so if you hop over to category five dot
TV and now if you click on interact and
then the Wirecast contest it's essential
that that all viewers go through this
because it's up to you now now that we
randomly selected six of them you're
going to be able to vote on which ones
you would like to see when so pardon me
back at our computer you've got entry
one entry to and as you click on each
entry read more you're going to be able
to read the actual entry that was
submitted if you like this person then
you want it like you want this person to
win the software all you have to do is
just post a comment there on their entry
so at the end of it we're going to take
the top three and we're going to
randomly draw from the top three and
that person is going to walk away with a
free copy of the Wirecast broadcast and
sweet gain 450 bucks available at cat
five TV / Wirecast and could be a lot of
fun if you if you like you can also get
there quickly just by typing in cat5 dot
TV / win wi and not windows win like a
prize
that's gonna take you right there
instantly cool yeah what's this about
never windows you know anti windows are
you I am anti windows fantastic thing
about that is that you can say it and
you can't get in trouble I can't get in
trouble when you say it if I said it I'd
get in trouble don't try it no I just
gonna be careful that sounded out but I
can I can I'd I hear you there anybody
else love windows in the chat room look
to hear from you any questions in the
chat room we try to keep up nice to see
everybody hey dave dave is a huge
windows fan you can tell it new new he
can't even type that particular word
about it so just I'm so distraught about
with those I would be AG moto makes a
point there for games it's got its place
sure math man doesn't know what they're
talking about just kidding just kidding
we know Savin has got is probably is
getting them at least to the point where
it's a little bit better believe it at
that cool so you have fun to me I I did
it was different um hopefully on a
broadcast yes yeah yeah yeah good great
I'm better in front of live people live
people like a like a like an audience
like I guess they working out like if
6,000 if 60,000 people are actually
sitting in the room you'd feel more
that's okay there's eyes to look at him
you think someone yeah it's a lot easier
to look into a camera and say hi I know
you're there great to see you Dave Chris
Reich nice to see ya das bomber you are
live people does for sure he's offended
live expects an apology that's your life
your I'm sorry I apologize thinks she
thinks this is you are all bots it
should i programmed and this is all just
a scam to get our health net free
website yeah I'm on to you so I'll get
you to save that as a PSD and we're
gonna actually rip that apart uh-huh on
future shows okay for sure turn that
into an actual working website be kind
absolutely cool God will love drama yeah
no real questions in the chat remain
things wind down about this time of
night get your questions in through the
week live at category 5 TV it's so nice
to see you nice to have you joining us
in the chat room nice to receive your
emails for the week and I'd encourage
you also to submit a viewer testimonial
on category 5 TV just click on the
interactive nu and don't forget I need
you to vote for the people for the
Wirecast
contest groovy another thing I'll
mention about our website that not a lot
of people either know about or
necessarily do that is very helpful if
we jump back to the homepage here and
you scroll down and you see the episodes
here now we get a lot of viewers that
view the episodes but not a lot of
people who actually vote for them but
you see these stars and with these stars
you're able to actually vote for your
favorite episodes so even if you catch
the show live if you if you're watching
this live right now and after the show
you don't go back to the website until
next Tuesday possibly if you enjoyed the
show check out the website again
tomorrow when the when the episode is up
and please vote on that episode so that
we have a bit of a knowledge as to what
the favorite episodes are as time goes
on so that we can order those and have
like a favorites episode package or
something like that that'd be great but
please do that week after week be
fantastic someone's just asking here
actually what we do with the the output
file once we're done creating something
photoshop so I'm not exactly sure if you
mean once we're done and where does it
go who do i send it to you if it's a
ping is this a gamoto just wondering if
it if it's like what format so oh I
would just send it to Robbie as a
photoshop PSD n because what we want is
we want to still have access to those
layers in GIMP it's an x CF file in
Photoshop it's a PSD GIMP can open
Photoshop files Photoshop can't open
GIMP files cuz GIMP is better he thought
about why it's named GIMP that GNU image
manipulation program didn't know that
did you firstly oh i thought it was dumb
i had a
yeah Photoshop files PSD's that includes
all the layers all the like vector stuff
that's that's incorporated with the file
in such a way that you can open it up
again and you're back to working on the
layers and you haven't lost anything as
soon as you save it as a ping unless
you're using fireworks which not a lot
of people do you're not going to get any
layers the ping is like a flattened it's
almost like a JPEG in that it's a flat
image you can no longer edit those
layers so it's really really hard to go
back and change things so we save it as
PSD it becomes a master file and then if
we need to change the font if we need to
change one of the graphics it's easy to
go back and do that but crystal was
mentioning earlier about how I'll slice
up the PSD file and turn it into a
website we're going to be dealing with
that over the next couple of weeks that
does involve choosing what portions we
call them slices what portions of that
image with portions of that PSD we're
going to convert to ping or JPEG and
again we'll be dealing with the
differences between the two and why you
would choose one or the other and how we
would actually go about programming that
so it'll get pretty in depth but I think
you're going to have a lot of fun and I
hope that you're able to join us very
cool if you are watching even after the
fact and you think hey I've got some
questions about web design and how this
how this can actually you know how I can
use this information then pop us an
email live at category 5 TV and we'd
love to incorporate your question into
the show next week
cool dad will asking if when you vote
for a wire cast entry to have to include
a website with your comment no that's
optional you just need to I think
there's a couple of things it'll tell
you what ones are required but website
is definitely optional cool we've got
like five minutes left if anyone has a
quick question in the chat room that
that would fill up that time that's
great this is a live broadcast at the
time that we broadcast this every
tuesday night at seven o'clock eastern
so it's your chance to get questions in
and and we're here to answer those
questions for you as best as we can
invisible mutant cool new as I just
wants an explanation between vector and
raster is okay to go ahead yeah great so
the kind of put it simply a vector-based
is done in a program for Adobe done an
illustrator and what that means
essentially is that it's not based on
little tiny pixels so you can make it as
big or as small as you need to without
losing any quality so if you made a
little tiny one inch logo in illustrator
I could blow it up and put on a
billboard without losing any of the
quality whereas if you do a logo in
something like Photoshop it's based on
pixels so that's when your images start
to look fuzzy or you start to see little
squares on them as can i configure yeah
exactly exactly so we use Photoshop or a
raster program just for on things like
pictures or websites or stuff like that
things that you don't need to resize oh
yes yes let me a size up sorry
you can resize down and you don't lose
inequality it's the going up where
vector comes in and then the little
portrait I have on my site there for
Greg in Texas was done in illustrator
that's vector I was like yeah I can make
that as huge as I want the portraits
take over hey you're wearing I'm the
portrait angle it might be a different
1i have about five fedoras similar well
that's your computer fused there we go
yeah cool yeah it's my thing I needed a
thing so i went to a hat shop and bought
a hat that i did this on purpose oh yeah
sure good looks like it does
Greg in Texas I believe the answer to
that would be yay invincible mutant nice
to see you one of our pogoplug winners
cool all right gang it's been so much
fun having you here tonight I again
encourage you to check out our website
category 5 TV and there's there's so
much there and the the now it's season
four is is available there for you if
you want to catch up some of the the
older episodes of the show we've got RSS
feeds to be able to subscribe to those
or you can just stream them directly off
of our website or if you're using a
mobile device like the iPhone or iPod
Touch to name drop a couple that you'll
recognize and then Android devices for
example or pretty much any device that
I've heard that's been tested
BlackBerry's HTC devices with android
windows seven phones they're all working
with our mobile site its mobile mobile
cat5 TV and that will allow you to watch
all of the episodes for the past year as
well so check that out cool well that's
been fun having you here Krista that was
for Janice oh well thanks for having me
and you're not on Twitter so people
cannot on Twitter I'm sorry if you want
to get a hold of krista with your
questions about graphic design you can
email us live at category 5 TV and we'll
make sure to pass those along as well
all right have a fantastic week
everybody John you have fun tonight sure
he sure did you lost it right there just
as you try didn't tell us there you go
have a great week everybody will see you
next Tuesday night
