here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsrooms a
San Francisco startup is 3d printing
entire houses in just one day a new
method of storing data in DNA stores 215
petabytes of data in a single gram of
DNA robots with real muscles and skin it
could become a thing sooner than we
imagined and the nintendo switch is
having big problems with its little
screen these stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere Jeff Weston Yellin
you're building a brand new beautiful
website what are you alright you're
terrible actor what this we're acting
comes into play I don't know where
Arctic you're supposed to act okay I'm
building a really cool website are you
building a really cool website you need
hosting one of the things about a
hosting account if you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
it's true how much hard drive space you
have how many email accounts how many
domains can point to it well we've got
an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cat five dot TV / dreamhost
for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are going to get
unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name the route put your own com
site to put that amazing website be even
working on on there if you run if you
want to build a wordpress site fine sign
up cat5 TV / dreamhost don't forget
about papers on it just don't do it but
hey it's a great deal folk best deal
you're going to find five dollars and
change per month go to cap five dot TV /
dreamhost I'm sassage' Madison here the
top stories for the week of march eight
2017 a san francisco-based 3d printing
startup Ava score has come up with an
exceedingly affordable solution for
building new houses they can 3d print
concrete walls for a small house in
under 24 hours what I know Tom cars one
day a fifth Corps recently used its
massive 3d printer to lay down concrete
walls on a test home in a site in Russia
where it has a business partner printing
out a cozy but livable 400 square foot
house the machine which looks more like
a small crane than a conventional 3d
printer spits out layer upon layer of
concrete mixture a concrete mixture is
that the company says can last for 175
years after printing out the walls the
printer is removed and a group of
contractors install insulation windows
appliances and a roof it's not entirely
clear whether the whole house was
finished and furnished in 24 hours or
whether or not the walls were just
printed in that time the company says
that it can build and furnish these
small houses for cost of about ten
thousand dollars and according to the
company's blog on the project the
windows and doors or by far the most
expensive components these houses could
be used to how quickly rehoused those
affected by natural disasters the
company said they might also be of use
in its own home town where an influx of
technology workers in recent years has
created housing shortage cry was in
Kurdish crisis one city I'm excited
about this oh my gosh this is cool so I
asked me get back to Jamaica for a
second so alright month ok so in Jamaica
Jamaicans they don't go into debt to
build their houses so they save up money
and they buy a cinder block right then
they say about more money in with my a
cinder block and then block at a time
I'm talkative time and they build their
houses one room at a time out of cinder
block nice houses have just had a lot of
years put in sure right but if this is
only ten thousand dollars furnished
right so now oftentimes these houses
don't have windows like they have
Windows spaces but not actual windows
because they do take more money and time
yeah but that is incredible for
countries like that right absolutely but
with windows and doors being said to be
the most expensive component but it
still is done within a ten thousand
all our budget yeah and and hopefully
yeah and that's the cool thing too is
that I'm one of those people who follows
the tiny house movement yes and it's
just like somebody like all right square
feet is perfect yeah so it's like as a
young adult like being 22 years old I
can't really mortgage your house yeah
renting is another option but hey yeah
get your own plot of land and there we
go I mean great and it takes like 15
minutes to clean 400 square feet exactly
we get a lot of cement dust yes you can
be a tech tech not was it technology
minimalist right where you own a lot of
things but it's all only on your
computer and yes put solar panels on the
roof that's not a turbine and you're off
the grid can see some really cool uses
for that even ya think about that as a
cottager or something like that too yeah
and again even said like for housing
crisis and like a disasters and stuff
too that's huge or even the homeless
population right so lots of places where
there's just a settlement of homeless
people it wouldn't take a lot of money
to actually fund ring up and have a set
of 20 of those houses and have them just
a free stop in place right maybe have
them patrol some foundation nice to be
created or adopt this as something that
they do because if it can be done this
cheaply and and i would expect there's
less parts to move i think about this
reminds me a little bit of modular homes
the modular homes they have to be
transported they're built in a factory
and they're brought there and there's a
lot of there's a lot of carbon footprint
there's a lot of in comparison well this
is this is concrete being poured at the
site by a 3d printer thank you i love i
love the thought even in in the state's
there's a tornado alley or whatever yeah
right concrete is a pretty solid note
exactly concrete's not go away okay sure
yeah other than what I live in one I
think it'd look like this gonna be a
great news week door number winding
honey okay what do you got for us next
ten years ago if you wanted to back up
some of your old photos you might have
stored them on a big clunky external
hard drive that wait a couple of pounds
and with a pain to lug around it's true
I might I might have done that you might
have done it mm-hmm can you
now you may back at all back up all the
data from your entire life on just a few
grams of DNA embedded in the code of
life researchers have now encoded a 1895
French film a computer virus and a
fifty-dollar amazon gift card this is
not the first time scientists have
turned to the double helix for storage
but it has always been difficult to
encode more than a few hundred
characters of data without turning it
into an undecipherable mess in their new
paper own on friday in science a yaniv
out of Ehrlich Jenna Ehrlich and Dina
valinsky from the New York genome Center
in Columbia University respectively
detail a major improvement their new
method that DNA fountain is able to
store a total of over two megabytes of
data in 72,000 DNA strands and easily
retrieve it the method allows them to
pack 215 petabytes of data on a single
gram of DNA oh yeah the DNA foundation
technique is remarkable in its
resistance to errors and ability to
maximize storage capacity of DNA before
we're all walking around with bits of
DNA on our key rings instead of flash
drives however sequencing will have to
become significantly cheaper but that
might happen sooner than we realize this
year Illumina announced plans to bring
the cost of sequencing an entire human
genome sequencing down to one hundred
dollars sequencing a few megabytes of
data would cost a small fraction of that
wow I have a quick question though DNA
yeah so it's enough to give how would
you I don't I don't get it well I was
trying to I'm strongly not to laugh
laughs way through because right now
we're caring like USB drives and stuff
yeah it has of course that's on my good
actual physical it's a computer right
when we're shifting the DNA i was
thinking like you i have to like bring a
hamster my pocket is everywhere I go and
me could you just doorstep no man how it
works is that they're probably like
encoding on like the actual bits of DNA
because like as you know
with a computer with a bit it's rather
on and off like the banner binary right
so they're probably doing a similar
approach with DNA just on like that
small and zeros but it's so somehow yeah
yeah because like I would want to read
that paper for like more in-depth
information to see how they are doing
that because make any sense to me like
it makes sense for me for like that yeah
great question do that to be fair
scientists are just figuring this out
okay so it's okay if it's not quite
clear the science behind it too right
people like ours I feel like we're
discovering some things about our own
DNA really sure as far as illnesses go
and everything we're just like examining
our own DNA and that's hmmm taken us
some time and now we're going to be
storing data on to DNA I guess it's not
our DNA that on no I don't think so I
mean this isn't Minority Report all
right you'd have to have it would have
to be that DNA becomes the data right
yeah because that's that's interesting
because it's just thought of a science
science fiction concept because they
said that they were able to encode an
Amazon before kaisa no but like if they
can encode an amazon gift card on this
does that mean like can you inject
yourself with like money or something
then the / ceiling DNA as well won't it
be impossible to steal data then because
you'd have to be I would be any match to
the person room railings could it be
something like that my DNA is the only
DNA that unlocks on that Dinah yeah your
DNA becomes the decryption key right wow
we just we just one up to the scientist
nicely done faster job guys like it yeah
darn everybody call it a nite nite a
chalice let it down yeah okay Oxford
University researchers said last week
that robots dressed in human flesh would
benefit people who need tissue
transplants and not benefit anybody's
nightmares scientists are already
growing muscles bones and many organs in
the lab but these tissues are generally
small and simple that's why two
scientists from Oxford University or
proposing that we use humanoid robots to
grow engineered tissues instead
at present human cells are grown in
stationary environments but their report
suggests that moving humanoids could
help them develop in a far healthier way
in theory I agree researchers Pierre
Alex MLV and Andrew Carr proposed in the
latest issue of science robotics that
robots could wear tissue grafts before
transplantation today sheets of cells
are grown in segment tape but the
scientists say that these fail to mimic
the real mechanical environment for
cells the resulting tissues aren't
accustomed to moving and stretching and
straining which can introduce problems
when used by patients the scientists say
it's not only technically possible to do
but also scientifically pertinent that
this be pursued yes-ish yes fish I like
are you scared because this is the robot
this is like I love robots that I want
robots to look like robots I'm scared of
robots looking like people but what does
not just be robots like doing jumping
jacks in a lab somewhere and wearing
moving like this gel they're sharing
like skin suits I feel like like we're
narrowing yeah but growing flesh on
themselves in order so that you know
jaminator if they need to grow like arm
muscles well they can they can just do
this over and over all day long like
being an idea where they test the seats
did you see that no I didn't oh yeah
there's right and then I don't sit
through commercials no it's nice yeah
ECMO and I you know I haven't been to
ikea ever ever what wow it's like on the
other side of the earth you create a
cheerful haven't if I really like you 35
to try order all of my furniture from
amazon use our affiliate links please do
at ikea they have robots that test the
furniture on going so today it's like a
chair from ikea and then they have like
a little robot bum that sits in it gets
back up and sits in it and gets back up
forever and ever second shell dressed
test right so this is what it would do
for the skin right yeah I guess so but
it was super creepy it would be creepy
to look
up but really good idea for all medical
team medically and scientifically sounds
like a very viable proposition super
creepy at all cool sales figures suggest
nintendo's new hybrid handheld console
which went on sale on Friday had become
the fastest selling game console in the
japanese company's history with many
stores selling out on the first day of
sales and entrepreneur poachers scooping
them up and selling them for twice the
price the switch can be played both on
televisions and as a standalone device
but there's a problem thousands of
owners of nintendo's new console switch
have complained about dead or stuck
pixels creating distracting and annoying
dark squares on their screen that would
be horrible Nintendo said that such
pixels were normal and should not be
considered a defect in other words it's
your problem not theirs but one analyst
said in response to the online photos
that it was unbelievable Nintendo had
let them leave the factory on a reddit
discussion thread one user said that he
had returned his to the store and since
it was making news the store let him
open boxes for a replacement three more
devices had dead pixels before he
finally found one that looked ok that is
a razy so I mean I realized were
Wednesday and they were released on
friday so they obviously wanted to
really hit their deadline right they
obviously want a timeout well we've seen
that pixels before online computer
screens and stuff but a computer screen
being this big yeah it's one dead pixel
I hate that there's a dead pixel but at
least it's you know it's this big and
it's one pixel among them right but yeah
when you've got a little tiny thing in
your hand and there's one dead pixel and
it's only this big it's going to be like
a well that's all it takes all is it a
problem with the actual screen itself
yeah yeah it's the technology behind it
there's you know millions of little
lights if one of those lights doesn't
work then they're just okay with a lot
of potential so the point that I'm
making so they were the push for
timeline to get this out right much the
same as wrote lately with sauce
right yes there's a push to get the
product out maybe instead of making an
unrealistic timeline actually say to the
public listen we're just having some
issues right now with the screen and we
want it to be perfect for you so instead
of March third we're going to release
this let's let's just say we're going to
release it maybe in another month or two
just so that you get a maybe eight
product and this seems like a good time
to bring up Star Trek discovery why
pourquoi because they said if it's not
ready yet we know we said may but now
they're saying it's going to be sometime
later in 2017 see is that that is my
point I can't sleep yeah that but it
still hurts but wouldn't you rather the
perfect product all right definitely
right I think Star Trek needs to do it
right as does Nintendo and then I know
she'd Samsung need to write samsung said
send us your phone back we'll give you
this this or this and it was reasonable
and yeah we made a mistake we're gonna
we're going to make it make good on that
mmm Nintendo saying too bad so sad you
got dead pixels hmm well I'll retract
that I bet you I thank you that you will
retract that or they will crash and burn
it happens with every game cries that's
that's the issues that we've seen it
throughout the console generations
especially for example one more famous
defects was the xbox 360 the red ring of
death is right right um and that's
that's the thing is that it's a new
console it's in its first weeks of jail
early stripe we are going to early
adopters right we've got so that's why I
never pre-ordered it anymore but I'm not
surprised see these defects like there's
even been talk about issues with the two
controllers having connection issues oh
no then trying to like update through
software but that's the thing if it's a
hardware shoe you can't fix that um so I
think I was not really surprised to hear
about this unfortunately but then again
I haven't been around at endo for a few
years I think it'll get good and then no
maybe offer like trade in your old one
with dead
tools for something else maybe
traditionally I don't know that they
will get but we'll see time will tell
listen to a Nintendo this is the way I
think Nintendo should especially if this
is one of if this is possibly their
biggest seller of all time and it's only
a couple thousand folks that are
reporting this issue but it does sound
like that's bad PR right oh yeah weirdo
mouth travels fast are you an early
adopter of the Nintendo switch or any
other product that has been a
disappointment for you we'd love to hear
comment below no Dennis made a good
point is no they're going to make you
buy an upgraded one right because it's
like you see a PlayStation like for them
playstation 4 pro yeah are they going to
have like a pro the new switch + yeah no
dead pixels how long have your upset you
thought you're going to get in the versa
alright thanks for watching the category
5 TV news room don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category 5 TV news room I'm
splashed are made of
[Music]
[Applause]
