welcome to new every day this week we're
talking about seven traits of the holy
spirit but we're not going up covering
all seven we're just doing the first one
and we're going to be covering it from a
devotional within the YouVersion Bible
app where you're talking about it just a
few minutes to grab this is new every
day with Jeff Weston Lawrence Cruz
[Music]
welcome to new every day
I'm Jeff Wesson I'm Lawrence Cruz so
glad to have you here with us if you're
just checking out a new every day for
the first time we are in our fourth
season we've been doing this show for
quite a long while now and I think we've
been on it now about three four months
and every week we seem to be coming up
with these great topics you just push
the bar a little bit higher and this
week we're gonna be taking it to the
next level we're talking about the Holy
Spirit oh that's a good subject it is
but for some people the whole idea of
the Holy Spirit is foreign to them
because there are certain types of
denominations that may not recognize the
Holy Spirit and so if you do come from
one of those denominations listen with
an open mind this is all biblical
scripture based teaching and we might
press you and challenge you a little bit
and if this is common to you then learn
grow enjoy it absolutely we're gonna be
unpacking some pretty big stuff that is
life-changing
certainly life-changing nothing in the
kingdom of God can ever happen without
the person of the Holy Spirit at work so
it's true there are some people who
perhaps would you know maybe not talk
about the Holy Spirit at all and yet I
think most of us I think we're gonna
find are just gonna identify with what
the pages of the Bible teach us flat-out
about who this third person of the Holy
Trinity is right yeah the Holy Spirit
and so I would agree that we were
talking earlier Jeff that some people
are a little maybe spooked out about
this Holy Spirit especially if they've
heard another translation of the Bible
refer to as the Holy Ghost
not the Holy Ghost right I just imagine
putting myself into the shoes of someone
who's never been inside a church and I'm
thrilled I meet people every day who
don't go to church and have no
understanding whatsoever about what I
believe is eternal life and my entire
like eternity rests in what I believe
here and they're loving great people who
don't have any clue at all if I put my
self in their shoes and talked about a
ghost living inside of me that's
something out of like Halloween yeah
it's almost like my goodness where is it
you said you go every Sunday morning and
how many people are there right it's
that sort of thing and of course I mean
if we're in the church we hear about in
the name of the Father the Son and the
Holy Spirit I mean what a beautiful
blessing it seems to be easy for us to
understand but who is the Holy Spirit
right what a nature what does he do why
do we even talk about him why is he
mentioned in the Bible we've got some
great weeks ahead absolutely yeah we're
going to be taking the next 7 weeks to
unpack this entire topic about the
characteristics of the Holy Spirit and
we're pulling it I mean there's always
an element in just about any lesson of
the going oh I've heard that from
somewhere and maybe you've got the Bible
app from you virgin and so we are
actually pulling from one of those
devotionals right here cellphone that's
right yeah it's called the seven rules
of the Holy Spirit
it's a devotional from the you version
up Jeff and I would love nothing more
for you to go to the up and you can read
we make no apologies we're giving all
full credit to this app that's leading
us through the next seven weeks about
understanding who the Holy Spirit is
what he does how we can get to know him
and we would encourage you to read along
with us and/or read ahead you can send
in your comments your questions maybe
great ideas and all of the above
absolutely yeah so it's gonna be a great
seven weeks together I'm looking forward
to it so maybe we can dive in you
absolute week number white one and the
Holy Spirit is our regenerator now
here's what I'm gonna do I'm gonna start
reading from the app and there's never
any problem with us talking about it and
again we welcome your thoughts in your
comments but just meet the Holy Spirit
okay welcome hi my name is Lawrence and
you are I wonder what his voice it sound
like I think it's a stole yeah and oh
yeah still small voice yeah I believe
I've heard that voice meet the Holy
Spirit who can do it all okay even there
stop right there
Jeff is this true like is the Holy
Spirit someone who can do everything
like is this what we're learning here
yeah absolutely I mean that when you
when you break down who the Holy Spirit
is he is part of the Trinity is that he
is that third part of who God is you've
got God the Father God the Son being
Jesus and the Holy Spirit and when you
look at the chronology of the Bible it
was God first there then Jesus came and
then you've got the Holy Spirit who was
came in after Jesus to be that guide for
us and that's another topic we'll unpack
later but you know sometimes the best
way I've heard the Holy Spirit described
is your conscience mm you know that
little still small voice that speaks to
you in those moments going should I be
doing that is there a better way around
than Wow
yeah you're taking me back to Bible
College where we know in the last days
which which are upon us
we know that biblically we're in the
last days even as far as the church
beginning and Christ going to heaven so
that's been a 2,000 year journey and
many people I talked to seem to think
that the temperature in the world is
eating up it's almost like I think we're
hiding any time now I think so come to
the table dinner is served and there's a
marriage supper of the Lamb that could
be happening sooner than later Wow what
does all that mean I can only imagine an
unchurched person saying what are they
but this this Holy Spirit is powerful
and yeah he can do anything and he's
referred to some people believe as the
restraining influence no it doesn't say
that yeah there is a restraining
influence that that you know if God
didn't have this restraining influence
on earth right now pardon the expression
but all hell would break loose in a way
like we've never yet seen sure
absolutely and I believe it's this same
Holy Spirit who is even powerful enough
to say hey you know evil I know you're
you're willing to do a bad job here and
make things horrible but enough yeah I'm
just gonna stop you right there
and that's the kind of power we're
talking about in this person called the
Holy Spirit which i think is from a
human perspective that's hard to wrap
your mind around because yeah we see the
world and the physical we see it in the
day to day tangible life that we have
and to imagine that there's an entire
spiritual world going on around us where
there is those daily battles and the
Holy Spirit is the one you know keeping
it at bay gives a very different focus
on how you go about your day like yeah
there's a lot happening around me that I
can't see and I may not even understand
mm-hmm but it's happening it isn't there
you know I think of you know one of the
bands I was listening to as a young
teenager was DC Talk and they had a yo
one of their songs and I don't remember
what it is there was a clip from
somebody speaking that talks about the
Holy Spirit and and and he says it's
he's like the wind you can't see the
wind but you can feel the effects of the
wind yeah and the Holy Spirit is very
much the same way yeah in the spiritual
realm and there's times where he's
working his deal yeah and we can feel
things happening out of it oh he's
working as deal and we can feel there's
something going on
so this Holy Spirit God yeah who we
Revere who we are seeking to honor
especially in these next seven episodes
he has limitless power we believe that
he's the one who was there at the
beginning brooding over the earth
hovering over the waters that's a at the
birth of everything that we know Terra
Firma he's this restraining influence at
the end of all time he's the God with
limitless power I love this Jeff who's
willing to come and live inside of frail
human me right how amazing how wonderful
is the songwriter said right how
marvelous
Oh is this God who comes to live with us
and that is such an interesting thing to
think about when you think that the Holy
Spirit who is all-powerful can do all
things
dwell within us is part of who we are
it's it's that that fiber of our
spiritual living mm-hmm and to think
that we are capable of tapping into that
power to change the way our lives go now
that doesn't mean I want to win a
million dollars and then chi-ching you
get the winning lottery ticket it's not
what I mean by changing but it's it's
the way that we live our lives it's the
challenges that we face and how we
respond that that's when you really get
to see the power of the Holy Spirit kick
in when we listen to that leading within
our life just the confidence excuse me
the confidence that that that rises up
in me as we just as I with you real time
consider that this powerful God lives in
us he lives in me and I mean it's like
yeah right
so of course I can do all things right
your Bible verse through Christ who
gives me strength yeah like there's I
can do all
things through God right Father the Son
the Holy Spirit allowing us what an
incredible reality that such a powerful
God is willing to take up residence to
live inside of me but Paul the Apostle
says hey don't you know that you that's
your I hate all of us you are a temple
of the Holy Ghost what he resides within
those who say God please come into my
life right and that a lot of that is
because of the change that came through
Christ
prior to Christ there was the tabernacle
where the Spirit of God resolved resided
right Christ came changed that know no
longer a need for the tabernacle and
because of accepting Christ we now have
that holy spirit within us guiding us
being a part of who we are yeah we do he
writes on our hearts how would all what
is that all about how about you artisans
well there's doctor God at work our
artist God at work just writing his name
on our hearts and blood oh and our our
name he cherishes us it's so good oh my
goodness
see this is what this is this is the
reality of what this powerful God is
able to come and live inside of me but
Jeff there's a huge problem on my own
without Christ I am filled with rotten
sin right in fact I can clean up good I
can mind my manners I can watch my mouth
and speak properly but all of those good
works if you will do nothing to take
away how polluted my sinful nature is no
matter what that's right
but this incredible God says he's
willing to come in and
citing me so it's like we've got this
perfect storm right this holy God so
perfect and without sin coming to live
inside of me I mean what is that all
about except that he does a powerful
work to change me from the inside out
that's right
oh now we've got to take a quick break
but we're going to continue to have this
conversation and dive into that point
with that the theme of the Holy Spirit
is our regenerator I can't wait
don't go anywhere stick around for more
from new every day for a limited time
get your hands on limited-edition shirts
from the category 5 TV network these
high quality shirts are manufactured by
teespring a fundraising website and your
purchase will help support the shows we
produce get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap v dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cat5 dot TV
slash shirts
welcome back to new every day if you're
just joining us we are talking about the
holy spirit and we are breaking down the
seven traits of the Holy Spirit which
comes from a devotional within the
YouVersion Bible app so if you have that
app by all means look up the devotional
the the topic we're covering this week
is the Holy Spirit is our regenerator
and just before the break you were
talking about how without the Holy
Spirit the core of who we are is rotten
it's that sinful nature yeah and that's
kind of where we took a break so let's
pick off there yeah actually thank you
yeah it's true it's wow I mean the Bible
is very clear as says in Romans that all
of us have sinned and I've never had one
authentic conversation with anybody who
ever denied that anyway I think most
people are pretty willing you know some
people even pretty proud of it you know
how it is true but at any rate so and
it's not just our actions are sinful but
again but our very nature is sinful
and the wonderful good news is is that
God says I don't want anybody to have to
stay that way
and so Holy Spirit gets involved and as
Jeff had mentioned in the seven roles of
the Holy Spirit we're we want to somehow
say today that hit one of his roles is
that he's a regenerator he's the one who
brings here as new life and Jeff all of
this these are my words about me all of
the pollution inside of Who I am as a
person who is sinful to the core
independent of how my actions and how
nice and kind I may choose to be like my
nature is still prone to just wander
away from God and say no hit the road I
don't need you independent god buzz off
I'll do this on my own forget God I'll
be my own boss and with all that
pollution he's still Holy Spirit comes
and says you know what I don't want to
leave you that way I want to come in but
in order for me to come in and live
inside of you like I said I would I have
to do something and that is I have to
regenerate you Lawrence what and he
comes in Jeff the role of the Spirit is
that he comes in the Bible says and he
makes us brand new what it's like like I
never ever ever had ever sin again in my
life what that's one of the roles of the
Holy Spirit
you can tell I'm excited about who he is
in our lives there's a whole lot of Hope
in that state oh isn't there the regret
that is removed because of that knowing
that we are made new is absolutely free
and so many people need that mm there we
are we live in a fallen world and when
people don't have the Holy Spirit as a
part of who they are
mm then you don't feel that release from
the regret you don't feel that renewing
that comes with that
and it's hard to explain the emotion
that comes with that Redemption but the
best way I can think of would be
describe
you're sitting there in the you know the
chamber about to be given the death
penalty and somebody goes it's done your
crime is wiped out like the relief you
could feel and that is on a daily basis
what we can experience with the Holy
Spirit through that regeneration yeah
this isn't grown okay now I'm going I'll
tell you whether there's a few things I
want to say too interestingly enough my
own brother when he was I was 17 no I
was 15 he was 17 we were at a party one
time with the youth group and you know
how that goes we were going to church
hey this nice family invites everybody
back to the house and they just put on a
spread it's like everybody's racing to
get there because they want the best
food and there's plenty for everybody
but you're young and you know you're
just got to eat right there first we get
to this party and one girl shows up with
a set of keys because she's won an award
for the weekend she's been so good
underwear
that the boss says hey way to go I
rented you a Corvette for the weekend oh
okay
so this young girl who maybe is 19 or 20
has the keys to a brand-new Corvette and
shows up and says to the youth group hey
anybody want to take the car for a spin
oh no so my brother among many others
says I do I even said I do but I didn't
have my license so I said well maybe
then they uh anyway so we crammed into
this car it's a Corvette there's four of
us crammed in a Corvette in a two-seater
I'm in the back window with my friend
and my brother is booking it around
while I guess what he's going a little
faster and a little faster and a little
faster and I mean there is a law called
gravity and you might think that in a
Corvette you can defy it but you can't
long story short he wiped out we wiped
out we spun oh through lawn after lawn
after um crash right in to a tree and
and I mean there's just red coming down
our faces you know cuts and bruises
thank God everybody walked away with
just very very minor physical you know
hurt but a lot of like oh no panic and
like what's gonna happen right yeah okay
here's the point of all this story the
irony is that my brother he rightfully
got charged and they were going to lay
on a criminal charge and they were in
Canada here and they reduced it to one
that was non criminal but the highest
they could give him before it would be a
criminal charge and he got charged he
lost his license for a period of time he
was filled with remorse and he changed
his ways because of it so he was 17 and
in about three years later he wanted to
become a police officer okay and because
he had this on his record he wasn't
allowed to even apply right yes okay
okay so you understand that now that's
where I'm going with this
why for pardon he went and applied for
what is called a pardon the long story
short is they said sir we've seen you we
recognize or there at least we're gonna
trust that this was a one-off and it's
not really who you are
we'd like to give you this pardon which
is just like the accident never happened
he applied to the police force and he's
ready to retire any day 30 years later
Wow
Jeff this is what God the regenerator
what the role of the Holy Spirit is that
he so rightly said it he comes into our
lives he says yeah hey I know you wiped
out in a car
I know Lawrence you did this and you
don't want anybody to know about it and
I'm not gonna tell anybody but I know
says the Lord and how many how long is
the list of sins we could say I know
you've done it but here's what I'm gonna
do I'm gonna write you a pardon just as
though you had never sinned now how does
that truth make us feel oh like cloud
nine cloud nine it's incredible it's a
role of God in the person of the Holy
Spirit who longs to come in to your life
as he has come into ours and to make you
brand new as though you'd never had the
accident I mean as though you've never
ever ever sinned and he regenerates
that's one of the chief roles of the
Holy Spirit and because of that then he
says holy God comes and lives within us
this powerful all-knowing God comes and
lives inside of you and me look it's
awesome it is I'm sitting I say now how
do you talk about you can't know it's
good news man we say thank you Lord yes
we'd say thank you Lord and it was John
chapter 3 verse 5 and Jesus said to this
man named
además he was a leader and he was
curious how can one get into the kingdom
of God like I'm like I like who you are
Jesus I want to spend more time with you
and then Jesus sets it straight and he
says unless one is born of water and
here it is and the holy spirit he cannot
enter into the kingdom of God and true
conversion is a most supernatural thing
God isn't looking to keep people out he
wants people in but he makes it very
clear unless the Holy Spirit comes in
and makes us brand-new cleansing us of
all of our sin and God makes it very
clear I'm sorry no nothing sinful or
unholy is coming anywhere near me or my
kingdom sorry but we don't have to stay
that way
that's right we can call on his name and
whoever calls on the name of the Lord
will be saved
the Holy Spirit he's our regenerator
Jeff all right god that's a great spot -
and we've still got six more traits to
go I can't wait for next week it's gonna
be good it's gonna be a great series
friends again we commend to you the
Bible app called you version there's so
many good things that many of you are
using it already maybe there's someone a
friend who doesn't have it yet we come
in YouVersion Bible app check out the
seven rolls of the Holy Spirit you can
follow along with us that's right we're
gonna go in Detroit number two next week
but in the meantime you have a wonderful
week be blessed and we'll see you next
god bless you
catch a new episode of new every day
every Friday morning at new every day TV
we're
so on roku cody flex youtube google play
music podcasts and news book or if
you're in Southern California tune in
every Sunday morning at 6:30 on kbdb TV
channel 33 television for the high
desert
