hi and welcome back to new every day my
name is Carrie and my name is Chen and
on today's show up and talk about what
is if it'll make you Malik stay tuned
welcome back love that you've tuned in
again to new every day we sure hope that
you're checking out our website new
everyday TV did see the the newest
posting to check out our partners pages
click partners the link at the top of
the page you can see all the wonderful
people we have supporting us and the
wonderful organizations so check them
out our partners page at new everyday TV
and how are you not bad it's the end of
the day we we went exploring today we
don't do it very often because you're
going to start thinking wow those girls
travel a lot and well relatively yes but
you only see the traveling yeah but
there's a lot of days in between we're
not traveling but today we actually had
a day where it's like oh we're both home
why don't we go to the Y marsh and so
today we went to this place called the
the Y marsh Conservation Center yes for
the purpose in Midland Ontario yes for
the purpose of walking through the snow
snowshoeing and holding chickadees in
our hands and that was the real purpose
of going but it's about 45 minutes away
from where we live and we just simply
said we want to be outside we want to go
snowshoeing but ultimately we want to
hold chickadees in our hands oh yeah
every winter my family and I made a
point of going there so we could either
cross-country ski and feed them I can
feed them snowshoe and feed them there's
just something so beautiful about
holding this little creature in your
hand and it just trusts you in comes and
sits and you feel it so cute it is one
of them really just want to hold it 10
might not have felt like doing that but
anyways they land and then they take the
food and they flutter away and you can
hear their wings and then you can hear
them tap tap tapping the seeds to open
them up and it's just so beautiful and
every time I go my heart is so full
holding these birds because I feel like
it's just such a wonderful picture of
trust that the chickadees will come to
us we're so much bigger than that I
could just go like that and catch it and
hurt
it I would never do that I understood
that when they're little boys would know
hurt the told sir des it just hated that
and it was such a beautiful picture of
trust and provision at the same time
knowing that she's thought about that
and doesn't do it makes me happy see I'm
not going to squeeze the sweet little
thing for real oh alright yes do it I
totally enjoyed it I do I i love the
fact that you put these seeds in the
hand and the birds come and they have
been around people enough that you're
right they do trust them they trust the
fact that those seeds are safe and that
you know they can come and eat them fly
off and everything's good and what we're
talking about the big question day is is
what what is it that will make you
believe yeah now for those birds they
have overtime been convinced that people
are safe that like they've never met us
before they've never seen this before
and yet going through this one part of
the hike it's like one of the chickadees
literally came and stood in front of us
like only to say put your hand out yeah
I think like a more like did you not
feel like the pressure well see i think
it was cuz you were doing your tickity
call chickadee dddddd but i hadn't
actually said it yet like we got to that
point and they looked and I'm like oh
both of us were like ooh we know what to
do and they knew it and they knew it so
over time the trust has been built up
people are safe if i look at them or if
they called to me right it's that whole
conditioned response but they believe
that people are safe and that will feed
them and so when we talk about what is
it that would make you believe the
question is what is it that make you
believe in god yeah and we're asking
that question because we're heading into
Easter and so in the in the book of John
The Passion Week starts about John 12
with the triumphant entry
and as we were reading beforehand and
preparing Carrie came across an
interesting part of the passage so I
just would ask her to read it yeah it's
in John 12 and it's actually verse 37
and the context to this first is that
Jesus beforehand in the previous chapter
chapter 11 had just raised Lazarus from
the dead like performed this amazing
miracle and people were coming from far
and wide and Pharisees were also coming
to not only see Jesus but to look at
Lazarus the one who raised from the dead
to see like is this for real did this
actually happen they wanted to see
interact with them and there's the
interesting verse is verse 37 but
although he had done so many signs
before them they did not believe in him
that the word of Isaiah the prophet
might be fulfilled which she spoke Lord
who has believed our report and to whom
has the arm of the Lord been revealed so
even though he had done this amazing
miracle they still didn't believe mm-hmm
and sometimes you know I think well what
what what's going to be the tipping
point for people that they're going to
say you know what there is a God or
Jesus really is the son of God you know
or maybe they need some kind of miracle
in their life maybe they need to be
healed of something maybe they need to
see and written across the sky but what
is more dramatic than seeing someone
raised from the dead we were also
talking earlier about how like people
who they receive some kind of radical
medical intervention and kind of get a
new lease on life how their perspective
is totally different to a change like
I've got a second chance and and and
they often realize yeah God has given
this to me it's God who has done this
but even these people saw him raised
from the dead that still was not enough
to believe mm-hmm and we were talking
today is how I was holding the
chickadees and it makes me think of the
first it says you open your hand and
satisfy the desires of every living
thing and God provides miraculously for
each ecosystem in the war
old so you look at diversity in the
ocean and how there's plankton is
something that needs blanked in it and
you you look at how some things are just
so diverse and yet God I was taking care
of individual needs and he feeds each
one and it's so amazing and the
privilege that we had to feed these
creatures and the joy that I got of
holding them that I think God loves to
provide for us he loves to open his hand
and satisfy our desires and our needs
and that for me seeing how God provides
seeing biodiversity seeing the
complexity of nature and how it all
works together in this fine-tuned
machine was a stepping stone in building
my faith in rice in God what was there
something in your life Jen that made you
I know that you came to Christ when you
were quite young but was there have
there been points along the way where
you're like yeah that just reaffirmed my
faith or yeah that was a real check
point in my life it's a great question
usually it's a daily thing like it's a
daily Wow God like you you answered that
prayer Wow you answered you answer that
prayer okay you answered that prayer
again yeah and so for me that you know
what is it going to take you to believe
it's more of an ongoing okay you are
real yeah okay you you are real okay you
did hear me and so you know when you
read this passage and what is it you
know what is it that's going to take it
take you to a point where you choose to
believe I think sometimes some of the
arguments that I have heard is well if I
choose to believe then that means i have
to give up everything right right yeah
and so it's much easier to discount
truth then choose to live it and you
know that asks something of you because
it asks something of it and i often
think of ravi zacharias and how he goes
up
how he goes up against all the different
I want to say leading atheists of the
world right I'll who are anti God and
you know they're trying to disprove the
existence of god and raava Ravi is is
proving the existence of God and I'm
listening and the truth just sounds so
clear but that's might be because I
believe the truth it was news player to
you so it seems clear to me and on the
other side to prove that God doesn't
exist just I like really so when you
look at the world and that's what Roman
says right it says his well let me just
turn to its Romans 120 or something like
that I'm going to use my techie Bible my
pages are sticking together because it
says Romans 119 since what may be known
about God is plain to them because God
has made a plain to them for since the
creation of the world God's invisible
qualities his eternal power and divine
nature have been clearly seen being
understood from what has been made so
that men are without excuse so creation
should testify that there is a God yeah
and Psalm 19 says the heavens declare
the glory of God the skies proclaim the
work of his hands day after day they
pour forth speech night after night date
they reveal God's knowledge yes yeah we
can see it all around us yeah and so you
know i do i do believe that God exists
by looking at nature but also through
personal experience I've seen answers to
prayer that were not coincidental okay I
have you know like physical answers to
prayer raining what do you mean by like
physical like in my body physical or
like like
well I guess I was going to say not like
it an emotional thing right like God's
provision for you
hmm when have I seen answers to prayer
well we'll let you know when we come
back stay tuned hi I'm Robbie Ferguson
and I love being a vimeo pro member as a
web broadcaster i need an affordable
video hosting platform that's as
flexible as me a pro membership lets you
upload up to 20 gigabytes of HD video
each and every week with no additional
bandwidth restrictions that means if you
produce a show that uses even up to 20
gigabytes of storage your limit resets
itself the following week so you can do
another 20 gigabytes and keep doing that
week after week now category 5 with all
of our shows use roughly 10 gigabytes
per week from there vimeo automatically
generates all the files that you need to
provision your RSS feeds roku channel
website media player or even video
downloads in multiple bit rates with no
limits on your bandwidth usage or how
many people can access your files what's
best the price is astonishingly
affordable and for a limited time
friends of the category 5 TV network
will receive a whopping twenty-five
percent off the annual price all you
have to do is go through our link cat
five dot TV / vimeo and sign up today
for your twenty five percent discount to
top it off you get 30 days to try it
risk-free if you're not happy with vimeo
pro you pay nothing the deal is only for
a very limited time go to cat five dot
TV / vimeo welcome back to new every day
Jen you're just going to share a story
of how God had provided for you
was kind of an affirmation again of your
faith in him I wasn't know you were no I
was gonna say how I answer prayer yeah
not how he provided me wine it was like
that was the previous conversation but
no this one was about answered prayer
like I don't think I can work that one
around you're pretty skilled with words
but it's a long long shot let's try that
again Jen before we took that break you
were just about to say how God answers
prayer right how I know that God has
answered prayer yeah and it's
interesting because it usually comes
about when when people where I've prayed
for someone and then they will message
me or tell me face face to face Jen you
prayed for me and this happened oh yeah
so it's through someone else oh yeah and
it's happened enough now where I go and
it sort of gets and that reminds me that
God hey here's my prayers yeah because
it isn't the same person coming and
telling me all the time it's different
people in different areas of my life who
have said you prayed for me and this
happened and I was like wow he does hear
me Wow he does answer prayer now there
have been times where I've had difficult
conversations to have it i'm just like
dear lord please help me and then wow he
goes before he prepares the way and I
come out going Wow God that went
surprisingly well you were good and now
a friend of mine uh Susan zerk assess me
all the time she's like Jen you just
pray your way out of everything but
that's because I actually honestly
believe that someone's on the other end
of my prayers like someone is on the
other end of my prayers listening so
when we talk about what is it going to
take for you to believe I've had enough
experience I guess for me now it's
experience where God has said see I did
it again see I did it again see I did it
again and so I've also seen like life
change in people okay I know you've seen
life change in people where you just go
oh okay yeah you wouldn't have done that
on your own no or that response you just
gave is was not yourself it's because of
a transformed life in Christ yeah and I
even found my bad about myself yeah like
wow God like you let me say that you let
me not say that more importantly right
you know which goes to actually reaffirm
why we believe right like it's like we
we originally believed because while I
was raised in the church but it just all
started to make sense and I was having
my own experiences of God and so but you
came to faith differently but also
through experience and watching it
happen and God working in your own life
and like yeah so so we've had our
experience and then we've had
reaffirming experience ago okay this is
why I believe yeah this is why I believe
and yet you know the passage that were
we're looking at the men are saying
Jesus is saying they're not going to
believe like even though even though
they saw this sign yeah like even though
he raised Lazarus from the dead it's not
going to be enough for you yeah now you
wanted you wanted to share a passage of
a parable that Jesus gave yes it is
actually in Luke 16 and it starts first
19 and it's called the rich man and
Lazarus this is a different Lazarus but
to paraphrase the story there was a very
rich man and there was a beggar named
Lazarus who was full of sores and laid
at the gate of the of the rich man like
outside his big mansion essentially a
knee and the the beggar was desiring to
be fed with the crumbs which fell from
the rich man's table and the dogs came
and licked his sores so one day the
beggar dies the Lazarus died and he and
he was carried by angels to Abraham's
bosom the rich man also died and was
buried and the rich man goes to Hades
like a hell type place right and he was
able to see Lazarus from where he was
and saw that he was in peace but he was
that the rich man was in torment
any e says to Abraham area I'm like I
have please send Lazarus to my brothers
and my father so that they don't have to
come to this place that they can
experience the peace of God like I
didn't turn listen you know I don't not
going to add words to Scripture but
anyways essentially saying please send
this man yeah because if they see a guy
who was raised from the dead maybe
they'll believe yeah he says no father
Abraham if one goes to them from the
dead then they will repent but he said
to him if they do not hear Moses and the
prophets neither will they be persuaded
the one rise from the dead and when
Jesus was speaking to the people he said
one greater than Abraham is here one
greater than Moses is here he said you
search the Scriptures because you think
that buy them they obtain life but these
are the scriptures that testify about me
and he was talking with the Old
Testament Jesus is in the old testament
and in in the Book of Psalms it says the
Word of God is perfect reviving or
converting the soul essentially right so
there's something living in active about
the Word of God and the Old Testament
that alludes to Christ and his saving
power and I think that God like can use
scripture to transform you and we should
be able to see Christ in Scripture it's
just so interesting that even jesus said
listen if people won't believe even
though they see someone rise from the
dead it won't be enough of a sign yeah
but God doesn't work in transforming
people's hearts and drawing them to
himself and you said something
interesting about how God draws people
today right well it says it is kindness
that draws us right and he loves us he
was us you even said he's the hound of
heaven he purrs like he pursues us and
yet unless someone makes that willful
choice and accepts that love then it's
like it doesn't matter what would happen
you're just simply not going to believe
they make a willful choice not to
believe and for me that's one of the
like literally I don't know what to say
about that when people just make a
willful choice not to leave when the
evidence is there yeah and they're like
no or oh yeah I can see where that's
true but I'm just not going to believe
it and it's like but it's truth yeah I
guess no I know I struggle with that
because the truth is just so clear and
yet people continue to say no and I can
understand the perspective you know some
of my friends who have gone through a B
and C or who have had a bad experience
in church and me and that's kind of like
put a bad taste in their mouth for God
but he's been misrepresented by people
who say that they knew him or say they
were acting on his behalf so I kind of
get I get it where they're coming from
because our past history our emotions
whatever can kind of cloud our
perspective where you know even we might
see someone who's risen from the dead
and still do not believe but you know I
think that faith is a gift of God and
God draws us to himself and salvation
even if it was when you were young or
when you were older that it's a miracle
and to celebrate that in God and I just
look at you know some people in my own
family that I thought you know they
would never believe in God they would
never they've had the worst history that
you know yeah been through so much and
you got in His grace has revealed
himself to them I don't get it I don't
get it because you can't earn it yeah
and so when you ask the question you
know what is it that were to help with
that what is it that would make you
believe maybe one of the questions is
well what's holding you back from
believing and so we're going to sign off
now because it's that time but we want
to leave you with that question what is
it that you know makes you believe or
what is it that made you believe and
what is it that's tripping you up like
what is it if you hadn't made that
commitment to Christ yet what is it
that's stopping you
and yet you've tuned into our show and
you're listening and we are very
thankful for that but we just pray right
now that God's grace would just go
before touching your heart and if you
have a question if you've been calling
out to God then we ask in the name of
Jesus that he would just make himself
real to you even now and that your life
would be changed and you would say I
believe the Bible is very clear it says
if you confess with your mouth Jesus is
Lord and believe in your heart that he
raised that God raised him from the dead
you will be saved and so we pray that
for you today we pray that you would
confess her with your mouth that Jesus
Christ is Lord and believe in your heart
that God raised him from the dead that
you wouldn't be like these people who
are willfully choosing not to believe
that something actually did happen to
may you believe today and we look
forward to seeing you next week on new
everyday TV things so much 14
catch it
