but we have to crack first why because
he said that helps to sync up the video
and the audio so he knows where to like
do we clap the same time oh one clapping
alright you ready hi and welcome to new
every day I'm gonna clap we already
class you don't need to clap again okay
okay I got to turn that off and we're
here every day to talk about faith-based
issues and using the Bible and just
conversating back and forth about daily
things that happen in Our Lives
conversating I say weird words account a
real word I know but we can't be in the
middle or whatever and I'm sorry I know
haven't you noticed i know he's really
okay hi my name is Carrie and why don't
we first have to say welcome in there
today okay no no I look like I'm crying
cuz I am do you need a tissue yes I have
those too I need a drink faster needs a
drink I loved your pasta it's part of
your story man this is still going ok
Helen stop we're gonna need new
batteries I put this nothing else gets
on this in itself
I'm Kate now I'm for real Oh golly ok
now I'm flushed that's okay we're just
gonna have to keep moving forward now I
know cuz eventually we have to start our
day yes I have to be to work for 20 it's
only ten-thirty minute to be in Toronto
by three mm-hmm all right lord please
help us do a good job amen all right
there's no pause okay if we're gonna
record more I know should we keep it
going well that's what I want her to
suffer I really have to go to the
bathroom i'm not sure if robbie wants to
listen but I could hold it just let's
just keep it rolling all right I know
sing you'll sing while I go to the
bathroom all right because you might go
take my mic off but it picks up on
everything I'll turn the fan on let me
know oh this is gonna be bad okay
