here are the stories recovering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
Microsoft will pay you to do your web
searching through Bing Toyota's latest
infotainment system is powered by Linux
Apple is bringing AR NVR to their
devices and scientific researchers have
confirmed a part of Einstein's general
theory of relativity that Einstein
himself said would never be observed
these stories are coming right up don't
go anywhere
Jeff Weston Java
you're building a brand new beautiful
web site what are you alright you're
terrible actor what does where acting
comes into play oh I don't know we're
Arctic you're supposed to act okay
building a really cool website are you
building a really cool website you need
hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
it's true how much hard drive space you
have how many email accounts how many
domains can point to it well we've got
an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change
per month you are going to get unlimited
web site hosting unlimited email
accounts on that hosting service you are
also going to receive a free domain name
the roof of your own com dice to put
that amazing website that you've been
working on on there if you run if you
want to build a wordpress site fine
sign up cap five dot TV slash DreamHost
still competitive papers are just don't
do it but hey it's a great deal folks
best deal you're going to find five
dollars and change per month go to cap
five dot TV slash DreamHost I'm Sasha
tomatoes and here at the top stories for
the week of June seventh 2017 Microsoft
rewards is planning to pay people to use
being instead of its competitors people
with a Microsoft account can sign up for
the rewards program which gives users
points when they purchase an item in the
Microsoft Store or get this when they
search on Bing these points can later be
reimbursed for items
we'll still has a strong hold on the
search engine market with a close to 86%
of all searches being done through their
search engine thing is in second place
with about 10% the rewards program will
have a variety of levels level 1 members
will be able to earn points for 10
searches a day and level 2 users can
earn points for 50 searches per day
good luck Bing Toyota will be the first
US automaker to use automotive grade
Linux also known as AGL they'll be
including it in the 2018 Toyota Camry
AGL is an open-source system based on
you guessed it Linux it boasts 200
members from various sectors including
Toyota Honda more say Mercedes Qualcomm
Intel and Samsung the system is designed
as an option to offerings from tech
companies like Google and Apple giving
automakers a solid base that they can
easily customize and update the vice
president of Toyota says the HEI
platform a GL platform gives drivers
greater connectivity and new
functionalities at a pace that is more
consistent with consumer technology he's
referring to the fact that automakers
are notorious for using slow outdated
tech in their homegrown entertainment
systems as a result consumers prefer
higher tech more current gear like
Android auto and apple's carplay while
automakers have offered these options to
give drivers what they want they
generally are crazy about giving tech
companies like Google and Apple such
prominent place in their cars
that's where AGL comes in returning
control to the center console two
automakers while letting them easily
update or modify the tech the tech will
eventually come to other toyota vehicles
as along with models from sister
companies Lexus the system may also
appear in vehicles from Mazda and
Mercedes and Ford as they and other
members keep an eye on the success of
the Camry release nice yay Linux apple
carplay that's the thing yeah I didn't
even know I didn't know they had
anything that didn't start with I like
are playable i car that's what I would
have expected a lot that's still coming
they're still working on the car
yeah oh that's how they did it yeah came
out with the phone first what I like
about this is that this story sheds
light on the fact that we don't always
recognize that what we're interacting
with is Linux right and Linux is such a
prominent player in the OS market for
embedded devices and servers the
Internet itself is run on Linux and you
look at that - and you think that's just
the interface for the you know the whole
system the phone the am/fm radio the SAP
satellite disk usb whatever okay looking
and it's Linux understood we had a
commented we had a comment with it last
week said somebody's ATM oh yeah it was
run by Linux it was in the UK I think
and Scotland ah their Union so that
that's another example of you know so
the ATM embedded machine running Linux
yeah I always recognize it limitless
yeah for the win yay I will maybe the
biggest tech company in the world but
some of the biggest tech stories in
recent years haven't involved Apple much
at all Amazon redefined the concept of a
personal assistant by freeing it from
the phone and creating a standalone
speaker that you could talk to in your
home near a myriad company is none of
them Apple have been fighting over the
future of virtual reality augmented
reality and everything in between and
now everyone is talking about machine
learning with Google and Facebook
leading the charge yet on Monday at its
annual developer conference Apple
announced new efforts in all three areas
at the same time the company is bringing
augmented reality to the iPhone and iPad
while virtual reality is coming to the
Mac and you can soon find Siri inside a
standalone speaker for the home at the
same time Apple is sharing machine
learning tools with developers while
being more open about its efforts like
so many of Apple's best ideas someone
else thought of them first
it's just that Apple believes it can
make them better these are the
technologies that some of the world's
biggest technology companies believe
will define the future of how we
interact with our computers not through
mechanical interfaces but more
human experiences now that Apple thinks
so too it's simply a question of whether
they're slick software and massive
customer base will allow the company to
leapfrog its competitors despite their
late start I believe they will do it
you're going to do it I think so they're
a infuriating when you're a creator and
you yeah invent or at least build upon
something in such a way that it's really
your baby yeah and then have a company
like Apple come in and say hey Lisa
they're version and that's better at the
same time I almost wish like Google
Apple like all these companies could
have like a baby or something I'd just
make like the ultimate like smart thing
my Google i/o Google you or something I
know but really like there's just so
many amazing people out there with so
many amazing ideas and it's just like I
wish I wish you could like put your
minds together and make something
amazing without having to worry about
company constraints because like I was
watching the Apple show data to Apple
show um the conference other day and is
really neat because you know like the
little Apple speaker thing it looks
really neat it's very but doesn't it
feel like Apple so you're going to do it
well yeah but at the same time you
already have a Google home and you have
like all these other things right so
nice like but this is Siri and this is
so in an Alexa are they gonna fight now
like if you have two different speakers
that are gonna like fight each other
happy need it's not the audit of the
death I would watch I thought I said I'm
gonna say it's more of it but I'd watch
that short film that would be amazing
people are gonna have kid named Assyrian
Alexa oh my gosh no please don't
if you're thinking about it stop you do
not even procreate that's that's why
you're doing it wrong don't do it okay
Wow okay Albert Einstein predicted that
whenever light from a distant star
passes by a closer object gravity acts
as kind of a magnifying lens brightening
and bending the distance the distant
starlight yet in a 1936 article in the
journal science he added that because
stars are so far apart there is no hope
of observing this phenomenon directly
now an international research team has
done just that as described in the
article which will be released this in
this Friday's publication of science the
study is believed to be the first report
of a particular type of Einstein's
gravitational microlensing by a star
other than the Sun Perry Oswald of
embry-riddle Aeronautical University
explains when a star in the foreground
passes exactly between us and a
background star gravitational
microlensing results in a perfectly
circular ring of light a so-called
Einstein ring the group observe observed
a much more likely scenario two objects
were slightly out of alignment and
therefore an asymmetrical version of an
Einstein ring formed the ring and it's
brightening or too small to be measured
but it's asymmetry caused the distance
star to appear off-center from its true
position this part of Einstein's
prediction is called astronomic lensing
and this is the first time it's been
observed in a star other than the Sun
amazing thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our web site from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Sasha tomatoes
[Music]
[Applause]
