it's Tuesday January fifth 2016 and hear
the stories we're covering this week
perhaps unsurprisingly Facebook's free
internet services come under fire and
Mark Zuckerberg isn't happy about it
timer set of web access to Google
services are done through ipv6
connections making a marking a milestone
in the migration from ipv4 you might be
surprised to learn who the number one
country is that's making the switch and
I'll give you a hint not the u.s. I
think if you think you're going to add a
VR headset to your gaming rig this year
and Vidya claims that less than 1% of
PCs can actually run virtual reality and
Google's Project sunroof tells
homeowners if sole solar panels are
cost-effective also there's new research
into biological 3d printing which may
lead to body parts being printed and
grown from human cells and only a couple
of months which is totally awesome and
the US military has shelved Google's
robot dog plans because spots just too
darn loud these stories are coming right
up so don't go anywhere you've got mad
skills now hone them learn new skills or
improve your existing ones with online
video tutorials and training from Linda
calm through our special link at cat
five dot TV / Linda learn software
technology creative and business skills
you can use today to help you achieve
your professional goals join today and
start learning will give you this chance
to try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat5 dot TV / Linda I'm Jeff
lesson here are the top stories from the
category 5 TV newsroom Mark Zuckerberg
is filling the force of critics who
believe his effort to provide Indians
with free
access to a limited number of internet
services hurts India's democracy and
violates net neutrality try saying that
sometimes real fast in an unusually
pugnacious appeal in the
mass-circulation Times of India the
facebook founder forcefully defended
introducing his free basic service a set
of basic internet services for education
healthcare jobs and communication that
people can use without paying for data
sorry India farm book farmville is not
included in that facebook mr. mr.
Zuckerberg says has already launched the
service in partnership with more than 35
mobile operators in more than 30
countries he says more than 15 million
people have already come online because
of the service the data is clear he says
free basics is a bridge to the full
internet and digital equality so in a
tone which many say mocks critics mr.
Zuckerberg mr. Zuckerberg that's the
second time I've called him Zuckerberg
what is up anyway mr. Zuckerberg asks
who could possibly be against this
surprisingly over the last year there's
been a big debate about this in India
according to the BBC Matt they believe
that mr. Zuckerberg possibly expected a
Kate wat cakewalk with free basics and
is now I rate at being stonewalled by
critics who were not convinced about his
motives maybe they heard about his whole
Jarvis scenario for his house and I
think there's ulterior motives there
yesterday he lashed out against his
critics for continuing to spread false
claims imagine that social media of
false claims he wrote instead of
recognizing the fact that free basics is
opening up the whole internet they
continue to claim falsely that this will
make the internet more like a walled
garden doesn't it feel like you're
stepping back in time just a little bit
so to be honest with you it feels like
remember when internet first came out
and there were there was some separation
between services and then he's creating
something that is free so it's got its
place i'm sure it's helpful to some
people but when it's not connected to
everything whoo-hoo it's not the real
it's not really the internet is it it's
it's like AOL well yeah or like a really
massive Wikipedia considering the kind
of stuff that's on there but
the thing I don't get is I I mean I know
a bunch of people from around the globe
and it seems that other than in Canada
everybody has really cheap cell phones
with unlimited data I've got a friend in
Africa and he's like dude for twenty
bucks a month I have unlimited data on
my phone I get access to everything now
granted that's conversion to be twenty
bucks but does India not have cheap cell
phone rates with data or like I don't
know I guess there's a need for it
somewhere but I don't know he's going
for it so anyway efforts to convert net
user to a new addressing scheme have hit
a key milestone the novel scheme is
needed to help the NetSupport more users
and many more smart devices and gadgets
now more than ten percent of net users
are visiting websites using the new
system statistics suggest it's not
called statistics suggest I just paused
incorrectly they're called ipv6 the
protocol replaces an older version which
pool whose pool of addresses is almost
depleted the figures were gathered by
search giant google which monitors how
people reach reach its services the
adoption of ipv6 around the world is
patchy as some nations have deployed it
widely while others have ignored it
Belgium tops the table of most
enthusiastic ipv6 adopters as 44.3
percent of the people in the country can
use it to get a google and other ipv6
sites adoption in the u.s. is 25.6 and
the UK 2.95 nvidia says less than 1% of
pcs expected to be in use globally in
2016 will be powerful enough to run the
best virtual reality technology it's
estimated just 13 million would have the
required graphics capabilities in 2016
raising to 100 million by 2020 which may
not be exactly as shown fantastic
consumers can access we are on
smartphones and consoles but need pcs to
use high-end headsets such as the oculus
rift sounds like something from Harry
Potter some
or something some forecasts have
suggested 2016 could be the year virtual
virtual reality finally takes off and VR
companies feature prominently at the
2016 Consumer Electronics Show which
opened in Las Vegas yesterday vr
headsets create immersive 3d environment
where where you can interact with and
explore but despite growing excitement
about their potential they have yet to
reach a wider consumer audience however
providers such as facebook oculus and
HTC are preparing to ship their first
headsets by spring and video warns
however that immersive VR requires seven
times the graphics processing power
compared to traditional 3d applications
and games so if you plan to add a VR
headset to your gaming rig pay special
attention to the specs of your hardware
you may need to upgrade your graphics
card or other peripherals to achieve
silky smooth gameplay what would be the
purpose of such crazy VR if you have to
spend that kind of money fun fun games
it up right there about having a headset
and in front of you is a 100 inch TV but
meanwhile it doesn't exist but also some
you know you see some of the demos that
especially Microsoft has been getting
into the augmented reality yes so that
kind of stuff I think has a place and
it's certainly an interesting way to
game it's true but i don't know maybe
social maybe i'm just budget conscious
but do people have the kind of money for
that kind of stuff like if you need
seven times the power you gotta have a
pretty big disposable income i don't
know it's just my thoughts i'm going to
go back to my commodore 64 the company
that lets you compare airfares and
translate foreign language online wants
to make it easier to weigh the costs and
benefits of installing solar panels on
household rooftops google is rolling out
a new online service that quickly
tallies up considerations of going solar
and whether homeowners should consider
buying or leasing solar panels costing
thousands of dollars Google's Project
sunroof combines the eye-in-the-sky
images behind Google Earth and
calculates on how much shade trees cast
over rooftop data on local weather
patterns industry pricing and available
subsidies to arrive at
bottom line Carl elkin the senior
software engineer behind the service
says we at Google believe in solar
energy the solar industry needs our help
the service expanded in December to
analyze properties in the rally area as
well as 15 other metro areas in Arizona
Nevada Connecticut New York New Jersey
and Colorado while I think this is cool
as I'm reading it I'm thinking Google
knows way too much about where I live
and what my trees are doing and how my
picture day for my hydro that is kind of
cool though you got to admit that yeah
it shows kind of a heat map of where the
Sun hits the brightest so also as you're
installing the product if you decide to
go that route you know exactly where
would be the best roof yeah that's true
although generally I just go outside and
go oh look son east west that's the spot
on my roof there's no trees I'm good not
sure that's quite as accurate ya hear
what you're saying oh I think it's kind
of funny and what happens if they take a
picture in the winter when there's no
leaves on the trees they don't have
winter in California oh that's true I
suppose alright patients needing surgery
to reconstruct body parts such as noses
and ears could soon have treatment using
cartilage which has been grown in a lab
the process involves growing someone's
cells in an incubator and then mixing
them with a liquid which is 3d printed
into the jelly-like shape needed it's
then put back in an incubator to grow
again until it's ready research is in
Swansea hope to be among the first in
the world to start using it on humans
within three years the researchers say
we're trying to print biological
structures using human cells and provide
the right environment and the right
timing so it can grow into tissue that
we can eventually put into a human it
would be able to reconstruct lost body
parts such as part of the nose or the
ear and ultimately large body parts
including bone muscle and vessels the
team of surgeons are working with
scientists and engineers who have built
a 3d printer specifically for this work
and I'm thinking
fifth element it's not the one where
they rebuild bones I don't know but I
think it's super cool that's very cool I
can't believe it's only three years off
I know and we still haven't figured out
the flying DeLorean one lightsabers
although Mike come on it my next my next
thing is that we could create the vision
from Avengers like that could be like
down the road about as we create an
entire human that's what we're working
on look could that's what it could
become because we're making you know
they're baked basically making
everything it could become they could
make like another human and here we have
Kelsey trying to make humans obsolete
next thing you know we're gonna have an
episode on a Raspberry Pi human today
I've got a 3d printer and a raspberry pi
so you need to build another Kelsey us
speaking of replacements the US Army it
says that its mothball plans to deploy a
robot developed in conjunction with
google because it's too loud we're
talking about spot the leg squad support
system referred to by some as the big
dog it's capable of carrying 400 pounds
or for those of you that like kilograms
180 1.4 kilos of equipment over rugged
terrain but the US Marines now say its
petrol-powered engine is too noisy for
them to use in battle the ls3 was
developed by Boston Dynamics a robotics
firm acquired by google in 2013 the
robot can follow troops on foot through
rugged terrain carrying their gear it
can also interpret verbal and visual
commands however after a major field
trial in 2014 flaws in the robot also
became apparent the military took took
it as it was a loud robot that's going
to give away their position the machine
which has a gas-powered engine is said
to emit a lawn mower like noise that
would be unviable in combat situations
it's also difficult to repair making it
less than ideal for field use Google is
set as far back as 2013 that it planned
to move away from its military contracts
which it inherited as part of its
acquisition of the company so big thanks
to roy w nash and our community of
viewers for submitting stories to us if
you found a new story you'd like to send
email it to newsroom at category 5 DTV
for all your tech news with a slight
linux bias
is at the category 5 TV news room at
newsroom category 5 TV for the category
5 2 dot TV news room I'm Jeff Weston
