it's all about the PTZ for you and me
the pizza that puts how long have you
been sitting on that one about two
seconds before I said it came out a boy
gtz yeah you know me okay so we we've
already covered the tablet now we're
talking about the PTZ camera oh this
camera it's been sitting in the studio
for a while has been here sometimes we
don't always get to review something
right away right but here it is this
from Juan's cam and this came to us a
little while ago and we've been using it
because it has an intervalometer feature
that automatically uploads a picture
every moment directly to an FTP server
so that's one of the beautiful features
of it yeah and so we've been using it to
post pictures on our website
automatically during a live show but we
finally wanted to actually review it and
show it to you so this is a it's metal
it is explosion-proof in Italy it is
tamper proof and vandal proof huh
suppose someone could spray-paint it but
I mean it is it's they're getting it
done it's a it's Wireless yeah it does
have Wireless other than you're gonna
need power right so it hangs normally
like this on a wall right and it can be
outside or inside but it is waterproof
and it is weatherproof and everything
else and it's only $200 now when you
look at a PTZ camera so when we say PTZ
it is really good I mean you think about
it okay this is a 1080p camera right
when you think about that it's in a
metal body it's cool you can set it up
and set it and forget it and it's 200
bucks that's a great deal if you look at
the price of a good metal chassis
surveillance camera for example you're
gonna probably pay 150 to 200 dollars
just for that right this being PTZ means
pan tilt and zoom so in software you can
control where the camera is looking you
can zoom in on things right so it's
perfect for surveillance but it's also
great for things like
if you just want to set up a shot and
zoom in on something and then let it
take pictures that kind of thing like a
webcam it's fantastic yes like the
craziest webcam ever should we take a
look yes all right so I mentioned it
does need power a couple of things that
right off the bat are important to note
it does not support p o-- e out of the
box okay so how it but it does have
ethernet this is something that is not
in the specifications it has Wi-Fi but
it also supports Ethernet so if you're
looking at it and you wonder oh I don't
want to use Wi-Fi for this I want to
actually hardwire it can I do that yes
it has an inline Ethernet port so that's
what we're using it effect to try it and
it has a 12 volt power input so being
that there is a 12 volt power input
right next to the Ethernet even though
it does not support Power over Ethernet
you can buy little adapters so we tried
that so we picked up a couple of
adapters that were for surveillance
camera power over ethernet exactly the
same kind of thing and has an Ethernet
and it splits out into power mm-hmm
but it didn't fit oh okay but we were
able to pump 12 volts through it but it
didn't fit so we headed over to the
local electronics center that is kind of
like the Radio Shack of days gone by and
they sell everything so we found the
jack and the plug and so we created with
my new soldering iron
we created an adapter that now adapted
that power over ethernet that little
3-inch cable okay to fit into the Wan
scam and it works so we have established
we've created Power over Ethernet for it
for just a couple of bucks and that's
perfect so just make sure though if you
do that because power over ethernet can
be like 48 volts you want to make sure
that you don't accidentally plug it into
48 volt port because you're gonna be
throwing 48 volts into that and I don't
know what that's going to do right it's
a 12 volt camera 2 amp so we're just
using a stander
wall wart power adapter sending that
through the ethernet cable and splitting
it out at the end and there you go
chuckle mm-hmm so specification wise is
plug and play so I plugged it in tonight
thinking I was gonna have to do some
setup and I didn't it would just it
worked the router found it DHCP gave it
an IP address and I was like whoa I can
actually do this
now what if you've got a password
protected oh you will
oh well it to set it up on Wi-Fi yes you
would okay but it does support like like
Wi-Fi automatic detection and the gotcha
okay so you can be like what do you call
that the Wi-Fi but I don't know what's
the button on your router called sync No
we'll go with that though somebody will
will fill us in on what that's called
it's got 1080p video but it is and it's
up to 25 frames a second but it has
three simultaneous feeds coming out of
it at all times so three so 1080p and
then you can set the other two
resolutions to lower resolution that's
pretty typical of an IP camera so that
you can use a low resolution for say
surveillance and the high resolution for
video broadcasting or something like
that right so it goes up to 1080p and
then you've got two other resolutions to
deal with as well it has a two point
eight to twelve millimeter lens for our
photography fans out there with five
times optical zoom let's actually get in
on this so that you can see it a little
bit better there you go so this is what
she looks like and that is optical zoom
lens which is exactly what you need
because with digital zoom it's going to
be very grainy this is what you see when
when somebody breaks into a local shop
and then the police post on the Twitter
account here's a picture of the person
and it's just a bunch of blocks and you
can't understand what you're looking at
right that's because they've used
digital zoom now this is optical zoom so
you can get in there five times it's
like a telescope right right so it's
very very clear crystal clear in fact
full 1080 P even zoomed in and so no
longer looks like Steve from minecraft
wasn't one to rub your store there you
go at least then you could track him
down that's right yeah as Jeff mentioned
it's got 802 11 and it's
b/g/n Wireless so it is in yeah so if
you want to plug if you want to just set
it up and just power it from an outlet
you can use Wi-Fi to to do it so you
don't have to run any cables to it or
anything just you know plug it into an
outlet and you're good to go
okay um it has night vision as you can
see there's my biggest question yes yes
so there it is I know we're a little bit
out of focus this is autofocus on this
camera I'm gonna just cover the night
vision sensor okay see that the night
vision LEDs have come on so there are
six high powered LEDs and they're quick
to come on quick to turn off and that
works really well as well right so when
the lights are off it automatically
turns those those on and switches to
night vision
what is the range for night vision do
you know that I do not know the
specifications would probably be online
but in any room that I've plugged it
into it's been fantastic yeah as far as
field-of-view
perfect once you get out around the
edges you start to get some vignette
includes
pumping out on the edges right but but
it works really well in the in the line
of sight at least so that's good because
I know security cameras that I've
installed in the past that have night
vision mm-hmm they say oh it's good for
like 30 feet but 30 feet out you can't
really see anything it's like god did I
just see it ghost maybe I don't know
yeah you know it's like that yeah
exactly unless you get with like within
five feet of it and then the body glows
because just that sensor isn't quite
right and that's been on super
night-vision cameras so that's that's
exciting that you got a good quality
camera with the night vision absolutely
and and another nice feature Jeff you
think about okay well what happens if
internet goes down what if the what if
it loses connection to the Wi-Fi or the
Ethernet what happens it has a built-in
SD card reader but it's hidden within
the unit so you can't actually access it
like somebody couldn't go up to the
camera and take the SD card no they you
have to take it apart to get to the SD
card reader so then you think oh that's
a lot of work to put an SD card and it
supports up to 128 gigs
so what they've done is they've included
a 16 gig card in there so it's already
ready so you can set it to automatically
record to the card or automatically take
a picture every 5 seconds and it will
automatically save that to the SD card
and then roll them over so that if
something happened you can just access
them through your browser or unplug the
camera and take the SD card out and
you're good ready so I just noticed in
this this is what I love about the
chatroom we're talking in the show and
people the Chairman like oh I'm gonna
get this a very oh you know it's 80
meters infrared oh thank you
fantastic that's real absolutely recive
it's this is impressive all around like
when I say this is only $200 if you look
at PTZ cameras of this grade you can pay
upwards of 1,200 to 2,000 yeah usually
you're in around the the $1,500 range
for that kind of thing so that's why I'm
just kind of going through I'm going
through the bullet list of features so
that you understand how cool this is pan
355° tilt 90 degrees so that's like all
the way up down okay and then 200 and or
355° pan I mentioned it's waterproof
I mentioned ONVIF support now that's
important that's the open network video
interface for them yes they created a
protocol to to make it so that cameras
it was like a spec for cameras to be
able to communicate with Hardware right
so what it means to us is that with
ONVIF because this camera supports it as
soon as you plug it into your network
your DVR will see it if you have a non v
compliant DVR if you want to install an
envelope on your phone you can actually
bring up the camera and control the PTZ
through your phone through and through
any ONVIF app that's the thing it's not
it's not proprietary so you're not
having to look at this and say oh it's
it's a Chinese camera and we're we're
not gonna be able to find the right
software for it no no
it supports ONVIF so that means it's
open so you can use any ONVIF compatible
software right so awesome yes cool all
right but can it make you breakfast
just wait yes oh wait no oh but when I'm
talking about on if it can even connect
to Telestream Wirecast
okay because Telestream caps yeah
because it uses ONVIF now there is
latency so you're not gonna use it as a
live cam per se but if I just kind of
set that right here and I just switch
over like this so then I'm actually
looking and you can see there is latency
there but we can see this is what the
camera is now I'm a lower bitrate here
there you go there it is and we're gonna
take a real cover right there take a
screenshot if you don't have a server
for people to be able to use as a webcam
it can support up to six simultaneous
connections okay so that also means six
apps six different computers connecting
to it and streaming and so you don't
have to have like a big server and bi or
anything to use it is there a microphone
did I miss that I don't know if there is
now I've seen that there are audio
settings but I've never got audio out of
it okay
personally I truly feel like if you are
the sort of person who does a lot of
ordering on you know Amazon mm-hmm any
of our partner links and you get things
delivered to your house this should be
one of the things that you buy because I
feel like if you had it set up then you
would at least have a picture so you can
see what's going on Arai absolutely
should we take a look at the interface
yes okay so this is what we see now the
camera is on my eye it's on my IP block
because it got DHCP from my DHCP server
so I just got that by logging into my
router now out of the box I'm going to
type admin admin to connect pretty
standard yeah
and it does nothing nothing because I'm
in Chrome so I need to allow flash to
run here oh okay so it's flash based
yeah no it's not flash based but the web
interface in order to see the camera is
using a flash media player so add my IP
address 192.168.0.1 own nine and add
that so now if I jump back here and
refresh oh yeah there you go so now if
you look can you see my mouse cursor
over here so I can actually control the
camera like this now I've got it sitting
in an odd
spot because because it's meant to be
hanging on a wall it's not meant to be
sitting on its butt so when I click on
right it's actually kind of tilting
instead of turning but let's actually
I'm going to show you what that what
that looks like
so as I'm clicking around in the
software here I'm just going to click on
the automatic calibrate so that you can
see the motors actually moving this
camera around okay okay and it's also
automatically zooming in and out and
things like that I'm going to show you
that in a moment let's bring this back
over here and jump back to our let's see
G there we go so this is now in the
software yeah okay I feel like there is
no reason why Dave's not getting this
for Christmas okay so this is an
expensive show for me this is a very
expensive show how dare I show you all
these really cool things right so it
looks great there is a latency there on
Telestream Wirecast but it is or at
least I'm going on Biff to the web
browser my mistake to switch right over
to Telestream Wirecast looks like this
so this is directly ONVIF over the
ethernet to Telestream Wirecast
this is ONVIF to my laptop so I
currently have two simultaneous
connections okay so quickly through the
settings because I am conscious of time
but I'm going to jump into the settings
so that I can show you because one of
the things about these kinds of devices
is you get on to these websites like
gearbest
and you look at the the device and
there's not really good information
necessarily available and they're not
made here in the United States of
America so you can't really get that
information from yeah so I'm going to
show you what this is like so jumping
over to the interface first screen I see
that there is an SD card inserted and it
is 16 gigs I can format that this came
with it I did not install this now let's
go into time set I can set my time zone
to NTP
so I can choose an NTP server which
means it's going to automatically set
clock based on the time zone that I
select so I'm going to select Eastern
Time and I'm gonna use
let's try time nist.gov
automatically adjust clock what time
have we got right now the clock is
actually it's already correct so I'm
going to hit apply so is that just
picking it up off your network time it
may because I do see an option sync with
PC time but I didn't click on that but
it's possible that it came set properly
I
but yes now I've got it set to NTP so
it's gonna get it off the internet
go into video settings this is where you
can see the three different profiles
that I was talking about first profile
resolution is 1920 by 1080 is the
default and you can go down to 720p
bitrate was defaulted to like 6000 I
turned it down for tonight's
demonstration because I didn't want to
be maxing out our internal bandwidth
framerate now they set up to 25 but I
see up to 30 hello so that's good
I will definitely I will just set that
why not okay
key frame interval 60 I'm gonna leave
that as is constant bitrate or variable
bitrate variable bitrate is going to if
there's not a lot of motion it's gonna
use less bandwidth so leave that active
unless you want every single frame to be
constant you can go CBR that's what that
means video code quality the smaller the
value the better the image quality lower
float larger flow control so if you're
having trouble with the stream maybe you
want to increase the compressions so
that it's a smaller stream and not using
as much bandwidth second stream you can
go 640 by 350 to 320 by 176 or d1 or CIF
which are standards used by your DVRs
for surveillance purposes and again that
does look like it goes up to 30 frames a
second and you can set the variable
bitrate now the third stream is not
letting me set the resolution it's set
hard to 320 by 176 great for little
thumbnails or if you just want to keep
an eye on things on your phone and use
very little bandwidth that's cool on
screen display time on screen camera
name and
what I want the camera name to be so if
you look at the camera here I'm gonna
jump back to Telestream Wirecast you see
IP camera up at the top left so I'm
gonna turn off on screen display time
and on screen display name so I've just
unchecked those and then I'm gonna click
on apply so if I jump back here to the
camera hit apply let's see if oh and it
says frame rates oh it does say the
frame rate is over 25 so it is in fact
hard set to 25 so let's fix that good to
know right I mean we saw it there don't
want to make the assumption okay so now
apply and jump back to our camera and
you see that it's not clean output how
do you like that right
okay next screen here we've got audio
settings see Jeff but I don't know where
audio type g.711 now these are standards
for surveillance systems so I guess
you'd have to buy like a surveillance
right microphone okay so these options I
don't know I don't ever use on camera
microphones ever right but those are the
options that are there audio output
audio output for the third stream and
second stream input options or line in
or mic and then you've got the volume
controls as well just ABS record
settings I can automatically record at
certain times of the day so if I want to
schedule err yeah it does not look like
it has motion sensing but it will allow
me to record based on a time now you
notice too you can choose which stream
you want so I can record at full 1080p
to my SD card or I can turn it down and
use less space get more recordings by
using the second stream or if you're
crazy you just want to thumbnail size
thing you do the third stream
automatically email yourself with
pictures it will actually take a picture
and send it to you and it has SMTP
settings here you can set the port so
that's good safe like you can actually
use encryption so that's good
looks like it'll support pretty much
anything that you want to throw at it so
if you want to set up Gmail to be your
SMTP server that's good this is what I
love is the FTP intervalometer so you
can set your FTP address and username
and password and tell it where you want
to store it and it will automatically
upload
a picture from the camera at the
interval that we set in the software
okay
huh so full 1080p picture boom up on a
server I love that great that I should
say is perfect not just for don't think
about surveillance for that but as a
webcam yeah take a picture every tell it
take a picture every five seconds
put it on my FTP and then just link to
the latest picture every time and just
have JavaScript or jQuery refresh the
image wouldn't that be cool all right so
system log
there's my log you can see that the RTM
to RTSP connected that's the on Beth
network settings this is where you can
set whether you want DHCP or fixed IP
where you want to get your IP dns what
ports you want to use RTSP port for the
server and remember the server's
built-in that's brilliant wireless
that's your Wi-Fi Jeff so that's where
you're going to get it right you can set
it up here you can presumably search for
nearby networks but you're gonna know
your network ID doesn't seem to detect
ours but it may be hidden let's see okay
ddns that's cool so that means you can
have like a calm and use dns settings to
automatically reroute the traffic cool
cruise laps that is for PTZ when you
first turn it on it's gonna move around
through the settings like the pan tilt
zoom is gonna move around how fast you
want it to be whether you want to send
her after the self-check that's what I
meant that's the self check how many
times you want it to lap and then close
the alarm
while PTZ movement that one I'm not
familiar with I don't know what that is
we can guess close the alarm maybe it
has connections to the DVR or something
like that that one I don't know okay
user settings those are your users to
log into the interface you're going to
want to change those what you want to do
factory reboot upgrade the firmware and
all that kind of stuff I've never done
it on VF is on by default so I was able
to pull it into Telestream Wirecast no
problem and then you can set these
settings as me
auto snap the Sascha this is where we
tell it hey we want to take a picture
every 60 seconds and we want to save a
picture to the FTP every second the 60
seconds or to the card so I can set that
to to every 10 seconds and I can upload
it to FTP just like that okay and then
that's it that's it so there we go
so that's the interface that comes with
it now we've got brightness controls and
everything else over here so I said that
there's pan tilt zoom I showed you the
pan and tilt that's exciting but where's
the zoom right this web browser
interface I don't see it anywhere right
so what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna use a
program called ONVIF device manager it's
a free download you can install it on
any Windows system now that's just again
this is just one piece of software that
I've I'm using because I'm on Windows
you can use any ONVIF software so you
see that it's already detected the
camera now if I click on PTZ control
it's going to timeout you notice that
there's no picture and that's because I
have not logged in with the cameras
username and password so I need to up
here admin admin is the default login
now when I go to that camera it's going
to login and I can go PTZ control and
I'm actually going to see the camera
itself and there's very little latency
in that version that's pretty cool so
I've got I can move up and down I can
set presets over on the left hand side
here which is great if you want to set
different zones and then ready for it
yep
zoom look at zooming in on my shoulder
very nice shoulder by the way thank you
thank you very TV where there you go so
there's our zoom now you mentioned about
doing the firmware update one of the
questions we had from the chat room is
how often do they do firmware up - no
idea because I've never done it ok and
it's worked out of the box perfectly
fine for me it's operating behind my
firewall so I control whether it has
outside access or not and how it
accesses things
it supports TLS over SMTP so smart TLS
and so alright I don't I don't know how
often they release firmwares because
I've never looked for one but you can
you can search for that
but how's that for 200 bucks that's not
bad amazing Wow
Wow folks it slices it dices it makes
lasagna
it's a PTZ camera from cat5 dot TV slash
PTZ yeah you know me
[Music]
[Applause]
