hey les hey there any of that hey you
got things to do places to go what's
that
I think you have people to see places
they go yeah so you're feeling cool
they're a boy yeah man old here tonight
what's that in Celsius I couldn't tell
ya I'm gonna google it just cuz I want
to know really it's that cold like three
degrees C yeah yeah it's pretty chilly
well it's not there yet but that's where
it's heaven more like 54 right now oh
yeah yeah it'll be bring in the plants
tonight oh yeah I don't want to go from
when I was when is it warm up I think we
got one more than one more cold night
mm-hmm I wish I knew that I only had one
more cold night
all right from I'm a Michigan native
myself so I mean I know I know what goal
is about yeah
goal makes me happy I just get I just
get giddy inside when when it's get the
ball down here like this doesn't happen
too often you ever been to Canada I've
been through there a time of two we went
we just live in Grand Rapids and we went
to New York Cup - Oh what was they with
London I think
serine Ontario yeah cool whatever
whatever Road it is it goes between the
blue the blue water bridge they're at
and that's across over to Niagara cool
yeah I've been down there that's a ways
away from where we are but we're about
an hour north of Toronto
yeah yeah I don't I don't head so very
often we used to when we when my wife
and I when we first got married we had a
band and we played and we did a little
Ontario tour and we played down in in
London Ontario a couple times they had
us back a few times and kind of in that
area so that's the only time I've ever
really been down there and one other
time I went up I mean Oh probably 40
years ago now 35 events with the
Canadian friends from when I was in
college he cooked me to London to visit
his family and that's the only thing I
remember was from that trip was that he
had this little fish and chips stand out
in the town square or something like
that he had taken to it first time I
ever had french fries with vinegar on
and then for the kiss it oh yeah that's
fine
now was it white vinegar or was it the
red multi Nagar it's got to be Malta and
that's the way to do it well enjoyed you
show very much as I always do and good
man thank you but first time I ever did
the hangout thing yeah I think it'll
start to catch on we're pretty new to
Google+ it's only been I don't know a
number of weeks now but we'll keep
promoting it anyway as little as we do
but I think it's a cool little feature
anyway yeah gives a chance to it gives
us a chance to chat with viewers
directly cuz during the show I don't
know if you you know we try to
try to bluff our way through but it's
really tough to keep up with chat room
and everything else I don't know how you
do it it's really fast-paced we have our
our list that we have to get through in
an episode and you know can you see how
much black is on that page you know
that's that's tonight's episode it's not
a script we don't script anything it's
just that's our to-do list so yeah it's
quite quite mad it's amazing that you do
all all that you do with Linux yeah I
mean I mean mmm the as you're saying
tonight the blending of the Linux with
the with the you know like the one
Windows box you got yeah yeah I forget
the name of the program you said you
were using wire cast wire keV yeah it
takes it takes some know-how there do
all this yeah I think it's you know just
from experience right I mean everybody
has to troubleshoot at some point in
their lives I just tend to when I figure
something out I tend to share it right
right now I got it
I've been I've been using Linux for you
know probably since Suze 8.0 came out Oh
maybe 2003 or something like that right
and and I and I love it but you know
there's so many people that it's so
foreign to them that's like you know I
think etting Hempton they're just not
they're not willing to learn you know
yeah I am and then I guess but there's
one fellow just recently about two three
months ago he's a
gentleman who he was so afraid of
viruses and stuff I mean that viruses
took out which it took out his laptop
and he was totally nothing muffin said
we'll listen let me put Linux on this
thing see how you liked it I tried to
set it up as much as I could for him for
you know to duplicate what he was doing
again in Windows XP on his old laptop
and them we got him all set up and he
was loving it and then he a lightning
storm took out his laptop and then I
have to do the whole thing over again
but he adapted Linux pretty easily
yeah he's comfortable with it now but
it's so funny you know I mean it's an
older guy got so many bad habits and
that kind of thing and he just is not
computer savvy you know he gets a few no
email you know and and we had stuff and
now can I put my journal on em and you
know he's always calling his browser you
know Google you know yeah browser you
know you get these guys on the phone
right and they're the guys here yeah
like we go I've got this problem you
know and he's trying to get and there's
a little button on and it's like a
nightmare trying to trying to help them
yeah just bring it over you'll be
starting your own webcast soon just for
him no I don't think so no I like the
behind the scene just helping people
yeah oh that's good how old is he about
I'm guessing he's question 17 no yeah
that's good the guy that I remember the
story of the 84 year old that I had
converted over to Linux I remember
hearing yeah about an older couple
exactly yeah him and his wife but he's
the primary computer user and he's 86
now and he's still using it and he's I
think he's probably on an LTS that is
he's probably on ten point oh four to be
honest and it's really gonna die on him
but yeah how you doing thank you good
it's pretty dark in your area yeah that
was a fun show I mean that was cool
having Eric on like that and getting to
look at some pretty cool stuff
where was he he was at a little music
shop in a town called Angus it's a it's
about I don't know about a half hour
drive from where the studio is was that
pre-recorded or yeah he did that on
Sunday I believe okay so just to be
ready for tonight with that equipment
stuff that he found there or no it's
actually stuff that because we get stuff
that sent to the studio for a review
companies that want to promote their
products through the show they'll
they'll send a demo unit and that's for
us to review and and you know do it the
best job we can to you know represent
them well so so those devices were sent
to us over the course of you know a few
week window because there we had to
couple everything together right we
needed to capture device we needed the
pedals we needed the software so it's
all you have someone there with a camera
to that you that was me and that's our
our Nikon d50 100 that I shot that with
so really yeah takes pretty good video
I'm gonna be I'm gonna be shooting
Abigail's wedding so I'm you'll find
you'll you'll see little things like
this where I'm doing more and more video
production stuff over hand and it's
really truth you know between you me
it's it's so that I get the experience
to be able to shoot her wedding well
everything from Eric having to mic him
and make sure that you could hear him
well because you know I'm standing 15
feet away from him shooting standing
behind the guitars and stuff right so
but it was a good experience for me
because I need to be able to make sure
that when I shoot Abigail's wedding it
turns out okay part of a video
production team at a school in Flint for
it yeah wow that's cool isn't there
anymore but there's an awful lot goes
into that oh yeah a lot a lot a little
potential glitter nothing like that but
did he catch did he happen to catch our
Christmas special I think I did that was
that was a lot of work to put that
together because we had it was filmed
over the course of about three weeks and
then we had to well I had to edit it all
together and put it all in a sane
fashion so that it made sense because I
had to have wanted all of the co-hosts
to be involved Toby typing sorry no
problem man
yeah I take it your microphone is
built-in to your keyboards
did you see how I've broken so many hard
drives yeah no I say it was the
Christmas special the one where you have
everyone see the death tables kind of no
that was our anniversary
that was our fifth anniversary show the
Christmas special we actually sang for
you I might have missed that one you
might have you might have remembered it
if you have yeah we all broke out in the
Sun so wait till November December time
to make it topical that's all Christmas
songs and stuff so that was a lot of fun
to do anything now the the hardware
store a bit with building the that was
you know we'll just wait oh yeah Lester
in the hardware store was shot with you
remember when we were getting the drapes
yeah and and I had to follow them around
why I'm gonna show you what I did that
with I'll be right back all right
sometimes you have to be a little bit
more inconspicuous I know there's a
Google glass
I'll make some noise so that my my
camera becomes you can see that there is
something yeah check check check check
check check if you guys are quiet just
for a second you can actually probably
read that anyway there's 720p HD glasses
there yeah so that's why you know that
that video when I was in the store was a
little bit different because they were I
was just walking with them right now and
I had to you know walk in such a way
that the staff didn't know and then I
had to blur faces and stuff because when
you have when you have permission to be
in a store that's what you know then you
get everybody sign off on a on a release
form and it's fine but then when you're
when you're just shopping you can't very
well carry camera gear and lighting
equipment and stuff with you so this is
it and blurring faces how do you do that
use a blur filter on the software that I
use for production is called CyberLink
CyberLink what is it the director power
director and some people will say well
why are you using a Windows program but
the fact is is that our most powerful
computer is the is the Windows computer
because it's what we use for the
broadcast system right so it has to be I
mean I could I could put Linux software
on one of the computers or something but
just it makes more sense to have
everything on there so well I bought it
years ago and a lot of highly technical
professional level video and audio stuff
is
it'll be Mac or Linux I'm knackered or
Windows yeah oh there there are some
up-and-coming pieces of software for
Linux that are exceptional but we work
with what we have
anyway back when I started this show
maybe a little bit before that and have
used it ever since we last year we
upgraded to version 10 I think it was
now they brought it another we want to
upgrade I put a square on the screen
which is a blur square and then I move
it and then I move it with the person's
face manually I create an animation
track and I move it around to to suit
where the person's standing so when
we're standing somewhere where I have to
blur a face which is somebody who is not
on a release form then I just put a
block over their head and blur it it's
as easy as that
yep you have to Manly or does it track I
have to manually yeah I also did he
watch the cartoon last week that was
produced in that I missed that one
you missed a day that was fun you might
want to catch that it's like a minute
and a half long it's on Linux tech show
calm but I animated that it was a
picture that Rachel had sent me okay you
actually created it in Photoshop I
loaded it into GIMP on my Linux computer
and created all of the animation
sequence and everything using GIMP and
then I transferred it over to
PowerDirector as ping images and I
layered everything and then I moved it
around and use the animation tools there
to actually make it work to be done
pretty quickly but we we do the show
every week right but so we have you know
I start working I start work at 5:00
a.m. and I work until about 7:40 a.m.
for category 5 and then I work from 8:30
until 5:30 at my day job and then I were
the you know and then sometimes I work
you know tonight I'm still here it's
8:30 p.m. and I'll be in the studio till
about 10:00 or 11:00 so I've got
post-production to do tonight on the on
the episode and then I have to upload it
and do all that so and hope to be done
in time to watch a show with my wife or
some well it sounds like I'd let you go
it's almost that time I got to go to bed
so I can go to work tomorrow oh yeah
what time is it there you're in the same
time zone as beep beep 30 per a 31
yeah thought so very good I've got a
couple hours worth of work ahead of me
and then I got the uploads so very nice
yeah hope you'll join us after the show
next week too Toby that's good to see
you man hey you didn't say much but I'm
sure you take much notice it's right
there as well
ma hey les all right night-night Toby
I'm gonna sign off and we'll shut down
the hangout for tonight all right yeah
yeah see ya
