welcome to category 5 technology TV
episode number 426 for Tuesday the 17th
of November 2015 nice to see ya tonight
we've got an exciting show planned for
you we're going to be teaching you how
to take an IP address or a physical
address and convert it to longitude and
latitude plenty of applications for that
my name is Robbie Brayden is on camera
hey Braden hey we've got Shelly here and
Jeff Westin is over filling in for Sasha
Jeff are you I'm good and you good good
you got the teleprompter all figured out
tonight I do know how to work those
button things and make sure the blue
lights are working in the flux capacitor
is all charged up there we go what's
going on man ok well here's those coming
up in the category 5 TV news room could
we be on the verge of a working
lightsaber we're going to find out a
frightening marketing technology that
uses inaudible sound waves in your home
to paint the picture of your day to day
device usage may already be tracking you
there's really no way to opt out a
Google self drive car has been pulled
over by police in Mountain View
California for driving too slowly and a
Chinese smartphone manufacturer has
developed a battery that will charge in
nearly fifty percent in just five
minutes police body cameras are shipping
with a relentless virus pre-installed
and your Xbox one may suddenly gained a
whole log of backward compatibility for
xbox 360 games stick around for full
details they're coming up later in the
show this is category 5 technology TV
starring Sasha dramatis
Hillary rumble
christo wells
your kid
and your host Ravi Ferguson
this is category 5 technology TV welcome
to the show I'm Robert Ferguson I'm
Shelley de Silva are you been good
welcome back oh thanks it's gonna be
back this is exciting right it's gonna
be an amazing show we've got a lot
planned we got a full hour for you we're
gonna be doing some coding geekery I
mean by the time it's all said and done
that's what they're going to call this
episode the coding d curry episode if
you enjoy category 5 TV our whole lineup
of shows please consider supporting us
on patreon we've got a promo going on
right now if you head on over to
patreon.com / category 5 all we ask for
is just 25 cents per episode we
broadcast an episode every single week
all you have to do is go to
patreon.com/scishow a sending one lucky
viewer who supports us through patreon
one of those were going to be having
well two of those pardon me a race pack
so that you can actually raise a friend
charge one fly one if you want that's
all through patreon.com / category 5
we've had a pretty good boom in the past
couple weeks as we've been mentioning
patreon people have been subscribing to
that we really appreciate you doing that
that helps us offset the expenses of
running the studio you might have heard
the furnace they're running and keeping
us warm on this cool Canadian night it's
going to be getting a lot colder and and
there are bills to pay and we appreciate
you pitching in and helping us with
those we're volunteers here at the show
if you're new here and aren't aware all
of us here are volunteers and and we pay
the bills month-to-month to bring the
show's to you from category 5 technology
TV to new every day and all the other
broadcasts that we've been working on
for you find out more at patreon.com /
category 5 do we get right into it what
do you think well uh let me just
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it is here
and I've been watch
the show no sporadically but it's been
really good guys so if you have any
check in on our chat page here you know
I didn't pay her to say that no and the
International Association of Internet
broadcasters check us out at cat5 TV /
IA ib want to say hey to our chat room
we've got a ton of people joining us
there if you're not in our chat room you
can do so through our website category 5
TV we're actually hosted by freenode as
far as our chat room goes so Jeff you
installed an app on your phone there
that lets you join us in the chat room
yes phone so you're actually talking to
us yes I'm chatting with people right
now that's cool you can do the same it's
irc.freenode.net and the chat room is
category 5 nice and easy nice to see you
sound pro 69 songbird always a pleasure
good guy 98 who else have we got sparkly
good to see you my man looking at the
chat room and thinking about you know
we're all from all over the world we
have viewers kind of everywhere yeah at
this point if you go to map dot cat five
dot TV really cool to see where
everybody is tuning in from I'm going to
do that now and you can do the same map
cat five dot TV and as that loads it
actually throws a pin anywhere that we
have viewers watching category 5 TV and
this is over the course of one month so
this is the past 30 days so these are
some of them are watching live right now
some of them were looking at the website
this week and you can see that we're
pretty well represented all around the
world well how do we do that we've been
getting a lot of questions people saying
I really love your your location map
it's obviously custom it's not branded
to anything other than the fact that
it's a google map how do we do that so
tonight we're going to be looking at
geolocation technology using IP
addresses and physical addresses to
create geocoding which is to convert hmm
seemingly random information like your
IP address or physical address in
not really random but into an actual
physical longitude and latitude that
coordinates yeah coordinate so you can
put a pin on a map which is how we
actually do things on the viewer
location map so there are generally
three different types of geocoding okay
and all different kinds of advantages
we're going to try to cover as much as
we can tonight of course it's a rather
sophisticated topic and so we are going
to get into some PHP coding we're going
to look at some open source like
everything is freely available so we're
looking at PHP I'm using a text editor
you can use whatever you want i'm
probably going to use pluma or could use
G edit or could use you know whatever
text editor if you like to use but the
technology can be used for so much as
you see our map so using IP address to
put a pin on a map that's cool mm-hmm
because normally from an IP address you
don't really know okay well where is
that person yeah you just mention
numbers yeah it's just kind of a it
seems like a random string of numbers
but it actually has a little bit of
location information in it we're going
to look at how that works in just a
couple minutes time then the second way
to geocode or find longitude and
latitude is to have an actual physical
address so as opposed to an IP address
which is provided by someone visiting a
website or accessing something through a
computer you don't have that with say a
real estate listing hmm where yeah you
have the street address but how do you
automatically place a pin based on
street address braden you were saying
interesting enough that you can go to
google maps google maps and type in an
address and it automatically finds the
longitude and latitude and then yet puts
a pin for you well what we're going to
do is actually take it one step further
we're going to look under the hood of
that process find out how it is that
Google is converting that information
the textual information so street
address city province state whatever and
converts it to longitude and latitude to
be able to place a pin on the map
oh wait so that's the second way and
then of course the third thing that you
can do with geocoding is to actually
convert longitude and latitude if you
already have it into a physical street
address so where that comes in is you
know if you've got a set your gps logs
geo coordinates you want to convert them
back into addresses we can do that if
you happen to have longitude and
latitude it's not really what we're
focusing on tonight we're looking at the
generating longitude and latitude but
just to know that there are options
there too to convert it back the other
direction so the two that we're going to
focus on I think Shelley are converting
from an IP address okay and converting
from a physical address okay so why
would we do that why would we do that
why would we do why would we use that
technology I think the most obvious
reason to use geocoding okay would be
perhaps for transactional purposes or
logging purposes so I think about
anti-fraud for example being able to
know you know if somebody goes to my
e-commerce website purchases something
and says I'm from this address and
geocoding says no here actually overseas
somewhere okay then I that's a bit of a
red flag it doesn't necessarily mean
that they're doing something malicious
but it's a red flag that says maybe I
got to look into this a little further
okay but then at the same time if they
say I'm from this address and then
geocoding tells me based on their IP
address that yeah that's exactly where
they're located i'll work with banks to
and transfer is that what you're saying
i'm talking more if i run my own
economou okay so if I'm running a
website and I need to be able to perform
anti-fraud on behalf of my own website
okay so not so much and they would
probably they would use those kinds of
technologies sure definitely but we're
looking more from a programmatic
standpoint what we can do with it okay
ourselves yeah not necessarily what the
CIA air whoever the anything to do with
it because what the NSA can do with an
IP address yep yeah we're not going to
go there tonight so let's let's kind of
look at that end of it converting from
an IP address
there is a tool that we looked at back
on episode number 111 nice odd number 11
11 easy i remember if you go back to
episode 111 of category 5 technology TV
you'll find that we spoke with with one
of the team from max mind and if you
head over to max mind calm that's going
to you're going to see exactly what what
we saw back then they offer geoip oh
look up so for example if we enter
google's IP address which is the one
that we're going to use tonight just
because it's nice and easy 1730 it's
already I already typed it in at one
point so there we go you memorize that
my browser did yeah so you'll see as I
enter their IP address that's Google
based on you know we can get that IP
address just by pinging google com or
whatever yeah geolocation geocoding
tells us that they are in Mountain View
California that's their postal code
approximately coordinate the coordinates
longitude and latitude and the company
that runs their node which is in fact
them so that's a great tool but like
Google using google maps to convert from
a you know an address to a pin on a map
we can't really do anything with that
because okay from a programming
standpoint it's you're getting that
information fed out to you in a format
that you know it's not xml it's not
Jason it's not
comma-separated values or anything like
that what we want to do is make it so
that our programming can interact with
that data in a very quick way so that we
can have this stuff happening
automatically in the back end so let can
we get right into that yeah yeah all
right and if you have any questions I'm
going to try to make this as sane as
possible because I know that this is
going to be a little complex in some
ways and so I may you know I may have to
jump back and forth and you feel free
Shelley to throw question I guess yeah
real questions at me keep me level so
that I don't get off track or anything
with my night your leader geekery yeah
Rob we do have one question from the
chat room that's fine yeah Barclay balls
is wondering about VPNs how would that
affect this a VPN is is a connection
from my computer to another computer and
then that computer makes the connection
to the outside world so if I'm connected
from Canada to a VPN in the UK and then
I go to a website then the website is
going to see my IP address as the
connecting computer that I'm connected
to not my own physical computer so
that's that's where VPNs can be handy
and that's why VPNs work for for example
people will use a VPN tunnel in order to
gain access to netflix United States
versus the local netflix Canada so we're
not talking about the legality or
anything about that but that's why that
works so when they connect through the
VPN it tricks Netflix into thinking
they're accessing it from the states
when they're actually in care is it like
a redirect kinda like it kind of is it's
like remember when back before we had
magic jacks yeah like I'm talking so
let's go back to when when we were kids
I was a kid a lot longer ago I think but
when I was a kid we used to dial a phone
number that was halfway between our city
and the next city okay to make a long
distance call to the following city
without having to pay long distance so
instead of dialing direct to this phone
we could dial at we could dial this
phone number yeah and then it would give
us a new dial tone and then we could
dial the next phone number and it would
jump us to them anyone I'd even know
that was the thing it was a thing
because then you didn't have to pay long
distance yeah same thing as fidonet or
BB essing we used to before internet was
in existence the way that email worked
is that my computer would dial to one
computer yeah send the email then that
computer would dial to the next computer
send the email for rocket and it would
keep going forward so that nobody was
paying long distance it was right yes
going through the phone lines but in
that's why I took so long so similarly a
VPN becomes that jump point that I'm
connecting to so now Leyte and I go to
the website yeah it could be the states
could be anywhere in the world so VPNs
would bypass what we're going to look at
so it's this is not you know geolocation
for by IP address is not as accurate as
say geo geo coding based on a physical
address because when you have a physical
address it's specifically you know
Barrie Ontario Canada where when I'm in
Barry you're right sparkly if i connect
to a VPN or a proxy or something okay in
the state's it's not going to say Barry
it's going to say state estates okay
yeah you're gonna get around that yeah
so tonight well let's let's get to it
we're going to do some code so let's I'm
going to go into my terminal feel free
to do the same oh maybe we'll start with
nano and that'll get us started so what
we need to do is just make sure that we
have PHP installed so you just type PHP
dash dash version and if it responds
with a version hey you're good to go so
let's go into temp and make it I'm just
using temp as a folder to create a file
in and let's touch a file called geo dot
PHP so now if I run PHP geo dot PHP it
executes that file so if I edit it
there we go run it hello world see that
so now my PHP is basically that PHP file
I can execute it let's add a line break
there hello world so I've echoed that
out so I'm executing that from the
command line I don't so the advantage to
that is I don't need to have an Apache
server or something like that and what
we're doing is something that we could
be logging it to a database or something
along those lines it doesn't have to
happen in the browser and in fact we
probably want it to run as a cron job
because if we're connecting out to AP is
converting numbers and things like that
it may take a little it may take a
little time it may cause a little delay
on your website so let's give it a go
all right there are a couple of
different services that that we're going
to be looking at tonight first of all we
know that we want to look at IP based
stuff so max mind we took a quick buat
but if you want to use them for as a
back-end they do offer free database but
the coding you need to figure out if if
you want to use it for commercial
purposes and for large large scale
numbers of lookups then you do need to
pay for the service they do offer other
services like min fraud at max mine com
which are definitely worthwhile if
you're doing e-commerce transactions on
a regular basis doing a lot of
e-commerce min fraud is going to help
you to weed out bad credit card numbers
things like that so they don't just do
geocoding they do a lot more than that
so so what we're going to do is they do
offer a free database as I mentioned but
how do we access that database in the
same way so that we can use it within
our program that's where a program that
is open source comes in handy the
program that we're looking at is free is
from free geoip dotnet so using their
website you can go to their website if
you want but we're just going to
actually do the code tonight free geo IP
net so i'm going to set up a server
string and we're going to call this HTTP
colon slash slash free geoip net just
like that so that's my server so I've
just kind of set the
up and now what are we going to do with
that so with free geoip net we've got
the structure that they provide is
basically dollar sign server dot XML or
it could be JSON or it could be a CSV
for the output so it looks like this
query equals server which is free geoip
net / xml / and then your IP address so
we're going to use google as our IP
address let's set it as a string just to
make it make sense so that you can pull
that from a database you can pull that
from wherever you want we're using
google so that is 173 dot 194 dot 1 2 3
dot 63 is the one that we're using so
now if I go dollar sign IP now let's
echo that out dollar sign query dot and
then a line break just so that we can
see what that looks like so that's what
the output actually looks like so we set
free noooo free geoip net / xml /
google's IP okay so do you see how
that's structured so that is created
query is created by server which is
assigned here / xml because that's what
we're going to be working with because
i'm going to use simple xml to parse
this and you can do JSON or CSV and then
we've got the IP address and that
generates what we saw there so now I can
actually pull data from that URL if I
actually go to that let's say I copy
that link address bring it up in my
browser watch what happens
it's taken a sec see it can take some
time I think waiting for free geoip net
come on free geoip net mmm it's both
right
could be my browser to you know what
that's Firefox let's bring up Chrome
it'll come right up watch free geoip net
/ xml / google right is going to give me
that same stuff that we saw on max mind
but notice that the response because
i've requested xml is going to give me
xml so just to show you that we can do a
JSON request right you can do CSV but
it's going to give you the CSV file in
this case I think yeah it's downloaded
it so there it is but we want XML so we
can parse that so you see it's it's
exactly the same information that we got
on max mind because it comes from the
same database but it gives us a
structure that we can work with okay so
let's go back into our file here and say
alright now that we've got our query and
we know that it does feed us with some
information let's actually create the
the object that we're going to pull the
data into so we're gonna go free geoip
i'm going to call this one just so that
i have a same name that makes sense to
me so i'm going to do an at symbol which
is just going to turn off any error
messages just because we're not doing
any error correction tonight you'll want
to do something if this is going to be
on a production server we're going to
use simple XML to load file and then
bracket dollar sign query okay so now if
i print our dollar sign free geo IP
because we remember we've assigned that
now as an object with simple xml load
file let's save that run it and you'll
see that in our code we now have an
object simple xml element object that
contains all this information so we've
got the IP address we got the country
code we've got the country name region
code region name California the city zip
code time zone and longitude latitude
how easy was that so from your IP
address we've now are already generated
that easily longitude and latitude so
we've got what we need to to do pin on a
map based on your IP address so that's
where map cap 5 TV comes in
mm-hmm we've now taken that IP address
converted it to longitude and latitude
and now we can place a pin on a map so
how accurate is that number eyes mention
it yes is a little bit inaccurate yep
it's not exactly to the position that
you're at any guesses chat room or
yourself why that would be why would
geolocation geocoding on an IP address
be inaccurate or off by a certain
threshold I had a viewer today on
Twitter let's see if I can bring up the
message here did they answer or was that
the question but they sent Antoine on
Twitter hmm we actually had a discussion
about about this very topic so I'm just
going to log in here and chat room any
ideas and for you at home I mean send us
an email so its writers horde writers
horde greetings thanks for watching the
show and for communicating with us on
twitter says the geolocation geocoding
for them shows the pin about 99 miles
north-northeast of where they actually
physically are 99 miles that's pretty
inaccurate so IP address geolocation so
when we put pins on our map you don't
have to worry about you know is that
actually putting a pin on the top of my
houses yeah privacy concern is that is
that something that you know I really
need to be worried about people coming
accessing my IP I always be using tor
and a VPN well it's not that accurate
writers hoard says 99 miles away and the
reason for that is because geolocation
based on IP address is based on where
your node is located okay so if you if
you've ever set up something like copper
to your house and fibre-to-the-node you
made it might have heard that so bell
fibe for example they have fiber
internet that comes to the node and then
you've got copper to your house so the
node is actually kind of like a box or a
you
where if the distribution node the main
internet comes into that node and then
is distributed to all of the households
or businesses that are on that note
that's why you may have heard that if
there's a lot of people saturating a
node your internet might get slow right
it occur on a shared Internet we have a
couple uh yeah do we have to decide yeah
we have some guesses nearest ISP address
location not necessarily your internet
service provider but when they wear
their cables all come together at the
node and then go out to the houses
that's that's where it is or the
businesses right so yeah you're you're
pretty close there we have because the
location of the server of the ISP might
not be in the same city as you are so
kind of like the exact one yeah yeah so
so knowing that we know okay I p
geocoding is not so accurate that we
really need to be concerned about a
privacy issue okay so let's jump back to
our code and let's see how accurate this
really is we know that we're looking at
Google so they're easy to look up and
that's why I've used them we've got a
latitude there and a longitude so let's
go to google maps and let's let's find
out where they're located oh I could
have just gotten maps but okay let's do
it we got another one all the ends on
the IP are registered with Aaron Aaron
Aaron area in North America yes but then
the node will still have geolocation
information assigned to it so you could
be on for example you could have dynamic
IP addresses with your ISP and those can
move around from node to node but it
would be accurate to the node that it is
assigned to it at that time so so let's
let's look at this I'm going to take the
so we had one one gentleman who is
saying that is 99 miles away that's
unreal and really shows how inaccurate
it is but let's look at google so 37
point whatever this is from our own
script that we just wrote in just a
couple of minutes flat
comma so that's how we're going to
search google hit enter and now we'll
see that it's placed the pin son Jose
yeah let's see let's get in here a
little bit Oh
I think I lost my pin when I close the
window on the left there did it take it
away so it's kind of centering me let's
check it again 37
Yeah right right there and now let's get
directions NASA are fired pepper nice
and getting directions from googolplex
okay there now I now I see where we are
ok so the Google building is where you
see it there on the left so to get to
their knowed it would take you 13
minutes 3.5 miles and there yep there it
is ok so you see that it's it's not all
that inaccurate it's pointing us to
approximately the right place but it's
not so accurate that I'm worried about a
pin on my head yeah I connect to a
website so what are the advantages and
disadvantages of either or of IP and
then specific addresses what would you
yeah we're gonna look at using an actual
address and I'll show you I mean real
quick what's the difference right here
on google let's actually do a google map
search for google's address versus what
we just saw linden says his a spot on oh
yeah yeah awesome so there when i do a
search for their actual address it takes
me right there right so that's because
it they have the map data so now it's
not to the note it's to the actual
physical address i'm much more accurate
you can get directions to that and i'll
show you how to do that programmatically
as well ok the advantage type ii
geocoding is simply the fact that i can
get information with early click without
a user having to provide any information
to write to me um I could never pull an
actual physical address from your
session because where would I get that
data from your session really contains
your connection to my server will
contain your IP address your browser
agent what kind of browser you using
what kind of computer you're using as
far as operating systems go that kind of
information ok but it's all very
anonymous it's all you know fairly safe
really I think I get that one if my
apple ID is logged in somewhere else it
lets me know and it tells me all the all
the
formation all that kind of stuff so that
would be a random guess of where it
could have been logged into yeah that's
possible have you ever heard of a
tracking cookie mm-hmm okay a tracking
cookie and Jeff you were mentioning
about ability for tracking from device
to device we're gonna we're going to
hear about that in the news in a few
minutes but what a trap what tracking
cookies do is they they take your IP
address and say okay you're probably in
Mountain View California okay that's
what we find using the reverse lookup on
the IP but then the tracking then takes
it one step further and says okay now
you've logged into YouTube and you're
using this account and this account has
the address of over here and so it makes
the connection and says oh ok now we
know more about you so that's where if
used in the wrong hands it can be
potentially a privacy concern but it's
kind of the nature of advertising and
the web at this point but you can
understand how if I have your eye it's
kind of like how the government was
saying oh well we only keep a log of the
phone calls that you make mm-hmm but we
don't keep a log of you know how long
you talk to or who they are who they are
is what they said isn't it yeah we
didn't we don't keep it log of the names
okay well if I know the phone number and
I have a reverse yeah I can be coming
out the name oh yeah totally easily it's
a cross referencing like we can do that
right so if I have your IP address and i
know that you login is this this and
this then i can look up that information
based on the IP address what we're doing
is completely benign though and and
looking at just placing a pin on a mac
now one question I have how does this
work with mobile devices with the nodes
work the same way it's actually it's way
different and I can show you that
because once we've developed the saw but
once we've written the code to look up
by address we could maybe run it against
our own IP address here cool because
we're on LTE cellular internet
interesting fact is because you're on
cellular it's it's completely inaccurate
to the point you know that you could be
in one city and it will put a pin on in
another city oh so it's it's not very
hear it at all when it comes to that hmm
so well we'll look at that a little bit
closer should we get into a dress
reversal actually I think it's time Jeff
that we throw it over to you and then we
are going to look at how to take a
physical address and convert it into
longitude and latitude we're going to
see how incredibly accurate that is
versus the IP geolocation geocoding
which is not really necessarily all that
accurate but accurate enough that we can
use it and and feel confident that it
gives us a good representation of
someone's location for anti fraud or for
cases like our map so we're going to
throw over to the newsroom for the
moment and if you have any questions for
us get them into the chat room Shelley's
watching and we will will field them
right after the news so off to the
category 5 newsroom here's Jeff Weston
it's Tuesday november seventeenth 2015
and here are the stories were covering
this week a breakthrough in photon
technologies leaving Star Wars fans to
wonder if we could be on the verge of a
real-life lightsaber that excites me a
to paint a picture of your day to day
and there's no way to opt out a Google
autonomous car was pulled over in
California and the reason is pretty
hilarious imagine being able to charge
your cell phone fifty percent in only
five minutes that would be nice that's
now possible thanks to a development by
Chinese smartphone manufacturer and
watch out it's been found that a ton of
police body cameras have been shipped
out with a serious botnet virus lurking
in the file system and i hope you held
on your xbox 360 games because an update
to the Xbox one is rolling out this week
that'll bring you a lot more backward
compatibility to Microsoft's console
these stories are coming right up don't
go anywhere you've got mad skills now
hone them learn new skills or improve
your existing ones with online video
tutorials and training from Linda calm
through our special link at cat five dot
TV / Linda learn software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today to help you achieve your
professional goals join today and start
learning will give you this chance to
try it absolutely free with unlimited
access
ask to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat5 dot TV / linda i'm jeff
weston filling in for sasha tomatoes and
here are the top stories from the
category 5 TV newsroom your dream of
becoming a Jedi Knight may not be as
ridiculous as you thought yes scientists
say that they've taken a step toward
building objects out of photons in super
chilled gas the discovery builds on
previous research in which researchers
found a way to bind two photons together
so that one would sit right at off the
other superimpose as they travel this
experimental test was considered a
breakthrough in 2013 because no one had
ever conducted anything by combining
individual photons it inspired some
imagine it inspired that some to imagine
that real-life lightsabers were just
around the corner now the National
Institute of Standards and Technology
and University of Maryland based team
have made a second break through their
study has revealed that by tweaking a
few parameters of the binding process
theoretically photons could travel side
by side a specific distance from each
other but the development of lightsaber
is way off if at all possible binding
photons requires extreme conditions
difficult to produce with a room full of
lab equipment let alone fit into a
swords handle there are however plenty
of other reasons to make molecular light
from communication technology to
high-definition imaging not only would
this provide a new basis for creating
computer technology but it also could
result in substantial energy savings for
example telecommunication and other data
that currently travels as light through
fiber optic fiber optic cables has to be
converted into electrons for processing
it's an inefficient step that wastes a
great deal of electricity in both the
transport and processing of the data it
could be done with photons directly and
it could reduce these energy losses
privacy advocates are warning federal
authorities of a new threat that uses
inaudible high-frequency sounds to Sarah
pitous Lee track a person's online
behavior across a range of devices
including phones TVs tablets and
computers the ultra ultrasonic pitches
are embedded into TV commercials and are
played with the user encounters an ad
display
a computer browser while the sound can't
be heard by the human ear nearby tablets
and smartphones can detect it question
is do dogs that I don't know when they
do browser cookies can now pair a single
user to bolt multiple devices and keep
track of what TV commercials the person
sees how long the person watches the ads
and whether the person acts on the ads
by doing a web search or buying a
product kind of goes along with what we
were saying a little bit earlier about
how if we can make that connection
between hey this is that user now we've
got more information we can we can kind
of put it all together yes absolutely
the technology which is typically not
disclosed and can't be opted out of
makes it possible for marketers to
assemble a shockingly detailed snapshot
of the person being tracked and is
already being used by several companies
officials said that companies with names
including silver push drawbridge and
flurry are working on ways to pair a
given user to specific devices adobe is
developing similar technologies but
silver push remains the industry leader
using cost of device tracking technology
a Google self-drive car has been pulled
California for driving too slowly no
action was taken but it did raise
questions about whether the cars in the
current form are too cautious in a post
on Google+ the net giant joked bet
humans don't get pulled over for that
too often an incident report recently
filed by the California Department of
Motor Vehicles described a google
automated car as over cautious the
Mountain View Police Department said an
officer noticed traffic backing up
behind a slow-moving car in the
eastbound lane the officer stopped the
car and made contact with the operators
to learn more about how it was choosing
speeds along certain roadways and to
educate the operators about impeding
traffic the car was traveling at 42
miles an hour in a 35 mile an hour zone
would you would you think Jeff that
because they're preparing for an
autonomous road network that they got to
be cautious right if there were more
autonomous cars than they could flow a
lot easier because they would know what
the other one is going to do but it's
gotta you gotta be it's like when you're
driving down the highway and you see
someone driving a little or at you kind
of back off it's entirely possible
what's going through my head is it's
going to be great for insurance rates
that's true enough because you know I
mean though you know if you're driving a
Google car you're not breaking the speed
limit yeah should get a break on your
insurance premiums for that they're
gonna have a whole new ticketing system
can't the opposite of speeding what do
you call it auntie speeding no they do
it they do have charges for that it's
impeding traffic i think it's okay go 13
blower yeah it's like 25 percent below
the speed limit or something if it I
don't know so if they just have an
autonomous crackling autonomous car Lane
where they can all just like at the same
base at but they would go faster though
wouldn't they like a theoretical I
theory maybe the water faster oh yeah
that thing the conveyor thing the
conveyor thing yeah I am here where you
going with that run waves yep that's
right I'm seeing it now you got the
regular traffic lane here laying you got
the autonomous car going full to Mike
Lee all all 20 of them baby yeah all
right I know I'm going to butcher this
one so I apologize ahead of time Howie
the Chinese smartphone giant has
developed a battery that can charged
forty-eight percent in around five
minutes fast charging technology works
by including sturdier components which
can deal with a higher power input
according to android authority Qualcomm
has also been experimenting with fast
charging offering a 60-percent charge in
five minutes and Samsung's Galaxy s6
handsets in four hours of usage from 10
minutes charge I don't buy that one I've
got the s6 edge it does not last for
hours with the 10 minute charge my
samsung does exactly the opposite of
that if I charge it for four hours i get
10 minutes of usage yeah so we'll see
anyway hi we also developed a battery
that can charge the nearly seventy
percent in two minutes but it's not big
enough to power smartphone for an
extended period of time one of the
world's most prolific computer worms has
been found infecting several police body
cameras according to a blog post
published last week by security firm I
power multiple police cams manufactured
by Martel electronics kit preens
pre-installed with the wind win32 /
configure be too
when one such camera was attached to a
computer in their lab it immediately
triggered the PCs antivirus program when
company researchers allowed the worm to
infect the computer the computer then
attempted to spread the infection to
other machines on the network config or
took hold in late 2008 a few days after
Microsoft issued an emergency patch for
Windows vulnerability that allows
self-replicating exploits within a few
months conflict had enslaved as many as
15 million windows pcs it's sprawling
botnet of infected machines eluded the
vigorous takedown efforts of the
conflict configure working group which
was made up of Microsoft and more than a
dozen partners in the security and
domain registration industries to this
day researchers aren't sure what the
purpose of the malware was remarkably
configures unknown operators were never
observed using the worm to steal bank
account credentials passwords or any
other type of personal data from the PCs
they infected a report the police
cameras are shipping with configure be
pre-installed is testament to the worms
relentlessness it's also troubling
because the cameras can be crucial in
criminal trials if an attorney can prove
that a camera is infected with malware
it's plausible that the vulnerability
could be grounds for the video it
generated to be thrown out of court or
at least to create reasonable doubt in
the mind of jurors infected cameras can
also infect and badly bog down the
networks of police forces some of which
still use outdated computers and
ineffective security measures I powers
president decided to take the story
public due to the huge security
implications of these cameras being
shipped to government agencies and
police departments all over the country
and a big update for Microsoft's Xbox
one is due to start downloading to
consoles around the world on Thursday it
makes changes to the way users navigate
around the consoles dashboard and speeds
up many common tasks such as checking
what friends are doing it also adds
backwards compatibility to the console
so that it can play many older xbox 360
games initially 104 older games
including Gears of War and mirrors edge
will be playable on the console the
update has already begun but it's being
staggered because it needs to be applied
to more than 12 million devices a big
thanks to roy w nash in our community of
viewers for submitting stories to us if
you felt a new story
you like to send email it to newsroom at
category 5 TV for all your tech news
with a slight linux bias visit category
5 TV news room at newsroom category 5 TV
for the category 5 TV news room i'm jeff
weston filling in for sasha tomatoes
thanks Jeff this is category 5
technology TV welcome to the show
episode number 426 tonight hmm I'm
Robbie Shelley dasilva's here Braden's
on camera we got Anthony here in the
studio good to see you I'm sure it's
running through your head about that
camera getting a virus infection Anthony
of course from froggy dot CA they do
security and just the thought of
plugging in a camera that's meant to
protect mm-hmm and getting a botnet
worm-like conficker mm that's a bad
thing and I think that because those are
for you know the UU what would a jury
think if your camera was infected with a
virus chatroom jokin ago I didn't hit
him it was the service thanks for that
thanks for that okay are we we can get
straight back into this tonight we're
looking at creating generating longitude
and latitude from IP addresses and from
physical addresses using PHP you can use
this for all kinds of applications we're
looking at the very basics tonight but
I'm sure that you can think of a variety
of different ways that you could use
this technology and the techniques that
we're learning one way that I have used
recently the the ability to convert
addresses physical street addresses to
longitude and latitude to place a pin on
a Google map is because I develop
websites for real estate so I work with
the canadian real estate association to
build websites that are powered by their
database to generate listings for real
real estate agents and that goes to a
map and that would typically yeah you
would you would expect that on your lid
on your real estate listings that you
would have a map to the the home that
you're interested in or whatever it is a
commercial property or vacant land
and so the problem is is that they don't
actually provide if you're familiar with
the DDF system or Canadian Real Estate
Association any of those kinds of things
MLS systems you probably have in your
area they don't necessarily provide
longitude and latitude they only they
work from physical addresses so there
there is no longitude and latitude
provided by their database system so we
have to then say okay well we'll take
the address that you give us for this
real estate listing and create a map
from it but how do we do that without
having to go through you know expensive
API embed codes and third-party programs
and things like that we just want to be
able to generate it once save it to a
database and reuse it over and over
again and that's a key point to these
services we looked at at for example for
the IP address lookup i was looking at
free geoip net Google Offers api's for
google maps that allow you to geocode in
the opposite direction using either a
address or using reverse lift from
longitude and latitude but the problem
is is that but well any of these
services that are provided for free are
going to have limitations free geoip net
gives you ten thousand queries per hour
Google on the other hand and I should
mention free free geoip dotnet allows
you to download the program and install
it on your own server if you want
unlimited queries and it's still free so
they're they're brilliant that way but
Google limits you I think it's 2,500
queries per day and if you go over that
you have to pay or be cut off and then
it restarts the next day so if you have
for example a real estate listing
website here's a good example where I
have a map that displays based on the
address that the API has converted to
longitude and latitude so that I could
place a pin well if I now have this
website and it has three
and listings and then the Googlebot
itself or bing bot or yahoo bought or my
own resets well know if these bots for
the search engines go and spider your
website so they crawl through your
website to index all of the pages you've
got 3,000 listings you've got a limit of
only 2500 queries per day so before the
time before that the point when
Googlebot are being bought or whoever
finishes indexing your site you have now
surpassed all of your queries for the
day so then when a real user goes to
look at that listing it can't generate
the geo-coordinates based on a dress and
so you don't get a map or you get a map
that's in the middle of the ocean
because yeah it won't give you a
longitude and latitude so how do we get
around that my point in that thread of
thought is that we can run it as a cron
we can run it as a background process on
the linux server or whatever and save it
to a database and assign it to in the
real estate example i would assign it to
the the listing ID for example so using
a database for any of these services you
can then save at once because hey i know
that your IP address is here I don't
need to look that up 10 times today just
because you went to the website 10 times
I can save it to a database I can set a
cash so that it automatically rechecks
after 24 hours or something just in case
it changed for some reason but generally
speaking if I've looked it up once it's
probably not going to change or at least
not right away alright so I hope that
that so we use a database to save it
we're not actually going to get into any
data basing tonight but we're going to
get into the code of how to actually
make this happen so Google as I was
saying offers some handy api's that are
free up to a threshold so we can use
them without an API key we can use them
without having to do any kind of fancy
fandangled code let's get in here all
right no I just said we reverse coding
yeah we can do the reverse stuff but
what we're going to do is just look up
by a dress so I'm going to keep all this
stuff but I'm going to get rid of my
print our and we'll just kind of put
that like that so this time we're going
to look up by address so let's say my
address
could we use Google's address let's see
if I have it written down here in my
notes Google's at oh I've got it from
geolocation Walcott Avenue no that was
the one that we that it came up as
Google's actually addresses 60 actual
address is 1600 amphitheatre did I spell
it right amphitheater yes Parkway and
that is in sunny cali losing my screen
there there we go so let's just say
that's the full address that i have you
can see i'm not going to pull that from
someone computer if you're visiting my
website i need to be able to do a lookup
we're going to use the same kind of
thing that we did before lets you know
create a query for google say query
equals and we're going to use Google's
API so this time we're going to do
things a little bit different we're
going to explicit a mountain view oh
yeah I missed a you thank you google may
have figured that out because it is
Google's API so my query is going to go
through google we can go https cohen
maps don't don't worry i'm going to have
all of this available for you that you
can actually download it and look it up
I'm doing it longhand so that you can
see that this is in fact dead simple you
don't have to you don't have to observe
a whole lot of code or anything to
figure this out you'll see that I've
only got like 10 lines of code already
so maps.google.com / maps / AP I /
geocode / XML we could change that to
JSON if we want but we're going to do
xml ? address equals and then we're
gonna go dot see how i'm outside of the
apostrophe there so i'm doing this i'm
adding the address so what we need to do
is URL encode which is a PHP function
dollar sign add address note how i spelt
that okay so it is going to get rid of
any spaces and things like that within
that so now if I output that query just
like we did before just so that you can
see what I'm actually creating here
let's run it that's my big long query so
there it is okay see how it added pluses
and things like that so let's copy that
let's add an end of line there well and
then copy that to my clipboard and show
you again how that's going to go okay
copy to clipboard and let's run that in
my browser so that you can see the
output says status is ok so I got it
right and there we go so it is going to
generate latitude and longitude as well
so let's load this and you'll notice
this one has a lot more details doesn't
it got latitude and longer to go yeah
yeah so it breaks it down into a lot
more data so let's open that up and
let's do the same thing that we did
before let's load it with simple XML
which is a PHP function again where am I
here sorry there ok so we're going to go
dollar sign and we'll call this one
Google's google api equals and we're
going to go at simple XML load file and
dollar sign query is we've overwritten
the original query with this one so now
if I go print our dollar sign Google API
let's run that code and we're going to
get that in PHP now as a simple XML
object okay so we've got an object
called Google API then we've got a
simple XML object called result then we
have address component which is not an
object it's actually an array and our
first object our first
key in the array is zero and one and two
and so it counts up like that so what
are we looking for we need the longitude
and latitude here it is here so it's
under geometry in the I believe that was
yeah that's in the object the top-level
object then location is another object
and long okay within that so let's see
if we can pull all that data let's do it
so
we're going to okay dollar sign latitude
bless you all right love you again
Google API and I've got a print out here
that is going to help me to remember how
all this how this is structured all
so my google api contains result
geometry and i said location and then
lat there we go let's see if that worked
so my latitude is what i'm trying to
pull there from that there we go see
that 37 da blah blah blah I told you
might get geeky tonight and I'm doing
this in terminal completely in nano ok
lat and then I've copied and pasted it
and i'm going to change this to
longitude lng see that I said that
you're doing longhand yeah well I copy
and pasted on one last thing is that ok
ok so can I now let's create an array
from this figures need a breather GGO
black ok now i'm creating an array that
contains latin long ok and now let's put
them all together and say echo dollar
sign geo black comma we have a question
is this all standard PHP this is all
standard PHP now I've just created an
object or an array that is called geo
and it contains latitude from the object
ok that's what we got from simple XML
right here ok remember I outputted that
and then I've got the longitude as well
which its pulled also from the geometry
location portion of the the object under
LNG so now I've created an echo that is
going to output latitude comma longitude
that's what we need now let's it's hard
when I'm zoomed in ok
no I'm not inserting a file I don't know
what I hit okay dot PHP end of line okay
run it there we go latitude and
longitude from address okay right on
point now let's see how on point that is
I'm going to copy that to my clipboard
remember we're doing this remember
Braden we're doing this front under the
hood right so I've converted an address
now in PHP to longitude and latitude so
now when I do a search I'm using
latitude and longitude not an address
let's go to regulate drumroll can you do
a dr drum roll I be kind of me Oh
latitude longitude hit enter where's it
put us boom Google building 40 at the
Googleplex I'm within three feet of the
Googleplex they're usually on their roof
so that is how insanely accurate that is
yeah yeah it's basically at the at the
front door so you'll see because I
because of the way that's coated even
though it took some time to do this
because I want to walk you through this
by look at how simple the code is that's
it that does two things we've converted
by IP address and then it really the
address one starts here and it's only a
few lines of code to do it just a couple
a right so any address that you feed it
now so this could be using my example of
real estate if I feed it a real estate
address and just make it dollar sign
address and then run the query I'm going
to get that the latitude and longitude
for that so now i can then save that
latitude and longitude which i've pulled
once save it to a database so that I
never have to pull it again or at least
not for you know a couple days maybe if
that's what I want to use for a cash and
it's not accurate so we're IP address
for Google put us about three and a half
miles away from where their actual sit
actually situated using their physical
address in PHP gave us an exact pinpoint
on the on the map okay
it's incredibly accurate to wrap it up
I'll tell you where you can get all the
code we're going to change the structure
of our demo system a little bit but demo
cat5 TV we used to do incremental now
we're going to start doing it by show
episode number i want to make it nice
and simple for you to find soak a demo
cat five dot TV / 426 that's tonight's
episode number that's going to give you
all the things we looked at plus I kind
of broke it down a little bit further
there for you so that you could
understand some of the other options
that are available to you how it works
and it's also well commented you saw
that it's like eight pages printed
something like that to walk you through
it but the code itself you could do this
whole thing in three lines mm-hmm
fantastic thanks everybody hope you
enjoyed that enough of the geekery and
come do something can I just sit back
and we'll just do something just hang
out yeah can we just hang out we have
like one minute oh wow everybody this is
category 5 technology TV and it's so
nice to have you here tonight oh it's so
good to be here if we've helped you out
either in this show where the past shows
feel free to throw something in the tip
jar it'd be well used you have in there
that's another thing yeah I'm special
thanks to everybody who's been doing
their christmas shopping through our
partner links you can go to the show
show dot TV and click on partners and
you'll see all our links amazon ebay
newegg canada bunch there you can get
shirts printed if you want to get a
shirt printed for the kids that has you
know their name on it or you know
whatever you want to do or something fun
you can do all that through our partner
links and people are doing that for the
christmas shopping and that really is a
cool way to support the show yeah and
not just this show but all of the
programming that we offer here at
category 5 to thank you well I guess
that's that's it hmm feel like I just
talked and talked and talked you did did
you enjoy yourself Jeff huge I did enjoy
myself except for a few teleprompter
issues
which you will never know even existed
because they were already edited out yes
how do you like that a pulse production
for the win the time good times I just
I'm a little bit upset that I'm not
gonna be getting a lightsaber for
Christmas though that is kind of
upsetting i was really kind of hopeful i
want to bring it to the leave it to the
geek say i want to bring it to the
december you know really leaves the new
Star Wars movie nice not a good idea are
we for weeks with no weapons of theaters
that's just not a good it's just two
protons side by side slice your handles
everything off thud well it's been fun
having you here here thanks everybody
for being here thank you to everyone
here for help to put on the show good to
see you Anthony and we'll see you again
next Tuesday night quick mention people
have been saying how can we get Sasha
back on because sasha now works on
tuesday nights we've decided to take
december eight the Tuesday December
eighteenth episode we're going to
pre-record that the weekend prior so it
will be a brand new episode but it's
going to be pre-recorded for you so that
Sasha can be here because she's not able
to be here on a Tuesday night live so
hopefully that's one way to get her onto
the show that that you can appreciate
but we will be in the chat room that
night next week is of course live and we
will be here same time as ever category
live TV so thanks everybody have a great
week
we hope you enjoy the show category five
TV broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven pm eastern
if you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV check out the local
show times in your area a category five
TV and find out when you can watch live
and interact in the community chat room
category five is a production of prodigy
digital solutions and is licensed under
creative commons attribution 2.5 canada
we'll see you next time thanks for
tuning in
