daddy will be here any second and my
uncle Mortimer has come to come to help
pack us up good morning or is it off
tonight I'll bring and my other uncle
wst guy 2014 and that's not actually his
name that's just his nickname and my pet
robot bumblebee just sits here every
single day we're going to try and move
him and dad's home from work so we can
go check out the mansion that he bought
he thought he got he got a raise in his
funds and he have now have enough money
to buy it mansion we haven't paid off
the mortgage but at least we'll have a
nice play to stay for what long time so
now we gotta get over there let's go
this might take a while it's on the
other side of this area there's a nice
swim and I'm really excited to see how
it looks because I haven't seen it yet
and my sister losen who is following me
somewhere oh I didn't know you could fly
lows in and this is the mansion whoa I
love it already so that's the neighbor's
house I believe I don't think that we
have two homes and is this a soccer
field whoa do we literally have a soccer
field whoa I can't believe it we have a
soccer field now I can play all my games
in a jacuzzi I can't believe this and I
think I saw a plan oh there's a diving
board and a waterside I can't believe
this this is amazing and there's a pug
and nice little roll around whoa these
are neat trees what are they called
those are aspect whoa this place is huge
we even have our own hot air balloons
I've never even been in one before this
is amazing so cool see what's inside wow
we haven't quite an my dad hasn't
started packing yet so most of the boxes
are around but look at this this is
incredible there's i love this i can
watch TV here all day wow this place is
amazing I want to go see upstairs I have
to pee so bad okay dad you can go to the
bathroom now well just be checking out
the rest of the house now this is the
second room the second floor I think
this is amazing I've never seen anything
so beautiful dad are you gonna go into
the bathroom yet I can't find it um
anyway this is my dad's room wow he has
sought such a big room he's got his own
bed and aquarium I didn't even know he
had any pet fish here is his um his
kitchen and this is the bathroom that
you should be in right now you found it
no let's go check out my room my dad
said that my room would be just as
biggest isn't amazing wow I even get my
very own bathroom woohoo and lows in his
room my dad said that since our house
didn't have enough rooms we're going to
have to pay to get one constructed so
that'll be pretty soon we have to get
that done and looks like dad's done in
the bathroom he is quite quick I have
whoa i have my own kitchen this is
amazing i love this and is there a roof
Wow and there's this a shed full of
storage we have a lot of boxes and Wow
everyone is loving this
let's go check out the bottom floor i'm
pretty sure that i saw a closet and a
room underneath the stairs let's go
check that out oh I need to go check out
this this is beautiful i love this i'm
going to i'm not going to miss my old
house one bit I don't think I'm supposed
to be running through the hallways but
who cares so right now it looks like
there is a little storage room
underneath the stairs and let's go into
the closet and whoa what's down here I
just fell through a hole oh my goodness
what's down here is this a secret room
and look it's patched up already how are
we supposed to get back up this is
incredible and it looks like there's a
hallway whoa this house is full of
surprises some stairs oh my goodness
what's going to be down here and some
ropes how deep will this go
this place is amazing i love the way the
lights look whoa wow is this is there
water underneath here this is incredible
I can't believe this there's a little
place here I wonder what's down here
doesn't quite look finished see what I
saw I'm pretty sure I saw another place
yeah I did I wonder what's in here this
amazed I wonder what secrets it can have
I think I'll go this way this time so
dead end look like it and wow is it dead
end I can't believe it should i do it
I'll do it I'll do it set to fall down
mine cart ride
do I get down there
am I supposed to Oh No is there a law
down here I can barely see it because of
all my family members where am I
supposed to go now this lava no am i
trapped we'll have to use my flying
powers then June June she need
where do I go this one this is
impossible
I don't know where to go
what's in the chest food
just happened
whoa what's down here
water can services help writing it day
one in the maze desir augurs diary I'm
suffocating in this hole with the cough
oh there is some water and bread never
mind this is not so bad after wait what
is that yeah a place to go how did I not
see that there's a diary down here this
place is full of surprises I bet my dad
didn't even know about this
sorry about the coughing I've been a
little bit sick lately is this a is this
one's home syrup did someone die down
here so weird now I got to get my way
back but who this this mansion was just
built who could have been in here what
else could there be there so now I have
a secret room to explore this is going
to be lots of fun I can have secrets
here unfortunately my dad found out so
I'll try to make him forget because he
might have some days he just can't
remember stuff so that's going to be my
secret hideout but somebody other than
us have has lived in my own home and
they lived underneath my closet this is
crazy this is awesome with crazy who
could live around here anyway while I'm
still in the happy spirit maybe i can go
explore more of the mansion there's
still lots more to see this lake is so
beautiful i love it
go to beach side and palm trees I didn't
even know they grew here this banner we
have a cabana this is crazy dad how much
money did you spit on this I thought you
only I didn't realize you got that big
of a raise wow there's even a hot air
balloon to water balloons this is
incredible now I can look over on this
and fly through the sky is this also
lead to the mention this is a much
easier way way to get to it there's a
nice little front yard with the apple
tree I think it is and there's the
neighbor's house I might go and greet
them just why am I am be bathra amazing
and what um please do not put stuff on
my house this is my house like what I'm
doing some very bad stuff quit it robot
please mangafox 70 I want to build a
cool train let's try and do a soccer
game with my sister losen I'm so glad
you installed the stock of my know it
just bounced away you're terrible at
this listen up get another run those in
I already did what
Wow WSU guy
oh I'll try and do some soccer later I
mean um yeah soccer but first I got to
greet these neighbors they must be
pretty nice knock knock knock hello
hello dear welcome to my home um I think
that you have moved into the mansion
next to me you have a giant mungus
family I will begin with some cookies
but where are you oh I've been invisible
for a very long time but I'm sitting
watching the TV enjoy your TV and thanks
for the cookies you're welcome dear we
have another neighbor over there but I
don't think anyone lives there yet
because it doesn't look quite finished
so we might hear some loud banging from
the house being made at night but this
is incredible I love this I'm astonished
how did dad ever afford such an amazing
place this is incredible I love this oh
no I fell off the agent oh no I don't
think you were supposed to fall off the
edge oh no i'm trapped i'm trapped in an
apple apple tree jump in the water oh we
have boats I want to try one of those
whoa these are big oh no i am not very
good at driving about
we let's go check out that place that's
just being built
leave this
it's amazing
giant tree it's humongous
such a beautiful piece of land
this is a very nice home but I don't
think I should be trespassing on the
property and there's also this so it
looks like somebody's got some
construction going on over here I hope
that is not too loud at night so let's
get back into our boat and we can start
heading home
