hi and welcome back to new every day my
name is Senne and this is Jane and on
today's show we're going to talk about
money matters so stay tuned be right
back
are you
Oh
and
[Music]
and welcome back to new everyday we're
so glad that each of you can join us and
I know things look a little bit
different today because Jane is here hi
and you'll recognize James has been on
our previous show when we talked about
our Ghana missions trip and Carrie is
unavailable to seem today because you
might be thinking where's Carrie at well
it just worked out really well that Jane
was able to join us for today's show and
Carrie will be returning back very
shortly so you can stay tuned for that
but I thought it was really cool that we
had this opportunity to hang out today
because one of the things that I love
about Jane as if she's a loves Jesus to
love adventuring and three knows a lot
about money and you might be thinking
why is that so important well mm-hmm
because money is one of the most talked
about things in the Bible and a few
years ago when our young adult group was
trying to figure out what we should do
and we basically just went around and we
said what do you want to talk about and
they said we want to talk about finances
and so we thought finances okay and so
we have some really cool people in our
church that are great at our great money
but then are great at articulating what
matters about money is why money is
important but how do you actually use it
in your life rather than it using you
and from a godly perspective and so Jane
is a by profession we say what would you
say your profession is I'm a financial
advisor so I actually would say a
financial counsellor okay yeah so we
invited Jane to come and talk to us that
night and we were just blown away by her
story because money it looks totally
different in her life and the role that
in blade because optimist as young
adults coming out of school
there's all sorts of debt and especially
related to school that and so one of the
biggest questions they have is how do I
get out of debt and it seems like the
world is constantly in debt so right you
know as a financial counselor if I was
to come to you and say please help me
get out of debt right what would you say
how do we go about doing this I would
say that the well before I answer that
question I would say that the number one
thing that stops us from getting out of
debt is ourselves the choices that we
make we have decided as a society in
general particularly here in North
America that debt is simply acceptable
and we have all bought into that to a
certain extent we have all bought into
this idea that everyone has debt
everyone has a mortgage everyone has two
cars everyone carries that everyone goes
on a vacation every year and everyone
pays for that on their credit card we
have bought into that idea that
therefore if everyone else is doing it
that it must be okay so we've determined
it's okay and we've also determined that
it's okay for me so not only is it okay
for you but it's also okay for me now
just interrupt you seeing something very
interesting because she said we have
agreed yes that it's okay right to have
debt right so then in my mind I'm like
but has somebody said it's not okay
right if we have a grade that it's okay
then has somebody said that it's not
okay well it usually is not even that
somebody will say it's not okay what
usually happens is that people get in so
deep over their heads that all they're
doing is literally making a minimum
payment on this credit card and then
using that to buy gas and then making a
minimum payment on this credit card and
then use it again to buy whatever and so
they're just and then they actually stop
and realize they have they are never
going to get out from underneath their
debt load unless they make some some
changes so that
change has to start somewhere with
people coming to the realization that it
is not okay okay okay now is there as I
get because we you know we believe in
Jesus we talked about jeans a whole lot
in the show the summer in Scripture does
it talk about that right um you know it
for those people that maybe haven't read
that part yet or they read it over not
with that particular mindset hmm like if
if we were if somebody was to commune
will show me in the Bible what it says
about death right would you be able to
say well actually yes
it does talk about God talks about God
talks about money a lot in the Old
Testament and Jesus talks about money a
lot in the New Testament
so both old and new Testament there are
there are so many different examples of
money God talks about it to the
Israelites that they were not to lend
money with interest so if they were
lending out money to one another they
were not to be charging interest so God
already set the standard there that
there's such a thing called interest
debt yes Jesus talks about where your
heart is
that's where your money will be yes
exactly
and t-talk said I mean well he talks
about lots of lots of different examples
but the one that just comes to mind is
just you know where you're building
that's the kingdom that you're building
so right yeah so it has lots to say
about money and I love love money right
and the love of money because it's not
just money because money is an
instrument right so money is literally
an instrument and but it's whose
instrument is it okay right so because
when we collectively the we have the
attitude that it's my money then I
actually get to make the choices about
what happens to that money okay how it's
spent etc but as a believer it honestly
has to start with understanding that
it's not my money hmm
I'm a steward of God's money so if I'm a
steward of God's money then at the end
of the day God gets to decide how it is
spent and God will decide how much I
have and God will look after the details
but only if I first determined that it
is not mine as his right and so if we
are under this load of debt that we
talked about then really then our minds
become focused on the debt correct
rather than on exact what God is calling
us to okay what stops us from well it
does lots of things because you can
imagine the stress that it creates in a
family when you're carrying gat it puts
a strain on relationships so it puts a
strain on relationships between husbands
and wives it puts a strain on
relationships between parents and
children
it sets a wrong example for children
because they see that this is how mom
and dad spend so therefore that must be
okay and then they will ask for things
and when they get those things then they
ask for more things and then when they
get those things so again it it sets
expectations and it puts a strain on
relationships and often we don't think
that money puts a strain on
relationships we think well money will
solve the relationship problem except
when you get those bills at the end of
the month and you're just like whoa how
did we ever spend this much money and I
was sharing with chain beforehand of I
had heard a story about a gentleman who
had lost his job and immediately
committed suicide and I didn't I
immediately thought why and is it and I
don't know I guess I'm making a guess
here but I think sometimes our debt load
can become so heavy
that when that paycheck doesn't come in
anymore we ask the question how am I
ever going how am I ever going to meet
my bills are our lives are completely
different that we're going to lose the
house we're going to lose the cards and
and that whole as you said money can put
a strain on relationship but that can
put a strain on the relationship you
know it could be in several instances
where people lose their job and they are
they need often they need that paycheck
to come in so they can at least pay off
some of the debt not even live but pay
off the debt so in their minds can
perceive to be living mm-hmm and so when
it's gone then the bottom has come out
and it's not even I would I would say
it's not even losing a job but I mean
there there are certainly there were
instances historically in the Great
Depression when the markets crashed of
multiple suicides in 2008 more recently
for for many of us who who would have
been alive then there were suicides when
when the markets crashed so and to me
it's it's really again so that's where
their face had been placed had been in
that money right it's not about should
they have been invested in should we
invest in the markets that's a whole
different conversation this is about
what am i placing my face in rather than
whose money is this so I want you to
think about that we're going to go to a
commercial break but whose money is this
and when we come back we're going to
jump into well how do I actually get rid
of this debt so I can start and living
out the whose money is this a little bit
you will be back right after this Jeff
Weston Gemma you're building a brand-new
beautiful website
what are you what your terrible actor
what does where acting comes into play I
don't know where I think you're supposed
to act okay I'm building a really cool
website are you building a really cool
website you need hosting one of the
things about a hosting account if you
don't want to have limitations put on
your website it's true how much
harddrive space do you have how many
email account how many domains can point
to it well we've got an amazing deal for
you for a very limited time cap five dot
TV slash dream host for just five
dollars and a bit of change per month
you are going to get unlimited web site
hosting unlimited email accounts on that
hosting service you are also going to
receive a free domain name the rule your
own com dice to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat5 dot TV slash
dream house just don't end up a paper
something just don't do it but hey it's
a great deal folks best deal you're
going to find five dollars and change
per month go to cap five dot TV slash
dream host and we're back was new every
day we thank you so much for tuning in
every week and hearing what it is that
whatever it is that we are talking about
and this week we are talking about money
this matters and how it affects our
lives and at the end of the day this
show needs money to run yes and so if
you feel like you would like to have
helped support us make this show happen
please go to our website it has a few
spots there where you can check out how
can I help support new every day
and communicating truth every week so we
encourage you to go to our website WWE
debut check out check it out check out
our sponsors there should be a thing
that they click on you can tell I talk
about websites all the time
there should be I think to click on I'm
sure Robbie can put something up there
to help show you what you can click on
in order to find out more information
about how you can support us and you're
thinking this is why Kerri is there so
that's true she normally looks at so
we're back and we are talking about well
the number one question that often
people will come to Jane and say is how
do I get out of debt you can stat
literally can fracture break
relationships can limit I want to say
almost bind us up in what it is that God
is calling us to the life that he has
called us to and so the question then is
okay how do we get out of debt so I come
to you I have my student loan all right
let's say okay cuz I'm single so I I
don't have a married loan here so I'm
gonna say I have thirty thousands at an
average amount sure okay
so I have thirty thousand dollars in
debt that's actually low but okay we'll
go with thirty I graduated from
university in the 1990s okay so let's
say sugar tea
so before I so whatever the amount is
yes let's just let me just take a step
back here because the number one thing
that people come and ask me about is
actually not how do I get out of debt
period with the number one thing that
people actually come and talk to me
about is how do I get out of debt comma
so that I can not make any changes to my
lifestyle because that's our one thing
okay that's everything
mm-hmm yes right because the level that
they want they want that's right oh
they're a so they're actually not most
people are not prepared to make any
changes to their lifestyle as they want
to eliminate some debt but not make any
changes to their lifestyle so I'm just
saying let's just put that out there and
I'd like to you to just be honest with
yourself and say am i that person am i
that person that yes recognizes I'm
carrying debt and yes I want to get out
of debt but is it I want to get out of
debt period or is it I want to get out
of debt comma but I'm not willing to
make any changes
yeah I'll leave that with you Watchers
and you can decide for yourself who you
are that's between you and God
so I'm going to answer the question okay
I'm laughing because I was telling Jane
before we sat down I'm like oh yes I
satisfied enough budgeted money and when
that runs out then normally I'm pretty
good mm-hmm but I'm not all the time
because I as soon as he said to calm on
life what is she going to say did we
talk about this and he said but I don't
want to make any changes to my lifestyle
I immediately went oh no I'll just dip
into my savings I can still get home
mm-hmm
yeah so hi by the way that's me
sometimes - okay we are all works in
progress okay so how do we get out of
debt period right okay so number one it
starts well number one it starts with
it's not my money it's God's money
number two I need to pray about this I
need to give this over to God I need to
give God lordship over my finances all
of that not just part of it and I need
to ask God to help me
to make changes and to be content with
those changes and not to compare myself
to others around me who from the outside
may appear to have more so after I've
done that then some practical things
that we can do so generally speaking
people don't come to me because they
only have one debt generally speaking
they're carrying multiple debts on
multiple credit cards as well as
different loans so okay we have to make
baby steps okay so if that's you if
you're carrying that in multiple places
then you you need to start somewhere
where you have a sense of accomplishment
so make a list of who you owe and how
much you owe money to and start with
establishing a reasonable period of time
that it will take you to pay off
one of them so start with the one that
has the lowest balance because you want
to give yourself that sense of
accomplishment at the end of that that
yes I can do that so if you have for
example a credit card that you owe
$2,000 on and you have a line of credit
that you owe $20,000 on don't try and
pay the $20,000 one off first because it
will take you too long and you will be
discouraged so start with the $2,000
debt now what if the interest rate is I
don't really know a whole lot about
interest rates either this is why I hang
out with James because I'll say I have
money question she's like okay let's
talk but what if the interest rate is
higher on the twenty thousand rather
than the two thousand like those should
interest rate play into this well that's
a great question and different people
that you talk to will have different
perspectives my perspective is you got
yourself into the stuff so you need to
get yourself out of this mess
not by trying to shortchange somebody
else on the interest rate also at this
point that's actually what I say because
you need to take ownership of your own
debt this is not a time of you know
trying to get another lender to take on
your debt to get a cheaper interest rate
because all you're doing is shifting
money around so so like consolidation is
a no-no well again remember where I
started yeah I started with you need to
determine that you're willing to make
changes so I want to get out of debt
period not comma right a consolidation
loan is a comma not a period okay okay
that helped yeah now this is my
perspective and this is my perspective
based on my experience with people okay
that a consolidation loan is a comma not
a period okay so that helps me live at
what I am normally used to living at but
not necessarily getting ahead to where I
need to correct because the
consolidation loans means that you have
cleared off this balance on that credit
card to do
what to you believe I exactly that's why
it's a comma not a period so if it was a
consolidation loan then it should be a
cut it should be a call to company while
you're here in my office and close that
out and I don't care what kind of
mailings you get offering you credit
throw them out do not open them okay
all right there we go yeah okay so if
you have two lines of our credit card
and line of credit and pick the one
that's smaller and set yourself a goal
so be reasonable about what your net
income is that net income being what
you're taking home every pay and say how
much can I pay on that which actually
takes us to well I don't know how much I
can pay on that because I don't really
pay attention to where my money goes oh
right
so which actually would lead us into a
conversation around budgeting so okay so
on that note we're going to push pause
okay we're going to push pause because
it's going to be a big conversation
about budgeting and we want to make sure
we give enough time to it but we also
want to give you thought time this week
and to talk to Jesus to say god how are
you and I doing the finances like am I
like if you talk about through the top
the dog wagging the tail or the tail
wagging the dog are your finances
directing you or are you directing your
finances and that's something really to
surrender to Jesus so this week coming
we want you to say okay Lord
how am i doing my finances and even if
it's like you know your your bills come
in or they come at you get your bank
statement and you just surrender to the
Lord and say can we talk about this like
where am I at and this and then we'll
come back in next week and we'll talk
about budgeting as that next step is the
Lord speaks you this week and basically
the question that you're asking is Lord
are my finance will surrender to you
enema in a good place
so let's pray so Heavenly Father I thank
you so much that when you look at us is
not see us as a period you really do see
it as a comma mm-hmm
like yes they are doing this but if they
would surrender it to me I can help them
and so father I thank you so much that
you never throw us out there you always
are so full of grace and for some of us
some of our people that are watching
their soul there the debt is so
overwhelming that there just seems like
no place out out that there's no way out
and how lord could they ever get out
from under it but I believe Lord God
that you're wanting to do some miracles
and people's lives that are watching
today and so I ask in your name that as
we surrender our our finances to this
week asking the question am I where you
want me to be with this Lord or are the
finances taking over I ask that you
would seek truth into our heart and that
we would be willing to receive action so
far we commit this routine space before
I'd say resistance remains our being
here you look forward what else you have
to say asking about causes -
to phrase it from the mighty name of
Jesus hospital so thank you so much for
tuning in this brief you look forward to
spending some time with you next week so
until then have a great day
