welcome to category 5 technology TV
episode number 3 91 for the 17th of
March 2015 happy st. Patty's Day
everybody happy st. Patty's Day hello
and welcome to the show hey tonight you
don't want to miss out we are going to
be continuing our series on how to
create the most spectacular amazing
video slideshow from our still images
and tonight we're going to get into the
animation portion so you don't want to
miss out stick around that's coming up
on the show in the meantime over to
Sasha door made us in the newsroom hey
Sasha hello here's what's coming up in
the category 5 TV news room the process
of machining the fastest wheels and
automotive history has begun a twice
issued Microsoft Windows patch is still
causing pain for users with some
claiming the fixes triggering continuous
reboots for short time Thursday people
all over the world we're trying to
access Google services and they were cut
off because of a routing leak from an
Indian broadband internet provider
you'll never guess which gaming company
is launching into the smartphone gaming
industry and a 3d printing process based
on Terminator 2 has been demonstrated at
the TED conference and it's definitely
not science fiction stick around the
full details are coming up later in the
show this is category 5 technology TV
starring Sasha dramatis Hillary Rumble
Kristen wells
and kid
and your host Ravi Ferguson
this is category 5 technology TV and
thank you so much for joining us tonight
my name is Robbie Ferguson in my name is
Erica log Erica have you been it's good
yeah it's good really good been a while
it has been a while you are kind of
decked out for the she's got the
decoration behind her head but there it
is I I've been working on growing this
in and and dying or green so there you
go Oh real we couldn't really go all out
like Sasha tornado Sasha actually built
an entire room made of green my green
task my green wall I know it's great
don't you all love it crazy if only she
were green shirt I haven't even one
green hand okay see that does it kind of
oh actually see through that's amazing
put it over your left hit the left side
of your head there there yeah there you
see the yeah the sky there we go I'm
seeds fruits really that's a bit creepy
yeah I mean if you were to actually like
douse yourself in green paint and just
run around like carrion things yeah I I
have green makeup that I usually wear on
st. Patrick's Day and I came so close to
putting green eyeshadow on how creepy
would not have been if I black yeah
every time she is it is see through into
the world bind her the City of Barrie
that is behind behind sector well hey
everybody I'm really I'm really pleased
with the way that our series is coming
together on creating these slideshows
we're going to be touching on that
tonight welcome to our chat room just to
give real quick shouts out to those of
you who are joining us tonight nice to
see everybody from all around the world
if you're new here hey I mean join us in
the chat room category five on freenode
what do you say and also say hi to us
let us know where you're watching from
if you're you know if you've if it's
somewhere just around the corner
extravagant you know it's always nice to
know where our viewers are watching from
sometimes we try to read off the
country's and my pronunciation does not
work sometimes
sometimes it's tough because that we
have viewers from all over the world and
it's an amazing yeah and it's been
growing we've been we've been monitoring
I don't know if you watch the Status
page go to status dot category five dot
TV pretty cool to see as people are
watching the show where you're watching
from and things like that but you can
also see the monthly averages and you
know how many people are actually
watching the show and to realize that
almost a quarter of a million people per
week are tuning into category 5
technology TV to our network is really a
wonderful thing and I appreciate that so
many of you have taken to the show and
kind of made this your community and and
we love having you here so make sure you
pop into our chat room and say hi and
let us know if you knew we'd love to to
give shouts out to you and you can also
register on our website category five
dot TV what's this I should do an
episode on watching category five on a
cell phone we an entire episode this is
coming in to us from the toilet I had
trouble the first time too yeah it's
it's a tough thing because of the
technology those I was on the bus I'm
like I'm gonna watch the show on a bus
that's the world we live in i'm on a bus
I'm gonna watch category 5 TV was it
live you're trying to watch you can
watch on-demand easily enough go to our
mobile it's always live I just wanted to
you know be like hey but then you can't
see me but still hey yeah with the
people around me with a new year yeah I
love Audrey my phone and they have a
little head the microphone in and I'm
just like hey and then someone jumps on
the bus and they think I'm crazy but ok
you should i'm on the show i'm on the
show an enemy the show just a kind of
move to the back of the bus so again
yeah bus life
but yeah maybe we could do that in the
future hey you know someday it is
sometimes challenging I had a blue I
sometimes that challenges too yeah the
host how do you watch category 5 I love
that we've got a growing viewership on
the roku platform I think Roku is is
really where it's at when it comes to
set top boxes the ability to watch shows
on your TV in a sane way I guess in a
like cable TV replacement kind of way if
you will because it really makes it feel
like you're watching TV versus having an
Internet set-top box or something like
that where it's basically just the
internet it really feels I don't have to
upkeep with the cable boo yes just the
internet bill oh my how was the the
skiing season because I'm noticing would
that everything is melting now the ski
hills are still pretty good but we
haven't seen you around here for a bit I
know why yeah you were teaching again
this year where yeah yeah I was teaching
I had a great season good it was it was
really nice like it was just I didn't do
every weekend like I normally do just
cuz I've been so busy with work and I'd
been doing it every other weekend this
is my last weekend this week is it a
blast ebony it like it was like a switch
being flipped it you know what you get
of snow and for once you're gone it's a
fish huts variant on the ice yeah it's
very quick in you know surprisingly like
I was teaching on up last weekend at the
weekend before and I was februari the
Valentine's Day weekend it was negative
40-40 negatives LC associates not just
like that's minus 40 fair and how ya
like anyting about that beautiful that's
trippy and negative 30 negative 35 three
days straight i'm teaching and you're
out on the slopes in that weather yeah
that's brewed every other
you and I'm not too sure Adam is few you
cuz Adam also works at Snow Valley too
and I'm not too sure if he was in tubing
but you're standing out there and the
kids cold and I'm like complaining more
than the kid you're out there longer
than they are I want to go home and then
two weeks later just like I was skiing
in my sweater got my sunglasses on I'm
just like chillin havin a great time
such a complete 360 in just a week and a
half it was negative 42 plus one in a
week and a half plus something like 13
yeah yeah Phase II past spring is upon
us my friends wonderful and I guess st.
Patrick's Day is a surefire introduction
to spring because that's that's about
where it starts so welcome yeah shall we
get into it you saw last week's episode
Erica yes you saw it yes if you didn't
you can't you talk this video part 1 you
got to go back to part 1 you got to know
what we're doing here folks because what
we're doing we're creating the ultimate
video slideshow out of your still
photographs we're doing that using as
much as possible and so far I've been
able to pull it off we're using free
tools on lenox sweet but what if i don't
have linux Robbie that's the question
you were about to ask right Oh what if I
do for their thing what if i don't have
linux what a great question Erika is
that leading the the questions a little
bit yeah yeah they're like it but if
this was a court of law that would have
been okay hey if you don't have linux
what's cool about you can get a live CD
which means you can actually boot up
from a CD or USB flash drive and use the
operating system for free without even
having to install it yeah or if you've
got a windows computer and you want to
do what's called a dual boot which you
know quite often we do that if you still
need windows for something you can
actually boot you can install it in such
a way alongside of windows so that you
can turn on your computer you get a menu
do you want windows are do you want
linux choose which one you go into linux
do the stuff that we're doing tonight
and of course everything that we're
learning if you're a Windows user if
you're on Mac and you don't want to
switch everything that we're learning
the the processes the abilities the
techniques are the same just the tools
that we're using are freely available on
the linux operating system so but if
it's it's for you even if you don't have
these tools or if you don't have access
to them that's because you're on a
different platform that's fine but I
want you to know that you can get it
absolutely free as well and add it to
your system but all right ready to go
we're going to use a different tool
tonight now last week you remember we're
looking at using the GNU image
manipulation program to create layers
from our photographs so let's actually
bring that up so that I can basically
pick up where we left off last week so
I've got the original file here of a kid
my darlin kids just loading up into GNU
image manipulation program there we go
so last week you remember what we did
and I haven't touched this sense just so
that we could pick up right where we
left off you'll notice that okay there's
the picture that we that's kind of the
picture that we started with there's
when I've pulled out most of the
background now you see there are still a
couple of things and here's the
background without the kids in it so
you're going to need to learn how to do
this stuff so go back to the the first
part of this series at category 5 TV and
you'll be able to pick up where we are
okay so tonight let's just turn off the
back layer here and let's get in here
just a little bit and we're just going
to kind of finish this thing off it's so
easy at this point because what is a
bench it's basically straight edges
right so I can get in here and I can
just grab this and I'm getting kind of
sloppy with it but you know what you're
going to take just a bit more time
because you're not doing a presentation
live on web TV you can kind of make sure
that your lines are just right Kip makes
it really really easy though I'm using
the same tools that I did last week and
I'm just pulling out that bit of the
layer there and I'm just hitting control
X to delete that you can also use layer
masks if you prefer but because we've
made a backup
be of our original layer it's okay and
again this was all covered on part one
zipping over here look at that okay so
it's a little bit more improved and
there's just that one section between
the kids there where I need to get rid
of this you're going to understand why
that is in just a couple of moments time
look at that so Erica do you understand
the concept of peril axing and what it
is that we're intending to do with this
yeah it's basically to get the distance
like when you look out a window and the
larger objects are further well they
move slower versus the smaller objects
in the foreground and if you observe
that you'll really really start to see
that when when something appears
three-dimensional that is
two-dimensional in video they're most
likely using that parallax in effect
whether it's synthetic or it's actually
being you know part of a film or
something along those lines sometimes
it's accentuated or even exaggerated by
blurring the background and moving it at
a different pace things like that good
yeah and basically we're just doing a
synthetic girl version of it we didn't
have the ability we didn't have the
chance to take these photos in a video
form so we're converting it to this so
that we can do something that you
normally wouldn't be able to do with a
photograph it's so really cool I think
so and you know I thought it was a
really good idea because you can
definitely just take old photos and make
it look even more interesting it was
very fairly simple to do love this for
wedding photos if you're a photographer
here are some methods that were and
notice what I'm doing here as I'm
speaking I'm just tracing out the grass
that's falling into the background there
oh and that's actually part of the pole
that's part of the bench these
techniques as I say can be it doesn't
matter what operating system or anything
you're on there you go it's just the
bench now
look at that sweet turn on the back
there you go see that so what I've
effectively done is now if i move that
top layer notice the bleacher is
completely separated from the grass and
the flowers in the background okay so
that's that's what we're looking for so
we can move things around a lot easier
okay so I'm going to save my work and I
mentioned last week but we didn't
actually get into it but when you're
saving we want to save as and we're
going to save as an ex CF file this is
akin to photoshop's PSD file which is a
layered document so on GNU image
manipulation program when you save an ex
CF you're saving all those layers and
all that information all your masks and
things like that so that you can always
go back to those layers and continue
working on them like I did so now that
I've already saved I can just hit ctrl s
and it's going to save back over that
file and you'll see that i still have my
layers if i was to save as a jpeg or a
ping image then I would lose all my
layers and I would be back at square one
and I would just have my original image
basically because it would flatten that
image okay so now that we've basically
fixed that up and it's ready to go now
the only thing that you know is not
quite perfect with that as you still see
some of the bench so using again some of
the techniques that we that we learned
last week we're going to get in there
and switch my layer here and just kind
of oh that's very very tiny in then what
is that two pixels money pixels there's
a bigger brush I just want to get quick
with it so look at what I'm doing this
painting over we learned this technique
last week and what I actually am doing
is filling in where the bleacher is with
image data so it doesn't look
synthesized or copied or anything
because it just it fills it in with real
imagery there are more flowers there's
more grass and now I've got that real
look behind the bleachers see that
so if if I was really doing this
professionally say I was doing this for
a client project or something like that
I might even go so far as doing a third
layer of depth and what I mean by that
is I've got my background and I've got
my foreground however with this image it
would work really really well see that
pole there that may and this grass in
the foreground and the flowers they may
they could make a really perfect second
layer see that pole in this grass that
would work really really well and then
the very farthest would be the the
actual background for the sake of time
we're doing two layers and we're still
going to be able to create a very cool
effect with these two layers so now that
we're finished editing our photo again
now I've done a little bit of
manipulation so I'm going to save that
we need to consider what is next for
this we're going to be creating a video
so we're going to be creating probably a
widescreen video something for 1080p
let's say or 720p so we need to know the
dimensions of those so 1920 x 1080
pixels is going to be the dimensions of
a 1080p video so we want to now crop
this image to not be that size because
remember we're going to be zooming in on
it so if we if we create this image at
the size we're going to be creating then
as we zoom in we're going to be getting
losses oom we're going to be pixelating
the image we're stretching it basically
so instead because our source image here
is 4800 pixels wide or somewhere around
there forty nine hundred pixels wide
comes from a reasonably good DSLR camera
so what I want is I just want the
proportions I just want to have that 16
/ 9 that is achieved by simply
right-clicking on the image and going
image canvas size and you see okay so I
am 49 28 x 3264 well how do I now get
that to be proportional to 1280 by 720
or 1920 x 1080 it's surprisingly simple
make sure this chain link is detached
and if our image is wider than it
then it is high then we're going to copy
the width okay if it's the other way
around we might well we'll we'll think
about this proportionately but what I'm
going to do is I'm going to copy the
width for this particular image because
i'm actually going to be cropping it if
you want to know type in 1280 and see
that it's higher than 720 for the height
if that's less than twelve eighty then
you know that you actually want to copy
the height or pardon me if it's less
than 720 so for example if I go 720 I
see that this one is less right so if
that was the case I hope that makes
sense basically our end result needs to
not have let's let's show you a
demonstration here let's say 1280 by 720
and if I created this at what was my
original dimension so I just want to
show you what we want to avoid 1280 720
there okay so what has happened there
because I copied the hype is that I've
now got a little extra space on either
side that's what we want to avoid okay
I'm trying to explain that in words it's
a little bit difficult and I'm just
realizing this as I go so okay so what i
know is that i need to actually copy the
width the width is the one that we're
going to use our for our proportion so
now that I've got that in my clipboard I
can go I can do 1280 by 720 and then
turn on my chain link because all I'm
doing is I'm getting that didn't that 16
/ 94 720p doesn't matter because if i
change that to 1080p look at what
happens to the top it changes tonight 19
20 perfect so now if i hit control V and
paste in my width 4928 now as soon as I
hit tab it has created a height that is
exactly proportional to 12 it to 1280 by
720 or 1920 x 1080 right because I've
got this chain link on so now my crop
looks like this
and see it's going to crop the image so
I just want to Center the kids in that
image and as soon as I resize now this
image is exactly 16 / 9 even though it
is 4928 pixels wide so now that I've
done that if I turn back on the chain
link watch what happens if i go 1280 720
is the height if i go 1920 1080 is the
height because i've created a
proportional image to the 16 / 9 frame
okay it's a little I hope that that
makes sense I know it's a little bit
complicated but really what we want to
end up with is a cropped image to the 16
/ 9 frame so that we're not going to be
letterboxing and that means when I put
this into a video we don't get black
bars on the side that's what we want to
avoid so this is now exactly 16 / 9 so
now i can go file and you know what I
don't want to do that yet I want to turn
off my top layer and I just want to save
my background so I'm going to go file
export and let's create a folder here
for our animation and we're going to
call this one background dot ping and
export ping is going to be lossless as
far as the quality of the image goes it
also supports transparency so it's
definitely important that we use ping
for the foreground layer otherwise it's
just going to have a back white
background but it's not necessarily ER
but we're going to lose some quality if
we'd if we do that because jpg is a
lossy format so it's it's not going to
have quite as good of quality and when
we are working with such high resolution
it can be apparent so you see it does
take a little bit longer to save the
ping because it is quite large so now if
I turn off my background and i turn on
my foreground now I've got just the
picture of the kids which is going to be
on top of that so now I'm going to file
export and we're going to call this one
for drowned and you can call it
absolutely anything you want
but just for the sake of me
understanding what these images are
that's the way I'm going to name them so
I'll just bring up that folder as that's
finished saving and I've created a
folder called animation and in that
folder you'll see background I'm going
to just double click on it and next
image foreground and that's what it
looks like when the the image preview
adds a background of white so that is
going to be the basis of our new
animation which we are covering tonight
we're going to take that photograph
we're going to create a really cool pair
relaxing video effect for our slideshow
this is going to achieve something that
that kind of Ken Burns moving around the
image and I and I use Ken Burns as a
description that is used for that effect
i'm not saying ken burns himself or his
movie making but that effect where we're
moving around an image and and in and
out of our slideshow images it's really
really cool but what we're doing today
and over the course of this three-part
series this is part two we're actually
creating such a three-dimensional
parallax in effect that it's going to
give it much more of a video look to
that slideshow to that effect not just
moving around on an image but moving
within a space so that's what we're
going to be covering right after the
news tonight so stick around make sure
you are in the chat room category 5 on
freenode and if you've got any questions
for us make sure you post those to us
there and erica is watching the chat
room as well as email live at category 5
TV so heading on over to the category 5
TV newsrooms Sasha hello it's tuesday
March seventeenth 2015 and here are the
stories were covering this week wheels
designed to take a car to a top speed of
1,000 miles per hour or being
manufactured a fix that breaks
everything has once again been issued by
Microsoft and affects mainly users who
dual-boot their windows system imagine
if the mistake of a single isp could
accidentally take down google for the
entire world they can and they did huge
gaming news for nintendo
bands n carbon 3d is pushing innovation
in 3d printing with the demonstration of
their game changing process which print
items in 10 minutes that would normally
take 10 hours these stories are coming
right up don't go anywhere if you would
like to have your very own chroma key
green screen set whether it's to
celebrate this st. Patrick's Day or to
have a cool virtual set like our
category 5 TV news room head on over to
cat five dot TV / green where you'll
find all the green-screen sets are
currently on sale up to fifty six
percent off I'm Sasha dramatis and here
the top stories from the category 5 TV
news room the process of machining the
fastest wheels in automotive history has
begun the aluminum discs will be fitted
to the bloodhound supersonic car which
will endeavour to break the world land
speed record later this year that record
currently stands at 736 miles per hour
Castle engineering near Glasgow is
leading the industrial consortium that
is preparing the wheels these 90
centimeter discs are crucial elements of
the Bloodhound concept and will have to
endure huge loads as they spin at over
170 revolutions per second yeah
calculations indicate that a peak speed
the wheels will be generating 50,000
radial G's at their rim that's 50,000
times the pull of gravity these there
are parts of this car where if there's a
problem the driver Andy green can simply
shut them off and bring the vehicle to a
stop but if there's a problem with a
wheel Andy is going to crash and that's
never good at 1,000 miles per hour
bloodhound has to bloodhound has to use
solid wheels to make the record run a
rubber tire would be ripped to shreds
that makes sense ripped to shreds
instantly once machined the disks will
go for balancing unlike a standard car
wheel this does not involve adding lead
weights to the rim instead further
precision measurements will identify any
unevenness and sliver of metal
will be removed to hone what is already
a state of near perfection the market
value of each wheel is about a quarter
of a million pounds a little over three
hundred and seventy thousand US dollars
seeing at the speed limit here is 120 oh
no 100 hundred kilometers an hour we
won't need these tires anytime soon Ravi
that's incredible wow that is
frightening I would be I would be so
intimidated by that speed I don't know
what kind of person would want to a
crazy adrenaline seeker yes yeah that's
just not me I mean I grew up and decided
I would go into computer programming
yeah you're not going to drive a car
1000 miles per hour I guess they use
aluminum because it doesn't heat up is
that that's probably like you think
about like the revolutions per second
those even that even though they're
aluminum they're still going to be
incredibly warm to touch I'm sure oh my
goodness yes and I would think though
also I mean aluminum is this is solid
aluminum right but i would think that at
that speed with that much g-force going
down on the the wheel or is it out
there's got to be some kind of expansion
going on like that's what's his name
andy green fries a brave man very Wow
brave / crazy this is an important news
story for anybody who's dual booting
right now reports are emerging that a
twice issued microsoft windows 7 patch
is still causing pain for users with
some claiming the fixes triggering
continuous reboots the patch was first
issued as kv2 9499 27 and withdrawn in
october due to system faults before
being re-released this week under the
new name kb 303 3929 sporadic reports
across internet forums suggests the
patch is causing pain on the windows
system systems especially pcs that boot
into two or more operating systems
Redmond's initial hope was that the pout
that
match would bring shot to or sha-2
code-signing support for windows 7 and
Server 2008 r2 users whose operating
system did not previously include that
functionality it seems sensible to avoid
the update until Microsoft confirms the
problem and provides a fix for the fix
so Robbie that would affect our viewers
who have a dual boot with like Windows 7
yeah from what I understand I mean
they're saying if it's dual boot
environments or multiple boot
environments so if you have Windows 7
and your dual booting with Linux for
example or multiple Linux partitions and
you have windows seven installed and you
get that update it could watch the
ability to boot up that system so don't
update it's not the first time recently
that we've had these kinds of you know
fixes that break everything which is you
know it's a little bit worrisome for a
Windows user you know what you expect
that those fixes when they're released
are tried and true and they're not going
to break things but instead are going to
fix things and I guess we take it for
granted on Linux even though we do get
our updates for all of the programs it's
if we're using a stable distro it's
quite honestly stable so we don't
generally have those kinds of breakages
I guess it does happen even on Linux
though once in a while but it seems to
be happening more and more on Windows
definitely a scary thing so don't in any
way use to fix yet that's a tough thing
hey is it whatever you do don't update
but always update don't update that
updated yes yeah how do you know and
what do you do hold back your k kb
updates yeah I the nightmares for a
short time Thursday people all over the
world trying to access Google services
were cut off because of what did
research director of internet analysis
Doug materie identified as a routing
leak from an Indian broadband internet
provider the leak is similar to a 2012
incident caused by an Indonesian ISP
which took Google offline for 30 minutes
worldwide routing leaks occur when a
network
rider broadcast all or part of its
internal routing table to one or more
appeared networks via the border gateway
protocol causing network traffic to be
routed incorrectly in this case the
Indian ISPs router incorrectly announced
routing data for over 300 network
prefixes belonging to Google these
routes were then sent to the rest of the
world and a number of ISPs accepted them
the ISP Hathaway had its own routes
because to or the I see how the way had
its own routes to Google because the
accompany provides better speed to
Google's cloud for its users directing
traffic to the closest google data
centers that peering is a private
network connection only available to
users connected to their network oh ouch
yep as a result when the routing table
was accidentally broadcast to the world
instead of just two Hathaways customers
much of the world was trying to access
Google via Mumbai through hathaway
instead of over public internet well so
I wonder how long on Thursday it took
before a Google caught on and fixed it
probably not long nobody notice their
traffic drop signal immediately right
it's you know how quickly does the
change to fix it propagate back I would
take I would think the I don't know if
Hathaway would have to determine the
problem and push out a fixer oh I'm sure
that Google was on the phone with
Hathaway immediately yeah uh we have a
problem here Houston you've broken the
internet you typed google into google
and you broke the internet like kim
kardashian nintendo has finally
succumbed to the market and is
collaborating with Japanese developer
DNA to create new games for smartphones
Wow the gaming giant said that existing
games built for other Nintendo platforms
like the Wii U and 3ds will not be
transferred however all of Nintendo's
intellectual property will be eligible
for development this could mean new
games on horizon featuring characters
such as Super Mario Zelda and Pokemon
the two firms also announced plans to
launched an online membership service
this fall which will give members access
to their accounts from across multiple
platforms including smartphones and PCs
that's huge for Nintendo groundbreaking
even when I think about it they've
always held to the you know you've got
to buy our hardware in order to in order
to use it right now are we going to
start seeing Samsung you know apps on
Android and things like that that's
incredible I could see it definitely
moving to the apps like just having the
Pendle games on apps oh that would be
horrible for me because i really like
nintendo games and on actual nintendo
devices well i haven't played them in
years i had a super nintendo which was a
big deal for me but i haven't played I
don't have a wii or anything but i like
downloading a phone to my earth
downloading a game to my phone that
would be as addicting is super mario
brothers would be home ya know it would
be wonderful wonderful it would be
wonderful but horrible it's the way it's
amazing that they have finally said okay
now like that's it there really late in
the game I got to admit like they're
finally saying oh the smartphone is
going to become popular well who's going
out and buying a 3ds for themselves
anymore it's you know maybe some kids
have it for sure but I'm not going out
to buy one because you got it on your
it's gonna waste so much of my time no
I'm going to love it and I hate it all
oh no a 3d printing process that
harnesses light and oxygen has been
demonstrated at the ted conference in
vancouver canada 3d our carbon 3d said
it's game-changing process could make
objects such as car parts medical
devices or shoes the technique was
inspired by terminator 2 which in which
the t1000 robot rises from a pool of
metallic liquid James woodcock Group
Editor 40 CT magazine said it's not
unusual for huge claims like this to be
made but as its renowned experts working
on it it gives it some gravitas during
their presentation the carbon 3d machine
produced a plastic ball from a pool of
resin
just about 10 minutes professor joseph
desimone told the audience it would
traditionally take up to 10 hours to
print the same thing that's impressive
wow if anything the demonstration showed
the need for companies in the industry
to continually work on developing and
improving 3d printing technology that's
great i'm excited for that technology to
come come to light make things more
accessible all across the board you
could print really fast cars and put
aluminum tires on them and get
everywhere faster than 100 kilometers an
hour for all your tech news with a
slight linux bias visit the category 5
TV news room at newsroom category 5 TV
for the category 5 TV news room I'm
Sasha through made us thank you sasha
this is category 5 technology TV i'm
your host robbie ferguson and I'm your
co-host erika on how are you nice to see
you we're in the midst of part two of
creating the ultimate video slideshow
from our still images so right now we're
going to get into the actual animation
process so far we have taken a flat 2d
image and we have created two layers and
I've mentioned you could create a third
layer if you want to add even more to
that effect but for the sake of
simplicity we're going to work with two
layers today and we're still going to be
able to create this incredible effect so
looking over at our computer screen now
I've got these two images I've got
background and foreground we're done
with the GIMP so I can close that down
goodbye i have saved my work other than
what did I not save I didn't save the
cropping right because the cropping is
losing data and I can always re crop I
don't want to save over top of my master
image which is larger with something
that I've cropped out some of the data
so that I'm happy to lose that okay so
I'm going to go in and just a reminder
that open shot video editor is available
for you for free you can install it
through synaptic package manager or
through apt-get you can install it
through your favorite package manager
maybe you run yum or
another alternative basically the way
Linux allows you to install software you
don't necessarily have to go out and
find the software you just bring up the
app application that allows you to
install things such a synaptic package
manager type in the name and off you go
so type in open shot all one word and
you're going to be able to install this
application absolutely free and this
gives you the ability to edit video but
what we're doing tonight is completely
different we're going to create instead
our first panoramic slideshow slide so
what I've done here first thing I want
to do is click on new and I want to
create a project that is going to be
lets say 1080p so I'm going to go 29.97
frames per second because that is the
standard here in canada and i'm just
going to save this as my slide let's say
and hit save project so what I've done
is I've created a blank project it is
completely empty but it's ready to work
on and it's canvas is 16 / 9 1080p now
all I need to do is import some files
into this canvas and I've got those
saved on my computer I put them in a
folder called animation I've got
background and foreground there we go
I've clicked add you notice that I was
able to highlight both of them at the
same time a couple ways to do that now
the way I just did it was I clicked on
the first one held in my shift key
clicked on the second one and it
highlighted both and you can highlight
as many as you want you can also hit
control a to select all those hot keys
are pretty much across the board for
anything so I've got my background image
and I've got my foreground damaged so
let's grab the background which we're
going to drop onto track one you'll
notice that we've already got two tracks
here and with the way that this works is
track 1 becomes basically our background
and track 2 becomes our foreground
because the way that this video editor
works is it is like layers so the lower
the number the lower the layer so i can
keep stacking things on top and in fact
if i wanted to i could continue to add
more and more layers to that or tracks
in this case
that's good they give people the
opportunity if they need they need more
layers yeah absolutely and if you're
doing video production it doesn't even
necessarily have to be for what we're
doing tonight but if you're doing video
production quite often you're going to
need to add more and in fact through the
course through part three of this series
I'm going to talk a little bit more
about that at the end of the show
tonight but we're going to be looking at
adding things like music for example so
we need another layer to be able to put
that music in to our timeline so that's
good it gives you that option exactly
it's pretty much unlimited as far as
that goes so for us we just need the
first two layers or tracks in this case
I've got my background dragged on there
and if i push play you'll see that in my
preview window I literally just have the
background plays as if it's a video but
it's not actually doing anything ok so
now I grab my foreground and I put that
on top and now if I rewind my video and
press play what do you notice if I roll
on my video and press play it's the
original it looks like the original
image done that mm just like it you'd
never know that I pulled a bunch of
stuff from the background ok so now this
is where it gets exciting because now
we're going to actually animate this
thing you remember the Ken Burns effect
ok take a photo move in on it move it
around get that kind of effect and then
think about that and then what we're
going to do is we're going to do this a
similar thing but because we've got
these two layers to work with we can
move them and scale them at different
rates apparel axing and how that works
so the background always moves a little
bit slower than the foreground when it
comes to peril axing so here let's grab
my background and first of all it drops
it in at seven seconds by default i
right clicked on it and gone properties
so first of all I want to change my
length change out to 25 seconds so now
the background is actually going to take
25 seconds of my timeline and that's
probably a little more preferred ok so
now going back to properties here this
is where things get really exciting I'm
going to go to the Layout tab and you
see that the start of clip is height one
hundred percent and with 100
keep in mind that we've created this
image to be exactly 16 / 9 so as it is
it fills at one hundred percent it fills
that 16 / 9 canvas okay so from here
because the image is bigger than our
canvas we can zoom in and it's going to
be lossless so I can actually go now to
my end of clip keyframe so this is now
saying okay well what size what position
what alpha do you want it to be at the
end of the video at the end of this 25
seconds so at the end of clip for my
background let's say one fifty percent I
want the width and the height to be
exactly the same it needs to be
proportional otherwise it's going to
look skewed it's going to look stretched
and I can go apply so now if i push play
the background is going to start moving
see that but the kids in the foreground
are still sitting stationary and then
they disappear because there are only
seven seconds long the background
continues up to 25 seconds and keeps
moving through the the animation what's
really really great about the way open
shot is doing this is we're not saying I
want one picture to be at a hundred
percent and I want another picture to be
at one hundred fifty percent what it's
doing is it's tweening through or in
between and it's filling every frame in
between a 29.97 frames it's filling in
those frames with okay now how many
steps do we need to have to make that a
fluid motion and it does that all
automatically so i don't have to create
all of those frames like i might with
some applications that don't tween the
image so makes it easy it makes it so
easy you you're not gonna believe how
easy this is and I know just by you
doing that now I'm like this is gonna be
complicated you thought so right now I
did this is like this can be complicated
and expensive Oh actually it's easy and
free all right how do you like that okay
there you go
and for those of you watching this after
the fact yeah it's st. Patrick's Day so
and that's that's important to note i'm
not actually crazy okay I've right
clicked on foreground and gone
properties and you'll see you hey what's
going on there's the kids and there's no
background right so that's because it's
a ping we've created it with a
transparent background I'm going to now
set the length to out 25 seconds so now
it matches the length of my background
we think in terms of its a picture but
now it's actually becoming a video so if
I now say okay end of clip for this is
also going to be one hundred and fifty
percent then when I apply that and press
rewind and play you'll notice that it's
the traditional Ken Burns effect it's
just moving in on the image that's kind
of what we're saying when I use the
phrase Ken Burns that's more along the
lines of what your let's say your
application may be capable of when you
think about cyberlink powerdirector and
its ability to move in on images it
looks great but it's limited to that
unless you take what we've shown you in
step one and then we can take it to the
next level so you see that effect that's
what we're that that's the original
that's how we're used to doing
slideshows now we're taking it to the
next step because we're saying you know
what let's change the background so that
it moves at a different pace so our
background we know is going to end up at
150 why don't we say our foreground will
actually end up at two hundred percent
what do you think is going to happen
then oh I don't know our foreground is
going from one hundred percent so this
size to this size two hundred percent so
twice as big however the background is
starting at a hundred percent and only
going up to 150 so it's not getting as
big so as far as because remember this
program is tweening for us which means
it's filling in those frames in between
frame one or keyframe at the beginning
and frame to our keyframe at the end so
it fills all that in so how it gets from
here to here takes 25 seconds but how
our foreground gets from here to here
also takes 25
so we know that the foreground is in
fact going to be moving a fair bit
faster than our background okay so a
different speed different speeds right
we're looking at percentages but we're
actually looking at speed and of course
how close we get so I've set now our
background is 150 our foreground is 200
let's hit rewind and see what happens
let's hit play interesting see that okay
cool how cool is that so now we need to
do a little bit of work in order to make
it so that it looks more like a video
and we want to keep the kids in the
frame see how zach is getting cut off
their my son on the right no bring them
back bring them back okay so what we
want to do is we want to bring up our
foreground and let's say with the
foreground at our end of clip keyframe
let's grab our X which is the horizontal
axis and go minus forty percent ry so
that's the vertical access access pardon
me if I go up the camera is going to
move up which means the kids are going
to move down because the camera is
moving up on the end if I move to a
lower number or a negative number it's
going to move down so they're going to
actually the camera is going to move
down and keep them centered in the frame
so what I want to do is of course go
down so let's do a similar number let's
try minus forty minus 40 and see what
happens there so now hitting play okay
so now you see that that doesn't work
with the background because of our
background is still moving at a normal
pace but the kids are doing what they're
staying centered mm-hmm which is
important because they're my subjects
now minus forty I was lucky that I guess
the right number that looks it's pretty
good you may need to tweak that a little
bit so now I need to work with the
background and say okay we want to also
move that in a similar fashion so the
end of clip is going to be minus let's
say minus 30 let's try minus 30 and
minus 30 so that's moving the camera
down a little bit you know I don't want
go down quite so much and left a little
bit I got try 30 i think that might be a
little bit much let's try oh that's
actually it's looking pretty decent you
have the best guesses what do you think
that looks pretty neat eh so you see
what's happening to that pole in the
background it's it's ending up going
behind Zach because I'm actually moving
the camera through this space so it
gives that kind of feel that I am
actually moving through this photograph
so it's not just zooming in on a
photograph and everything still stays
you know that pole is still way over
there no it actually seems to move in a
parallax in way and space okay so I'm
pretty pleased with the way that that
has come out but you notice it's kind of
choppy what do you do it's a little bit
choppy my goodies here we are we're in
Linux so we know that you know it's
really really easy to check our
versioning and stuff what open shot uses
is something called ml tea and it comes
from a package called melt so if i type
melt dash dash version you'll see that
my version of melt or MLT is 0.8 point
eight i want you to do that same thing
in your linux if you don't have melt
just go sudo apt-get install melt and
you're good if it is over 0.8 pardon me
if it is over 0.6 you're going to be
able to do what i'm about to show you
and that's going to be incredible for
you so i'm going to zoom out here i'm
good because i know i'm above zero point
six now i'm going to go edit preferences
and right here use smooth scaling
because i know i have version 0.6 or
above i can set that to yes okay
and then I can close out of that my
preview windows is going to be a little
bit laggy now because I'm using
something that's going to be using a lot
more resources but now when I render my
video and this is the key thing when
typically when you export your video if
you haven't set your smooth scaling to
yes it's going to be as Chompy as we
were seeing there in our preview so now
that we've created the effect we've
turned on smooth scaling we've confirmed
that melt MLT is version 0.6 or above
let's export our file and see what it
looks like so that's really really easy
to do as well file export video and what
we're doing in that case erica is we're
in fact creating a video file one that
we can share on Facebook or YouTube or
something like that so let's say well
doesn't seem save as an image it's not
images it's not yet it's an actual video
file oh that's shareable which is also
good because sometimes you need stuff
you want to make sure you can share it
that's it and but these days because
we're working within a HD video space
you have to upload it to something like
YouTube or Facebook in order to share at
YouTube is good because then you can
post it to Facebook and you can also
send links to the family and friends and
things like that so that works well I've
just simply chosen flickr hd720p you
notice that it doesn't go any higher
than that but you can go into advanced
and you can set your height and you know
you can do whatever you want so we can
go all the way up to 1080p or possibly I
guess that's that looks like about where
it goes so in our case I want to keep it
real quick so I'm just going to create a
720p file and export it to my desktop
let's see if we can render that out
fairly quickly for the sake of the
demonstration here it comes
any questions for us join us in the chat
room category 5 on freenode and yeah
that's a lot of a lot of fun to be able
to do this kind of stuff and next week
we're going to be I touched on what
we're going to be doing and as this is
rendering I'll just let you know we're
going to be taking these clips that we
have now created and we're going to be
able to assemble these into an actual
slideshow with nice transition effects
and then render them out to a video that
we can share including music and all the
all the fixins so we're going to be able
to have that final rendered product it's
just taking a second while this while
this is rendering erica do you have any
questions for me robbie i have a quick
yeah I just need before the episode is
over for you and your awesome greenbeard
soul patch to come over to the greens
just join you exactly what it looks like
well you know what I'll do is I'll bring
up Jim jump in there now jump while
we're while we're waiting for this train
it's about 40 minutes okay you've been
starting up some talk in the newsroom
all night about your soul touch yeah
there's been chatter if we jump over
there then we can we can actually still
see on your screens there Sasha what
what kind of progress we're making okay
so smart right okay so let's see what
happens right so I'll move out of the
way oh really sure are you just gonna
stay here with me I'll just kind of
creep in okay yeah what okay hi let's
see the does it disappear ken ken can we
zoom in I have no clue if you click on
the shot you can ok so like them is it
weird I have to just sneak away here you
can I just want to see hi folks oh
that's so it is not really oh and your
your shirt goes a little um translucent
oh well yeah
wow that's chroma key oh no it's not
black it's really like the city behind
see the city threw mine in the cruiser
oh that's incredible there's a hole in
your face it's my show it was a pimple
but it you know what you're you're sort
of ghosty your shirts very ghostly if I
ever got not my green right so for
halloween if not if i'm laura that i
could be a ghost well now you know what
you would look like with a soul patch
you know see the black soul patch thank
you just kind of tension there you go so
there that's just satisfy some curiosity
and over your shoulder I see we're about
probably about ninety percent complete
our rendering process that looks good
there it is
looks like we creeped out than the chat
room yeah I did it that's that's
literally almost here now I see you had
a question up on your screen you want to
read that one we have a question from
genesis Kelly hey Dennis I remember I
always answer your questions yes nice so
Dean so do you know how to check my
Wi-Fi single strength from the command
line your signal strength on your Wi-Fi
from the Linux command line yeah it's
actually surprisingly simple I don't
have Wi-Fi on here but what you can do
well I'll tell you you can actually and
this is finished rendering so I'm like
oh yeah this is ready to go ok they're
in proc / net there is a file called
wireless and it's not really a file its
proc so if you go say cat space / proc /
net / wireless enter you're going to get
output of your wireless card that's cool
and that'll give you everything if you
type IW list and then the name of your
wireless LAN adapter so w land 0 for
example so iw list space wlan0 space
scan then you're going to get real-time
report as well and you might have to be
super user in order to do that hope that
helps okay we are just about out of time
here folks but let's do this this is
finished rendering what do you think is
going to happen here I know it is my
slide dog LLC ready for it oh look at
that smooth beautiful nice pixels that
actually made it look much much better
so there you have it folks that's the
full effect with a rush rush job I might
add you're going to take a little bit
more time around the hair and things
like that maybe we'd add some
translucency but as far as the effect
goes we've been successful in creating
something that's really really cool with
all free software and it gives us that
kind of dimension to the photo as we're
moving through our
light show thanks so much for joining us
tonight everybody this is category 5
technology TV I'm Robbie Ferguson it's
been nice having you here join us next
week as Sasha terminus is going to be
here on the Cohoes desk yay it'll be me
part 3 that's crazy shut up with showing
you how to actually create the
transitions and create my rotten as well
that's it for us for tonight for this
week everybody will be here again
everyone Tuesday night every tuesday
night anybody where your tuesday night
special yeah tech Tuesday as as we've
been called as of late tech Tuesday Dec
join us for tech Tuesday hope you can
and have a happy st. Patty's Day to
everyone have a wonderful week everybody
happy to see you we hope you enjoyed the
show category 5 TV broadcasts live from
Barrie Ontario Canada every tuesday at
seven p.m. eastern if you're watching
this on demand or through cable TV check
out the local show times in your area a
category five TV and find out when you
can watch live and interact in the
community chat room category 5 is a
production of prodigy digital solutions
and is licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada we'll see you
next time thanks for tuning in
