here the stories were covering this week
in the category five dot TV newsroom
billions of records have been breached
and you may be part of it even if you've
never heard of the service that was
compromised efforts to recover millions
in crypto cash from the digital wallets
of a man who died without revealing
passwords to access them have hit a snag
the wallets have been found to be empty
sorry Amazon Philadelphia has banned
cashless stores have a Windows Update
that is messing up Windows 10 now it
will automatically remove and block
itself to allow Microsoft to fix the
problem these stories are coming right
up don't go anywhere this is the
category five dot TV newsroom covering
the week's top tech stories it is like
Linux bias Jeff Weston Jemma you're
building a brand-new beautiful website
what are you alright you're terrible
actor what this where acting comes into
play I don't know you're supposed to act
okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash DreamHost I'm Jeff
Weston and here the top stories were
following this week billions of records
have been breached and you may be part
of it even if you've never heard of the
service that was compromised
have I been pend informed us that 763
million one hundred seventeen thousand
two hundred and forty-one people have
had their records leaked by a company
called verifications IO Andrew Martin
CEO and founder of cyber security
company Dinah risk has since revealed
the true number of leaked records is
much higher exceeding two billion
records an unprotected MongoDB database
was discovered by security researcher
Bob Tishchenko having cross-referenced
the data sitting there in plain text
with the have I been pawned site the
Shenko was able to conclude this was
fresh to the market new information and
not just a dump of previously breached
data as has been seen with the recent
collection one leaked after doing some
more investigative work
mashenka was able to track the database
back to the verifications IO Enterprise
email validation service you're not
alone if you've never heard of
verifications IO but you may still be a
victim this company validates bulk email
lists for companies wanting to remove
inactive addresses from newsletter may
let's the Shenko says that although not
all records contained the detailed
profile information about the email
owner a large amount of records were
very detailed that detail included
commonplace breach data such as email
addresses and phone numbers but went far
beyond the basics as well and for
such as dates of birth mortgages
mortgage amounts and interest rates and
social media accounts related to the
emails in question but it doesn't stop
there you can also throw in basic credit
scoring data company names and revenue
figures as well apply the basics of good
cybersecurity hygiene which means being
alert to phishing risk applying more
skepticism than usual to unexpected
emails text messages social media
communication and events snail mail that
wants you to check a link open open an
attachment and so on if threat factors
have got hold of this data then it
provides all the ammunition they require
in order to appear like a trustworthy
organization in their communications yes
sure Knots I mean if they know your name
your address your email address where
you do your banking because they have
your mortgage oho
then they can appear as the bank yes
call you up and say you know hey this is
this Robbie Collin from Royal Bank and
you know we've we've we've got a problem
with your payment this month that's
whatever it could be right yeah so all
of a sudden phishing scams play into
into it but it can be so convincing oh
for sure it's it's you know recently my
wife was subject to theft with her debit
card transaction really kind of stuff ok
and so thankfully she found out what she
went to use our debit is it a now can I
ask is it a Visa debit is that how it
took place because that I you know what
I think it was okay I think it was a
views of diet was wondering if that
opens up a whole new realm of it being
able to compromise a debit card because
before it was pretty difficult it was a
Visa Debit and all of the transactions
were under $100 but they wiped at the
account well thankfully we've been able
to overturn it but I mean with a breach
like this I'm going did they get the
information from that yeah what other
information is out there and so now you
know it's like I I'm one of the billions
of people on earth maybe my information
is in there yeah think about that for a
second thinking of Visa debit so this is
a debit card that has the visa logo on
it you think that's a great convenience
feature
my visa has a per transaction limit yep
and it has an actual cap on my credit
but so you can't exceed it and if you
tried it would just negate the
transaction and say declined right my
debit card on the other hand which now
carries a visa logo can be used as a
visa but it can empty my account that's
right until I hit zero dollars in my
account maybe I also have overdraft
maybe it will bump me to minus a
thousand dollars in my account and then
I'm looking at going what yeah where'd
all the money go right where'd all my
Martin my millions of bitcoins go so
when you think about that so if I'm
shopping online and I think oh wow this
is convenient here's an idea
I can use my Visa Debit to make a
transaction online because then I don't
need to use my credit card right it
seems convenient but now if their
database becomes compromised or
something oh not directly related to the
story but you know your life story
thanks oh you think about yeah it's this
information could be used to compromise
your accounts and everything right well
and the fact that it had mortgage
information I'm going to hate was it
banks websites that were compromised or
is this collected from some sort of
information no they weren't compromised
you know but the data obviously came
from somewhere the data came from the
banks who who put in your contact
information to be weeded out from from
databases to make sure that they're
legit right fair enough
but why is why would the mortgage
information be on there who knows
Equifax has that information and do we
trust Equifax yeah no no most pleased
don't we have no choice more exact and
something like verification IO we have
no choice yeah our data is shared with
them by the companies that we do trust
yeah and so if I've trusted to the
Canadian government my personal contact
information which I presumably have
because I have no choice and
Equifax who they give all that
information to screws up and I actually
I had a tax bill the Queen put me it
through collections this was like okay
it's maybe two fifteen years ago put me
through to collections for millions of
dollars Wow millions of dollars Jeff
million I've never seen millions of
dollars I've never gone into debt for
millions of dollars but like that
information if if you're not on top of
it and all of a sudden you're you're
toast but this is information that I
have no control over yeah because it's
the government or your bank or whoever
you know everybody's got a bank if
you've got a mortgage it's scary yeah
you know I will say is as I said you
know use more I'm reading you know you
use more like awareness I'm like that's
it I feel kind of validated that I'm
such a skeptic it would be a stress in
this case and and you mentioned in the
news story like so I'm saying like
there's no hope there's no hope you
can't control it you can't stop it even
if you want to stop it and say no I'm
not giving you my email address they can
already get another other means so if
there's no hope to stop it what do we do
we've got to be smart when those phone
calls or letters or emails come in and
recognize the signs that hey this is not
legit if I get something from my bank
I don't phone the number on that
something no yeah I ever I walk into my
bank and I talked to the bank manager or
the teller and I say hey can you look at
my account this says that I'm overdrawn
five thousand dollars and they're gonna
look at it they're gonna know you're not
you've got ten billion Bitcoin right
right so that's the way to do it is did
I borrow a Bitcoin if only if only Jeff
all right efforts to recover millions in
crypto cash from the digital wallets of
a man who died without revealing
the discovery was made by a firm
appointed to oversee quadriga CX after
the death of founder Gerald cotton it's
expected it expected to find the wallets
full of 180 million dollars Canadian
that's about 137 million dollars u.s. or
105 million pounds in crypto cash
deposited by the coin exchanges
customers mr. cotton who died in India
in December had sole responsibility for
handling the funds and coin passing
through the site the master key to
unlock the wallets was held a mr.
Cohen's laptop but he died without
letting anyone else know the passphrase
to unlock the device most of the digital
casts that cash that customers had
deposited with the exchange was supposed
to be kept in cold storage to prevent it
from being hacked or stolen the cash
represented the virtual currency
holdings of a hundred and fifteen
thousand quid quadriga CX customers
mr. Cotton's death forced the closure of
quadriga CX and auditor ernest and yung
was appointed to wind it up its
investigation has secured access to mr.
Khan's laptop but also revealed that the
digital wallets had been cleaned out
months before he died in a report on its
discovery ernest and young investigators
said they did not know what had happened
to the bitcoins that they had expected
to find in storage however the company
said it found evidence that mr. cotton
had fourteen other user accounts created
outside the normal process that may have
been used to trade on quadriga CX
exchange ernest and young is now trying
to gather information about the training
done via those other accounts to see if
it can somehow trace much of the crypto
cash past through them a reward of
$100,000 a bill has been offered for
information about where the exchanges
cash has gone that's nuts
that has I can't imagine the stress of
the staff that are involved in that oh
for sure Bitcoin though it's the fact
though that
he had this one exchange but then
there's 14 other accounts within his own
exchange right so is this a case of big
like digital cryptic or laundering is it
just bad practice was he trying to you
know skew the market somehow I think
Jeff probably good practice and just
didn't expect to die and so okay the
coin are somewhere crypto coin repo
currency are not physical coins these
are digital transactions they could have
told that those accounts were empty
obviously they knew the Bitcoin
addresses they could have told that just
by looking at the blockchain you can say
the balance of you can you just can't
track where it went and how it how it
transacted as far as the people involved
goes right but if you know the wallet
address you can see how much money is in
there and you can see what what is
transacted on that wallet but it's good
practice for anyone who knows
cryptocurrency to to have offline
wallets cold storage places that cannot
be traced because they've never been
connected to anything so when I receive
crypto cash or crypto currency it's
pretty much immediately transferred to
an offline wallet that nobody has access
to right and if I died what would happen
to that it's a good question and he
probably just never asked himself that
question because he was young yeah yeah
younger than me that's crazy
um so maybe it's just that so maybe
it'll be found on a piece of paper
somewhere he has to have it somewhere
but if if he's smart
anyone who's living would have their
cryptocurrency so secure that it could
never be recovered mm-hmm
so what if there's gonna be like a
lawsuit situation so I should back up to
the last story where I joked that I had
billions of crypto I don't so don't come
killing me let's and if you do keep me
alive cuz I'm the only one who has
access to the wallets and I can show you
that they're practically empty yeah but
just a bad scenario yeah like I feel
like that story just
every day something new comes out it's
like Oh went from bad to worst
absolutely horrific it's like how low
can this one go it's just like well and
there are real people with real money
involved in this they have lost out on
their money yep and you think
cryptocurrency is not really money
robbed you well where did that
cryptocurrency come from they're
probably not miners these are investors
that's right these are folks who have
bought into what in exchange and that
exchange cost them money scary yeah
scary scary all right sorry Amazon
Philadelphia has banned cashless stores
last week Philadelphia's mayor signed a
bill that would ban cashless retail
stores the move makes Philadelphia the
first major city to require the
brick-and-mortar retail stores accept
cash besides Philadelphia the state of
Massachusetts has required that
retailers accept cash since 1978 the law
takes effect July 1st and will not apply
to stores like Costco that require a
membership nor will it apply to parking
garages or lots or to hotels or rental
car companies that require a credit or
debit card as security for future change
charges retailers caught refusing cash
can be fined up to two thousand dollars
Amazon whose new Amazon ghost stores are
cashless and Kulas reportedly pushed
back against the new law asking for an
exemption Philadelphia lawmakers said
that Amazon could work around the law
under the exemption for stores that
requiring membership to shop there but
Amazon told the city that a prime
membership is not required to shop at
Amazon go stores so its options are
limited a top official in Philadelphia's
Chamber of Commerce said that the ban
will prevent Philadelphia from
modernizing with the rest of the country
cashless companies argue that cash slows
down transactions when change needs to
be counted and creates security risk for
employees locking up at the end of the
night supporters of the new law however
say that not accepting cash hurts poor
residents who may not be able to afford
or qualify for a credit card or who want
to avoid fees that come with changing
cash into a prepaid debit card
additionally privacy advocates say that
being forced to use a digital form of
payment to buy things as a de facto
requirement to
records of their purchases with
third-party companies a New York City
Councilman is pushing a similar measure
and New Jersey's legislature has also
passed a bill to require storefronts to
accept cash though the governor of the
state has not signed the bill yet this
is an interesting turn in events because
for so long I feel like retail has been
moving away from cash right and regulate
oh you're saying they can't yeah no I
mean it being able to accept cash is
different than saying you know we won't
accept cash because I mean I I would
think that Amazon could in their stores
put in some sort of a machine that
allows you to drop cash in that's just
stupid
well sure it is that's just to put it's
how they can get around it but if
nobody's gonna use it then at least it
gets them by that rule think about the
cost for a it's Amazon their riches
anything but but so who cares about the
cost right but really so now a rule a
law has to make them accept cash so now
they do have that problem no okay well
where does the cash go well it's got to
be collected and it's got to be counted
and this guy said so that's neither here
nor there so that's so it's a perfect
opportunity for Amazon to say well you
have to have a Prime membership so it
wasn't us that made that decision it was
the regulators right right so now the
the buck has passed and you have to have
a Prime membership in order to shop at
Amazon go that is an option and that's
what I could see happening if the
regulations stick because that's the
best option and it gives them a way to
just say well it wasn't us right we
didn't make this rule but we have to
enforce it it's the law so you have to
pay your $10 a month to it to be a prime
number I wonder and again I haven't seen
the law so I don't know how it's written
but I know like with banks you can walk
walk in and they'll have a machine that
you just dump all your coins in and
automatically filters you see that in
grocery stores and stuff yeah but I'm
wondering if Amazon put something like
that in one of their stores that then
load
that cash equivalent on a card hmm so
then you could say look I have that
smart - yeah it loads on to an Amazon
card that you can then use for purchases
like a gift card excusing preloads the
gift card well yeah yeah I wonder if
that would get them much interesting
because then they still don't need
anybody and it's just a machine that
does the work for them sure you know
what you know what I like about your
idea Jeff is that okay so the regulators
and critics are saying well what about
the poor right well I can take a couple
pockets full of change and drop it on
here and it'll load up an amazon cash
card that's smart so now I now I can
shop with my card and I used cash but
there say no you can't because you're
not paying by cash so I think you could
get around that saying yes you are
paying by cash wouldn't that be a cache
to load the credit that'd be a great
option but I think to that okay so if if
it's the fees of converting cash into
prepaid debit that are hindering for the
poor why doesn't the government say okay
well that's a problem let's address that
issue because big banks on the
government but I have so I have 20 bucks
here's my twenty bucks I want a card
okay well now your 20 bucks is only 16
bucks what that's great no give me my 20
bucks on this card
especially if I'm reloading it hey first
time sure charge me two bucks right pay
for the plastic and keep me from
throwing it in the garbage because hey
it's bad for the environment charge me
two bucks the first time but every time
I reload it just reload it for me yeah
don't charge me fees for it that's the
regulation that needs to change it's
interesting yeah very interesting
you heard it here oh is he very
interesting if you had any doubts just
play it back yes I have a Windows Update
that is messing up your Windows 10 now
it automatically will remove and block
problem i knows ten is not exactly the
definition of simplicity Patch Tuesday
always seems to introduce new problems
the latest being a crippled game
performance and the underlying behavior
of the wind
ten update process will melt your brain
the latest development in the saga isn't
actually the introduction of troublesome
updates though this time around
Microsoft is removing them automatically
and without any user input in a
Microsoft support page discussion the
user asked why we recently installed
updates removed and here's Microsoft's
official response to ensure that your
device can start up and continue running
as expected Windows will also prevent
problematic updates from installing
automatically for the next 30 days this
will give Microsoft and our partners the
opportunity to investigate the failure
and fix any issues after 30 days windows
will again try to install the updates
right now this process of auto removing
problematic updates appears to focus on
startup trouble and Microsoft says it
will only execute this measure once all
other repairs have been attempted what's
certain is that Microsoft will not only
delete the updates it determines our
preventing normal OS operation it will
also block them from being installed for
the next 30 days
Microsoft says this will give ample time
for it and its partners to investigate
the failure and fix any issues and that
need I like this but at the same time I
go why why put out an update that's a
problem as the developer of an operating
system yep names Linux I can understand
how it can be very very challenging as a
developer now they're huge I'm small but
as a developer to account for every
potential problem everybody who has
built their own PC everybody who's using
a computer that has three burnt out
capacitors next to the CPU how can i
account for those issues it's really
really tough and that's fair yeah but I
feel like and again personal opinion
that Microsoft continually puts out
updates that quite frankly are flawed
sure like how many people do system
updates on their Macs or their Linux
machines and everything works well
usually right more often than Microsoft
Microsoft keeps screwing it
but here's what's different Jeff on my
Linux machine yep
I'm told when there's an update and I oh
great there's an update I'll just wait
right okay well I'm it's Saturday night
I'm gonna be watching a show let's run
that update right
Microsoft is its update time reboot see
and I think that's part of the issue mmm
Microsoft should not force an update
until say 30 days later that way allows
people who want to uh say just stop
forcing well there's that but again it
comes down to control but with that
control they're making a lot of big
mistakes Jeff and and when they make
those mistakes they're everybody feels
that we lose some confidence in the
company yeah but I can understand where
they're coming from they want to make an
appliance like operating system it just
keeps itself up-to-date everybody who
runs Windows 10 always has the latest
and greatest well that sounds great in
theory but in practice it's like stop
stripping away my rights as a user and
and allow me to make the decision to
update if an update if if an update is
going to screw up my computer let me
stop it exactly
yeah as simple as that yeah and I wonder
what happens if the update itself
negates the ability to uninstall the
update like what would happen in that
yeah you only it's like this will
self-destruct and you only have ten
seconds to remove this update yeah Jeff
we talked a little bit about
cryptocurrency tonight let's jump into
what coin gecko says about crypto this
week this is as of 1800 hours Eastern
Time on Wednesday March 13th 2019 we're
gonna call this a fairly fairly level
like the calm before the storm week okay
name it anything everything is pretty
much just where it was about a week ago
Bitcoin itself I mean it gained six
dollars and 81 cents us but its value is
three thousand eight hundred and sixty
seven dollars and thirty nine cents so
what's six bucks it's pretty much just
where it was a week ago
similarly litecoin only gained eight
cents right I mean so and its value is
fifty five dollars and three
tene sense a theory um is at 131 dollars
and sixty six cents losing five dollars
and twenty three cents versus last week
Manero is at forty nine dollars and 61
cents again very very minor gain gain of
forty one cents US dollars in crypto
coin per crypto coin the little guys
stellite and turtle coins stellite is at
one point five four ten thousandth of a
cent gaining a whopping zero point zero
for ten thousandth of a cent look at a
hair under a microscope slice it down
the middle then slice it again and again
and again and that's how much that's how
much we gain turtle coin gained 0.01 ten
thousandth of a cent sorry my friend I'm
waiting for turtle coin to just become
worth $1,000 per turtle coin I mean
we've got a ways to go at 0.78 ten
thousandth of a cent
even if - never happening even if turtle
coin was a baka coin penny I would be if
it was one penny Jeff if it was one
penny I'd be happy yeah yep that would
be great just imagine all of the nerds
that would rejoice it's very easy to
mine the smaller coils I love Yertle
coin you get tens of thousands of them
in a week big thanks to Roy W or Nash in
our community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from
category-five TV newsroom filling in for
sasha Rickman I'm Geoff West and I'm
Ravi Ferguson
[Music]
[Applause]
