welcome to episode number 299 of
category-five technology TV it is
Tuesday June the 11th 2013 and I'm your
host Robby Ferguson and I'm your co-host
air-cool on and coming up in the
newsroom apparently they can accurately
control robots with simple thoughts now
a school code-breaking contest is set up
to select the cybersecurity talent of
tomorrow the new Playstation 4 will be
around 100 dollars cheaper than the new
Xbox one and Honda is building a lawn
mower that moves at a top speed of 210
kilometers an hour
so stick around for these in the show
room
all right guys tonight is very exciting
we're continuing kind of our micro
unofficial series on web server hosting
and how to secure up our web server so
tonight actually we're gonna be looking
at a couple products that are going to
tell you whether or not your website
your law your WordPress blog or whatever
you have going is susceptible to
somebody hacking it somebody turning it
into a malware site so we're gonna show
you a couple of different tools that are
gonna cost you absolutely zero so don't
go anywhere we're gonna be back right
after this
this is category five technology TV
at eco alkaline zwi believe you should
be able to trust your batteries not just
here but here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here eco alkaline
zuv the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium Eco outlines provide performance
that rivals leading national alkaline
battery brands at a comparable price
find out more about the Eco alkaline
difference eco alkaline scum this is
category 5 technology TV it's episode
number 2 93 to 99 to 99 weeks ago you
know I'm just I'm obviously in a time
warp here well welcome to our new
registered viewers we have TV and booze
fellows
oh yeah TVs like you know Chevy but
Chevy extra key so Chevy welcome to the
show hey why would people want to
register here at category 5 well it's
free for one thing it allows you to
receive extra features that are not
available to non registered viewers so
if you want to be able to receive an
email from category 5 just before the
show goes live even after the show has
signed off the air you'll receive an
email with free downloads and links to
get the HD video file to be able to
download the mp3 file if you want to
listen to it on the road and so on and
so forth there speaking of listening to
category 5 on the road we have our
category 5 raid pardon me category 5
radio available to you and it is at m
dot cat 5 TV you'll see it there you can
also listen on your computer but ideally
it's a great way to be able to listen to
the show from your mobile device if you
can't actually watch at that time M cat
5 TV we recently upgraded our mobile
site we've got the live streaming video
live streaming audio everything is right
there so make sure you check it out
great to see everybody
it is it's good to be back as well it's
good to see everybody in the chatroom
it's definitely been pretty intense I'm
in school for the summer you're back in
May I'm back in school always in school
yeah and yeah I'm almost I'll be done in
July and then back to school in the fall
so I'm still doing it I really get like
1 or 2 months down I get a month off ok
just enough time to regain that's cool
things are going well but yeah things
are going well I'm you know enjoying the
summer time in in Toronto it's quite
nice I've actually now learnt the bus
system pretty well I was very I was like
pretty much a tourist starting out yeah
like I would get lost everywhere I go
but now when I go places I'm getting to
where I want you get used to it pretty
quickly yes you do get used to it really
quick because if you don't then you end
up on the other end of Toronto or you're
in another city why is it taking me 4
hours to get to school
well I now like my new rule if you're on
a bus more than 45 minutes you're going
the wrong way and then it takes an hour
and a half to get exciting stuff
happening this coming Monday but
technically we're actually recording on
Thursday but we are a member of the tech
podcast network and if it's tech it's
here but one of the things that we're
involved with this week is that they
have asked us to be a guest host kind of
guest host so category 5 host and
co-hosts are going to be joining in for
TPN weekly it's an online audio
broadcast and that's actually going to
be available to you on Monday at blog
dot tech podcast.com but you can also
just watch our Twitter feed you see our
Twitter down there is category 5 TV and
of course we're gonna post it there as
soon as it becomes available but if
you'd like to listen in on the on the
actual recording session it takes place
as you see on the calendar a category 5
TV takes place this Thursday night at
7:30 p.m.
should mention as well that that we are
a member of the internet International
Association of Internet broadcasters and
we're gonna just pretty much get right
into our feature tonight that's cool so
I I know that a lot of you and and just
a lot of us it's it's fun to tinker with
building a website and one of the cool
things that you can do is you can get
out there and get WordPress you can get
Joomla you can get all these different
pieces of software and you can use those
to expedite the process of getting your
own website built so it can you know I'm
using WordPress you can build a really
quick website you can get online very
very quickly but what happens if you
don't apply the security patches because
maybe you just don't know how or maybe
you've never done it before or maybe you
install a plug-in something like that
that actually causes your system to
become exploitable that's what we're
looking at tonight I want to show you
how we can pretty determine pardon me
how we can determine if your website is
exploitable as well as your web server
so the first tool that I want to look at
I told you that I would look at a couple
of tools that are available to you free
of charge and they certainly are the
first one of course you're probably
running a Linux server to run your
website if you're using a shared hosting
service it's possible that maybe you
don't have access to logging in to SSH
and running scripts directly on the
server maybe you only have FTP access or
something like that but if you're in a
case where you actually have physical
access to a server or you're you built
the actual box or you're hosting it at
home on a Linux box something like that
then this initial piece of software that
we're looking at is going to be for you
so what I'm going to do is I'm just
going to do this on my computer here
just to show you what what it is that
that we can do in order to determine if
our computer or our server is
susceptible to hackers and malware and
people exploiting our site but first why
would that be a concern I mean why does
it matter if somebody exploits our
website there are a couple of different
reasons first of all if your website is
getting hit by hacker
tax or Exploited code maybe they're
using your website to send out spam for
example that's just one thing that can
be done using injection code it'll
affect the performance of your server so
all of the websites that you're hosting
on that web server are gonna be really
really slow but also all of a sudden you
wonder why are none of my emails getting
through why can't I send email to
anybody it always bounces back because
all of a sudden you find yourself on
black lists because somebody reports
that there's a lot of spam coming out of
this server that has it's not you it's
somebody has exploited it and so all of
a sudden you're blocked but it gets
worse because if you're in Google and
you're working really really hard to get
up in the search engine results Google
Bing Yahoo out to Vista you know
whatever it may be that you're trying to
get your rankings up in if they detect
that all of a sudden your site has been
compromised and guess what you become a
part of that blacklist as well or people
who are running antivirus products on
their computers they go to your website
and it says can't go to this Web site
it's a security risk so now you've got a
loss of your reputation because people
don't feel like they can trust your
website or your company if it's a
company website if it is a company
website then you've got the loss of
revenue too you've got this chance to
actually lose sales because people are
going to your website whoa I'm getting a
warning here that there's some kind of a
malicious software or something
exploited on this website so all of a
sudden that becomes a really really big
problem the other thing that I like to
take into consideration is that I want
my website viewers visitors viewers in
our case but my website visitors I want
them to be safe I don't want to run the
risk of distributing malicious programs
onto their computer that could exploit
them or possibly be involved in some
kind of identity theft thing that
happens to them so I want to make sure
that my server is as safe as possible so
step one is the server itself so the
first thing that I want to do is I want
to install a piece of software that is
going to allow us to scan our local
servers so if your SSH into this server
or whatever you are
all we need to do is go sudo apt-get ins
and while first we would do an update
okay I've already done that so we're
just gonna go install lineThe and it's
spelt a little bit differently than you
would expect ly n is and then hit enter
enter your password for Super User and
you'll see that it's gonna get one new
package and this one is just gonna tell
us you know what what could be done
differently about our actual physical
server to make it safer to be running
websites on it and it could be our
computer or whatever really really
simple you're gonna love this all we
need to do is enter a really quick
command because now it's you see that
it's installed and it's gone through
okay we've installed it with apt-get you
can install it with your favorite
package manager I happen to be on point
Linux which is Debian 7 so all I'm gonna
do is go sudo cuz we need to be sudo a
super user again lineThe - C which is to
say check all use all of the scans that
we have possible and available to us and
then - capital Q and that means just do
it
don't bother querying me I don't want to
have to hit enter every time that it
runs a scan and find something I want it
to just finish the scan and go through
so it's quiet mode and it's just gonna
finish the whole thing and then output
what it finds so with that command sudo
lineThe - lowercase C - uppercase Q hit
enter and you'll see that all of a
sudden this amazing free scanner is
going to go through my server or my
computer and scan all open ports and
possible software that is exploitable
things like that but what's lovely about
this if I can say is that it doesn't
just detect hey by the way you've got
this exploit that could be problematic
it actually provides really good
suggestions and so this software will
say okay well here's what you need to do
you need to install a pam module for
password strength testing that would be
a good idea and it actually goes step by
step through every suggestion that it
has based on your computer and you may
find some interesting things in here
that you may not have thought about
or realized would actually help improve
the security of your server think about
if it's co-located here's one here why
don't you disable drivers like your USB
storage when not in use
you could SSH in and disable your USB
storage drivers because what can happen
is somebody on site could plug in a USB
Drive and all of a sudden they're
walking away with your data or your
customer data or your users data
so we're thinking now not just for
security as far as somebody hacking but
also data theft so it gives some really
really great suggestions that is called
lineThe the next one that we need to do
is we need to find out okay now that we
know that our server is you know this is
what we need to do to our server it's
given us a full report and I mean it is
a very very comprehensive report I
didn't scroll up very very very far here
but look at all the stuff that it's
tested here I'm scrolling and scrolling
and scrolling everything it's just gone
through a ton of stuff just to tell me
what I need to do to really solidify the
security of my server so now that we
know that we want to know okay well okay
well maybe you know this port is open
but I have a firewall and so it's
actually not open but to the world
because it's blocked at the firewall or
maybe it's not a concern that port 80 is
open because obviously we're hosting a
website so but how do we know like I
said at the beginning of the segment
I've got WordPress or I've got Joomla
and they're constantly bringing out
security fixes and patches but I'm not
updating them because it's really really
tedious sometimes or maybe I just you
know maybe I installed my blog and I
haven't used it yet or it's maybe I've
it's fallen by the wayside and it's just
sitting there maybe I've got a joomla
1.5 install and it's just sitting there
so all of a sudden that becomes really
really dangerous because all the
exploits that are found to this software
that is publicly available so you
imagine WordPress I can go and download
WordPress and I can read through all the
source code and find out exactly how it
works
and then I can say oh looks like the
programmers made a mistake here they
accidentally put a dollar sign instead
of an ampersand and so now
I've got access and I've figured out a
way to inject code into a website so
then I just do a search for any
WordPress site and I start injecting so
the tool that I want to show you now is
in fact going to test from the outside
world what can be exploited on your
server it's gonna throw script commands
at your servers get line so if you're
watching your Apache logs for example
you're gonna start to see some really
interesting stuff because it's gonna
basically test everything that they
possibly can
so what I'll get you to do is bring up a
simple website here's the address for
you
cat5 dot TV slash stopped the hacker
it's as simple as that cat5 dot TV slash
stop the hacker and when we do that it's
gonna take us over to a service called
stop the hacker and you'll see that it
does a lot of different things one of
the things that it does is it detects
malware it detects whether there are
exploitable scripts that are on your
server that could be exploited it checks
ports it sees if there's anything that's
opened up that shouldn't be it does a
lot of stuff and it's absolutely free to
run this this scan which they call the
vault the website vulnerability check so
all that you have to do is just enter
your website address in here just like
that and that would be your website and
you would go to cat five dot TV slash
stop the hacker to get here and we press
the free vulnerability scan and now it's
gonna ask me for very very simple
information my email address my domain
my first name and my last name phone
number and so on what I'd actually like
to do Erica if I may I think I should
bring up my server lock so that we can
actually see what's gonna happen here
because it is rather interesting to see
firsthand what's happening when they run
this this scan so we're just gonna I'm
just going to SSH into our server we're
gonna actually go with the real server
I'm almost in ok I am so secure there's
multiple levels of security and now we
are in that server we've already looked
at a couple weeks ago Apache top which
is an amazing tool to allow me to see
what's actually happening on my server
so I've got that running on the server
now we're gonna jump over to our cat 5
dot TV slash stop the hacker we're gonna
enter my email address get rid of the
HTTP colon slash slash on your website
address we're gonna save Robbie Ferguson
to five four five two two eight five
eight eight which is our phone number
here and then I agree to the terms and
conditions which you can read on the
site and then run a free scan there we
go so what's gonna actually happen is it
is gonna start scanning the site now I
see that ok well because I've already
run this scan they're actually saying no
it won't allow me to run the scan again
so I'm gonna show you I happen to take a
screenshot which is really dummy
here we go oh it looks like they might
may actually let me run it a second time
how about your check I'd love to show
you this I'll get the screen shot up for
you just in case but if that starts
whacking away at our server which it is
Oh brilliant look at this what's going
on so you see what is actually happening
what they're doing is they're hitting
pages on my website that don't even
exist they're trying to get into the
root user folder that tilde means that
it's trying to get into root they're
trying to access index.html with a tilde
at the end which is a backup file
they're scanning through all these
different files that don't even exist on
my website so my logs are gonna show 404
but if you happen to be running one of
the pieces of software that they are
scanning for exploits say the site
server software happens to be on your
server then they will determine whether
or not it is able to be exploited so
then once that's done here's the
brilliant part remember that this is
absolutely free you're gonna actually
receive a report by email and it's very
very comprehensive now my report even
though our website came up and we put a
lot of work into the security of our
website so I was pleased to find that we
actually don't have any critical
exploits you see that our results are
very very good here at category 5 but it
does give me some info and there are 12
pages here to this comprehensive report
that tells me some of the things that I
can do to increase the security of my
website where it's gonna get a lot
different is if you happen to have a
script running on your site Joomla
whatever that is exploitable what I mean
by that is somebody could inject code
into your website they could use your
server to control other computers or to
send out mass email or they could break
your website or compromised your user
data you often hear about big companies
that you know somebody hacked into their
database and we're able to steal user
passwords things like that usually
that's how it's done they're gonna be
using some kind of form
SQL injection which is going to be
tested for by this scan so do check it
out it's cat five dot TV slash stop the
hacker it is free to get that report
it's gonna tell you all the different
things that are concerns about your
website they do also offer some really
really cool services that I'm just gonna
really quickly just let you know about
it basically they can operate very much
like a anti-virus product an
anti-malware product for your actual
website so if you've got the report you
decide you know what I really want to
make this an ongoing thing you can
actually go through let's say a small
business plan and starting at ten bucks
a month you can get reputation
monitoring and blacklist monitoring
which is going to tell you if anything
has happened on your website that you
should be concerned about it's gonna
scan for known malware scan for viruses
and it's gonna scan every single page on
your website and then pardon me the
plans can go up from there reason I show
you that is because you can actually
have a proactive scan running on your
website so that you don't have to
manually run this free report every time
also some of the plans that they offer
will automatically remove malware from
your website everything that I've shown
you so far all that it does is it tells
you if there is a problem and then it's
up to you to actually do something about
it so don't think that what I've shown
you tonight is gonna fix your problems
what I want to show you tonight is we
want to know is there a problem is there
something on your website that you need
to be knowledgeable about and and aware
of that somebody could exploit or
possibly is already exploiting and using
server resources attacking your
customers and and possibly compromising
their confidentiality those are the
things so once you know and if you find
that oh I actually do have a lot of
critical threats here then you need to
contact your local web designer or if
you know how to program your way around
it it will give you some suggestions but
essentially you need to get those holes
patched get them fixed up at that point
and that's where you know with category
five with our report coming up as
showing that we have no critical issues
at this time I could get all you know
I'm so good at security
and I'm so great and I'm Way ahead of
the hackers and blah blah blah but the
fact is that the hackers are always
working to exploit and always working to
compromise your data so should I get
like that and be all confident and oh
now I don't I don't I ran a report in
2013 I know I'm safe
no because they're still working on it
so you need to continue to work on it as
well at the very least every six months
be doing something to make sure that
your website is absolutely safe not just
for your your users but for for you for
your company's reputation and for for
your blog for whatever it is that you do
it's a good good practice absolutely and
of course you know now that you're
dealing with that welcome to the world
of website administration that's what
it's about
sometimes I'm sitting there hacking the
hackers I call it when the hack comes
and you're fighting fighting fighting
something you have to you know take and
like taking hand like you have to be in
control of the security of your site you
you know your users want to make sure
that they're safe going on to your site
and I think by you know increasing your
reputation just by a scan is a big thing
for even your site as well yeah you know
it's all about increasing your
application for your customers and just
maintaining it I mean you work so hard
to get up there and Google why lose it
on account of somebody hacking your site
and defacing you I think it's a it's a
tough thing too because I've seen it
happen where a customer will you know
they'll they'll buy a website long long
ago get it built won a content
management system so of course you're
looking at something like Drupal or
Joomla or something along those lines
WordPress and then for five years they
do nothing and then when it happens
because it will happen
pretty much guarantee you somebody
exploits the site and what does it come
down to who are we gonna blame do we
blame the person who set up the website
for us and the first
place or do we blame the web host
because they should be protecting you
know it's up to you to make sure that
your website is safe because it's your
code and it's your responsibility to
keep that up to date so hopefully I've
equipped you tonight with some tools
that are gonna help you to understand
what you need on your website check out
with us on your Linux box check out cat5
dot TV slash stop the hacker from any
computer to scan your website and find
out what what's going on let us know if
those have been helpful for you thanks
everybody
no problem ready for the news oh I'm
ready alright okay so here the tops toys
from the category 5 music whoo robots
are a step closer to leading our
thoughts
thanks to researchers at the University
of Minnesota biomedical engineers in the
University's College of Science and
Engineering have developed a
non-invasive system that allows people
to control flying robots by using only
their minds that engineers created a
skull cap fitted with 64 electrodes that
can track the electrical activity of a
subjects brain the brain signals were
sent to a computer which has translated
them into Wi-Fi commands to a four-blade
flying robot so for example when a
research subject was asked to think
about making a fist with his right hand
that robot would move to the right the
subject didn't have to actually make a
fist to see the robot perform the
command I was just all fond it's all
thought process but the subjects were
able to get good enough to maneuver the
fly robot through two large rings
suspended from a gymnasium ceiling the
lead researchers beni a biomedical
engineering professor said that the
technology has the potential thought has
a potential to create thought-controlled
wheelchairs artificial limbs or other
devices for use by people who are
paralyzed or have near genetic terra
generative disease diseases that's a
cool point because I'm like okay that's
really really cool neat technology but
imagine if somebody who is completely
unable to use their limbs for example
could control a wheelchair and just by
their forest just to be able to enjoy
that part of life to be able to get
around that's awesome if technology can
be that far along and it's just to be
able to function normally like you know
you have to
with I'm not sure how the limb
technology works today but I think if
you can control it with a thought that
is being able to function like a normal
person you wouldn't feel this big
difference between you and somebody else
because you both have to think to move
your arms so who cares if you know that
arm is plastic you're both are thinking
to move it if I could if they could get
it to that point where it's actually
well they talk about lifting up your
right fist well imagine if you could
actually do that with a robotic arm just
by thinking about it that's like so also
in the news schools are being urged to
sign up for a code-breaking
competition aimed at developing the next
generation of site cyber security
experts teenagers from 1416 will put
their wits against each other to break
secret messages and then write their own
schools will score points for coming up
with the toughest codes and then when a
virtual and then have a virtual contest
attempting to crack those of codes of
other schools it is an extension of what
is known as a cyber security challenge
which is in its fourth year and designed
to find and encourage people to work in
computer security protecting people and
organizations from hackers and computer
viruses and that's so interesting I
think about all these Code Breaker iOS
apps and things and so like are they
like monitoring and would that be weird
if you know you got an email or you got
a pop-up in the game hey you're one of
our number one code breakers come work
for the FBI
Danton but they're they're doing it with
kids kids kind of a little bit creepy
but cool nonetheless what's this what is
this ps4 nice so Sony is set to sell the
PlayStation 4 for cheap
price than Microsoft's rival Xbox one
the Japanese firm announced that the e3
trade show is it that it's machine will
be sold for three hundred and forty five
pounds in the UK for 399 sorry no 4 in
the UK for 349 pounds sorry and in the
US for $399 and 399 euros across Europe
it added that it would not impose
restrictions on secondhand games
oh that's a little jab at Microsoft
right there and Sony also revealed that
its box would look like having
previously kept the design under wraps
at its February
ps4 press conference just me or is it
it's like it's the ps4 it's boxier than
the ps3 but otherwise the same it looks
the same looks the same but just boxier
and the controller's thinner is it a
little bit thinner there you go maybe it
could just be the angle for many in the
audience at the Los Angeles event the
scale of the price difference came as
the biggest shock early in the day
Microsoft had revealed its new console
would cost 429 pounds in the UK and $499
in the US and 499 euros across Europe so
Stefan Toledo editor-in-chief of the
gaming news site katako said Microsoft
is going to need to look again at the
price or explain why it offers better
value such as the inclusion of its
Kinect sensor mm-hmm
okay ps4 versus Xbox one go from past
experience with Xbox 360 and ps3 this is
the best system I don't know why it says
it's hard because I'm such a Microsoft
lover when it
it's hard because like I just I love the
game quality lives and life down here
I'm just not you know I love the ps3 I
love fallout I love the game sure okay
yeah but I just
girl there's just something about
Microsoft that I just I like about the
Xbox like me that I asked folks except
the red ring and dead that's the only
thing I don't so i could say ps3 has
that it's never once you know given me
this deathly ring that i have to go you
know call it my dad to pay for and fix
and or sit there sit there at the dinner
table start tweaking for a week because
i can't be playing my xbox I'm just I
grew up with always you know why not
play Halo after school my favorite games
were on the Xbox jawed is reminding us
that fallout is a PC game as well which
ironically would be on Windows but even
still it's a valid point you don't need
to go out and buy an Xbox 360 for Dave
may do votes for the PlayStation any day
especially today so I am sorry I really
don't like to have to censor the show
after the fact I mean I have to go back
and post produce and Microsoft Erica
what else you got for me well okay it's
better than Microsoft why I like a
flaming bag not wonderfulness so but you
better watch out groundhogs cuz Honda
engineers are racing to build the
worldís the world's fastest lawnmower
after being put up at a test by Top Gear
magazine now yeah the world's fastest
lawn mower that's even better than the
Xbox
they are targeting a speed of 130 miles
per hour like a lawn mower but in Milan
that's faster than I've ever driven in a
car ever ever losers okay so that would
easily beat the current road speed
record that is 996 point five miles per
hour claimed by the fuel addicted firm
Gold Eagle a first look at the machine
showing flames coming out of the exhaust
has been the British lawnmower racing
Association yes that's a real thing said
Top Gear's more would not be able to
compete in the July's World Cup
championship because of the strict
limits on the number of modifications
allowed on the motors and the bodies of
the lawn mower honda said it's hard to
simply it had simply taken on the
product project to promote its sporty
credentials yeah because when I think
it's 40 companies I think yeah well how
fast is your lawnmower go faster than
yours because they can go faster than my
crazy imagine what that would do to your
take your truck like your grass
especially we've got Hills grass quality
like if you just flying over hills I I
get the impression that it's actually
like a something that people do like get
on their lawn mowers and race well I
guess in the UK it's it's it is you guys
make fun of goodness me you guys are
racing it alone what if someone starts
using it like you know when you have
those dirt bikes on the side of the road
not dirt bikes but before we learn like
Nikifor wheeler or when they have Vespas
or like you know like like little
motorized vehicles what if they start
using these on the side of the road
danger because
and what if you were able to control it
with your thoughts cool well you guys
can also get the full stories at
category-five dot TV newsroom the
category-five dot TV newsroom is
researched by Roy w-waahhhhh Nash with
contributions by our community of
viewers if you have a news story you'd
think is worthy for an on-air mention
email newsroom at I caught it at
category five dot TV and then for the
category five dot TV newsroom I'm Erica
on thanks Erica tonight's show is
brought to you in part by Netflix get
your free one-month trial at cat five
dot TV slash Netflix also category five
technology TV is brought to you in part
by net talk at cat five dot TV slash
phone and now they've got unlimited text
messaging you can eliminate the need for
Wireless text plan with your cell phone
provider we were mentioning off the top
I mean data plans can be really really
expensive well now you can wipe it out
by getting a net talk duo device check
out cap five dot TV slash phone for more
details that is the net talk duo and
that's the Wi-Fi right there which is
pretty brilliant cuz you can connect it
to the internet with no cables awesome
well I would love to get into some
viewer questions if we could I love
receiving your questions live at
category-five dot TV thanks for sending
them in to us and of course we're trying
to watch the chatroom as fast as we can
to it's it's kind of flying by as well
but email us live at category-five dot
TV to try to make sure that we get in
before we do that I should mention last
week it happened where we were just
about to sign on the air and we got an
email and we didn't actually even get to
see it until just after we had signed
off and I was like oh so I just want to
give shouts out because Robert Kazinsky
wrote us last week and said tonight's my
mom's birthday and could you just wish
her a happy birthday so even though
we're a week late I just want to say
very very happy birthday on behalf of
category-five TV from here in Canada yes
happy belated birthday and we really
appreciate your boy you've you have
raised him well alright so we can jump
into the course so for the we have a
viewer question it's more of a
congratulations from D Kelly 810 Kelly
she's sending congratulations to Abigail
Dennis I figure just for the
congratulations everybody
oh yes from Dennis okay yes okay yeah
Abigail Smith now Abigail Paige is is
married it's been a couple or a few
weeks now and she's back from the
honeymoon and raring to go so
congratulations thank you for sending
that in for sure and we have one from
some little shoe I just watched your
video about setting up Wirecast I saw
you adjusting the saturation brightness
and etc on your cam picture adjusting
the picture like that is a part of what
Wirecast can do or did you change the
picture color and brightness of the cam
on your computer right okay so we
demonstrated just to go back a little
ways this was that was your first
episode wasn't it when we looked at how
to connect a bunch of cameras to
Telestream Wirecast to see let's see how
good her memory is folks 236 I'm going
over to category 5 dot TV but 237 huh
and in the search box over at the right
hand side here I'm typing in Wirecast
and we'll use Microsoft LifeCam studio
because those the cameras that we were
using that episode so 236 yes well done
12 guesses so okay so on that episode so
that's how you can find episode number
236 just gonna close that before it airs
blast
our audio what we had done is we showed
how to hook up multiple 1080p webcams to
tell a stream Wirecast and when you saw
me adjusting the focus and the
saturation and the colors and and all
that kind of stuff that is actually a
feature of the Microsoft LifeCam studio
driver so it's not a feature that in
particular is not a feature of Wirecast
Wirecast is a switcher but it works with
the source basically as you provide it
that said it does provide the ability to
go to the source settings and you can
change things like that based on the the
videocam driver so I hope that answers
but that that was all part of the driver
for the LifeCam
and accessible from within Wirecast so
we have another question from naked cook
hey make it cook ravio the programs on
linux yours is the most informative any
thanks you guys are amazing but here's
my thing most Linux tutorials are based
on software what's the best and is good
for me coming from Windows Mac
environment if you buy a computer system
76 that's not available here it's a lot
of money so if I'm going to build purely
for Lenox what do I do
it seems that Lennox is more sensitive
to hardware and yes is due to the free
open source your thoughts and my name is
Garth okay Garth the whole thing about
Linux being more picky a finicky about
hardware really I don't think it has as
much of an impact as it used to
printers yeah you probably want to go
with like a brother printer that you
know has Linux printer drivers things
like that but generally speaking I mean
it's gonna work on anything the you
throw like that you throw it on but some
distros
may have a different focus and may work
better on certain hardware I know like
if you're using Wi-Fi on a laptop
there are you know there may be problems
with the boomtube but point Linux may
work just fine or vice versa that kind
of thing can be true because it's really
what they packaged in with the
distribution so I would think that best
thing possibly to do would be to get
into forums for the distributions that
you're looking at
find out what hardware other people are
running but that doesn't really you know
these days yeah I mean good guys steams
system76 isn't available in their area I
wonder if maybe what you could do is go
to system76 find out the specs cuz it's
gonna display what they're actually
using in the in their builds and say
okay well they chose this motherboard
because we know it's compatible with
Linux so maybe we go for that and then
build something similar not to take the
business away from them but if it's not
available to you where you live then
then that's that is what it is right so
but I've I've had really really good
luck with and you know that things are
changing I uh
I stand by Nvidia I love Nvidia and
that's what all of our systems run and
all of our chipsets even the laptop is
Nvidia chipset because I wasn't a big
fan of AMD and and the ATI cards and and
all that but those times are changing
too so you know I think they're becoming
better and better and who knows right so
I think it's also personal preference
but to get it working really Linux I
mean if you try three different distros
probably one of them will hit the nail
on the head and it'll work just fine so
it's picking the one that works for you
we switched over to point Linux just for
an example we were using PC Linux OS and
PC Linux OS seven has just been released
just so you know so if you're using PC
Linux OS awesome you want to get that we
were using that and then when they
brought up version six it's stopped
working on our hardware so that's where
we said okay now we've got to find
another distro so Ubuntu 12.04 worked
but it was sluggish and point Linux
worked flawlessly so you can see you
know between three different distros one
of them is going to work it's all Linux
but each one is packaged a little bit
different
has support for different hardware in
different ways so but for the failsafe I
mean find out some hardware that is
already working for people get into the
forum Xubuntu forums and things like
that and find out what people say what
people are using who boot is a good
example because they've got a really big
community base and people will answer
your questions there now we got another
question from John oh yeah hey guys well
personal question so according to
Robbie's personal website at WB dot Rabi
furnace can Robbie Ferguson dotnet he's
known as Robbie Ferguson aka DJ Robbie F
I was wondering does the DJ stand for
disc jockey or data jockey
regarding charge DJ Robbie F was my
stage name so that was all disc jockey
stuff yeah your stage name
yeah it stage me yeah back before Becca
and I had kids we were on the stage
quite a bit we played all around Ontario
and yeah people laughing it's awesome no
it's pretty cool we did Ural trance and
vocal trance and electronica and yeah
that's and if we're gonna pick it up one
day but we should bring it on to the
show sometimes invincible mutant is my
favorite in the chatroom love you man I
should mention too for our viewers who
are joining us from mainland China
really really exciting news you know
that we've been working on getting that
alt feet going so that you have access
to the show through the Great Firewall
of China we've actually been able to
migrate all feeds together we're in the
process of doing it we're talking
terabytes of data being transferred from
one server in California to another
server halfway around the world so that
process is underway we've been running
it the transfer has already taken over a
hundred hours of consistent transferring
my bandwidth bill is gonna be crazy but
what it means to you in mainland China
is that you're going to be able to
subscribe to our
regular feeds you're gonna be able to
access the video on our website it's all
going to be transparent to the firewall
so you're gonna be able to actually
catch the show as other users do for
people in America in Europe in in Russia
and Canada and everywhere in between
where you're not blocked what you're
gonna see is that the RSS feeds
everything is going to be a lot faster
everything is being moved on to a
different CDN and you're gonna be able
to receive the feeds much much faster
than ever before so if you want to find
out more check out my blog it's balled
nerd calm and there is some information
there about the test that we've been
running they were successful and very
very happy to announce so for those who
are from China just want to let you know
so just remind just reminded me there
and we got one more question from my
question so hi Ravi could you please
show how to install wine and TeamViewer
in point Linux I jump from Zorin OS to
point Lenox
and so far I haven't been successful
installation of TeamViewer I understand
that the it needs wine to run on in
Lennox thank you
keep up the good work and best regards
from kevo I don't think I don't know
that it requires wine I don't think
maybe it does but but I love the
question I love that okay you know Here
I am have made the transition over to
point Linux and probably loving the
distribution anyways but here's the
thing is that we need to learn our way
around getting some things to install
because is not because of a point Linux
thing it's because point Linux is based
on Debian 7 so it is a whole different
beast to anything you know that came
previously because we don't have the
ia32 libs and you know you're running a
64-bit distro I guarantee you because
otherwise you wouldn't be having any
trouble maybe but I don't think so I
think you're running 64-bit and that's
exactly what the problem is
so
let's see what we can do we've got about
ten minutes left of the show so this is
fantastic I'm going to bring up my web
browser I'm going to get over to
TeamViewer do a quick search
TeamViewer dot-com nice and simple okay
download it's automatically detected
that I'm on linux now I know that I'm on
64-bit Linux so typically what you would
do is of course without even thinking
about it you would download that and you
would save it or open it with GW package
manager and in my case because I want to
show you what's going on let's actually
just download it and we're gonna go dpk
and well sudo dpkg - i for install
TeamViewer there we go we're gonna see
some interesting things go on here whole
bunch of dependencies unavailable well
here's the thing okay it requires ia32
libs well what did I say already okay
sudo apt-get install and let's do IA 32
libs see what happens guess what it
doesn't exist there's no such thing
because we are on Debian 7 it's a multi
arc system as opposed to the old method
of doing things so it's new it's
improved it's fantastic but you need to
understand your way around now the
problem is because they've built the
TeamViewer 64-bit package as as if it
has a requirement for ia32 libs you're
right you can't install it but what you
can do is you can go with a 32-bit so
what we'll do is we're gonna grab that
32-bit file you'll see that now they've
actually looks like updated their
website to say also this will work for
multi arc so let's do it I'm gonna grab
that file so anytime you see multi arc
remember that's you now okay so now I'm
gonna go LS and I see that I've got not
just the 64-bit but also the 32-bit so
and I go sudo dpkg - i teamviewer linux
dot deb enter
okay so there were some errors couldn't
find packaged live XTS t6 installed so
what we'll do is we'll do apt-get no
sorry sudo apt-get install lib XTS t6 :
i 386 because we need the the 32-bit
version of that because that's what
we're installing here and hit enter
we'll see now that's actually forced
TeamViewer to continue installing
processing triggers for menu blah blah
blah we're done so now we can go sudo
apt-get update we know we should get no
errors unless we misspelled update there
we go
so should be no errors there we go if
there are any errors we can do a dash F
I'll show you how to do that if you get
any errors about some some packages
missing we can do this okay so you see
I've got no errors so I'm good to go
sudo apt-get install dash F will simply
force anything that needs to be
installed that's required so now that
that's done okay and I'll post all the
information in the show notes for
episode number 299 all right so you'll
see all the commands that I'm throwing
in here in terminal and you can do it at
your own pace let's see if TeamViewer is
now on my menus yes
TeamViewer 8 you see it is on internet
okay so let's give it a try TeamViewer 8
there we go
except my license and we're in we're set
so that's all there is to it
keep in mind that TeamViewer is free for
non-commercial use only and of course if
you want to use it for commercial use
you need to purchase a license so but
there you go working in point Linux this
is the same version that you're running
so that's thank you very much for the
question no problem good guy was saying
in the chat that he couldn't get the
anvita driver working on point linear
Nvidia okay so for that what I do
is go into synaptic package manager'
okay and type nvidia as your quick
search and you see I've already got an
install excited this when I first
installed my system there's a package
called Nvidia - detect simply install
that so then go to your terminal and
type sudo Nvidia - detect and hit enter
you'll see that it is recommended to
install this package Nvidia - GLX so you
can copy that to your clipboard go back
to synaptic package manager and type
Nvidia - GLX and you'll see that that is
somewhere there it is okay so that
package has installed some other things
that's why I'm seeing more things there
so I installed that package reboot the
computer and then we're gonna go so
Nvidia detect is actually gonna tell you
in point Linux which driver am I
supposed to use then you just find that
package it tells you which package to
install reboot your computer it's
literally that easy I mean gone are the
days where installing a video driver is
tough you know when you had to kill X
sessions and go through all those hoops
and all that kind of stuff it's that
easy
so good luck let us know if that if that
solved it for you okay because that
would be awesome
any other questions for us while we're
still here in the meantime just to let
you know big news I mean next week is a
huge show you know this is episode
number 299 next week
carry web is gonna be joining us in
studio we are going to be looking a look
back hosted by Kari Webb the original
very first co-host of category 5 TV she
was here from seasons 1 and 2 and she's
gonna be hosting the show so it's a it's
a really special episode we're gonna
actually be looking back over 300
episodes of category 5 TV just to kind
of refresh you know where have we come
from we're gonna look at some of the
early days and then scream through all
the way up to episode number 300 within
hopefully about an hour so and then
following the show it's
very special broadcast but following the
show get your webcam set up get Google
Plus up and running and you'll be able
to join the Google Plus hangout we're
actually going to be sitting in the
studio not just me not just Kerry but a
handful of the co-hosts and myself and
and lots of people are gonna be here and
we're gonna be we're gonna be chatting
with you I'm looking forward to it's
gonna be a lot of fun so think of your
questions or comments about category 5
and that's the way to go
another thing that thank you for
reminding me we'd love to give stuff
away and this is here to remind me we
you remember we reviewed this product
this is the newer tech 7 port USB 2.0
hub but it has a 2.1 amp powered output
so you can recharge your iPad whatever
device you can power a TV like mini PC
unit whatever it's 2.1 amps dedicated
power it's fantastic the this is a you
know seven ports USB 2.0 it's a really
sleek little device and they've sent us
one to give away after we reviewed it
several months ago so really excited to
have that for you that we're gonna be
giving away two weeks from tonight all
you have to do is be in the chatroom and
if you can't be in the chatroom during
the live show send me an email tonight
live at category-five TV doesn't have to
be tonight just between now and then
make sure you send me an email let me
know where you're from and then we will
include you in that draw live at
category-five TV well send this anywhere
in the world so we want you to win it
all right it's awesome for newer
technology and we're gonna post all the
links all the information in the show
notes for episode number 299 but it's
newer tech comm newer tech comm check
them out and win one of those in a
couple weeks so I think that's all the
time that we have
we have food today phew thanks folks the
only thing left to say as I look over my
things to do tonight
wowsers tonight's show is brought to you
in part by
Erica's shirt ads ER comm the world's
fastest asynchronous ad code if you've
got a website tonight you learn how to
detect whether or not it's safe now you
want to actually make money off of it
you can sell some ads use ads are to be
able to track all of the advertising
that you put into your website its ads
or comm check them up
it's all the time you have Erica great
to see you looking for continued next
week as we celebrate 300 episodes here
February 5 what a milestone
join us again mentioned this Thursday
night 7:30 p.m. we will be live on
category 5 radio and you'll find the
links on our website and through our
Twitter feed as well category 5 TV so
have a great week everybody see an
episode 300 night
we hope you enjoyed the show category 5
TV broadcasts live from very Ontario
Canada every Tuesday at 7:00 p.m.
Eastern if you're watching this on
demand or through cable TV check out the
local show times in your area at
category-five TV and find out when you
can watch live and interact in the
community chat room category 5 is a
production of prodigy digital solutions
and is licensed under Creative Commons
Attribution 2.5 Canada we'll see you
next time thanks for tuning in
