have you had the fun experience of
working with Windows 8 yet ah yes yeah
my work computer it's on your work
computer and how do you love that like
weird I'm like scroll I want to make it
scale you want to like drag it but then
you end up grabbing one of the tiles and
flicking it off the screen it's like
where did the tile go now it kind of
feels like things are developed for a
touchscreen in fact I had a customer
come in and their computer had crashed
so they needed us to transfer the data
on to their new computer they bought a
new computer in town and it had Windows
8 on it they said I can't figure out how
to use this stupid thing nothing is
where it used to be I can't find
anything I can't figure out how to use
my computer why are all of these icons
up on the screen so what do we do we
revert to our desktop oh I know that's
fantastic oh it feels more like Windows
doesn't it
okay so let's bring up our Start menu Oh
ah see what oh my god but I click on the
Start menu and it takes me to this thing
Oh so then I go oh well okay well if I
want a bundt cake apparently I'm oh
goody for it good okay okay I don't want
bundt cake I'm not in the football what
this is the problem I'm being over
exaggerating a little bit but this is
how the user sees Windows 8 sure I mean
you might be a power user a little bit
and you you love to tinker and you love
to figure your way around and try all
the new things but the user who you know
there is a huge amount you know the user
base of Windows who just expect when I
click on the II don't even know what
it's called
just when I click on the II it's going
to give me the Internet the Internet
when I click on the envelope it's going
to give me my email right if I if I ever
lose my bookmarks I don't know how to
get around the Internet if I ever lose
Google or Bing I don't know how to get
around the Internet and that might be
you if you're watching this after the
Factor
maybe then there you go there's a huge
user base that's like that so throw this
at you and say okay now go okay where do
I go what do I do
why do I have the London forecast when
I'm in Barrie Ontario oh I've got Sydney
that's good for some some of you
watching looks like it's nice there
Paris okay so what now I'm travelling
okay so this is useless to me so I go
back to my desktop and I want my Start
menu but it's nowhere to be found and I
click it and it just takes me back and
forth and back and forth
it's a nightmare I've only got Internet
Explorer so what do I do I click on it
and from Internet Explorer I'm going to
head over to this great website that's
going to help me with this awful
interface is called classic shell dotnet
okay we've got that up now we're going
to talk okay what we don't like about
Windows 8 and I'm saying we I'm talking
about the client who comes in with a
computer and says where is my Start menu
yes what we don't like about it is that
we are using a laptop computer with a
keyboard and a touchpad and maybe an
external mouse I'm using a desktop
computer with a mouse and a keyboard and
a big screen I'm not using a touchscreen
I'm not doing this on my screen I'm not
moving things around like this I'm using
a mouse so it needs to be an interface
that's built for the mouse the whole
Start menu thing is a big problem for a
lot of people and when 8.1 came out and
brought in the menu that I showed you
there and just takes you back to the
Start screen people will set a joke is
Microsoft laughing at us what are your
thoughts about Windows 8 thus far I'm
using Windows 8.1 do you love it do you
hate it or you can't on the fence not
really sure or maybe you're just
strictly Linux and so you don't really
care but the fact is in on people say
well why are you looking at Windows 8
when this is predominantly a Linux show
well we do have Windows users that watch
the show some of you have it at work
what do you do it is what it is bro so
classic shell is a free piece of
software that as they say it improves
your productivity it enhances the
usability of Windows 8 and M
how is you to use the computer the way
you like it which is a good statement
yeah it's maybe not for everyone but
classic shell empowers you to use
Windows the way that you like it so
let's say Windows 7 Windows XP that kind
of an interface ok so back at my desktop
yeah here we are ok all I need to do is
click on download now uh-huh download
now there it is ok do you want to run
yes run running security scan preparing
to install and next I accept this lovely
agreement to make my computer old-school
ok here's the first thing that you're
kind of asked here what do you want to
include with classic shell classic
Explorer ok classic Explorer adds the
standard toolbar to explore it features
things like cut copy paste delete
properties email of course I want that
it can show the free disk space and the
total file size in your status bar why
don't we already have that in Windows 8
I don't know
it can also disable the breadcrumbs in
the address bar so we want that ok do we
want the classic start menu yeah that's
going to give us the Windows 8 or
Windows 7 style Start menu and classic
ie actually pardon me it adds a caption
to the top of your Internet Explorer
window so you can actually see the title
of the website that you're on we've lost
that feature so this reads that it also
shows the security zone in the status
bar and it also shows the loading
progress in the status bar things that
you expect from your browser those are
included with classic IE so generally
we're going to want to allow it to
install everything the last option is
classic shell update do you want it to
look for updates to itself in case they
bring out some new things
absolutely next and install doesn't take
long is this ok yeah of course it is
yeah I'm gonna say yeah
ok we can turn off view readme file
unless you want to read it we're not
going to right now and I would encourage
you if you support this project and you
find that you like it
do click the donate to classic shell
button because this is a donation
supported free software finish ok so
what do I do now let's close out of
Internet Explorer Here I am I'm going to
click on this start button down at the
bottom left whoa that's new familiar
that didn't come up with the crazy
desktop thing but it's asking me
something here what do I want a classic
style Start menu that looks like Windows
XP style do you want a two-column which
looks a little more like Windows 7 and
then the actual Windows 7 style right
there so I'm going to go with the
defaults here let's look at the basic
settings left click on the Start menu or
on the start button brings up classic
start menu shift and click opens the
Windows Start screen that's the thing
that we're trying to get away from
Windows key ah opens the Start menu and
shift windows opens the Windows Start
screen you can go through all of these
settings you're probably going to just
want all of these to stay as they are
nice thing is that it also contains a
shutdown command so you don't have to
try to find shutdown by pan to the lower
right of your screen oh there it is
under settings right of course because
I'm going to configure my shutdown no I
actually have to go through this and
then find it oh my goodness that's
actually helpful because I actually
don't know how to shut my worked one
down now you know you kind of jiggle
your mouse over the right-hand corner
and then when it comes up you push
settings like as if you're gonna
configure something no that's that's
that's daft for sure ok but what's going
to happen here is that it's going to
give us the proper shutdown option ok
scrolling down through the settings real
quick look at this start automatically
for this user and perhaps the most
brilliant thing right at the bottom skip
metro screen what that means is it is
going to absolutely avoid ever loading
that Start screen with all those tiles
okay so I'm gonna hit okay and could it
really be that simple let's see
are you ready he'll I don't know if I
can handle this can you handle this it's
gonna make me rethink everything
let's click the start button ah oh
mylanta look at that we're still in
windows 8 but this is understand looks
just like Windows 7 look at our control
panel nice and clean
much much more familiar double click on
control panel to bring it up and you'll
see that of course Explorer is you know
we've got a file menu and all this kind
of stuff that you would expect operates
a little bit more normally okay
let's bring up internet explorer and
you'll see the classic explorer bar is
ready for use
enable there we go okay so now it's
enabled we can now you're ready for this
right click on your basically the blue
area up here the teal area and we can
turn on all of these things now status
bar now we have a status bar at the
bottom see down there when I point to
links I can see them right click again
and add a favorites bar brilliant now I
can add my favorites there you go I can
add a menu bar
that's your file tools all that kind of
stuff don't know why I added to Google
things there I guess because I added
this as a favorite that's what I did all
right and that's really you know that's
what we need to know about the Explorer
extension classic ie
but there you go so now if you want to
add favorites and stuff they're going to
be easily accessible on this toolbar so
you can get there nice and easy but it's
really nice to have the status bar at
the bottom as well and it starts to feel
more like the browser that you're used
to rather than this thing that's built
for a full screen tablet okay so now if
when I click on this every time that I
click on it ok well now what if I what
if I really for some reason want to get
back to the Start screen
well we saw in the settings that if we
hold in the shift
key on our keyboard and click on the
start button it will in fact take me
back to that screen then if I hit the
start button on my keyboard now it
brings me back to this but I never in
fact see this screen unless I
specifically demand it by pressing the
shift key because when I first turn on
my computer now Windows 8 it's going to
go directly to my desktop with my Start
menu with my actual shutdown options
just like you would expect from say
Windows 7 so now we're able to get the
benefits of say you know of Windows 8
the speed improvements and generally all
around kind of faster more streamlined
operating system but with the
familiarity of Windows 7 so Microsoft
hasn't really locked us down as much as
they've tried this particular program
has given it to us so this is called
classic shell and you can get it for
absolutely free and you can get your
Windows 8 to look and feel like Windows
7 its classic shell dotnet check that
out today and it will also run on
Windows 7 if you want to be able to take
advantage of some of the exciting
features should note as well the classic
shell is skinnable so you can actually
change we're not limited to just Windows
XP style and windows 7 style you can
actually download other skins for your
Start menu in fact you can create your
own skins and there's a helpful skinning
tutorial I'll include the link for you
in the show notes of episode number 321
classic shell net yeah write that down
do that at work get that hilarious work
do tell the boss because the boss is
gonna want it yeah probably yeah it's
tricky so I'm sure everyone would want
it category 5 TV is a production of
prodigy digital solutions and is
licensed under Creative Commons
Attribution 2.5 Canada thanks for
watching
