welcome to episode number 298 of
category-five technology TV I'm your
host Robbie Ferguson I am Sasha tomatoes
it is Tuesday June 4th 2013
welcome to the show hello alright so
coming up in the newsroom
we have Microsoft is bringing the start
button back to Windows 8 but it yeah but
it still sucks white yeah what yeah
sorry
still sucks also sucks visually impaired
people have are having trouble signing
an online petition to demand better
accessibility because the petition
itself is not accessible which is
fabulous and ironic Wow yeah here's a
good question should the government be
allowed to block internet pornography by
default I will have to talk about that
mm-hmm
also if you can't remember your password
you would you remember to take a pill
well that that is interesting yeah yeah
and the makers of minecraft have
launched an open beta for a new battle
game no way yeah that's cool yeah yeah
yeah well stick around these stories and
more are coming up later in the show
what else is coming up we're gonna
actually be looking at a DSLR camera
we're wondering here's the what if could
you use a digital SLR camera with HDMI
output and tell a stream Wirecast from
cat5 TV slash Wirecast
to stream a live broadcast could you and
I have to stick around and find out can
it be done we're gonna try it right here
tonight on category 5 technology TV
don't go anywhere we'll be right back
this is category 5 technology TV
[Music]
at eco alkaline z' we believe you should
be able to trust your batteries not just
here but here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here eco alkaline
zuv the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium Eco outlines provide performance
the rivals leading national alkaline
battery brands at a comparable price
find out more about the Eco alkaline
difference eco alkaline scum this is
category 5 technology TV episode number
298 and it's June 4th that is correct I
would like to welcome some of our new
registered users users viewers I'll go
sniffer I'll go suffer yeah nice to have
you here yeah
studio k PP &amp; k PP and a Raul so welcome
Raul from the Phantom of the Opera sorry
that's right tonight if you have a
mobile device if you've got your mobile
device handy pay pull it out I'm gonna
bring up a handy little QR code here for
you home I only have to do scan that
code go to M cat 5 TV you can listen to
category 5 technology TV radio TV radio
easy right yeah interesting yes how can
TV be on the radio well it's our mobile
website M cat 5 TV check it out
and you will be able to listen to
category 5 live or you can actually
watch category 5 live through the mobile
site or mobile device perfect if you're
on a treadmill absolutely
I didn't mention just before the show
that it's really the kind of a show that
you want to jog to so yeah it's it's a
rocking show so there you go
category five dot TV is a member of the
tech podcast network if it's tech it's
here
and the International Association of
Internet broadcasters thanks Asha one of
the things I've been experimenting with
lately is trying to increase the video
quality here a category-5 technology TV
our sound of course as you can hear is
is quite good these days we got out of
using wireless microphones and now we
use hardwired mics these headsets which
are close proximity to our mouths that
goes into a mixing console and a
Behringer ultra miser Pro compressor and
then straight into a BB II sonic
Maximizer so we have a really good audio
chain everything sounds pretty good that
way but as far as visually goes now
that's kind of the next logical step for
the show in order to increase the
quality of the broadcast
we're shooting currently with a Canon
Vixia HF r10 and that camera is
essentially just a consumer camera it's
it's I wouldn't say bottom of the the
line but now these ones are currently
you know they've discontinued at this
point we've had it for several years but
this camera was economical at the time
as well is it it does have what we
needed in that it has HDMI output so
with that HDMI live feed out output
we're able to plug that into a
Blackmagic intensity Pro now that's a
capture card that has a HDMI input as
opposed to output and then into
Telestream Wirecast and that gives us
live camera switching and then we're
able to actually use that camera and it
works very very well but it is a
consumer camera it's got a very small
lens it's got no ability to add any
different lenses or anything like that
there's no there's no lens ring that we
can screw a new lens on to it
so it is it's really just a consumer
camera that you want to be able to pull
out of your pocket and be able to shoot
something for the with your family and
stuff but in this scenario it's worked
really well for us but the quality is
not what you would hope for in a
broadcast because it has basically the
aperture doesn't allow for a shallow
depth of field so what that means is
that the background basically is is in
sync with my
focus so everything is kind of in focus
in the studio you don't get that depth
of field that we looked at last week
with Eric on the show and so I started
looking at different options what we
could do one of my friends is selling
his t2i it's a rebel AOS from Canon
and I wanted to take a look at it so I I
just asked him if I could borrow it for
for the weekend and show you what what
would happen if we plug this into the
same chain so we're gonna plug it into
the same HDMI cable going into the
Blackmagic intensity Pro going into
Telestream Wirecast
because I got into the forums and I'm
looking for ways to get that shallow
depth of field on the show and it
occurred to me that
okay well dslr's these days they do
1080p video they have HDMI output a lot
of them do but what are the restrictions
what are the limitations and what can be
done and what can't be done with the
DSLR reason that I wanted to look at my
friends t2i is because the the Canon
series they have a really good firmware
hack not official okay so it's it's kind
of used at your own risk but it is
available to you and with magic lantern
is the name of the hack it apparently or
supposedly will remove all of the
overlays that are on the screen that's
important because you don't want to have
your focus things and all that we'll
take a look at that in just a few
minutes I'm not gonna actually install
magic lantern because I'm just borrowing
this from a friend but I will show you
what what I mean by that so with my
Nikon d50 100 now i pref i prefer to
shoot with nikon myself but it doesn't
really the firmware hacks aren't really
there
when it comes to video streaming from
the HDMI port so then you've got all
that stuff on the screen and you know
you see your battery indicator and it
just doesn't work so so I wanted to look
at the canon line because of the fact
that the firmware hacks will allow you
if you're happy with the quality and
you're happy with the way that it works
it will allow you to remove all of those
like HUD icons and things like that so
that's pretty cool so I've got my HDMI
mini cable which is going into the
Blackmagic intensity Pro and straight
into Telestream Wirecast which we're
using to broadcast tonight and simply
turn on the the t2i
and we'll see what happens here there we
go so we've got on-screen display which
is promising let's take a look at our
menu system here and you'll see I've
already been playing but a couple of
things that I want to to do right off
the bat just kind of go through here and
make sure that everything is set up the
way that we want first thing is we want
to turn off auto power off sometimes
your camera is set to automatically turn
off after four minutes to conserve
battery life because we're gonna be
shooting live video you don't want that
feature next step is we're gonna go down
to live View Function settings and this
is kind of cool this is in the default
firmware so this is what I'm doing for
tonight of course you're probably gonna
install magic lantern because you're if
you decide to go this route you're gonna
want to get rid of the the on-screen
display so live view shoot we're gonna
enable that grid display of course you
don't want a grid on your screen because
that's gonna obstruct the view metering
timer you can set that however you like
if your lights you know we've got studio
lights here so the setting doesn't
really matter because it's it's gonna
meet her and it's gonna stay the same
for the entire duration of the shoot and
then the auto auto focus mode this is
kind of a funny thing because it's
really quite irrelevant with the t2i the
auto focus is not real-time it's not
active servo and it is not in any way
useful at all so what you set there is
is pointless it doesn't matter I'm gonna
turn it to quick mode just because
that's gonna have the least amount of
display on the screen for us today
so now if I switch to live mode which is
to push this little camera button on the
t2i we should suddenly see a black
screen so what is it oh there we go all
right we actually do have video so let's
take a look at Telestream Wirecast
I know I'm sorely out of focus there I
can turn the focus ring and get that
better so looking at Telestream Wirecast
let's go show source settings and we're
gonna go to our intensity Pro just to
see what we're actually pulling in this
is HD 1080p at and it's interlaced at
59.94 frames per second so I'm of course
deinterlacing that video and you can see
that it is pulling in a full 1920 by
1080
P or 1080 so it's 1080p but there's some
interesting stuff going on in the screen
we've got all this HUD and it is kind of
centered in the middle of the screen so
what we want to do is we actually want
to push our Display button here and
we'll be able to eliminate all that see
how we can toggle through the display
settings I remember I do not have magic
lantern installed so we're still gonna
see that square in the middle of the
screen for now just for the sake of this
demonstration but of course by
installing magic lantern the firmware
you're gonna be able to do you're gonna
be able to eliminate that so it is
working it's streaming and you'll see
something interesting is that we've
actually got some black bars on the left
and right of your screen so we're
actually getting some letterboxing here
because the camera is only able to
output about 1600 by 1080p pixels so
it's not true 1080p it's actually
cropped off and kind of I don't think
it's quite a four by three but it is you
know it's it's a little bit more toward
the square spectrum then then the
widescreen so what we can do there of
course is on Telestream Wirecast so
we're just gonna bring up that shot and
because remember we're actually
receiving this signal at 1600 I think it
is 1600 by 1080 P with when you count in
the the crop the letterboxing on the
sides
it we're not gonna get any loss to the
video quality as long as we stay within
the confines of 1600 by 1080 so because
we're shooting and and broadcasting at
720 p so 720p we've got 1280 by 720 to
work with so I could in fact bring this
image in quite close if I wanted to but
really all I want to do in Telestream
Wirecast is just bring it so that those
letterboxing edges are cut off position
that however you like okay so now we've
got a frame that is not letterboxed
looks a lot better and now we can
actually shoot live video as you can see
in crystal clarity you can even see the
dust on my keyboard that is fantastic
alright so let's put this on the tripod
and actually take a look at how good
this looks
and of course comparing to the Vixia rhf
are 10
here we go bring the tripod mount on
here and I'm just gonna take this over
okay so let's pop this on the tripod
here and I'm just shooting with an
eighteen by eighteen by 55 millimeter
lens this is the kit lens that comes
with the camera I'm just gonna bring my
chair into focus there and notice I'm
using the focus ring we're not gonna use
the autofocus as I said it's absolutely
useless on this camera when it comes to
shooting video I'll show you what it
actually does so this is the autofocus
mode and if I wanted to focus so let's
say I want to focus on that chair what
happens is it actually goes black
it says busy and then it shows me the
points and then it's in focus but it
does that every time so if somebody
moves and you need to autofocus that's
the autofocus it's completely useless in
video mode so that's why I'm going to
disable it we're gonna use our own
manual focus by using the focus ring and
we can do all that we can create a depth
of field to some degree but also we do
get if it's pretty awfully good quality
video let's position this camera so that
I can go sit down and we'll compare the
two there we go you see that the auto
exposure kind of took over there for a
moment
now it's stabilized I've got it set to a
low number so it's it's pretty quick too
to fix things so here I am on the Vixia
RF HFR 10 and Here I am on the Canon t2i
so the quality difference is quite stark
on the t2i you can see that the edges
now I've worn this shirt on purpose
because you can really see the
difference between the two the two shots
between those two cameras so do keep in
mind that of course this square that's
in front of my face that's just the
autofocus that is included in the Canon
t2i with the firmware patch that we
could install the magic lantern we'd be
able to remove that another test you
know my mug has a lot of writing on it
and we can see the difference in the
clarity of that writing I don't know if
you can you probably can't actually read
that at home maybe you can but certainly
not on the on the Vixia but possibly on
the t2i
there is a very stark difference in
quality
so the question becomes is this a viable
solution for a broadcast such as ours
because it looks great right right right
so so we've got a kind of way okay well
video quality is great
with the DSLR and that and these days
you can get a digital SLR camera and it
looks really really good as you can see
from from my comparison I shot Abigail's
wedding with those two camp
well actually I shot with my d50 100 the
Nikon camera as well as the vixia hf r
10 okay you know I always have to think
about that it's mix them up so if you if
you go to her bio Abigail's bio on our
website category 5 dot TV you'll
actually see the difference in quality
between a consumer camera and a DSLR
right interesting in fact too as I was
shooting the wedding I actually shot
everything manual focus when I was using
the DSLR no auto focusing at all
everything is manually focused so with a
show like this I think it could really
really work because we're stationary
we're not moving around we rarely are
doing anything that is going to change
the focal point of the camera so right
yeah maybe sometimes we'll have a
product that will hold up and so then
all of a sudden that product is out of
focus but you could get used to the fact
that ok your focus field your f-stop
field of their depth of field is right
about here work with so you work within
that space hmm I think it could work in
a show like this so the pros really
because it looks great you got to admit
that and and it just looks fantastic
with the DSLRs and the further that you
get back with the tripod the more kind
of depth of field that you can create
we're only about three feet away from
the back wall here so there's not a lot
of depth there but you could even see
that with the t2i we can create a little
bit of a depth of field and it does look
a little bit sharper as far as the the
focal point the subject of the video so
not only do we get the the depth of
field but you're able to change lenses
so if you want to shoot something from
you know you want to get really good
close-ups you want to use a 200
millimeter lens that's all very
economical
to do it's not like buying a read where
you've got to buy hundreds of thousands
of dollars where the lens it's like you
can get a good $500 lens that could
revolutionize your shooting right you're
really really good
the source is is really close to 1080p
true 1080p as you saw we did get some
letterbox and we had to zoom it in but
because we're shooting in 720p it
actually doesn't matter to us we're not
losing any quality and in fact we've got
more information there visually than
720p so we could even zoom in a little
bit further and it would still look
perfect so that's good those are it
there are some really bad things about
shooting with DSLR too and this is
here's what you need what are the cons
what are the cons okay so the t2i mm-hmm
you saw what I did there with the camera
I said it so they would not turn off
automatically right but a DSLR is still
a DSLR they are not camcorders and so
they're not built to shoot for long
extended amounts of time so what happens
is because the aperture is open and the
the mirror gets really really hot in
order to prevent damage to the system
what happens the camera turns off Oh to
either no matter what no matter what
there's no way to stop it from turning
off there are some firmware hacks that
will allow you to extend the amount of
time what is very very dangerous because
it's a safety feature that will actually
keep your camera from burning itself out
so with the t2 is that's a huge con
that's a huge con when we shoot a one
hour show unless you want just to shoot
a twenty nine minute show or a 20 minute
show you wouldn't want to accidentally
approach that like I'm talking the t2 I
turns off no warning no indicators no
beep to warn you that it's about to
happen it just turns off and it's
exactly 29 minutes and 45 seconds just
like that so if you have a show that's
gonna be 10 minutes long and you're
gonna be broadcasting a quick interview
and you and you're shooting it that way
it's great or if your pre-recording and
you're using Wirecast to do your
switching and record to disk and maybe
you've got it broadcasting through a
hangout or something at the same time
just for for people who want to view it
live then it can work but because it
turns off after 29 minutes unfortunately
in a case like our show it leaves us
saying ok well this would be a really
great option a really economical option
my friend is selling his camera for $500
and you see the difference in quality
between the two cameras so it would be a
really really nice replacement as far as
quality goes but unfortunately we're an
hour long and because it shuts off its
HDMI and HDMI is not technically
hot-swappable so you can actually you
know crash your computer shutting it off
on the fly like that oh could be a
problem let's let's avoid that yes so
besides the auto power off I mean that's
that's a really big thing if you're
looking for 1080p video it's not full
1080p technically I don't think too many
people are going to notice the
difference unless they're watching it up
on a 72 inch big screen it's still gonna
look a lot better than something like
the consumer great cameras I think it's
gonna look a lot better so the bottom
line really is that it's a really good
idea for like a 10 to 20 minute I think
so sweet so what are you shooting what
are you gonna be using Wirecast for you
know what here's the next here's an idea
okay sermons 20-25 minutes
okay so if your church wants to shoot
and make it really good quality what
about putting a 300 millimeter lens on a
t2i setting it at the back of the
sanctuary and zooming in on the stage
unless you got a long window from Ben
Dupree you're in big trouble
but that could work that would be a
scenario that I can think of or maybe
shorter show recitals or yeah stuff like
that where and maybe there's something
where you could have two cameras and be
switching between them every 20 minutes
mm-hmm and have a camera operator turn
it off and back on again maybe that
would work
but in these things unfortunately we
will not be making the switch we won't
be no not possible so the autofocus is
obviously an issue as well some of the
newer cameras have active servo and it
is a lot better but I think that between
camcorders and DSLRs the autofocus on
the camcorder is far superior but you
don't get that depth of field mm-hmm so
that's that's the thing you don't get
the same speed even my d50 100 if if I
were to shoot using the active servo I
find that there's too much delay between
when it's out of focus and when it's in
focus and sometimes you get that mm-hmm
as it's trying to find thanks subject so
overall not not thank you
if you find that hey maybe this is
actually a really good option for you
for perhaps your show if you find that
hey what you showed tonight I shoot 20
minutes and I'd love to be able to have
that kind of quality pop us an email
live at category 5 dot TV we'd love to
know how how you're using the things
that you learn here on the show category
5 TV all right JP mentioning in the
chatroom that I think the cons outweigh
the pros and I think in many many cases
that is the case here but the pros good
it's so unfair oh so unfair well thank
you very much Robby are you ready for
the news ready for the news ready for
the news here are the top stories from
the category 5
TV newsroom microsoft has confirmed the
start button is returning to the desktop
modes taskbar of its Windows 8 operating
system the lack of facility which has
been in every previous version since
Windows 95 has been one of the most
controversial aspects of the software
however it will not offer all the
functionality previously associated with
the feature instead it will take instead
it will take the users to the formally
named Metro interface no yeah no so a
left kick click on the icon will bring
up the tile-based Start screen designed
for touch screen users give me a break
and then the right-click will display a
small menu of the options such as events
viewer device manager and Disk
Management see it's almost like
Microsoft is is laughing at us laughing
at us and saying fine fine you want the
Start menu so bad
fine we'll put a start button we'll even
label it start the bottom where you
expect it to be but when you push it
it's not gonna give you a start menu
it's gonna give you the Metro look that
you know the squares the squares those
hideous squares that look like they were
designed by eight-year-olds my my 8 year
old is a fantastic artist by the way I
should just correct myself there it's
seriously the squares with texts and
pictures on them they look cheesy thank
you yeah exactly thank you but no thank
you
no another change will allow users to
boot their computers directly into
desktop mode meaning they can avoid ever
using the Start screen if they wish a
pre that's a plus which is good so a
preview download of Windows 8.1 will be
released to the public this month and a
final version before the end of the year
both will be free of charge to existing
users obviously they really want you to
give this a try and they want to yeah we
can get to the desktop but if you dare
to push start you're gonna be back at
Metro it's correct ok so the National
Federation for the blind says its
members are unable to sign an e petition
call
for printed material to be more
accessible to the visually impaired
because of the CAPTCHA security a
CAPTCHA is a graphic or sound of a
random word or numbers users must e'en
to prove they are human this is hard for
even me so yeah like I look and I have
been through this it sure it's hard to
read and so yeah sometimes I takes me
three or four tries from my good eye
yeah everything I do is on my phone
right so the little CAPTCHAs they're
just small yeah and I make that out oh
it's screen oh it's bad somebody if
somebody says well what about the audio
CAPTCHA right like if you're visually
impaired you could just use the audio
CAPTCHA and Eric and I have joked on the
show about the time that we had tried
the audio CAPTCHA and it was like please
enter it to the best of your ability and
so we're like what are we supposed to do
match the keypad with our songs
seriously it's useless
so this petition on the White House
website has only received 8200
signatures on the White House on the
White House website to make I I guess an
accessibility bill passed
hmm so Damian Rose editor of the BBC's
ouch blog for people with disabilities
said CAPTCHA graphics are a nightmare
visually impaired people use screen
readers to interpret their computers
their computer rather than their eyes
and the screens can't manage them
ironically if I see an audio cap capture
I tend not to bother with it because it
usually is such a poor experience some
of them sound like aliens talking and
they put weird background noises over
them that's exactly what I'm saying yeah
yeah see and they're a bit of a joke in
the blind community so he spent over an
hour on someone had to give up that's
unreal
Wow I understand that we do have some
visually are some audibly impaired and
visually impaired viewers
mm-hm so I'd be interested if you have
visual issues like you're unable to see
the show would you let us know you know
what are your thoughts and I've
never really even thought about it
mm-hmm because for me you know yeah I'd
have to try it a couple times but to not
be able to sign a petition because you
can't I know a petition that will help
you that's right that is completely
targeted towards you and you can't oh
it's horrible they do need to fix it
yeah all right Internet Service
Providers ISPs have criticized a new
attempt to automatically block online
pornography the proposed online safety
bill in the UK would require people to
opt in and prove that they were over 18
- view adult content although unlikely
to become law a government adviser said
the bill should keep the pressure on
Internet service providers companies
providing broadband services warned that
the approach was not a silver bullet
Conservative MP Clare Perry said that
ISPs should act without regulation but
warned if they didn't or wouldn't then
they would have to step in is that a
good or a bad idea yeah what do you
think I almost wonder if it would be a
smarter I just put me a smarter idea
from a what's the like it's not freedom
of speech but just freedom of what
you're doing with your net would it be
smarter to have the approach of like
Google safe image search and all that
you know the safe search on Google yeah
you can actually turn it on hmm and then
it filters to some degree your results
well they must be able to filter it
really well cuz Google glass is not
allowing any explicit materials at all
like it filters completely you cannot
watch any anything explicit in any way I
think where it gets annoying is when
you're online and you're you're doing
something that's completely benign and
all of a sudden something pops up like
my wife was doing a search for pictures
for her blog and among these pictures
are in school images yeah so could
something like forcing the block and
then having to opt out of it beat the
approach or should you have to opt into
the block we'd love to hear your
opinions email us live at category-five
dot TV or you can comment in the
newsroom newsroom dot category
TV alright here is another one are you
always forgetting your password motorola
is working on some rather unusual
solutions they've unveiled an electronic
tattoo that sticks to your skin it has
circuits or gadgets can identify you and
that one's not that okay that sounds
kind of smart I like that in this way
kind of like mark of the beast ish but
okay so a tattoo that has a microchip if
it was if it was beautiful I would do
that no problem looks like flowers a
butterfly dragonfly it could work though
that could work another experimental
idea is a password pill that you swallow
that transmits a signal to devices
outside your body the pill doesn't need
batteries because it's powered by
stomach acid but Motorola says it won't
be on sale any time soon so you would
swallow this pill yeah and then you
would wait a little while while it
dissolves I guess your stomach acid will
dissolve the pill and then start broad
broad cast to an external device what's
your password is I would be so afraid of
that malfunctioning that I would never
forget my past oh yeah you know like a
forgetting but in your mouth right they
eventually are not oh man how about no
on that one yeah I would rather a pretty
little tattoo that my fear with these
things is that they're going to be
expensive it's the new technology and it
sounds pretty sophisticated so this is
one of those pills that you have to keep
taking over and over again oh and you
know when your pills get stuck in your
throat all right get your password you
need your password and you've got this
pill stuck in your throat and you're
just searching around for water I see
nothing but bad I think that there could
be other ways like you know put your
thinking caps back on motorola password
yeah oh this is true yeah you could do
that it's crazy very sci-fi
alright so minecraft Maker Mojang has
released an early version of its newest
game Scrolls the battle game pits two
players against each other who fight
using heroes artifacts and spells from a
virtual deck of cards okay the open beta
for squirrels started yesterday
so this is very similar to other sort of
games like magic the gathering where
people people maybe with lesser social
skills
I'm so sorry if anybody's magic now you
don't even have to leave your own home
now you don't need any friends at all to
play this game but you do because it's
multiplayer
yeah i'mfine online player this is
channel antisocial game it's pretty
crazy so yep the open beta for squirrels
started yesterday it does kind of look
like magic though it totally looks like
it get the full ver not that I would
know stories a category-5 dot TV slash
newsroom the category-five TV newsroom
is researched by Roy W Nash with
contributions by our community of years
if you have a news story you think is
worthy of on-air mention email newsroom
at category five dot TV for the category
five TV newsroom I'm Sasha thermate
especially my wife Becca and I started
watching Arrested Development season
four which is only available on Netflix
so if you don't have Netflix and you
want to watch the final season of
Arrested Development get on over to Kat
v dot TV slash Netflix of course if
you're not into the humorous undertones
of Arrested Development you can get any
show that's on Netflix movies unlimited
for a full month absolutely free cap v
dot TV slash Netflix category five is
also brought to you by net talk
they've got unlimited text messaging
plans going on right now all you have to
do is upgrade your net talk duo account
with a net talk text plan and for the
cost of a couple of cups of coffee per
month you're gonna receive unlimited
texting throughout the u.s. and Canada
check out Kat v dot TV slash phone for
all of the details and to start - saving
money today
this is category five technology TV
thanks for joining us tonight
my name is Robbie Ferguson I am Sasha
dramatis Ravi Ravi guess what's
happening in two weeks
what is it what could it be wow this is
episode 298 so in two weeks we will be
it episode 300 I am excited about this
yeah I'm excited it will be hosted by
our very web yes Gary Webb folks is
going to be joining us for the 300th
episode in a couple weeks it's June 18th
and really looking forward to it we're
actually gonna be taking a look back
over the past 300 episodes
oh no we're not gonna make you sit
through and Garvey sang no no 299 what
episode 11 what happened with episode 11
Robbie you'll just have to watch episode
300 and find out about it
Oh interesting that it wasn't episode 13
or something yes
no by then we knew better yeah but we're
gonna be taking a look back we're
actually gonna learn all about how you
came on to the show how each of the
co-hosts came to be because quite often
question is you know where are you from
how did how did Robbie and you connect
so we're really gonna be taking some
time to talk about that on the episode
300 there's gonna be cool and after the
show we're gonna have a full hangout
there's gonna be a lot of category 5
crew here in the studio that night
and we're gonna have a live hangout
after the show so you don't want to miss
out
get your webcam all connected and primed
and get your Google Chrome installed and
get Google+ activated and then you can
join us in the Hangout you can actually
chat with us hmm after the show this is
your two week notice two week notice so
there we go
mm-hmm Robbie are we ready for some
review requests we've looked at
excellence because I have a question
here from Robert Gerson ski hey Robert
and Robert says I have an old Pentium
computer that is running the our Dino
Arduino programming program under a boon
to 10.10 that I need to move over to a
newer machine I could just reinstall a
newer version of Ubuntu and Arduino
program on the new machine but this will
take a little bit of work to get we're
little bit of work to get going and
trying to find the newer libraries etc
so I was thinking of instead creating an
image of the working machine and using
it on VirtualBox my question is can you
convert a running physical machine to a
virtual machine easily I need to have
this up and running fairly quickly thank
interesting question I love it taking a
real machine and virtualizing it mm-hmm
right can it be done yeah ah absolutely
so there's a program called Clonezilla
and you get Clonezilla live is what I
would what I would go for so just bring
up your web browser and let's take a
look
clone Zillah org go to the left-hand
side here live CD / USB click on that
and scroll down a little bit and you'll
see download ISO file okay so click on
that and there's the stable release in
the alternate alternative stable release
we want to go with the alternative which
is based on Ubuntu as opposed to Debian
the reason we go over the alternative
version is because then it will support
more hardware because it's it has some
non free stuff included with it so
clicking that we can get the download
and go through the process so once
you've got Clonezilla you burn that to a
CD and you boot up that old computer and
you can actually tell it to save to an
external hard drive you can image the
entire hard drive you can image to an
external drive like as an image save it
as an image that's gonna be the easiest
way or you can save it through the
network to a Samba share or if you've
already got the new computer you could
save it over to that computer set up a
share or something so then what you do
and trying to think of how I can word
everything in a non complex way and it's
very very doable
so using Clonezilla you create an image
of that computer it's very
straightforward you boot from the
Clonezilla live CD and you just follow
the prompts and what you want to do is
you want to create an image
of a hard drive so it's device to image
then you tell it where you want to save
the image and that could be any device
or a network share
then on your new computer create a
virtual machine with a VirtualBox or
whatever it is that you want to use and
you can specify what the what the
operating system is as far as for
VirtualBox you know what it's concerned
with which was an old version of Linux
right mm-hmm so specify that and you can
specify the kernel in VirtualBox then
again you've got that ISO file for
Clonezilla live so pop it onto that
computer or redownload it to that
computer the host and mount it as a CD
to your virtual machine that you just
created boot it up you're gonna be back
in Clonezilla live and now you want to
tell it ok now we're not gonna image
from device to image we're gonna image
from image to device remember there's no
device that you're actually working with
it's a virtual device Clonezilla is not
gonna know that know the difference is
gonna think your virtual hard drive is a
physical hard drive and it will actually
clone that image back to that virtual
machine so now you've got an exact copy
of that old computer on a virtual
machine you can boot it up and it's
gonna work just perfectly the only thing
that you have to be in pardon me
absolutely mindful of when you create
your virtual machines hard drive it can
be dynamic or fixed it doesn't matter
but you have to specify that it is at
least the exact size of the original
computer's hard drive okay so if it was
an 80 gig hard drive you want to create
a let's say a dynamic disk in your
virtual machine for 85 gigs
say and then that's going to make sure
that as you're imaging it it's not going
to give you any trouble and say there's
not enough space for this image so it
works really really well
let us know how it goes exit think
you'll find Clonezilla is a very very
useful tool good question Robert and if
I could be if I could suggest now that
you've done that take that VDI file or
whatever it is VMDK that's a virtual
hard drive file and back it up make it a
part of your backup set so then you can
backup the entire virtual machine mm-hmm
and you don't have to worry about it
anymore excellent thanks for the
question I have a question from Mimi
turkey all right all right hey Robbie
you have done great work with the site
in the show unfortunately I have made a
mistake that eventually led to a
situation that a photocopy of a passport
was showing on a Facebook like social
network as a profile picture I was
devastated but calmly did everything
that I was capable of to minimize the
error ultimately I'm responsible for
that happening
I did get some help my question is how
bad is the situation it's a finished
passport and Mimi's going to be
contacting some other people as well but
was interested on your views okay
yeah you want to contact the authorities
I'm sure but so what can you do with a
passport I mean identity theft is a big
concern right that would be the big that
would be the big deal would be identity
theft how how good was the scam like how
how good was the quality what does the
passport I don't travel so what does a
passport show it's not like a social
insurance number or anything like that
no I feel like that is your your basic
info the image itself like if it's just
the actual image on the passport that
shouldn't be a problem the picture the
picture mugs are exactly it's the rest
of the information that's the main
concern it would be my personal now
you'd never really want that kind of
personal information to go up and if
it's a Facebook like social media
platform it may give the illusion of
privacy but really you have no privacy
mm-hmm and once once it's online its its
online it's your ear you can't take it
off mm-hmm you might be lucky you know
maybe nobody cached it but let's say I
saw your profile and now it's cached on
my computer in my browser right so if I
happen to be malicious and new to check
that but what can you really do with it
I don't I don't really think that I
would be overly concerned unless you are
in a situation where you think that
somebody might try something on you
yeah you know your best to just report
it just so that it actually had you you
have a trail that if anything were to
happen that youth but I think your best
to err on the side of caution and I
think that's maybe why you sent in the
question tonight is really just to be
careful and and maybe use that as an
opportunity to kind of kick yourself in
the pants and be a little more careful
next time
really I think you know you maybe won't
make the same mistake again it's a
really good point just to say to
everybody just be careful what you post
on right because everybody sees it
forever forever no deleting it somebody
said to me well I deleted my facebook
profile I know you didn't you might have
pushed the delete button and authorized
it but you didn't delete it it's still
there I can access it if you think it's
not true I mean if you've deleted your
profile go to your go to Facebook and
log in what's gonna happen it's gonna
say oh welcome back
here's all your stuff yeah we missed you
yeah but not only that but they've
archived everything and who knows what
they're using it for things your
Facebook photos for advertising and all
that kind of stuff yeah everything you
do online is just he was in Facebook as
the example yeah boy okay thanks for the
question richard has a question hey
Richard Richard recently installed a
home server to run a minecraft server
for his kids and a teamspeak server for
himself alright so he says I set it up
with windows 7 pro and I just used
TeamViewer to log into it and manage
when things go skew skew if I'm an
everyday Linux user Ubuntu or openSUSE
Susie Susie open Susie so I'd much much
prefer my server to be running Linux
however I'm no use at the command-line
and forget commands all the time so is
there any way of running the Linux
server with a GUI I know all the grounds
from the Linux community about security
and speed and ease etc etc but I don't
care about all all that it
it's I don't care about all that it's
still better than letting windows do it
I just need to be able to host the same
things but with the GUI and a way to
remove it from my main PC okay hope you
can help yeah thing about a linux server
is it is the Linux operating system at
its core and typically I wouldn't put a
GUI on a server because of security no
it has nothing to do with security has
to do with the fact I don't want any
overhead running right so I wouldn't
install gnome or KDE or anything like
that but I might install LXDE has a very
lightweight desktop environment for
example but for what you're doing you
might even consider trying using web
server based GUI is if you will you know
control mechanisms the first thing that
came to mind was mine OS plus and I'm
not sure about getting teamspeak to
actually work on this but it is Linux so
you should be able to get the packages
for it and and make it work but taking a
really quick look at their website it's
mine OS + PL us org it's simply a Linux
distro that is specifically minecraft
server so it's it's really really an
easy way to get yourself up and running
you basically download the product and
you install it their website seems a
little bit slow right now at the moment
but there is a video here that is
entitled setting up a minecraft server
using mine OS so that's pretty decent
that'll help you and you can grab the
latest ISO right there
so what that is again is it's Linux it's
already got minecraft server already
configured and that's gonna be your most
challenging one team TeamViewer
teamspeak is gonna be quite easy to set
up so give it a try see if that helps
you get up and going but as far as
getting you know if you wanted to just
install Debian and then put you know use
the Debian server Edition and then put
LXDE on it just go su enter enter your
root password then type apt-get apt -
get space install space
LX
and that'll give you a lightweight
desktop environment and then just you
know the trick is when it comes to
security is you don't run your desktop
environment as route so you don't ever
be route while you're running the
desktop environment is that that is
where it's very dangerous that's right
it's well that's why Windows has so many
problems is because you're able to run
the GUI as the administrator mm-hmm so
if you don't run as the administrator
you can't make accidental changes that
are gonna break your whole system and
things can't get in because you're not
running as a user that has those
privileges thank you Richard thanks for
the question I have a comment from Peter
Lewis hey Peter Peter says I was writing
a database for a client which involved
using postcodes
the client wanted to check if the post
code was valid they did not want to use
the internet-based checker via the GP
post office the client may not have had
the internet installed in all locations
he wants to use it
I went to Google Maps to see if it would
give me a location in the UK with a
postcode this was to check the function
that I had written to check the
validation of postcodes I first went to
my home location which showed a nice
picture of a house and a car using the
buttons on the side I could move around
the view next I tried the X pub across
the road and it showed the picture of an
empty field - the bridge over the brook
I tried two doors down for me and it
showed the same view checking houses in
the street and putting it to Google all
showed the same view I know the housing
number system in this road is a bit
strange it's I like like Ireland as the
numbers on one side of the road ascend
in value and on the other side they
descend in value no way that is crazy
I've lived here for 25 years and can not
understand how to find a house along my
streets Google is very good at avoiding
UK taxes but they cannot get their head
around the numbering system in a small
Northern Ireland village I also found a
picture from Bing which sums it all up
in sums it all up like no words could
say
you have a picture I haven't let me just
see something it would be tough I think
if you were in a situation like that
where oh yeah I can't display that
unfortunately cuz in copyright law it is
a funny picture yeah yeah so there you
go that would be tough if you're
developing trying to map stuff without
using the api's that are available to
you but that's why those api's from the
post office are available so you can tap
into those resources but if you're not
internet connected and you need to be
able to tap into them what do you do
yeah that's tough I'm still blown away
by the fact that the numbers descend on
one side of the street and descend on
the other side could it be that it's
like this and then and then loops down
like it goes up one way and then back
the other way once it gets to the end of
the road yeah yeah it could be so that
way the the highest number would be
across the street from the lowest number
and as you go it would that would be
what it was so I wonder if that's how it
works I never knew that anywhere it was
like that kind of a snake yeah like we
go up one side of the street and then
down the other side of the street
interesting but you could just scroll
along on Google Street View and see
everybody right absolutely
yeah I think so the numbers I think I
get what he's saying though the numbers
would be messed up on Google because you
put in 25 something Boulevard and it's
across the road from 3,000 it kind of
confused things interesting thank you
Peter no there you go I have a question
from CAC CAC CAC CAC CAC hi Ravi thanks
for the quick reply in the advice okay
so I've been a Linux user for almost 15
years and I've already learned a bunch
of new stuff from just a few episodes
I've watched yes ok so if you don't mind
I'd like to share some of my experience
we taught him things yay it's good it is
good learning
yes I'm still learning every day yeah
all my friends okay so I have a CEO of a
small industrial electronic
manufacturing firm in San Diego we use
Linux for all of our servers and for
over half of our desktop machines using
Ubuntu for all of the desktops the more
we use Linux the fewer the tearing out
our hair computer problems we have which
is fabulous when we migrate users from
Windows to Linux we convert their
existing windows install to run a
virtualized to run as a virtualized
guest on their new Linux host did you
use Clonezilla how did you do it we'll
let Robert know that's interesting there
you go trying to do the same thing
basically that's a cool idea
sorry yeah that's good I love the idea
that you're taking a user's Windows
machine converting it to a virtual
machine so they can actually be running
Linux but then still have access to
their windows just in case for some
reason that you need it that's true
that's really cool he says it works
really well since all the people still
have their windows desktop done changed
and gradually use Linux for more and
more of their tasks without a lot of
pressure yeah they are encouraged to use
Linux for all of their web and email use
to reduce the risk of nowhere and he
would love to help out on the show if
there's any way what does he is that the
question let's see he was just right
there you go these powerful things about
how he's converting his office to Linux
absolutely so there you go so thank you
that really helped actually for it's
interesting to hear how you know what
strategies people are using to get
people to make the switch to Linux
because when you realize ok well what
was that that he said there that we're
using Linux as the internet portion of
the computer because then we don't have
to deal with malware brilliant what's
you know 9 times out of 10 the biggest
problem on a computer is well why is
this pop-up happening that is taking
over my computer and you know it's
always the malware
mmm-hmm fishing stuff and all this junk
that gets into there like crummy stuff
hmm nice thank you for the question
thanks so much all right anything else
for me for questions that Russians
comment any questions comments thoughts
concerns chat us in the chatroom its
category five on freenode and of course
you can email us live at category five
dot TV we love to receive your emails
and Sasha mentions those to me on the
air here but nice to see everybody
joining us in the chatroom people who
are watching on YouTube people watching
on Miro internet TV blip dot TV
nice to see you hey John hey Jamison
Chris Reich joining us in the chat room
nice to see ya yeah
Linnaeus 84 good to see you nice to have
you here tonight oh right
lots of action in the chat room tonight
that's why my and let's see we have
you're talking like what are you talking
about um donations oh yeah
so where were people tell them how would
how would people send in donations well
we are a voluntary show as you know and
you know there are costs associated with
doing the show and there are you know
I'm always looking for ways to make the
show better you know we're looking at
ways to possibly improve the video
quality and unfortunately the DSLR thing
is not gonna work in our case but maybe
there's something else out there that we
could do but it takes donations in order
to be able to do those things
that's cat5 dot TV slash c to do that
and you can you know give five dollars a
month or five dollars one time and makes
a huge difference every little bit helps
and we we have a huge viewership to I
mean that I don't know if you realize
how many people watch the show but if if
you go to map dot category five or
pardon me map dot cat5 TV you'll see our
viewer location map you see how many
people are actually watching the show
and it's amazing unbelievable and
truthfully not to sound really cheesy
and cliche but if everybody gave
a buck like that would be the price of a
coffee everybody being paid a coffee
we'd have those HD cameras pretty quick
that's for sure something to think about
anyway
but and Hillary had her iPod stolen and
so one of the things that we've been
collecting donations for specifically
was to replace her iPod and maybe get
her an iTunes card to help her get that
initial music to get her get her back on
track with her music it's just kind of a
depressing kind of aggravating thing
when someone breaks into your car and
steals your your entire music library
from your heart breaking so we can get
that put together for her thank you jot
on the on the chat room posting the
links to the viewer map and to the
donation excellent thank you well it's
good to see you Sasha nice to have you
been we didn't really get a chance to we
jump right into the feature tonight but
I know I have been fabulous I am I am
going to Jamaica at the end of the month
which is why there's such a stark
difference between a my color and yours
I'm pre tanning because the yeah I think
that the temperatures there in the end
of June beginning of July segments are
about 35 degrees add a bit warmer than
yeah so I will be wearing like 60 SPF
and I probably will still burn button
prior to that I am going to get a stand
as possible so I'm gonna go see a reggae
concert and if there's any category 5
viewers that want to say hi in Jamaica
legit yeah that's right it's called
reggae - reggae it'll be important Oh
Nia yeah yeah I'm gonna do a little yeah
I'm gonna do a little off resort fun
very cool yeah so that's what's new with
me how about you I saw Star Trek we went
to the theater to see and it was it into
darkness
it was pretty good it was pretty awesome
a dress I tried and she's like no and
her excuse was that it was an opening
night she's like well I might if it was
opening night but that's like so I
didn't dress up either I was going
through the Spock ears and everything
but and we would have really been made
fun of absolutely quiet nobody else was
dressed up
he was dressed up oh you've got great
seats though and it was it was a great
movie and you know we enjoyed it
thoroughly we don't get to go to the
movie much with with three young kids at
home but is it 3d I didn't see it in 3d
we've never seen a 3d movie actually
because we just don't want it you know
when you only get to go to the theater
once in a while you just want to go see
a movie you don't want to you don't want
to dodge pieces of the movie I didn't
know I read that Star Trek was all
post-production production 3d so it
wasn't shot in 3d it was they added the
3d later watch Jurassic Park in 3d and
that's clearly post clearly post that
was really good
all the time that we have for tonight
for another week remember two weeks and
it's episode 300 don't miss a market on
the calendar
18 next week Erica lavond is going to be
joining me here in this video that's not
be a lot of fun from rocket blast you
see you nice to see everybody
see you alright take care have a great
week bye
we hope you'll enjoy the show category 5
TV broadcast
every Tuesday at 7:00 p.m. Eastern if
you're watching this on demand or from
cable TV to thank the local show times
in your air
and find out when you can watch live and
interact in the community chat where
category 5 is a production of prodigy
digital solutions and is licensed under
Creative Commons Attribution 2.5 Canada
we'll see you next time thanks for
tuning in
