welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live and category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Ravi
Ferguson it's January 24 2012 nice to
see ya this is episode number 227 of
category 5 technology teammate how you
doing I am doing well mine those are the
doctor and I was telling him I'm
addicted to twitter and all he said is
what I don't follow you correct carry on
I know you're on twitter at ya kid Eric
okay kigd hair at you I don't see a
whole lot of tweets coming out of those
names well I'm trying to break the
addiction let's say get rid of the
blackberry soon maybe you should tweet
that you know my sweet hey I know is
starting well here we go okay hmm we
having fun yet I'm using tweetcaster
this is kind of cool tweetcaster
tweetcaster works really well good app
and what are you using oh it's one of
those blackberries ax is lil buck okay
hey easy now you're one of the seven
percent that still use them seven
percent isn't it like isn't it like that
like eighty eight percent market drop
but that was dollars II and the CEOs and
co-founders stepping down from the
company I'm on the air
they're join me know if you tweet all
I'll retweet you oh there you on TV HTTP
colon slash slash hey are you on Twitter
because if you are you should follow us
you should category 5 TV on twitter my
handle on there is robbie ferguson and
eric is a kid Eric I'm kid Eric I'm
trying to talk and type our URL at the
same time have fun oh my goodness and
send off into the interweb I hate to do
this in the middle of a show but um
there's not really at the middle yet
okay we're not really kind of right at
the beginning here it feels like it's
going really slowly we've been going
here a long time oh it's been fast paced
for the five minutes leading up to this
moment oh is it an email from Rob yeah
and I really want to want to share this
everybody what is what you can't read
that I'm sorry but category five is
about to begin Oh has begun yeah you
really you realize we're relying we're
live right now so get your bro I
promised you I'd retweet you I wouldn't
bother okay follow him follow me tonight
we're gonna be looking at some really
cool i'll just be looking at my
blackberry you carry on all right we're
gonna be looking at some cool devices
that are powered by human power cranks
by solar power the Sun know what's good
this week with all the solar flares lots
of Sun yeah get a lot of it and never
ever have to put batteries in them so
stick around I'm going to be talking
about that you've got some stuff coming
up in the news I leave I don't tell us
why don't have the email you sent me it
was great you want to know what's going
on in the news room after of it actually
coming up in the newsroom the European
Union proposes a law that will provide
users with the right to be forgotten by
Internet firms the London 2012 Olympics
will create a record demand for wireless
frequencies Kodak has filed for
bankruptcy protection
yeah Wow but when was the last time you
actually got your kodachrome and took a
picture with your 35 now got Instagram
you know that's not actually surprises
me you know i think they started the
digital anyway Europe's Herschel Space
Telescope gives us a new look at the
incredible eagle nebula and earth will
be bombarded by high-energy solar
particles through Wednesday see that's
what I'm talking about stick around yeah
stories are coming up later in the show
yeah last week I was I was really
disappointed in a statement that you
made I found it very well you were you
did this whole you know pretending to be
Robbie Ferguson but as me you claim that
there's no such thing as androids Eric I
personally I took that hard it kind of
made me sad that you believe that and
there's a lot of things we have
different thoughts on Robbie well I'll
just just get myself ready here
including Adele well okay let's just
take a look
I don't know why that hurts again look
see this is what I wanted to show you
here just oh I just see really kind of
found a defense of it I believe in you
I'll just cover that up put that back
there we go put that right back where
you found it oh my goodness I cannot
work under these conditions sure you had
you know like I was talking with young
Rachel hmm and the two of us are quite
quite upset you know I get the odd cup
of tea maybe a glass of water if I'm
really nice you usually have to bring my
own stuff Krista shows up your unboxing
doughnuts you're having cookies your you
know what's up with that she was here on
konica I mean what can I do she bought
me a pizza cutter what can I do pizza
cutter from Boston nurses I'm just
saying you know okay okay okay you just
wanna haven't be more charity Jake I
think she's got she's got her ways to
you know yeah she she clearly has ways I
think Rachel and I deserved the same
kind of consideration that's all I'm
saying that's all I am saying happy
chinese new year to our viewers yeah
that was yesterday it's kind of the
whole festivities that going on but
happy chinese new year also we've got
some viewer testimonials before that
I'll mention again make sure you check
out cat five dot TV / shorty I'm able to
vote for us in the shorty awards have
been called worse you know okay all
right i'll let you take it away we've
got to think for viewer testimonials off
the top there well here we go
hi hey Robbie Hillary Eric and the team
I like that sorry Kristin um and Rachel
I often stumble around the net like a
text are of nomads looking for quality
webcasts how did I miss cat five till
now South Africa is a little better than
most of Africa but still a technology
desert in comparison with the West
discovering your show was a real fine
for me but the cherry on top of the cake
is all the linux stuff hey cheers you
guys are awesome and that's from Charlie
in cape town Charlie thanks so much and
yeah nice to have you here from South
Africa yeah very cool clouds the weather
so how is the weather oh we don't have
Christie here to do the weather no you
did a pretty good job there so we'll
move along okay and here's one I
nominate at Robbie vergessen for a
shorty award in the oh thanks web show
because he has a rare genuine wholesome
reassuring approach and some great
co-host Oh actually you didn't say that
if you can get to the intricate
understanding of modern personal
interfacing with end users and their
technical computing questions in that
real-time Thank You Robbie and that's
from leland leland thanks dude I
appreciate that as a viewer testimonial
but I wish it could count as a
nomination because you start by saying
you're nominating us for a shorty award
unfortunately it has to be done through
Twitter and has to be done in a
particular way so you've kind of done it
right but it needs to be done on Twitter
not on our website so cat5 TV / shorty
would be a great place to go so Leland
if you have a Twitter account I love it
if you if you could post it if not then
I will just take that as a you know what
not from you and thank you very much for
that and I'll expect that that means
that you unfortunately don't have a
twitter account what rob is saying is
that in a buck 65 will biomol urge
coffee not anymore Oh buck 80 mm you
know sorry I know we shouldn't probably
getting into brands but there there is a
certain company that's really put the
beats too many you know that's really
put the boots to our local Canadian
company that's so much influence in fact
that they've increased the size of their
coffee it's about very little Canadian
coffee company okay so here's another
one oh good nice to watch your show live
for the first time awesome watching your
show on ubuntu and iphone 4 awesome wall
and that's not on the same system not
open to on the iphone 4 but it was it
and yeah I'm just I'm clarify ok it was
watching it over here again ever on this
then that allows for Mahdi um in Norway
thanks to Wow all right and just a quick
mention as Mahdi's mentioning about
using the iphone you can actually bring
up our mobile site mobile cap five dot
TV you'll be able to actually watch the
show live on demand cool stuff one more
i guessing yeah nothing i have a two
guns so you enjoy your teeth it was kind
of an amber color i thought maybe i had
sorry i was risky or something i didn't
know no it's peppermint tea peppermint
tea alright it's alright it's to help
with the cough tonight i I'm not what
you want me to start got sick so don't
worry oh no it's just like that you know
when you have a really long day and he
just like my voice is just tired so okay
well Robbie and category five team just
wanted to say thanks for the recent dns
tool featured a couple of weeks ago i
have used it on mine and my wife's win7
laptops and have seen an improvement in
response times one note nice this is
probably a tool to run occasionally
since dns servers change on the internet
all the time keep up the good work and
that's from Jimmy Jenny tour AKA g
signal hey as far as and that's from
north plainfield new
cool all rights to have here as far as
modifying your DNS as per our tutorial
on a previous show if you pick a server
that's reliable that has like a hundred
percent reliability it shouldn't it
shouldn't change too often but yeah if
you want to run it once a year just make
sure you're still getting the best
performance as you can that's a good
idea for sure great let me so many
people in the chat room and lots coming
up tonight I've got of your postcard
that came in the mail this week we are
we taking a look at that you're not host
I did want astok cool as thank you so we
will be right back after this they're
getting the road or the dusty trails
liquid image Canada captures the action
with a true point of view HD video
camera directly into a high-quality amex
goggle it records every bit of the
excitement exactly how you see it if my
octane isn't your thing take a relaxing
underwater adventure and capture it
forever in high definition video with a
high quality underwater camera mask from
liquid image Canada perfect for the
enthusiast snorkeler or the deep sea
diver check out the entire line of
camera masks for every sport liquid
image canada.com this is category 5
technology TV we're online at triple w
dot category five dot TV you is a cool
postcard that came in this week Tim's
was from angel d Rodriguez and it looks
like oh now is put printed from posta
gram we heard of them I have not and
said the odd Eric left his reading
glasses at home I'm gonna make you read
it and you hold a little further away
from its white text on black Oh Eric can
you read that please okay yeah sure
greetings from California it's printed
on the back 28 inch of the Rodriguez
look at this on white day attack very
cool okay yeah go ahead greetings from
Los Angeles Los Angeles California
wishing all of the category 5 TV crew
very Merry Christmas all right Mary must
have taken a while to get here we just
got this this week keep up the awesome
work you do you are a blessing to many
of us Cheers
Dave tech awesome that's kind of cool
let them know you got it okay what i
mean by that's kind of cool i mean
that's very cool that you take the
postcard but this one has got its got
like a pop-out picture from from this
company posted gram I guess cool stuff
just like a you know custom-make cart
cool new very cool we will add that to
our collection of postcards thank you
very much if you'd like to send us a
postcard all you have to do is send it
to category 5 technology TV p.o.box 2900
nine very Ontario Canada l4 n7w 7 we
look forward to receiving your postcard
and of course we award 100 viewer
points100 a hundred that's pretty cool
lot in the buck a deal by a large coffee
oh and well that is true alright well
we'll jump into your viewer questions
and see what's what's going on I brought
up everything for this is your first
time using the new kind of gun new
studio layout later so I've got you'll
see four sho 227 up at the top there in
a tab there you go there we go all right
literally we were running before the
show Eric how much time was there for
sound check oh we had several minutes
for sound check is the running to the
desk as you were running the the intro
that music back yeah like mmm well let's
see what do we have here we have a
question here from shawl hey Shaw okay
so hello Robbie I just finished entering
all the episodes here and that's a big
long URL I'm probably not going to read
oh let's see if I can bring it up you
probably can keep reading well I'm not
gonna read the HTTP colon slash slash no
no no okay found all the old episodes
the ones that are not at the cat5 TV
site here and it's a web archive okay
and I have checked haven't checked all
the files but I'm fairly sure they are
all downloadable cool and here's
something that might
and trust you for the news first release
of open source bleue raid library nice
whoa yeah I think we we saw this the TVD
be that shawl had submitted very cool
stuff that is real look and he's added a
couple more images very nimble very nice
yeah you know what to do is when you put
that up on the website yeah i'll give
you a link to that on the website on
category 5 TV look at the show notes for
episode number 227 well here's one from
good guy hey co k and hi this is a
legitimate one from good guy this week
oh really i think so i use a prior
version of this software oh let's go
back and say which software we're
talking about okay windows software to
sync between computers so use the prior
version of this software but have not
upgraded to the new version as of yet it
may be of interest since it appears to
have have to have a pogoplug like
feature and there's another link ok i'd
say did you find that link yeah i never
heard about peer-to-peer sink okay
there's no TP it has left beta status
since it is available for purchase now
thank you good guy 98 so this is
something that good guy is using well he
hasn't upgraded to the new version yet
okay but yes hmm cool sort of sort of
using okay I suppose we should sort of
look at what it is I mean he's telling
us about it was good you won't play with
it no no I don't want to install it and
set it up I mean I think it'd be fun
what is it good sink version 9
peer-to-peer sinking sink two computers
directly via your local network or your
internet so syncing between say my
laptop at work and my desktop at home
that can be very cool cool kind of like
a boon to 14 you know as far as that
goes but this one works with Windows Mac
SMB ftp AFP sft ps3 windows mobile cool
i will post a link for that courtesy of
good guy in the show notes for episode
number two
27 all right 227 that was also an 80s
show oh there was a 70s or 67 oz room
222 yeah I mention that on episode 2 22
sorry I mean like here that day I may
have been under that day I don't
remember I think so I think crystal was
here on 222 anyway ok well here's one
from Philip holes birth ok his hand
running ubuntu 10.04 I have a linux noob
the new be ok i watch your show her here
for the first time today and as january
fifth cool this year i was looking for
more information about stop motion and
came to your YouTube site my question is
about the MS lifecam 720p and stop
motion while the software sees it it
will not let me see any image through it
I've installed cheese and it seems to
work fine do you have any help or can
you point me in a direction for help you
stop motion still supported thanks from
Tucson Arizona stop motions great I'm up
y'all are having a good day say it alone
you did ok yeah I wonder if you have
more than one webcam detected that is
the possibility like if you're using a
laptop versus a desktop and you've got a
built-in webcam and the lifecam is that
a possibility when when I bring up
cheese I'm gonna bring up a nice clean
desktop here I just have a webcam that's
not pointing at anything useful but it
is at least it's attached at least that
much is true let's see sound and video
cheese look at that let's pointed at the
wall edit preferences see device
logitech quickcam pro just because you
mentioned that that your camera is
is detected in cheese what's this oh
yeah yeah yeah yeah just hmm I wonder
how you do that cuz we're powered on
phantom oh okay go ahead okay so with
cheese see what I've done is I've
checked what what webcam you've got here
logitech quickcam pro ok so then flows
out of cheese because if you've got it
running you're not going to be able to
use your webcam I'm going to go to a
game sound and video I'm going to grab
let's see see if I haven't no I do
stop-motion still installed here so in
stop-motion go into your configuration
settings and you'll see at the bottom
here there's going to be a list of all
your detected webcams one of them is
going to be highlighted and if yours is
not there right you need to you need to
add it or select the the other one look
at this one selected you might need to
toggle back and forth so in cheese
remember here I'm going to bring it back
up here just so we can see sorry Eric
was distracting me there whoa huh are
you back on I'm here welcome back okay
here's what I want to note / dev / video
0 that's in the preferences for cheese
because I know my camera works in this
program so now go into your
configuration and stop motion and here
edit your device and make sure see in
your case it might be pointing to
something else right so just make sure
it's pointed to dev / video 0 if you
need to you can remove and add a new
camera right pretty straightforward see
if that helps see if you're able to get
your camera connected but make sure you
close cheese before you try to launch
your camera in stop motion and I think
it'll work I mean the cinema is a great
camera so yeah and it works great in
linux use this video for linux so any
any software will be able to use that
long as you've got it pointing to the
right camera
okay oh the diesel okay good luck let us
know okay and okay we have another one
from invincible mutant this is regarding
making gnome 3 like gnome 20 so hi
Robbie hey invincible I just found a way
to tweak your gnome 3 better look like
gnome 2 online ok so there's nothing
like it like I to gnome shell flipper e
yes hey and these extensions can be
toggled janome tweak tool and points out
that it is fun definitely yeah look at
that that's really nice so that's a
gnome 3 desktop but it's does it you
know you've got the layout of Nome too
but it still has that kind of clean cut
look of gnome 3 you'll notice the window
decorations look beautiful cool
gnome-shell flipper e looks like it's
available for ubuntu 11.04 11-point 10
or fed ora 15 or 16 very cool I'll well
again post links for you show notes of
episode number 227 thank you very much
for the link I'd love to give them try
maybe with a with 11 point 10 like to
see if if it supports 12 point oh four
and the you know when in the new year or
in the new release i should say i just
love the names you know frippery items
anyway we have another question this is
a I guess came from the website from
Benjamin Stewart Hanuman ok so running
ubuntu 11.3 not unity hey did you know
that you can get gnome flipper II for
the shell flipper e-shelf slippery just
just saying show notes so cool don't you
have your reception or good links amaze
me yes
so lubuntu 11-point ten gnome 3 not
unity the question in layman's terms
smile he's telling me to smell okay
what's the easiest way to record both in
line audio and microphones
simultaneously imagine you were talking
to a 6 year old when you give this
answer please did he say that well
exactly yes no one time I would never go
out on a luminous that you talk to
Benjamin like a six-year-old um well
Daniel I might you know it just depends
on can i call you Benji I'm just kidding
you started this been so Mari sorry I
got sidetracked talk to them like you're
not a 50 year old record both in line
audio and microphone easiest way
honestly a little disco mixer right
because if you're plugging in to you're
plugging in a microphone and a line
input device if I'm following you right
to your MIDI to your sound card you're
only gonna be able to record from one or
the other end at any given time unless
you've got you know like it excuse me
I'm so sorry what you need is some some
manners like anger is gonna plug into
Europe yes into your MIDI card I guess
or your sunny for Eddie ok we have I
don't know if I can do this some
relaxation actually there with just the
the levels on each of your inputs you
could mix in heck you can mix in all
kinds of stuff yeah some background
music some
of robbies ramblings maybe some of three
it's it looks like a lot of junk maybe
right Rachel giggles when she starts
through nose oh mixer camera no this has
got quarter inch and XLR outs the XLR s
are converted over to quarter inch and
down to I guess what eighth inch and
then they could just go into the sound
card so we can plug in any number of of
microphones any number of devices that
are supported by our mixer our console
you can mix the levels you can get it
nice and clean and and that's really the
best best way to do it very cool yeah it
really is yeah other than that I mean
because you've got a microphone and a
high high impedance device as well so
you have to have something that's going
to mix those two together you've got to
have a sub kind of external mixer you
can get that's that you can get like USB
mixers yeah viewers a lot of stuff
available lots of stuff available I just
go in through the eighth inch line input
works really good how do we sound yes
sing a song they know these things last
time I sang a song you caught me on
camera with a pink guitar and you put it
up on YouTube or somewhere no I didn't
put it up on YouTube i put it up on
twitter Oh twit oh I mean you tweeted
yes sir ian i did yeah and it was it was
amazing it was special but only those
who follow at Robby Ferguson on Twitter
are gonna see this guy so yeah well
maybe you should show the folks home
well it may be naughty thing well we
took a little road trip out to the music
store in Angus ontario one and he says
here what a guy what a guy anyway handed
me a guitar it was that's entrapment
not you okay more reasons to follow us
on Twitter hey we have a more reasons we
have a question yeah from yacht hey jot
Ravi and I do have difficulty agreeing
on pronunciations but mmm I should just
mention because pires rock is asking yes
the video does have sound but you have
to follow me on Twitter to hear it wow
sorry okay jot what once a once a link
to the that fabulous guitar playing he
Joe knows okay well here's a question
from the Oshawa yacht a various okay and
this is a question related to an answer
on episode 2 26 of course I wasn't here
that day hi Robby and other friends he
has a puffin I had some difficulties in
episode 2 26 the screen looked very
different from usual for example Robbie
actually looked good for a change
however I was able to under I and that
you had a solution for moving my mouse
to the right side of my screen if I
understand it correctly involved moving
my desk but my mouse isn't on my desk
it's actually on my computer table which
is standing between my desk and pedantic
shooter semantics or did I only get half
of the answer and was the other part
move the desk and then the computer
table also since you recommended I get
some friends to come and move it because
it would be too heavy for me alone can
you please come over and help move
things maybe you can also help move my
printer I don't use it anymore and so
I'd like to get rid of the house it only
weighs about 70 or 80 kilograms oh so
that shouldn't be a problem no joke it's
one of those very old laser printers
that is built like I know the copier
from the late 1980s PS if you want to
come I hear you can crawl through the
internet tubes so see you soon greetings
a yacht alright thanks John so is it jot
or yacht shot or yacht yeah
I'd say the Netherlands i'm thinking
it's yacht are you watching us on
backstage pass make sure you get on the
backstage pass right now I wouldn't we
have introduced a new feature to our
backstage pass which allows you to
actually vote is it John or is it yacht
you tell us let us know well jock okay
we've got 24 jot got 14 yacht that would
be him to forge ah so you know I I on
the lead come on people work with me
does nobody know anybody from the
Netherlands yachts and my friends mum
when they all called her yo we've called
this guy shot for I don't know for years
and and and Rachel can't say it without
the underscore j 0 t underscore or
whatever to we're tied it is its cha
tian it's john look at sea sir colin
joshua a various okay it's a various all
right thanks everybody it is jot by 55.5
six percent okay do we have time for a
few more questions we don't we are out
of time i'll come on we've got is time
for one more question just for now we
just just wouldn't come back if we have
we don't the auto show yeah but take it
away with the news we'll talk about
about well we'll see if we can get your
viewer questions in after the after a
feature this evening I know he's pushing
her in trouble I can't move the mouse
over far enough can somebody help me
lift Eva's destiny lift the desk okay
with the desk well here are the top
stories from the category 5 TV news room
thank you a new law promising internet
users
the right to be forgotten will be
proposed by the European Commission
tomorrow hmm says people will be able to
ask for data about them to be deleted in
firms will have to comply unless there
are legitimate grounds to retain it a
spokesman for the justice Commissioner
clarified that the action was designed
to help teenagers and young adults
manage their online reputations the
moonlights part of a wide-ranging
overhaul of the commissioners the
Commission's 1995 Data Protection
Directive but you know and I know this
you don't have teenagers yet I know
teenagers sometimes post things they
bought here's the thing a wise tweet
once said you can never regret what you
don't say you can't regret regret so 1
posa what this isn't I know Robbie you
were a perfect child and when you're a
teenager you never did anything young or
foolish however foolish things to buy
him with us and teenagers and one in
particular who you know had a great band
trip to to Italy and decided to post
pictures of themselves yeah yeah having
beverages that might not have just been
what you'd call a soft drink I see and
got several days off school as a result
oh yeah well so yeah and and so you call
the government then and you say i want
that blue i was partying it up and band
practice and i was wondering she guys
could like tell google to delete that
like come on guys really that was a very
condescending tone of voice I wasn't
saying that's what your son sound that
was very you know and we know where you
live sorry because oh oh it just seems
foolish to me we I don't know you know
and a friend of mine who works with the
Police Services Board says as soon as
somebody puts in an application they go
and they check their face shark and they
all gather other stuff so yes yeah you
know you're probably of the the
abstinence school of thought however
most people you know have trouble with
that and you know that there needs to be
some yeah I 10 options taken I sure you
ought to suggest that in a
ants but does every teenager listen to
that yeah no I don't read what you're
going to post before you post it look at
the picture before you post it I mean I
posts pictures of him with a pink guitar
I mean that's that's pushing the
envelope a little no you know worse
things have happened um you know as a
matter of fact somebody posted this on
my facebook the other day what can you
imagine I kind of like it but okay so
this was delicious randomness that was
complete the London Olympic and
Paralympic Games are likely to require
up to 20,000 separate wireless frequency
assignments according to the
communications regulator Ofcom okay the
organization says 20,000 that is nearly
doubled the number of licenses that it
granted for the city over the course of
last year the regulator says it approved
twelve thousand five hundred and five
applications in 2011 has already
received ten thousand requests covering
the seven-week period of the games but
expects that number to rise thanks to
the event being the biggest media event
in history no no no no no now this is
the biggest media event again come on
people Ofcom says it has built a
state-of-the-art spectrum assignment
system to prevent interference between
the variety of users but adds that it is
deploying about 90 radio engineers to
deal with any cases that do occur
further detail will be provided when the
plan is finalized within the next few
weeks so interesting we may pick that
story up again in a few weeks we don't
always think about how much work is
involved behind the scenes and just
making sure we have Wi-Fi and phone
service okay and a sad story Eastman
Kodak the company that invented the
handheld camera has filed for bankruptcy
protection the company has recently
moved away from cameras to focus focus
hahaha nice fun with competitors
who were quicker to adapt to the digital
era Rupert Goodwin's editor of the ZDNet
r ZD net of fear or south of the border
here website said Kodak made all its
money from selling film then the digital
camera came along and now no one's
buying film it's not like they didn't
see it coming kodak hesitated because
they didn't want to eviscerate their
business the move gives the company time
to reorganize itself without facing its
creditors and Kodak said it would mean
business as normal for customers hey wow
that that is yeah that's not something
it's just one of those inevitable things
I still have a little brown III camera
the little Kodak box that you had little
black and white rolls in well these days
yeah these days like if you want to do
pin style photography and that kind of
stuff people are using Instagram all
right well which is just an app but I
mention I don't know my reading glasses
well okay so it's just an app that you
you know take a take picture with see if
I can do it are you following me on
Twitter make sure you do because you're
gonna see this man installed Instagram
our old friend Tyler Stein guard who you
remember from season one of category
five TV he said you gotta check out this
app for all your photos because it makes
it so that you can post a picture and it
looks like it was taken with one of
those all 100 year old Kodak cameras
give me a smile okay that's perfect halo
forever man I got it all right so now
with Instagram what I'm gonna do oh the
Maple Leafs are trailing one to nothing
oh dear against the Islanders you can
add these different filters down here so
you could do like a lomo style camera
right there you go sorry you can't
really see that and we get pop-ups but
there's a lomo style so I'm going to
post it like that just to be real
quickie and all kinds of effects blurs
things like that did you say all kinds
of defects or defects okay
effects I know I know I'm terrible
you're such an adult Robbie oh sure yes
that was here we go it's tweeted done
okay so check out instagram i just say
that because it's the technology is
really making it hard for a company like
that yeah 133 year old company oh you
got my message there we're going to go
how would you know how would you
continue to to survive when people don't
buy film anymore so anyways i'll let you
continue on with the news okay europe's
Herschel Space Telescope has produced a
majestic new version of a classic
astronomical tour the Eagle Nebula also
called m16 this dense region I don't try
that can I take another run at this
dense region of gas and dust some 6,500
light-years from Earth host copious
numbers of bright new stars look how
just below the center of the image and
you'll be blind for the rest of oh no
and you will see the columns that were
famously dubbed the pillars of creation
yeah when they were pictured by the
Hubble telescope in 1985 the difference
in clarity Wow but Herschel and Hubble
see distinctly different things in the
nebula Hubble is sensitive to optical
light the kind of light we detect with
our eyes this is easily blocked or
scattered by the dust and shows us
merely exactly just like you'd have to
be an expert until the difference
between that and that and shows us
merely the shape of the billowing clouds
of material Herschel on the other hand
that's this one is sensitive to much
longer wavelength radiation in
far-infrared this enables it to detect
the emission coming directly from the
cold gas and dust that cloaks so much of
the region this picture is being
featured on the BBC series stargazing
alive that might be worth checking out
definitely that's interesting oh
earth is being bombarded that is not ur
a moments ago lady linden linden this
just in ok maybe try to keep our broad
star the lister riding nova little less
emphasis on the word ever little more
emphasis on the word at solar storm all
right back to you really what is earth
is being bombarded by high-energy
particles unleashed by the strongest
solar storm since 2005 the church today
yeah the pictures of these and sauces on
the right spot there okay the charged
particles are mostly a concern for
satellites and astronauts they can also
cause communication problems for
aircraft traveling near the poles the
geomagnetic storm has been caused by a
flare that erupted from t over from the
over pasta I had to take another run at
that and maybe edit the copy here caused
by a flare that erupted from the ship
over the past couple of days I'm gonna
remove that okay so this was just by a
flare that erupted over the past okay we
got that yeah yes who does the copy
editing here the effects are likely to
be felt on earth throughout Wednesday
this can interfere with technology on
earth such as electrical power grids
communication systems and satellites
co-hosts including satellite navigation
signals but a spokesman for the US
National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration's Space Weather
Prediction Center said the effects of
this solar eruption seem likely to be
moderate continue thanks yeah you can
get the full stories a cat category five
dot TV news room the category five TV
news room is researched by roy w Nash
with contributions by our community of
viewers if you have a news story you
think is worthy of on-air mentioned
email newsroom category five TV for the
category five TV news room I'm Eric Kidd
I hope you're having a good day of there
Eric mentioned that the solar flare does
affect co-host you've seen it live
tonight show is brought to you by
Guardian gave farms com for certified
organic broccoli sprout and wheatgrass
juice check them out garden gate farms
com also planet calypso cap five TV /
calypso and download the free online
massive multiplayer online role-playing
game I said that wrong but you know what
it is cap five TV / calypso and of
course get your free five gig pogoplug
cloud cat5 TV / pogoplug check them out
at cat five TV / pogoplug thank you Eric
all right lots to talk about tonight but
one of the things that we try to be here
at the show is on time well that too but
you know that from our website we have
an actual page dedicated to what we do
to try our best to be eco-friendly and
one of the things that we do is you know
we use we recycle a lot we we always
recycle batteries and things like that
but now we're stepping into this new
product line from free play which is in
fact a product that it has batteries
that are rechargeable built in but you
never ever have to replace them which is
interesting so we've got a fair bit of
their line here just kind of really
quickly show you this is the Akito hmm
they're cool things flashlights and we
play like that yeah absolutely does it
make a loud noise yeah mini sexy it's
pretty quiet
to that the sherpa LED and these are
great we go straight in the packaging
mmm i like this did I not crank it up oh
look at that here I give this track I
think I broke it no what's working oh he
turned it on pointed it at me then turn
it off and look to it whether we do yeah
okay so you got a little skinny kiss you
check that out so I've got these their
their flashlights and not know better
than to give me toys I know they're not
toys here's the thing that free play is
a global leader in in these you know
dependable sustainable kind of devices
this is so cool I mean it's a crank
right it's got an alternator in it but
you've probably had a flashlight where
you've had need of a battery batteries
died it's not a good situation yeah you
need it so there's that situation
there's also situations you know where
you know certain parts of the world may
be hard to get batteries these are great
for that but for us okay let's let's
open one up here okay we'll get these
out of the way this is the the indigo
and I had it up here but there are two
different colors available I thought
indigo was a dark blue that's indiglo
know that son watches the picture too
okay here we go they carry radios they
do flashlights as you see lanterns as
well as mobile power which I'll show you
in just a single camp like that this is
a great little camp thing but here's the
thing okay charges I'm gonna picture
Robbie roughened road in the woods
here we go I got lost on his way into
the wine cellar the neat thing about
this okay got a flashlight there you go
which is actually quite bright turn
those studio lights on no and it has a
dimmer so it's actually here you can
give that a try but it's actually a
dimmer so these LEDs get brighter and
dimmer based on on that so that you
never have to change me batteries on
this you never have to change a light
bulb they're very bright cool thing
about this one is it got USB charging as
well so if you have a computer you can
do that oh cool this suggested is my
favorite not make that whirring sound
it's an awesome we're sensitive
companion aha this is the companion this
is my favorite one already I'll tell you
why this is the greatest thing can get
out of the packaging here there we are
okay a couple of things about the
companion it has an am/fm radio hey
would you get the Leafs game on we
probably could security I am it's
fantastic it's got me we're not gonna
die with no copyright laws as they are
as a terrible thing check this out this
particular one the companion has a power
output for the alternator that will
charge your cell phone whoa all right so
when you think about the the potential
behind you know your cellphone's dead
you're in a bind car won't start did you
get the batteries but you got your
little generator so this one's got the
alternator right it's got solar power
which is going to charge the battery
right and I mean they last for a good
long while I know you're wishing the
battery were dead in my blackberry I
didn't turn yeah I was getting your
tweets here's the thing charge time if
we were to use the alternator for one
minute I'm going to get 20 minutes of
use out of the radio Radio your
the actual light urging your other red
flashlight to 30 minutes of flashlight
time that's pretty from one minute of
cranking and it goes up from there 12
hours of radio time for 10 oh that's
that's USB it's got a charger for USB as
well but how cool is that so what's neat
about this is well it's self sufficient
energy right yeah you buy something like
this you think about over the course of
life of a flashlight I think about the
cottage the van the van that's horrible
because you here in Canada it gets cold
over the winter and so you'll lose the
batteries that are in your device so you
have to replace them yeah so like
regular really you can get to use them
lefty let me lay in the cottage in the
wind really but you have to change them
otherwise it's just not going to work
and you wanted there for an emergency so
here is really the perfect emergency
option if it is dead which this one I
don't think ever you know you're going
to keep it on a windowsill or something
at the cottage it's always going to be
charged just be there for you yeah it's
got the Sun solar panel and i love that
it charges my cell phone yeah or if
you're going for a hike the backpack you
got sure it's got a headphone jack as
well you want to listen to tunes you can
charge your cell phone their intention
really is to be able to provide energy
products to everyone all the time so you
never have to worry about batteries
never have to worry about own does the
flashlight have batteries as it is a
charged or whatever because even if this
was completely dead I can crank it up
for 60 seconds and I've got a couple in
a long time of flashlight power right
yeah well really cool stuff so the life
expectancy of the product so well I
would think until you throw it at
something yeah I mean it's video you can
tell from the feeling of that it's built
well it's a little product is are these
others are other stuff White's that's
pretty cool so we actually have some
information for you because this is kind
of one of those products that I think is
just it's a logical thing it's like you
just it doesn't make any sense to buy a
flashlight with batteries anymore hate
to say it but really it's like this is
the way to go cat five dock TV / free
play at our EE PL ay why
okay check them out they've got a whole
line of products very cool stuff and
like I say it's all self sustaining
power I really like really like that
yeah there are several people in the
chat room weren't enjoying the sound
over the condenser mics you be careful
I'll pull it right up there okay so cat5
TV / free play once again please check
them out and like I say the companion is
is just an amazing product a good price
and encourage you to check them out cool
so there yeah very cool promised we
could take a look at viewer questions if
we had any more time do you have them
ready for us chatroom anything for us
well let's see what we have we do have
some more questions here listen hey
everybody floss filling up the chat room
there for the first time tonight nice to
see everybody ah oh I seem to have lost
them where did I Mike viola huh oh did
you he's right oh nice let's take a look
I lost my lost my mind I need to find
this guy technician he's open hoping for
firefox I did not I think he closed it
sorry Geiger's d he had a question he
closed it he closed it but not close it
yeah chatroom okay okay what are we
hearing in the chat room here oh it's so
good to see everybody get your questions
in live at category 5 TV hey Christie
Reagan Oh Rachel's you nice to see ya um
I wonder if Rachel knows anything about
that is this the Christie the Christie I
think it is we mentioned the weather
earlier the weather Greg in Texas wants
to know if there's a firewall enabled by
default on ubuntu server 11.10 unsure
and it does have
uh you know has access to it but pop
question in the in the forums into
server and Google right Oh garbey still
fw later you read it you fw you can go
sudo ufw and able to turn it on kristi
burton / banner nice to see ya it is her
well there you go we're like we're right
at a time unless somebody's got a green
or it can't be everybody had a question
but he's accusing me of not doing it
I've got a question here from from
Jonathan Garvey says Overlord and person
in co-host seat person that would make
me ok you could you show us how to run a
mail server Oh with six minutes on our
local absolutely yeah run a mail server
on our local system that would utilize
our mail server from our host example I
run a mail server so the PHP's mail
function will work Oh post fix is only
need to install let's see jump in a
terminal
okay so that I'm pretending that this is
just your system that you're using to
test things you're not this is not a
publicly accessible server okay because
this is not secure your behind a
firewall we're making that assumption
post fix okay so just like that enter
your password I'm installing PHP 5 and
post fix that's going to give me mail
post fix and it's going to give me php5
apache giving me the ability to host
websites go into my / VAR / www yet ok
this is the post post fix configuration
let's come up here for you Jonathan it's
going to hit OK and choose internet site
okay system male name doesn't matter
this is just our test system right okay
I'm trying to get ahead of Apache just
because we got three minutes left of the
show it's still installing those fixes
unpacking okay what this is going to do
is going to let you do exactly what you
want PHP mail from your linux computer
so that you can test things further so
that it actually sends out okay I've got
a VAR www now which was created by the
Apache installation if you do LS there's
an index.html that's what I see when I
go localhost okay it works so i'm going
to rename that in linux move I need to
go sudo move because it's VAR w WM index
HTML to index dot PHP
so now I have an index 2.php of course
you're going to have your own website
that's fine that's done installing I can
close out of that window okay sudo G
edit index dot PHP ok there's the the
website put your mail function in there
right notice I'm not going to i'm not
going to add any headers you can put
your headers here which you're going to
need because Jonathan you're asking
about being able to spoof the fact that
this is coming from your main mail
server which is not so you need to add
headers to do that as it is it's just
going to seem to be coming from my
computer so now i'm going to refresh
localhost and it wants to download a
file
that should work for you Jonathan with
the time that we have I don't have time
to to check my Apache configuration Dru
Joyce but oh no that's not gonna make a
difference so post fix installed on your
computer then you can do the male
command and it should send out just fine
so very very clean but that's unsecured
for a public server you're going to need
to get into some more sophisticated
installations if you want to do more all
right give it a go let us know how it
goes well yeah Jake one of these one
with me doom that's all the time that we
have boy oh boy I made a drink around I
mean it through well you only coughed
what I got three times he didn't share
the candies is I have cold d and e
Christie I got cold TT gets doughnuts
and pizza it was cold what a regional
America the doughnut was room
temperature Eric and Rachel get no
candies no Donuts hi Rachel oh ok well
have a fantastic week Eric it's always a
pleasure having you here thanks for
always a pleasure being here mmm turn
and I gotta raise this year I give you a
hundred percent raise 100 presents
really good alright thanks for having me
take care everybody have a great week
yeah
Bobby
