this is new every day with Jen wagger
and Carrie web
[Music]
hi I'm here with pastor Paul I na and we
are in Ghana right now and Paul has very
graciously agreed to let me ask him some
questions about what he's doing here in
the northern region of Ghana so thank
you so much pastor Paul for welcome
being with us and sharing about your
church so can you tell us where your
church is located thank you very much
and my you can locate my church I'm
Norman I'm come from northern became
part of bahlika Tonga our chest located
bahlika kanga buoy so ball Katanga town
called booty
so it's dead that we I'm having my chest
day so I'm pastor in Gori he's dead that
you can look at my church when you reach
angry so I'm started the the chest the
first time I'm starting it with Priya
Priya group first one we started at the
prayer boot so when we started with the
prayer group the poor people people are
coming so that we are praying for
ourselves okay any problem that you have
you can come strat who's just pray for
you and it's not a Sunday service so it
is because of that when we are praying
God also doing some so many miracles for
us and people get him so later on the
told me that we want to they want to I
to do it as a normal chest but because
they have job get their healing and so
milites from the developers console and
the denuded if I open it as a church to
help them so and truly I pray about it
and I had a voice of God so that as you
start with church so and I'm start with
the chest it is about four years now so
God also doing so many things for us
there
kaylynn people get their Halen so many
things happening there and I can't even
give you two examples
what yes what God have done for me death
the the first one the first one is the
the chief in our community
he has some kind of sick sick they sent
him to swim in hospital okay and they
couldn't get get his healing so later on
they and they send him to and those who
are doing there are just no way those
who are doing fine medicine have so
they're taking their stale it can do bit
because to me my understand I know God
want to God won't want me God one day
chief to get his hello from to me that
is why he couldn't get his you know from
those people so later on one of the the
chief daughter come to me and said the
problem to me
so-and-so okay no problem if you want I
can go with you so how do we get to the
chief actually he cannot talk he just he
cannot talk econo sit he's just lying
down he cannot even sit he cannot talk
so he's just lying down so and I've got
the even and I'm glad I am I was leading
him to to Christ I want to lead him to
to Christ he cannot talk his just doing
his head like this
so the more I'm I'm giving Christ to him
he's just doing a slurry meaning
that is what I'm telling him yes so
after after day after and I'm leading to
Christ and a privy team
so after the prayer I had a voice of God
told me that we should we should went
there for three days so after the three
days they the chief work
so and I'm told that and I'm told the
chief wife that tomorrow you come again
so - if - more Han become the chief
himself nobody told him to sit
he himself and sit down hanim said that
the chief wife I laughs yeah yes because
he didn't trust because they sent him to
so many places they didn't get healing
so if I'm say that no the chief wife
just laughs and I'm sure you are
laughing bet I have in my god - tomorrow
Henry come the chief in shall talk to me
so the following the handle came it come
exactly as the voice of God to me so
that third day the chief himself was
talking to me and he come walking on his
own company on a payment for him
tradition so the chief he he give us a
hand last grand not like a chicken yes
and like it's the big one like that like
this he gave us hand + granite so our
area we enamel granite so the chief axes
one of you to go and bring us some
granite
he said he thanked us he thanks us very
much so go to continue to bless us with
what is we are doing so after that the
second one the second one is what does
one live in our community he having HIV
is so some memory he went to the
hospital and collecting some medicine
says so later on how he came to our our
our our church and we data and we also
have into this fashion and prayers so
after the - - is fasting and prayers the
woman dream that but go told that from
today GUI we have taken away that the
HIV from him chasing he have a dream God
spirit to lean not front degree he have
no more
is that again so it's a man or a woman a
woman so she had a dream and God said
from now on you have no anxiety you have
no HIV
so the following morning he came to me
and said this is the dignity hub after
day the fastening produces that demon
akiha panama see you trust God
yeah and I'm also pre with her and I
asked her to go to go to the hospital
and check ok good yes honey went to the
hospital and check they say no more is
IVs so they did the blood test for the
woman and said all clear
yes praise God so because of that no
people are coming coming and there is a
one one woman yeah yeah yep pregnant 12
months so all of Guzman is he's supposed
to deliver an 9 - so honey came to our
person and we pray for him that night
the woman delivered a baby boy healthy
yes so yes so the people are keep
keeping coming coming to us oh we have
now we started with 12 people we started
with 12 report and respond to open the
day the Sunday service and we started
the first Sunday we started with 12
people 12 people so let - now we are now
up to 99 0 yes 90 people both both both
humans and men
and and a challenge we are now up to 90
people stick around for more from pastor
Paul I own a in the West African nation
of Ghana as we learn about the spiritual
warfare he and his church face each and
every week and bringing the message of
Christ to all who will hear it we'll be
right back for a limited time get your
hands on limited-edition shirts from the
category 5 TV network these high quality
shirts are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today
and send us your pictures to be featured
on the corresponding show visit cap v
dot TV slash shirts to support us and
get your official Network shirt today
cannon5 dot TV slash shirts our people
our community they live in worshiping
Aldo's worshiping item yes yeah they are
believing in worshiping outdoors is our
challenge what does that what does that
mean so today's sacrifice animals yes
watch the screen crease oh yes worship
in through the out the appia believe in
smaller goes yes yes sold it too small
miss you take animal and want kill and
kill and pour their blood on the tree
okay and see they knew that their life
in the trees or go to the river the what
happened did they believe in those
things and our placement oblivion do
those things so in fact the tongue death
and they have they do it a year by year
every year they'd sacrifice France so
every year all day the family old or
ever house who sin who sent good or any
and I'm and mother the the goes or
quested and it was sent today added to
the trees or to the river
secure file to the the river of the
trees so if that year and doing that in
fact we are we having so many attacks on
the church yes yeah attacks because
honey they do that I'm me
for example if I'm I'm if I'm in the
house so and my fara is not um his his
unbeliever is not a Christian and you go
to that place and sacrifice yes and when
it come the demons who comment comment
comment on my team okay huh
so were you finding that the people of
the church were being permanent or the
families of the people who were
sacrificing yes so it was the families
yes is the family would go sacrifice and
the demons were attacking the mayors yes
I did the most so you - because of you -
yeah are you alone or two people in the
house and we are not divided you an and
if others are Christian and others are
unbelievers because the Bible to see sin
first current chest we say there's no
you cannot there's there's no more
darkness and light you can't mix the two
like oil and wine so if there is light
there's light and if there is darkness
there is darkness the two tears cannot
meet huh so you see that that there are
ghosts who fight to it yes in the home
so she know who we're going to your
congregation we're accepting Christ but
going home still was worshipping idols
yes yes so then so does the team that we
are now challenging is our challenge yes
so we need prayer support yes help us
rod go to strengthes track she was able
to overcome we know definitely we are
yeah because our qualities of a common
so yes we to overcome that it would take
a time or you you have to enter some
difficult
before you now become because even
Christ came to this ad to go back it's
not it didn't take it easy
no yes so you know you to use Suffolk
bet we knew some more Prius yes so this
is an our placement to it is not like
here
it is a village so we come from the
there is no which is very far if we the
prayer I'm was but I'm more still and
I'm the place I most possible is very
far
it's very far so you're living in one
place but a pastoring in another another
place so how do you travel to go to
chops you walk how far do you how long
does it take you to walk to where you're
where the church community is mm-hmm
it will be about that design if I walk
if I wake up in the in the morning
let's say six o clock I'll get there I
have to wake up early in the morning of
the CISO clock I'll get there 9 o clock
so you walk for three hours
yes I walk there for Wow you sure that
I'll get there and do that and do that
distance but they don't dare to
we don't have passengers cars so that
you who you got you go and stand by the
rules out and take a car if you want to
see it there's one village Aaron Aaron
dot that one is a town I don't go up
list so if we want to take a cup unless
you walk to the that place that place to
is far from that just so unless you go
there and pick up and come back
traveling more distance exceeded in the
town get the taxi don't go to the church
rejected okay so that is I want now
surrender challenge okay but sometimes
in evening time have to slip up to
slipped and one of my member house then
I even infinite time have to slip in my
memoir because I can't go back
good evening time I can't go back to my
place cuz you can't be walking in the
back even if I have a little time work
and what I'll get that somewhere toward
midnight
oh yes so we normally meet up in the
night 8 o clock and we close we meet at
one is d1 is this our Bible studies and
Thursday today today's trip we pray for
ourselves and the community and a Monday
Monday to is our youth deep ok and
Thursday twists and our women's meeting
so you're traveling Monday Thursday
Sunday and Monday Monday Monday's youth
meeting and Tuesday is women's meeting
Tuesday is women's meeting yes remains
meet him when is dig its Bible study for
all of us
Bible study on Wednesday ok bubbles it
is when is deep yes and Friday Friday is
distant our all we pray for ourselves
and we pray for the community too ok so
Holy Saturday that I didn't go that
Saturday to this day do you they are
learning they were in a choir yes do you
learn how to sing so that they're fully
sunny do come and sing for that's
amazing yes so you're walking almost
every day yes yes well it's only
Saturday in the nandaka I mean I didn't
go in Alan I will go there Oh Holy
Saturday yeah but all that is but
Saturday sometimes I can't just go and
sit and and and watching them how they
do it because the German maybe do fight
with its others so after doing you see
somebody who is older than them yes sit
and watching them so that do be serious
yes or sometimes I'll call one of my
church members rocky who I sit behind
them and watching them throughout not
sure that they will be serious for the
kids to be doing their practicing songs
and presenting on yes on Sundays and
these are children who are part of your
congregation yes Wow Joe we have a lot
of children day yeah
and do they all live in that community
the children and their families live
okay and is there a school there for the
children to go to we have government
school day
ok that is far from the demo it's far
from the kids and they have to walk far
to get to school bulletin that we do
have there that one days - yeah they are
suffering
dr. hey there's no hospital no hospital
no hospital de snow clinic no doctor no
a virgin so if somebody said they have
to have that person to Volga Volga to is
yes well guys day our town like my
birthday is a big town and health how
far away is that how many miles or
kilometers ok vintage too far too far
too far to walk Wow oh you can walk you
can't walk you have to get a car yes ok
that's challenging so we're not good to
then their bliss around us : Gauri you
have to go there and get car rental
Monica Oh
rent-a-car yes and then about that is ok
if you have your friend having a
motorbike you can't call him so that if
you happy if you are somebody sick you
can call somebody's who have was having
motorbike a car to pick you pick their
the sick person or if be about to
deliver you can pick the room on TV and
we're asking to hospital rights from the
monitor okay so the women deliver their
babies in the hospital usually yes okay
but if the during rise is that he didn't
get missed to take him today he can't
deliver in the house right yes yes I'm
sure that happens often yeah that is
happening yeah while so God's doing lots
of things in your church the church is
growing old you're sharing the gospel
people are getting healed
it's amazing stories yes and every
Saturday is our bar is our evangelism
dig every Saturday went to have
evangelism okay and what do you do for
evangelism we go we we can we we come in
every Saturday we come in there I told
them and we leave the house sorry okra
struck eight o clock you'll be there in
the we
we are that our just in school building
okay you mean a school
yes school so eight o clock meet and
pray and pray for thirty minutes
so and we pray for teaching me for
ourselves so that God would it lead you
now say to - I will not say - to track
you people pass he and you - yes so if
yeah if we are 14 or 15 or 30 who said -
two - two - yeah so that group if they
enter the houses do not say said said
that report it said a word to you to the
appointment so we agreed how to have
evangelist or even if they are go and
they meet anyone in there in the way and
so you just start talking about Jesus
with them and share with the gospel yes
we talk we talk we say we certainly
share people about Jesus we talk to them
about Jesus yes how Jesus loved him and
that is why he came and died for us so
just give their life to Christ
so we normally talk to them about Jesus
how Jesus loved us
yes the reason I asked how you do
evangelism is because the church in
Canada a lot of a lot of people in the
church struggle with that on how to
start the conversation but here you're
so you're bold and courageous and
willing to share and you're just going
up and sharing Christ with these people
and obviously God is moving in their
lives in such a powerful way
so I mean me myself - miss evangelist so
if you ask Reverend I met you told you
he he saw me one day so I told him that
I do have speaker or anything and I'm go
mom
the way the way I'm doing every day of
the boot evangelism yes yes Rinna mean
whatever the market in the market I was
green deck
that's why I requested the mood to the
motor because our place is very far so
you can't go so up to work every day
after go and do it if if I am missing a
birthday or two days and I didn't good
I'll just is just like like fire fire
fire in in there as fire inside Jimmy
Benny yeah so and I don't have peace of
mind unless I go and deliver the word so
anytime I went with the web after our
fuse that pushing the word and I'm
coming back
yeah I can see some kind of laughs or
some kind of happiness yes yes yeah in
me
and is it that joy of the Lord that's
your strength to go back at yes so every
day I'm going to do the evangelism
so there they might seem that and Rama I
might give it to me if that one is there
rechargeable one we have to use charge
it and you take it and put it there so
that you now speaking okay so so through
the Ghana mission they've provided you
with a speaker yes is because the
amplifier so you can preach the gospel
so that Hunnam anytime that I'm go
I was just fixing them and fix that out
please to death so mine was mine if
every day it was pressing me yeah so
sometimes I go and preach with my mom
yeah so if I only only my mother you if
you went to them marketplace and
shouting you see mind
my voice see this is your voice gets
hurt so if I'm sad mm lat
my voice was always the if I'm speaking
the voice is not coming coming as mama
right so if I use in the mic that one
so that's saving your voice yes able to
preach that I will able to preach love
for others people to hear all people are
far from me far better for me can hear
that way so if I'm just usually mama you
see the market size is full of noise yes
if you speak louder the car here
so if I need my if I need have dissing
speaker okay for how speaker speaker
that's understand I want ya see that as
one you you start you there sticks on
luck lattice and you put it aside so if
I have for any speaker that I can use to
do with a motorbike will be so good well
thank you so much can I pray for you Oh
full wrap up but let's pray for pastor
Paul father thank you so much for pastor
Paul and the work that you're doing in
him and through him to preach the gospel
and I thank you Lord that he has already
overcome thank you for the word of his
testimony and that you are healing
people and turning people to Christ and
I pray your blessing on him Jesus I pray
that you would continue to empower him
and encourage him and strengthen him to
preach the gospel every day
would you grow his church in his
ministry and provide what he needs in
Jesus name Amen amen
thank you so much I really appreciate
you sharing all the varieties thank you
catch a new episode of new every day
every Friday morning and new every day
dot TV
we're also on Kody Roku Plex YouTube and
Facebook or if you're in Southern
California tune in every Sunday morning
at 6:30 Pacific on channel 33 television
for the high desert
