here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom a
true Linux part a smartphone will be
available within the next year it's
already happening people are porting
linux to the nintendo switch a company
which specialises in delivery robots
plans to expand its operations from two
campuses to 20 by 2019 with a fleet of
1,000 the driver who moved into the
passenger seat after putting his
electric car to autopilot while at 40
miles per hour on a highway has been
banned from driving these stories are
coming right up don't go anywhere
Jeff Weston Jemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what are you
you're terrible actor what does where
acting comes into play I don't know
you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash DreamHost
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
DreamHost
this
is the category 5 TV newsroom covering
the week's top tech stories with a
slight linux bias
I'm Sasha Rickman and here the top
stories recovering we're following this
week after raising more than two million
dollars last year to build a Linux
powered smartphone with a focus on
privacy and open source software purism
hopes to deliver the first libram 5
smartphones early next year the phone is
expected to ship with an NX p I dot M X
8m 64-bit ARM Cortex a 53 processor and
feature 3 gigabytes of RAM 32 gigabytes
storage and a micro SD card slot a
headphone jack USB type-c port and front
and back cameras but it will also have
physical kill switches that disconnects
the camera mic broadband and Wi-Fi or
Bluetooth for security and privacy
purposes when you're not using those
features one of the biggest challenges
is software the phone won't ship with
Android or iOS instead it will run free
and open source Linux based software
which doesn't have a great track record
with being phone friendly but now purism
has announced that the libram 5 will
support at least three different
operating systems and user interfaces at
launch pure OS version of pure OS with
KDE plasma mobile environment and a boon
to touch pure OS is the company's own
Linux distribution which the team is
adapting to work on touchscreen devices
with phone sized screens KDE plasma
mobile is a mobile project from the team
behind the KDE desktop environment for
gnu/linux Ubuntu touch is the version of
Ubuntu Linux that canonical developed
for phones and tablets and then scrapped
when the company decided to shift
direction but a boon to touch is an open
source project so when canonical stopped
developing it another team of developers
calling themselves ub ports decided to
pick up the torch continuing to work on
the operating system UB ports and period
them are working together to ensure that
a boon to touch is fully supported on
the phone and that future software
updates remain compatible out of the box
the libram 5 will ship with pure OS
featuring a known base deck desktop
environment users will have the choice
of installing KDE plasma mobile or a
boon to touch if they prefer to use one
of those alternatives I like it this is
awesome when when can I get one actly
when well it was I don't know if it was
Kickstarter or was it a fundraising
campaign anyways but the plan is this
January of 2019 that's the target goal
and they far surpassed their the amount
that they were trying to raise I think
it was like 1 million dollars and they
went to like 1.5 or something like that
so probably January if things go well
but we have seen like a boon to phone
that kind of failed in the past and some
other Linux phones what is cool about
this I think anyways is that the the
whole idea behind a Linux smartphone
there's a few different things here that
are really exciting first of all it's a
full OS so you get the security and the
privacy of an OS and under the hood it's
something that you can control so you
are now in control of your phone rather
than whoever's manufacturing the
software right in the software that runs
it so but also it's dockable so you can
plug this into a like a 22 inch screen
and sit down like it's a computer and
boom you've got a desktop operating
system up on your screen and it's
powered by your phone see that's
exciting I really I like that there's
the kill switches and and the privacy
security stuff for the fact that I feel
like that will really draw like the
masses over to this the only problem
with that though is not the masses are
not used to Linux yeah they are yeah
Jeff everything that you own is run by
Linux yes I understand that but what I
mean by that is the normal consumer for
a phone is used to Apple telling them
what to do or Android telling them what
to do for the most part so to have
something that is customizable like a
Linux phone I think will be a huge mind
shift for a lot of people they won't
I'll be able to pick it up and use it
but to fully use it to its potential I
don't think a lot of people will have
the know-how and that's gonna take a
little bit of time I faith we'll do a
couple of shows about it when I get mine
and everyone can watch and they'll be
right on board I think people will do
okay I really do I think people will
grasp it fairly well I mean we adapted
force to smart phones from dumb phones
and now it's just what's gonna confuse
this as more features well they can
create an interface and they have
created interfaces that are like iOS or
Android it's just under the hood there's
more to it and a lot more functionality
all right well you two have more faith
in humanity than I do have a lot of
faith in it I absolutely have faith in
it especially the fact that now that you
have a Linux phone that now there's just
like an endless amount of different you
know operating systems and distros and
such that can like right now there's
just the ones that are offered but I
know the Linux community they're just
gonna have so many I just want to
install Libre Office on my phone like
that will be the day when I can just
plug it in and start typing on my phone
like that real quick before we go to the
next story is it gonna be able to
interface with app stores as far as apps
go or are you gonna have to yours yeah
yeah the whole like the whole ecosystem
of Linux is repository based so why not
start being able to install apps if you
will through through that architecture
okay it's a boon to its Debian based so
absolutely it's gonna be there okay yes
it has already happened we talked about
the Tegra exploit last week which is now
in the wild and already a user has a
boon to running on the Nintendo switch
not every hardware hacker goes about
things privately and one such group has
disclosed the Nintendo switch exploit
that allows anyone with the portable
gaming device to load Linux on the
switch without much fuss the exploit in
question this time dubbed show Alf 2 was
revealed by failover flow in a blog post
they explained that a bug in the boot
ROM of the NVIDIA Tegra x1
Sasser can be used to take control over
the entire boot process this day ad is
effectively like a us-based rescue mode
intended for initial flashing of Tegra
devices and recovery of bricks devices
normally RCM mode only allows signed
images to be loaded but thanks to the
bug that is not the case as neither
Nintendo or Nvidia can patch the hole it
means every single Nintendo switch soul
to date can be made to run Linux
failover flow released a fully open
source Linux boot stack for the switch
based on Arch Linux almost immediately
other Linux enthusiasts race to get
their favorite distros desktops and
tools running on the switch as well and
a user calling themselves cm SJ has
managed to squeeze the latest a boon to
18.04 release on to a Nintendo switch
the volume rocker already works as as
does the ambient light sensor though
very they note it's very slow at this
point they plan to tweak things and get
it to a very usable state a boon to
aside it is still very early days for
Linux on the switch not all Hardware
functions properly
not every Linux app is available on ARM
processors and performance will vary
from distro to distro the code to
install Linux on your Nintendo switch is
already available on github though you'd
have to be either very brave or possess
a rather disposable income to want to
take it on this early so true this is
cool this is really cool I mean this
story is I feel like it's only 7 days
old and already this has happened like
it's exploded yeah so my question is if
I were to do this could I go back or is
the Nintendo is that oh great could I
perhaps switch back and forth not
necessarily cool boot right but like
boot one and then get rid of it and
reuse flash like almost like reflashing
the original rom back on to the on to
the switch and I'd I don't know I guess
you could back up the original or if
there is a backup of it I don't think
you could ever undo it because you're
you're basically routing it right yeah
exactly yeah so my guess would be that
there's got to be a way to do it yeah
you're right you would have to have a
backup of the entire switch system in
order to make that happen and well yeah
it's not impossible and then what would
you do I guess with Linux on a switch is
it just like it opens up your games
I wonder if if it kind of brings us back
to the phone idea of being able to do
more with your devices and have more
control over it but I think I really
think about indie game manufacturers
people who want to create games but
don't have the big studio and can't get
into the the switch you know you've got
to have Nintendo licensing if you want
to be on a Nintendo switch you've got a
license that game and have that you know
manufactured with the official Nintendo
logo and everything well what I lost a
fortune is once you can get it routed
you get the software in there why
couldn't you turn it into like a
portable retropie environments in theory
exactly just bring it anywhere with you
when you get home plug it in BAM it's on
your big screen yeah maybe well that to
me sounds like something that you would
run like a game like if it was routed
then you could run the retropie as an
example style interface emulation
station or something like that wouldn't
be but yeah it would be like the
equivalent of that where you could have
thousands of games built into the switch
and then you pull out that card and pop
in another and you're back to playing
the normal stuff well exactly I mean you
have all those classic handhelds from
the you know the Gameboy - what was the
the Jennings the Sega Genesis one but
the what was it called down somebody in
the chat room or on YouTube for Yamaha
but you know get all those games on it
just have that port of portability
they'd be awesome I love it Linux for
the wind yeah Linux is winning yeah
that's what's happening here
a company which specializes in delivery
robots plans to expand its operations
from two campuses to 20 by 2019 with a
fleet of 1,000 starship technologies is
partnering with the coop in at Milton
Keynes to developer groceries there it
follows trials with just eat to deliver
takeout in London England one expert
said he thinks that it will be a long
time before they become a regular sight
on normal streets the campuses are
approving or more of a proving ground
for the robots the machines have a top
speed of 10 miles an hour which is 16.1
km/h accompanied by a human minder the
firm claims none have been stolen or
vandalized with 100,000 miles of
delivery journeys completed so far
starship said that the robots will be
put to work in 20 universities or work
campuses across the UK US and Germany
they can travel up to 3 miles and are
fitted with nine cameras radar and Jeep
GPS and ultrasonic sensors for detecting
obstacles upon arrival the recipient of
the parcel receives a text message
containing a link to unlock the robot
the manufacturer says their robots can
deliver around 200 of the most common
grocery items this is amazing why this
is amazing because it solves two
problems one security that of the
problem with people getting Amazon
packages that get stolen off of off of
porches so now you get car trunks only
if you have a domestic car so now you're
getting a text from the robot for the
unlock key right so already it's one
extra level of security and secondly it
will make deliveries faster because ok
they can travel up to three miles so
let's say somebody driving a truck drops
off a bunch of these robots that are
making deliveries BAM all the deliveries
go out at once the robots come back they
get reloaded to the next location BAM
they go out again saving gas even do you
remember your idea about amaz
dropping your stuff in a box it's a
locked box this takes it to the next
level and it's like on wheels it's
robotic it's its autonomous right it's
delivering and then it just sits on your
porch now I can yeah I can see that
working
see I love it now the one thing that I
would say is if it needs a human minder
though you might as well accept that
though right it is early days that's
that is true depending on how big the
box size is it could be really helpful
for people who don't have any way to get
you know there are prescriptions to
their house right or sure and I don't
know maybe it's just because of my age
but I'm thinking colleges are gonna love
colleges yeah a few you know college or
university get a bunch of these on
campus doing all the grocery runs and
it's like I can just hang out in my dorm
now the robots going to deliver
everything to me to the fullest
potential right well in college campuses
you don't have let you rarely have the
ability to cook and if you can cook it's
like the microwave or a hot plate so
they're smart to start testing this in
campuses because they will get lots of
use yes I really like the idea though of
like elderly individuals who can't
necessarily go out and do a shop right
so just bring it to me and that's that's
fantastic
and the security side I mean I feel like
if I were Amazon I would be putting a
whole lot of money into this because it
really solves that problem and if I was
the Postal Service even I would I would
do the same because the Postal Service
really makes money on the fact that they
can deliver every single day no matter
what yeah but they're unionized that's a
whole another story a driver who moved
into the passenger seat after putting
his electric car into autopilot while at
40 miles an hour on a highway has been
banned from driving the man babish Patel
from Nottingham England pleaded guilty
to dangerous driving at st. Alvin's
Crown Court a witness in another car
filmed him sitting in the passenger seat
of his Tesla s60 on the m1 between
junctions 8 and 9 near a Hemel Hempstead
Hotel said that he was the unlucky one
who got caught the court was told the
footage was posted on social media
before it was reported to police the
court heard Patel had told officers what
he had done was silly but that his car
was capable of something amazing when he
was interviewed at the Stevenage police
station he added that he was the unlucky
one who got caught a statement provided
by a Tesla engineer said the autopilot
was intended to provide assistance to a
fully attentive driver Patel was
disqualified for 18 months and must do
100 hours of unpaid work and was also
fine to cover the costs of the courts
why is this still an issue why do people
continue to let their car fully dry for
them that was never what it was intended
for right in yet fair enough thank you
in the defense of this particular driver
except the fact that he went to the
passenger seat right that part was silly
buddy but if you stayed in the driver's
seat if you have a fully autopilot car
you cannot expect the driver to then
also be attentive how many of us are
completely overworked of the car your
car is doing everything for you now you
have nothing you need to be paying
attention to you're going to zone out
you just need to be able to access the
pedals because the car that these
Tesla's are designed to alert you in the
event of a pending issue so if traffic
is getting too heavy and it doesn't want
to it doesn't feel confident in itself
right it will wake you it will tell you
okay it's time to take over buddy but if
you're in the other seat and someone
pulls out in front of you and the car
says warning warning warning take the
wheel take the wheel and you're in the
other seat right that's that's actually
not the part I take issue with because I
honestly think you should be in the
driver's seat but you cannot expect the
driver to remain attentive when you've
taken away the only task
they have to do while sitting there
you're gonna have a bunch of napping
drivers with autopilot and they're just
gonna be hoping that the chair vibrates
or something to wake them up one time be
it I completely 100% disagree with you I
think I mean you cannot expect your car
is going to fully do the drive for you
and respond the way that a human would
respond it has sensors it will do the
best it can but you need to be aware of
the drop it will respond better than a
human response so then why are people
getting killed how many people got
killed by autonomous vehicles versus how
many people got killed by a human driver
vehicle capable humans have been driving
a lot more than a human track but the
problem is when people abuse the
technology humans text and drive Jeff a
car doesn't text and drive you're right
I understand that but I still there's no
way no way somebody should be getting
behind a car with autopilot functions
and not at all paying attention I you
want to have your hands off the wheel
fine you want to be in a relaxed State
fine you want to be belting out -
Liberace while the car is driving for
you fine but you're still having to pay
attention if you don't bad things will
happen but people who are supposed to be
paying attention in non autonomous cars
are already not paying attention these
cars are going to save lives the problem
is he wasn't in the driver's seat but
the car itself is smarter than the human
driving it no wonder he checked out went
into the passenger seat really the car
is probably smarter than he is okay but
what about dude who was watching a movie
while driving well driving was the car
driving the car was driving he's
watching a movie not paying attention he
got killed I don't know this story
yeah but covered in a year ago it's
because he was what he was watching a
movie I want to say was Harry Potter I
believe and he rear-ended a vehicle his
car did not wish gone and we have been
there to take over the controls in an
instant he may have lived right but that
same guy not watching a movie driving a
car could have looked down at his phone
while texting
driving and rear-ended somebody and died
but the ones they still weren't paying
attention right but the car is going to
be programmed to pay better attention
than a person actually naturally will we
are tired and distracted at best so
you're gonna fall asleep or you're going
to daydream or you're going like I
really love autonomous cars and I really
think that autonomous cars will drive
better than humans do it's been
wonderful knowing you Sasha when you get
your autonomous car and you don't pay
attention and you get in an accident
it's been a pleasure working with you I
will not get into an accident your car I
would not I love the technology the
technology of autonomous cars is
phenomenal but it's P to be used
properly like with any technology humans
have the ability to abuse it and not use
it as prescribed and that is exactly
what happened in this case and in all
the other cases where something happened
you need to be aware of what you're
doing and use the technology properly I
agree but I do trust the technology more
than I trust said you agree I know but I
trust the technology more than I trust
the natural responses of humans who are
driving big thanks to Roy W Nash and our
community of yours for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman and I'm right I think we should
get the O BOTS to do the news with that
thing so there's none of this ridiculous
arguments so I think what he's saying is
we need to replace Jeff with the o BOTS
no real
you had to go there hey I'm Robbie it's
keys Jeff be the argumentative one is
Jeff I like it label with that I wonder
now I wonder
[Music]
[Applause]
