you might want to take the lens cap off
I don't need to because I'm a
professional photographer exactly how
many of us want to be you know we're
amateur photographers we want our photos
to look good
then we take pictures with the lens cap
on and we do all sorts of silly right
okay it happens come on Jeff fair enough
don't be foolish I've got my nikon d50
100 by no means a professional camera
but hey it takes some pretty good
pictures right but when I want to take a
product shot what am i doing I'm like
clearing off a table and wiping it down
and trying to make sure that it's nice
and clean I'm I'm setting up maybe a
cloth or a drape or something like that
in such a way that it you know looks
reasonably professional right but what
if I could take it to the next level and
it would only cost me 14 dollars would
not be nice along comes the snake oil
salesman right right it could it be true
we're gonna find out I'm gonna head on
over to our unboxing table with my
camera here okay I'm working my way over
all right guys whoo-hoo all right here's
what I'm gonna do we've got this device
from cat5 dot TV slash cam tent for
camera tent now you've seen these kinds
of things before but for just 14 bucks
can this really be worth our 14 dollars
we've had fake SD cards off of Amazon
we've had all kinds of junk off of
Amazon but could this really take decent
call the slow dolphin it is called slow
dolphin 20-centimeter not 20 years LED
portable photo studio so you see how
portable it is comes with its own
carrying bag it's got a USB cable right
out of the bag so this is an unbagging
tonight I guess a little bit of
instructions I don't think we're gonna
need we've got several colors of fabric
here oh oh that's taking me back to the
carpets you sit on in kindergarten
all right so this is presumably
oh look at this we've got led here I've
got another LED strip at the bottom
there I don't have to go out and invest
in a whole bunch of gear I can just pack
this thing up and these are four product
shots so if you're shooting jewelry or
any kind of smaller products single
board computers things like that we've
got some snaps just like the buttons on
your jeans just gonna pop these together
here we go
and lo and behold one more snap come on
there we are so this is what it looks
like like that we've got a flap here
that we can lift up to be able to put
our camera in camera lens and I guess
these guys are just gonna I didn't read
the instructions but that's Jeff's job
yeah the instructions for us oh I see
okay so without reading any instructions
this is how simple it is there are a
couple of little cut outs here see that
it's a little flat oh so it's like a MS
mini muslin a little what the is how you
pronounce a muslin like for like the
back muslin screen yeah yeah this is not
a muslin material this is like it's yeah
a cheap fabric but it's gonna clip on I
guess right here look at that so setup
time if you are doing this you know at a
let's say you're doing this for a
customer site look at that that's quick
and easy not too shabby
so let's let's grab this USB cable that
came with it and just for kicks
Sachi you're gonna appreciate this I've
got my USB charging device so this is
just a battery pack and and also got
batteries charged good to go
so this USB cable has full size USB
sorry I'm a bit out of focus there just
because of the depth
I've got USB on one end USB micro x - on
the other end so I'm gonna plug these in
to the light panels that are built right
in here
turn it upside down just so that you at
home can see it so this being only $14
it is you know a quick and dirty
solution but presumably with all these
LEDs it's gonna do pretty well we don't
have to have big soft boxes or anything
like that now one thing I'm going to
mention here you'll notice that as I'm
plugging these in I'm holding that USB
port as I plug in that cable I want to
do that as well when I'm unplugging it
hold that port and very carefully unplug
that you don't want to break the solder
joints off of this port okay so be
careful of that and if you're reading
reviews on Amazon be mindful that some
folks didn't think to do that
so if they're complaining that it's
broken just keep that in mind over here
I'm going to do the same thing and
because this is powered by USB again I
should be able just to plug this right
in to my USB charger for my phone there
we are
and here we go
beautiful nice so we can just kind of
fix up that drape a little bit get the
creases out there we are I'm doing this
upside down and backwards so just keep
that in mind if you think it looks a
little bit rickety there you are so we
can now take pictures of products
through the through the top here or of
course from the front now this is about
1 foot square I would say and that's our
new product shot device so I can turn
this around and get a picture for you
let's just throw let's throw a nano PI
m4 on there ah beautiful
take that and there you go and and so
then presumably with the hole at the top
you can take a down shot
sure let's give it a try if that's the
intention okay beautiful and that's all
there is to it so for $14 a little kit
that will now take our product shots
very much to the next level I shoot a
lot of single board computers so setting
them up and you know you've got clutter
in the background or whatever else right
so now that's not an issue whatsoever so
now you can live your the cluttered life
and still have a nice chair you go right
take it with you and set it up anywhere
you want and you've got a way to take
great little product shots for just $14
and in fact if you want to save 5%
there's a little checkbox for you that
will give you another 5 percent off of
the price and you can do that through
our link at cat5 dot TV slash cam tent
hmm cool it's just another thing I
really want there you go turns out you
can use the phone take pictures with the
phone you don't have to have a DSLR
exactly and it'll still make your shots
a lot better
no interestingly enough I'm just seeing
in the chatroom from soul boo he says
that the chairman of the board at his
job has one of those mm-hmm and he uses
it heavily to take pictures of the items
that are on sale at the second-hand
store and you know list them on the
Facebook page or so okay and that's
interesting because hey if you sell them
you've made money presumably and and the
better the product shots are the the
more you're gonna sell guaranteed the
the professional photos and even if
they're not professional I use the word
professional in in the context that they
look good they look clear they've got a
nice backdrop like that they've got
proper lighting and what I love about
this is that the lighting is built-in
and as I showed there tonight you can
plug it into a battery charger or a
phone charger you don't have to have AC
power right so now you can take it
anywhere and you've got that you don't
have I'm used to having big softbox
that's right that you've got to set up
for everything that you shoot i legit
could have used this this week three
times like I'm thinking of times
I had to take a picture of something and
then put it into a project oh yes and so
like the picture is like I've take it
with my phone and my hand is in the
picture right oh no you know
[Music]
[Applause]
