what you're about to experience is a
free worldwide interactive broadcast
from Ontario Canada we broadcast live
every tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time
get your questions in join the community
chat room triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live and category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Bobby
Ferguson welcome to number episode
number 168 of category 5 technology TV
nice to have you here send him drunk
useful mmm I'm Robbie Ferguson I'm Eric
Kidd Hillary's here with us as well hey
hey hey everybody has a going world he's
excited for another great show I know I
am well in a big hey out there the
category 5 TV universe yeah how's
everybody doing nice to see you this
week this week we are we're still taking
qualifiers for that brand new a
multi-function Center all-in-one printer
from Brother Canada and category 5 TV so
stick around for your chance to to
qualify for that also we are going to be
looking at a simple technique that you
can use to make any image look like a
nice glossy button for use on the web
nice glossy button yeah we're going to
be starting up a new series over the
next several weeks and this is kind of
our preliminary step to get started
we're gonna be learning how to build a
website from scratch sweet so tonight
we're going to be doing glossy buttons
just going to be something that we're
going to be tapping into that knowledge
down the road Hillary what do you got
coming up in the news for us lots going
on in the world of techno
g as always coming up in the newsroom
microsoft accidentally announced a
couple months back that windows 8 would
not be ready until 2012 and we'll tell
you about it in case you didn't hear
about the news previously in current
news more than 70 sites alleged to be
selling counterfeit goods or offering
pirated content they've been shut down
by the US government and its making the
UK government feel that they want that
amount of power to last passes acquired
the x mark service planet calypso
introduces a new group of islands with
plans to sell the in-game land and we
know how much you all love gingerbread
at this time of year so we'll talk about
the latest release of android version
2.3 stick around for the latest news
from the category 5 TV news room hmm I
love gingerbread love gingerbread
alright so does gadget wisdom guru okay
sounds great help thanks for being here
tonight now you I'm surprised you
actually made it tonight what's what's
going on where you're at you will not
believe this I have been trapped in my
house for two days and tomorrow will be
day number three because there is a
mother load of snow happening it's been
snowing non-stop for two days now
they've shut down the city and are
declaring it in a state of emergency no
buses are running all the colleges
universities elementary and high schools
in the second shut down so it's really
crazy and I'm kind of scared I'm worried
I'm I never make it back five welcome
welcome to Canada we get no series you
can still broadcast through the wonders
of the web you have lots of food and
water we got lots of okay for now but if
this keeps up I don't know I don't know
what happen yeah well hey thanks for
thanks for turning up tonight you can
join us in the chat room category five
dot TV be nice to have you there if you
have any questions for us and Hilary of
course is joining us in the chat room as
well and I guess you've got lots of
questions coming in as well great to see
everybody we are broadcasting tonight in
a higher resolution and you're going to
notice if you're watching the RSS feeds
that we are stepping our way up to full
HD there you go there you go
so we're looking forward to what the
next couple of months will bring with
the increase in quality and certainly
let us know what you think already
seeing in the chat room that people are
noticing a difference in the quality of
the feed and certainly most definitely
in the RSS feeds you should notice as
well good to see everybody joining us in
the chat room lots of people there you
can join us in the chat room it's on
freenode in the room category 5 or of
course you can get there straight
through our website category five dot TV
and we'd love to have you join us in the
chat room and be able to say hey hmm
well hey I'm ready for you you're ready
for a question I'm ready all right how
much snow what are we gonna get I just i
shoveled once already today and I've got
this much in my driveway again yeah and
put that much on top of my car again
that's the thing yeah son around what
the heck whatever it's Canada welcome
Kennedy okay this is from John and this
came in via email hiya I found your
webpage through a link on the unraid
form watch the video where you built an
a nun raid server from scratch very
informative it's a project i'm looking
forward to undertaking soon the reason
for the message is because i can't
register with your webpage and he's got
a sad face that is colon and right
parenthesis okay left parenthesis I
filled out the form and hit send and get
an error back telling me the session has
expired cookies aren't enabled it's ever
I'm pretty sure the session couldn't
have ended as i refresh the page filled
the form and hits and unless I'm sure
than a couple of minutes and check these
cookies are set to accept in Firefox any
ideas what I'm doing wrong look forward
to hearing from you shortly with kindest
regards john cheers john what you well
there's a couple things first of all if
you've already registered on the website
then that's cool you should be able to
login just clear your cache and
throughout all your cookies on the site
before you try to log in but because the
site is under lockdown which means we're
not accepting any new registrations at
the moment that's because we are
completely rebuilding the website from
the ground up and part of that process
is converting our entire user database
over to a new format so in order to do
that we had them well I had to make the
decision to completely lock down the the
website from new registration so if
you're a new viewer are a new
registrants on our website category 5 TV
then it's possible that through this
transition period you may like if for
example you had started the registration
process at one point and then didn't
respond to the email right away then it
went into lockdown during that period
and so you're not able to get fully
signed up so in a case like that you can
pop me an email if you like live at
category 5 TV with your user credentials
and I'll go in and I can activate the
account manually but certainly as as
we're in the process of developing the
new website it's going to be pretty
fantastic but it means no new
registrations during this time so
january first is the date that you want
to make sure that you're registered
that's when the new website launches but
any time before then you can still use
the website obviously all the services
are available there and the lockdown
will not affect your ability to use
category 5 s website it just means that
you can't register as an insider at this
time so sorry for the inconvenience for
those of you who are affected by that
but it's one of those inevitable things
where you know we got to make a decision
where it's okay we're going to have to
lock it down in order to make this
really happen so I'm very excited about
some of the new features that are going
to be coming just gonna have to wait too
yeah well it's lit speaking of the new
website thank you to all the volunteers
who have asked to become a part of the
better process if you're interested in
being a part of that process which means
just basically using the website before
it's actually ready reporting any kind
of issues through the betta forum and
also just submitting your ideas and
potentially even how
hang out with some of the copying and
pasting and the mundane tasks that have
to take place as much as possible i'm
using creating systems to automatically
convert the mysql databases over to new
formats but sometimes there are things
that have to be copied and pasted
manually so that's if you are interested
in being a part of that process email me
live at category 5 TV just mentioned the
betta project or the the betta team in
the in the subject line of your email
i'll be great ok on the list well burn
it with this new higher definition I'm
really taking the beating here they are
yeah it's inevitable sorry about that i
thought i would have warned you but look
at all look at how clear the mug is
which mug this mugger what that mug yeah
you can certainly see every little green
hair on the chin for sure well ok that
said let's move on be kind to this man
yeah he's a good guy he's a good guy he
takes a lot from from you it takes even
more for me oh my goodness so I still
want to know whether it really should be
pronounced beta or better alpha beta on
the betta page it says you say beta I
say better ok which is mo betta nope
sorry I'll move on here we have a
question here clean bring ok yes and hi
Robbie i have a lenovo edge laptop for
gig ram 500 gig hard drive came with
windows 7 and i would like to dual boot
with Ubuntu 1010 I would like to give
win 750 gig in the rest to a boon to I
copied and pasted the partition table at
the end also that Tina sorry I would
like to know one do I partition the
drive with win7 or gparted before
installation to do i create a swap
partition manually or do I leave that
Lubuntu installer take care of that
three do I leave the recovery partition
or delete it or backup to DVD kind
regards greg alright thanks Greg first
of all it really depends the answer to
your question really is going to depend
on how tech-savvy you are with partition
in a linux computer and the reason for
that is because Boone too has a
fantastic automatic partitioning system
so that you can just tell it you know
what use up use some of the free space I
think it's called just free space
install to the free space on my windows
7 system it'll automatically resize that
windows seven partition down create all
the needed partitions within the freed
space and you'd be good to go so that's
that's really the end user super super
easy way to do it I'm just looking at
your partition table here just because
you mentioned it and included it so
we've got three partitions on the drive
right now one of them is a recovery
partition all right yeah yes I would
leave the recovery partition because
well here's here's what I would actually
do and this is the way I did it with my
laptop I don't I actually don't ever use
windows 7 on my on my laptop but it did
come with it so rather than throwing
away that licensed copy of windows 7
which maybe one day I'll want to you
know throw that back on here do a
partition use it for planet calypso or
something on another partition for you
in order to make it so that I still have
that option what I the first thing i did
and the best thing that you can always
do right off the bat is Hilary do you
know do I know back up back up your
stuff she's looking at me like I was
chatting in the chatroom know you want
to backup your stuff right away that's
the first and foremost thing that you
want to do and in a case where you've
got your windows 7 partitions set up and
it's working on everything i would say
do a clone of that hard drive make a
make an image of that hard drive using
something like clonezilla where you know
it's a free download you can download it
you can create an image of that of that
entire partition and then you can mess
around with it
we recreate the partition table if you
ever need to if you ever want to revert
back in time kind of thing so by
creating a clonezilla part image of the
existing windows 7 system you've got
your recovery partition you've got your
windows 7 partition all that stuff is
now built into that cloned image then
boot up from your ubuntu CD and let it
do the partitioning itself if you unless
you feel confident in doing the
partition table yourself i would say let
let linux take care of it for you if
you're reasonably novice as far as doing
that kind of thing because you can break
your ability to boot so always do have a
backup but essentially it makes it so
easy that I don't think you'll have any
trouble so but that that image having
that image is a really great failsafe
because worst case scenario if
everything breaks or down the road if
you decide you know what I've one of the
problems that you can run into in a
dual-boot environment is that windows
will degrade just like it normally would
eventually it's going to get viruses
eventually it's going to have issues
that are going to you make you want to
reinstall windows whereas at that same
time your Linux partition may be working
just fine so you don't really want to
have to go through a whole process of
wiping out everything you so creating
those images you could revert back to
previous points so but definitely have
an have an image then let down let going
to do the partitioning for you first
time at least down down the road if you
want to try it yourself then I would
give it a go sounds like good advice is
that does that answer the question there
were three points there d let windows 7
do it orgy part ed I would just do it
through the CD through boon to do you
create the swamp partition again yeah
just let it let it automatically do it
unless you feel confident enough you can
I did mine manually but that's because I
want to control over how much space was
allocated like specifically these days
though and with a larger hard drive
so it's not that big of a deal to to
make it exact right all right I hope
that helps Greg thanks for thanks for
your question this is category 5
technology TV you'll find us online at
triple w category 5 TV nice to have you
here tonight and if you'd like to email
eric it's live a category 5 TV to get
your your questions in or of course in
the chaplain right off of our website
category 5 TV on freenode cool all right
all right well sounds like a little
easier question hey Ravi when you get
around to it could you update the
portable mp4 and divx feeds for last
week's show I gotta I think I gotta ask
is anyone else thinking this how's your
eyesight tonight you notice this what
what are we any every time you read an
email you like okay okay well alright I
see an email here from Greg the reading
glasses are a little little smudgy I'm
starting to get inside my personal
bubble there every time you read me now
you know the camera guys want me to move
in oh boy okay notice he I cannot work
under these conditions but there is
candy you like a candy Hillary there is
candy oh you got you got to warn me
would you like a candy Hillary okay oh
the gum it's very good yeah our
Christmas candy stash very festive go so
you're not answering that question are
you what's that the one from our friend
David masters it is hey Robbie when you
get around to it should I move in this
way could you update the portable entity
for and now he's talking while I'm
talking I cannot work under these
conditions Hilary well maybe I can maybe
if I get a raise oh so when you get
week's show thank
Dave what was it that you called last
week's show do you remember that was
brilliant Eric's little nickname for our
thrown together show when Halloween I do
not remember would I don't remember what
I remember this seinfeld episode oh yes
it was kind of like yeah he didn't
really have it there was no real water
there's no no flash okay like yeah it
had a couple of humorous moments and but
Billy at the end of it you're just like
what did I just do for an hour so that's
what you're missing there Dave yeah
what's going to happen with the mp4 and
div X feet and the reason that last
week's was not a priority as last week
was it was just after the baby was born
and it was a very different out of
format show a lot of fun granted I'll
say you got to see it but this did we
have too much fun day we always have fun
so the mp4 and div X feeds will be up to
date I'll do that for you in the
meantime I would love to get an idea for
how of how many people are actually
using the div X as well as the mp4 feed
actively and rely on those because we do
have the h.264 feed which is the highest
quality feed and you're going to get the
full resolution high quality video
through the h.264 div X and mp4 mp4 is
still based on that old old old 320 x
240 I'm spec so it's very it's much
lower quality than the main feed but the
final size is still about the same so I
as we build the new website we need to
get a feel for whether or not Dave the
the mp4 feet is still advantageous to
keep that going because of the fact that
it is such lower quality some people may
have devices that rely on it though so
that's why I'd like to know so if you
could let me know about that and the div
X I can understand that it's helpful to
have div xvideo so that will continue so
we'll we'll get that up to date for you
for sure
evermind mentioned that they usually get
the mp4 a but I'd love to know if if
that's just because you subscribe to it
two years ago and it's just the one that
you've had downloading all this time
because understanding that that that
file is you know two to three hundred
megabytes and is only 320 x 240 maximum
resolution whereas you can get these the
480p and now the 720p feed that is about
the same size as far as the the file
download is but you're going to get that
from the h.264 feed so what that kind of
clarifies where where things are going
with that but it just is like if you're
going to download a two to three hundred
mega file it might as well be super high
quality as opposed to the old format
okay that's that's my wondering but
we've kept that going over the years and
that I can certainly continue to do so
if people are actively using it for a
purpose if there's a reason that you
require that over the h.264 so let me
know live at category five dot TV ever
mine's going to give the h.264 files a
try and let us know if it's going to
work on order on the media center judge
says I touched it I eat it but it's
wrapped in plastic jut you're easily
distracted huh well he's good man what a
bowl of candy in front of him nanodots
and candy anything that small and can be
played with I mean you've done you've
got Micah in here and you're sitting
here and well that was for Josh but I
wanted him to hear ready was in plastic
thanks John yeah way to go John thank
you you're gonna get me fired dear me
dear me okay all right we got enough
time for another question before we we
get into the news if got one and of
course if you got a question for us on
the chat room category five dot TV love
to hear from you there
just calm yourself to you are you
playing tonight well not with Chinese
handcuffs that's what that's what good
gwg was suggesting for me to stop my
fidgeting yes I'm didn't you and fidget
with those dude it doesn't matter what
it you give him anything and he's
visiting with it I I don't know if you
noticed but we are and I mention it on
an earlier show but we put these pens on
the on the air they're great pens these
are superantispyware com pens so you
know they're there one of our supporters
here at the show but we're not holding
these pens for the purpose of
advertising superantispyware we're
holding these pens because the clackety
ones he wouldn't stop playing with wow
so that's the story anyway back to the
tech but was he this hard to get along
with when you were here Hilary oh never
just because you know he's wonderful
he's a good old boss we love having him
around Oh Hilary oh boy I feel sweet
thanks buddy oh dear I don't like
Hillary any more easily offended easily
a good no seriously have you anything
tech to say I didn't realize it was here
for that perfect yeah well you need to
say even ask you answer okay no no I'm
cattle all right so eight minutes to the
news what are we gonna do eight minutes
this question we should be able to cover
it in eight minutes all right we have
something from John steers hey John hi
Robbie he has a new win7 64bit box and
is trying to understand if Ubuntu 64-bit
is the way to go now ok well let's hit
it looks like a multi-part is that it
does does it look like so let's hit each
each thing at a time will you you and I
you will be John I like I'll be Robbie
so you you asked the question so first
thing is it the way to go first thing I
would check John is how much RAM is in
that system and how much ram do you
eventually want to have
reason being okay well there's two
things but the RAM if you've got more
than four gigs or if you plan to ever
have more than four gigs you've got to
go 64 bit plain and simple because it's
windows seven though you could run into
application and driver issues unlike
Linux where if you you know if you
install something and it's only
available is 32-bit and it just installs
the 32-bit lives and you're good to go
windows is going to be a lot more
problematic so boon to 64 bit on the
other hand is going to give you a lot
less trouble as far as compatibility
goes between 32 and 64 bit of course
you're going to possibly run into issues
with some things adobe is one of those
companies that never seems to really
keep up with with other technology but
it says no support for 64-bit AMD
version of adobe flash well there is
there if you use perfect boom to you can
download it from perfect boom to
category five dot TV and i'll post the
link in the show notes for episode 168
you'll be able to install flash no
problem on 64-bit ubuntu with windows
seven though you can have a lot of
issues with compatibility with your 32
bit software 32-bit drivers with linux
with a boon to you're going to have its
pretty much anything you can do on the
32-bit you can do on 64-bit there's
there we're just in this time that's
exciting where everything just works as
well in the 64-bit has a dozen the 32
with some exceptions of course but
generally speaking so I would say
definitely if you're going to if you're
going to eventually go more than four
gigs of RAM I would absolutely go with
64-bit and personally I would probably
do that anyways if my processor were to
support it just because of the fact that
you're going to get the benefits of a
64-bit OS so without getting into big
details about about you know with the
speed benefits of 64-bit and whether the
application maybe you should touch on a
little bit well you're going to find is
eight minutes ago to news or well you're
going to find in the forums and stuff if
you if you really delve into it people
going to be saying that oh well you can
install 64 bit but if your application
is only 32 bit
only going to run on 32-bit speeds and
stuff like this really kind of your
relevant when it comes to just it works
64-bit is extremely easy to get like
it's just as easy to install and get
working as your 32-bit now years ago it
was really difficult to get 64-bit going
on your system now it's not so you might
as well do it if you're going to go over
the four gig max on your RAM so ok ok so
next question let's see well you're
already touched idea 32-bit so all right
no go with the 64 surrounding the ISO on
DVD or I am since I'm Johnny MBD burned
with win7 burner I did okay but can't do
anything with no flash player can't
listen to my podcast and now when you
say it can't do anything now first of
all the the iso for ubuntu is a CD iso
not a DVD iso so you might try a cd-r
disc which may or may not depending on
your hardware effect that your ability
to boot from that disc get a CDR burn
the iso make sure that the you know you
should be able to boot from it and then
boot up install it to your computer
first and then run perfect bhuntu or any
other system to install your Flash
Player and you'll be good to go and now
good guy also mentioning that of course
there are boom two dvds and that's true
there's like the there's the DVD version
of ubuntu but that's very it's not as
common like that's not the one that
you're going to get just by default on
the ilume to website so i'm going to
guess that you're probably using the the
CD iso but if it's the DVD then then
maybe i'm wrong in that comment so
thanks for the note there ok ok
therefore i'm reluctant to install ok
what do you think of using seder SATA to
ide connector so i can use my old win XP
system ok I've tried kvm switches but
they don't work ok so we're moving out
of the Linux and 64-bit questions here I
think just to finalize those thoughts
we're going to go 64 bit if we're going
to go over the four gig limit of this of
the 32 and whether we should be
reluctant to install based on flash and
I would say no because that's one
application it's necessary of course
like ask anybody who's using Ubuntu
Linux I've got a boon to 64-bit on any
of my computers and I've got flash
working just fine using perfect boon to
as the Installer so you won't have any
trouble there I don't think so it's more
problematic than some other applications
because like I say adobe is not very
accommodating but but there are ways to
install it absolutely no problem what do
I think of SATA to ide adapters to run
your ide old hard drives as SATA hard
drives on your computer is that what we
mean are we going the other way around
on your old win XP system well from what
i've read say that ID connectors should
allow me to use my XP system with a CA
divided need drivers so you want to
write beyond the solar action we're
taking an SATA hard drive and making it
an ide hard drive so you're taking a
drive that's designed to carry 300
megabytes per second as its throughput
and you're taking it down to 133
megabytes a second no his XP is on an
ide drive right he wants to hook it up
to a seder put it in a computer with
SATA yeah so the opposite would be true
then but you'd be taking a drive that is
166 megabytes a second it's bus speed
and running it through a computer that's
designed to take 300 megabytes per
second possibly six if it's SATA 3 right
so in that case you won't be getting the
performance the either way whichever
whichever way is true you're not going
to get the performance of a true SATA
hard drive plain and simple those those
adapters are excellent for like I would
use them if I have an old ID hard drive
and I need to transfer the data on to
I unraid server for example move it on
to another device whether you'd want to
use that as your as your system hard
drive or not using an adapter it's going
to degrade your performance cut your
speed of your hard drive in more than
half of what I'm just wondering if maybe
and I could be wrong sure that john
wants to maybe be able to run a third
system he's got the win 7 computer he's
got but all right the same computer just
you know maybe I'll Apple boot / hello
and I could be wrong guys but that's
what I'm thinking you want still to have
as XP computer XP on that old hard drive
yeah is the overdrive okay so so same
thing still goes but XP you're asking
about using an adapter so I have to
assume that the XP drive is coming out
of another computer and you can't take a
windows XP drive and move it from one
computer to the other because it's just
going to growers is going to be that's
going to blue screen as soon as you turn
it on you can do what's called a repair
install but at that point you might as
well have just reinstalled it on another
another hard drive that actually uses
the the proper bus SATA so I would
probably stay away from that to be
honest with you if you want to have XP
as a triple boot system throw it on
another partition or install another
hard drive that's SATA and just do a
clean install of a nice clean windows XP
installation yeah you could run
terabytes boot it boot it ng for triple
booting another one another boot loader
that's easy for now this is kind of
getting away from that stuff but
something you might want to look at is
oh now I'm going to forget the name
it's one of Akron esas products disk
director or something like that I was
right acronis disk director is a
commercial application that's one that's
pretty neat as far as doing multiple
partition booting it makes it really
really easy to repartition your
harddrive and expert level yeah it's
cheap 4999 what was the other one that
was recommended there in the Chapman um
terribly ng wasn't it by terribly
terabytes boot it ng who did the next
generation see it's also commercial it's
3495 I haven't used that one so I
couldn't say whether or not it's it's as
good as Akron us but maybe compare the
feature set between between the two
that's all american dollars this is all
relative pretty close of here okay and
yeah it's not like a year ago when it
made a difference okay I hope that helps
did we cover everything for John I
thought four was John right yeah yeah
John and Dallas hey dells right John let
us know if I haven't been clear on
something or if if you need any better
explanations about any of that stuff and
then certainly send us more information
about your your specific requirements
what it is that you want to do and i'll
i'll be happy to to give you a hand with
that if i can all right so that that
pretty much takes us there we're ready
yeah how's it going hell oh it's going
and I got plenty of news for you coming
live from the category 5 TV news room
while not new news for those of you who
didn't hear the first time a posting on
Microsoft's Dutch site suggests that
will have to wait until 2012 for the
next release of Windows
microsoft declined to comment and the
message was rapidly deleted but was
grabbed by ina fried at cnet and a host
of other bloggers the post celebrating
the first birthday of windows7 said that
microsoft was hard at work on windows 8
but the release was about two years away
in place of the offending paragraph on
the Dutch site it was revised to say
that windows 7 service pack 1 is
currently in testing and will be
released in the first six months of next
year Microsoft may still be an expert in
making cash but is perceived as failing
to innovate or to cash in on that
innovation compared to a renewed Apple
and ever-expanding google windows 8 will
have a heavy burden to carry CEO of
Microsoft Steve Ballmer said would be
the company's riskiest ever release more
than 70 sites alleged to be selling
counterfeit goods or offering pirated
content have been shut down by the US
government this action was taken by the
Immigration and Customs Enforcement
Agency part of the u.s. department of
homeland security domain seeds include a
bit torrent search engine music download
sites and shop selling fake designer
clothing many of the sites who lost
their domains have continued training
via alternate addresses anyone who tried
to visit these these pages was
confronted by a screen saying that the
domain have been taken over by IC which
quoted us laws on copyright infringement
and traffic and counterfeit goods the
action comes at the UK serious and
Organised Crime Agency and they see
similar powers over dot uk' domains and
it seems are involved in criminal
activity LastPass which is a
cross-platform password manager has
acquired X Mars and a cross-platform
bookmark tab history and password sync x
marks will join last passes freemium
model the browser plug-in and most of
what users are used to will remain but
new features will be available including
an iphone and android app those features
will be part of the USD 12 a year
premium package you can get both
LastPass and x marks premium bundle
together for us do $20 us left the two
services will continue to requires
separate downloads
we administered through two distinct
extensions and websites although there
are plans to integrate them in the
future since the introduction of in-game
vehicles players in the entropia
universe planet of calypso have been
able to explore like never before flying
over predators or speeding past them on
land now my dark is providing even more
land to explore with the introduction of
the Medusa head group of islands an
all-new area on planet calypso located
between you Doria and I'm a thorough I'm
a thorough I hope I'm saying that right
imma Sarah and etheric continents for
stop from looking to invest in in Game
real estate the new land area goes up
for sale in the in-game auction on
December 13th not ready to invest no
problemo you can explore Medusa's head
now on planet calypso by downloading the
game absolutely free from cat5 TV /
Calypso yesterday google released a
software development kit for android 2.3
known as gingerbread how it for the
holiday season we will also announce
their latest developer phone the samsung
nexus s which will launch with
gingerbread installed on it gingerbread
will feature user interface refinements
improve power management and integrated
internet as IP calling the software
development kit adds enhancements for
game development and multimedia get
these full stories a category 5 dodge TV
/ newsroom the category 5 da TV news
room is researched by roy w nash with
contributions from gadget wisdom guru
back of ferguson and our community and
viewers if you have a story thanks
worthy of on-air mention email us at
news room at category 5 TV but a
category 5 kami newsroom I'm Hillary
rumble
category 5 TV is brought to you in part
by planet calypso this massive
multiplayer online game is available as
a free download from cat five dot TV /
Calypso now once you've got it
downloaded and installed on your Windows
computer make sure you say hi and
there's something for everyone here on
planet calypso from hunting to mining
crafting and just plain socializing and
having fun with your friends you can
download it for free at cat five dot TV
/ Calypso if you're a linux user like
myself of course this makes it worth the
dual boot cat five dot TV / calypso i'll
see you on planet calypso this is
category 5 technology TV you'll find us
online at triple w category five dot TV
hillary was saying there during the
commercial break that somebody was at
the door going Hillary all right all
right money is everybody more you know
whatever roommates more her picture no
was there she is hopefully she'll be
back hopefully she'll be she's out to
get water and food and candles and stuff
shovel this out it's your turn sir
shovel oh my goodness alright so in a
couple of minutes we are going to be
looking at how to create some buttons
for our upcoming website so you want to
stick around for that we're gonna be
using free software the GIMP GNU image
manipulation program so stick around in
the meantime here to answer your
questions you can pop me an email live
at category 5 TV or of course you can
also join us in the chat room at triple
w category 5 TV hold are you all right
all right well this is ready for some
more question I'm not sure this is
actually a question or this is from femi
murphy me hi Robbie I have updated feed
pixel comm check it out
dot dot all right be pixel book already
go there feed pixel calm there we go and
then the new site looks fantastic what
this is is it's a it's a free podcast
directory and online player so you can
catch your podcast directly through this
system through the web so you're able to
get your podcast from video podcast I
mean from pretty much anywhere just
through your web browser pretty cool and
they've developed their own player
everything it's it's very very cool so
like leads into can we go and watch cat
five oh yeah yeah very cool category
five of course is on feed pixel calm but
you definitely check it out feed pixel
calm it's a start up service so you I've
noticed that over the past few months
there's been constant and continual
growth of the service so you'd want to
check that out I'll include a link in
the show notes of episode number 168 as
well and if your visit perhaps our
visitors want to know what is a podcast
you can go to the following link that
you're going to show it well you're not
hey well I'm feed pixel calm there is a
link for what is a podcast
so yeah you can go through the menu I'd
early versus there yeah but i'd
encourage everyone to to check it out
yeah those femi murphy me from Sweden
thanks for the email very cool all right
good time tomorrow absolutely I
shouldn't be asking I should just jump
in and you can Bobby if you have to well
this one is from Peter Peter Lewis and
keep here dear Robbie I'm invading your
space bubble congratulations to you both
on the birth of your new baby that was
not our baby that was Robbie in and
Becca yeah doesn't work that way give
our best wishes to Becky i watch your
show regularly every week and enjoy it
very much it is quite late around
midnight gmt so what said gmt what time
is that zero is Greenwich Mean Time yeah
okay like off of us from five hours five
hours four hours depending on date yes
exactly so I try to stay awake to listen
to it I find your format very relaxing
and very informal especially last week
actually he didn't say that but keep up
the good work for next year please let
eric know i don't live very far from
Bushmills exactly five kilometers wow
wow you know you can send here from
bushmills distillery i have also seen on
TV that there is a new whiskey liquor
called ballycastle we don't live too far
from there either you know what there
could be a road trip involved here do
you have a guest room because eric has
happened so much yeah we don't lose
superb okay it may not be our
ballycastle which in ireland and part of
UK as i know there is one in the
Republic vironment as well at the moment
we have had some quite heavy snow with
icy conditions yeah us too however it is
not as bad or as cold as you get in
Canada regards to all best wishes for
happy Christmas in New Year 2011 oh PS
lives in a small village called der
vaart which is between ballycastle and
bushmills it can be found in google maps
well Peter I will be google mapping that
location very cool so
like honestly not like no no offense or
anything but der valk sounds very
Klingon ish to me is it just me nope
sorry that's that's all converts a
Vulcan yea sorry I'm is der Valk a
Klingon word like why does that seem
just sounds that way gadget wisdom guru
can can let me know I don't know I like
the idea of der valk definitely sounds
like a great place it does indeed oh you
want more ok well there is more I'm
watching the chat room here lots of lots
of conversations going on and of course
if you have any questions for me
mentioned in the chat room gad will is
saying that if they do have a guest room
hopefully they will include a dictionary
that includes proper pronunciations
alright well this is from Philip
Andersson hey Philip dear category 5 and
Robbie guess that makes Hilary in me
category bug it does on yeah and the
rest of our research team if anybody
finds UAC annoying and they turn it off
then I would like to say do not turn it
off because of that there is a solution
which I would like to share with you all
it's called UAC trust shortcut 1.0
notice that the new version might soon
be released in the IT knowledge 24.com
community which has made this tool for
Windows Vista and Windows 7 users please
note the update about a new version of
IT knowledge 24 coms next UAC trust
shortcut comes from their twitter
updates let's continue the tool is very
awesome and does the job if you have any
program which you trust and by default
prompts with UAC dialogue every time you
want to run it then use UAC trust
shortcut 1.0 and make a new shortcut
with a signed trust that was in quotes
and you will never more experience UAC
prompts for that shortcut also keep in
mind to start the background service as
a pop-up will notify at when
a start-up very important to keep in
mind so you can download that from IT
knowledge 24.com okay and that's it I
have a nice time and have a nice day
Robbie by Philly or Philip haha thanks
Phillip Philly here you're not revision
UAC well that's why I correct myself
Universal I realized it was nice no
accessibility keep going universal
access no the user access control okay
I'm windows 7 wasn't even close and
Windows Vista but nobody nobody cares on
Windows 7 you're going to get these
prompts and I've got an application here
I'm going to give that a try because one
of our broadcast tools constantly asked
me and even planet calypso same thing
always at its not planet calypso it's
windows user access control is it
prompts you and says d are you sure you
want to allow this it's microsoft's wave
rubbin of wiping their hands of any
damage that you caused to your computer
by running applications that you said
okay right rather than actually create a
secure OS they just say let's put the
onus on the on the user are you sure are
you sure you want to do that well you
said yes so it's your fault if you break
it but it gets annoying when you've got
applications that's why you don't want
to turn off UAC because if you do you're
basically allowing any application to do
stuff on your system that you probably
don't want it to have access to do
that's where viruses and malware and
fake virus scanners that slow your
system down we're all these those kinds
of things get into your system gad will
mentioning that they they think that
it's more like trying to emulate the
privilege raising such as Linux and UNIX
does and I think it's that emulate is
the key word but it is you know there's
that it still it puts the responsibility
on the user so by disabling UAC you're
basically effectively saying okay
anything that wants to install itself on
my computer no matter whether I
proof of it or not is going to be
allowed and you don't want to do that on
your Windows system because that's very
dangerous so using a tool like like was
just suggested that's a great
opportunity for you to be able to
disable that prompt on specific
application so that when I bring up plan
a Calypso I don't have to say yes I give
this one access every single time yes it
could be you look like you're doing some
pretty heavy stuff on you can be taking
our bandwidth here normally closed that
down if you could you didn't want me to
google ok ok durable save that for after
the show he's got like this big fancy
flash website and it's like everyone's
like why is the feed all of a sudden
stuttering you should pull in like 800
kilobits a second I think that's a
little harsh yeah yeah we'll look it up
after the show that's David fine ah yes
ok let's take a look at the GIMP GNU
image manipulation program we've got
just about 12 minutes left to the show
so I'm going to pull up I'm going to
pull up a thumbnail from last week's
episode let's just to show you that this
well I've mentioned it before any time I
do these basic photo manipulation
techniques using free software in that
series I'm giving you knowledge of how
to do certain things I'm not saying this
is exactly how you want to do it or take
this image and turn it into this I'm
basically given arming you with some
techniques and some and some abilities
so that when it comes down to actually
doing something that that you do need to
do you say oh yeah I remember how to do
this from such-and-such whichever
episode of what so my hope is that
something about that you'll learn along
the way is going to be useful for you
and if you follow along if you give
these things a try then the
the skills that you're going to gain
from it is going to be very helpful i'm
sure so let's let's pick a thumbnail
here I've got a handful of pictures from
last week's episode every week we get a
folder spewed out of images from our
broadcasting system so i can just
basically grab any one of these photos
open it up into the gimp there we go
looks good so to create a button what i
want to do is now this is going to be
like the universal button technique
using a glossy button so what I'm going
to do is I'm going to take this first of
all I want to crop it out so that it's
kind of a button shape and a button
sighs and it doesn't have the ticker at
the bottom there so I've grabbed my
rectangular marquee here rectangle
select and I've clicked into my image
and created a square not a square but a
regular go mingle thank you and then I'm
i can adjust with the gimp you can
adjust the marquee which is a very handy
thing to be able to do and now what I'm
going to do is I'm going to right click
on that image and I'm going to go image
crop to selection that's going to get
rid of everything that's outside of that
Markie so now as we look at that that's
what our image looks like so that's
slowly isn't that fantastic first thing
I want to do is I want to clean up the
image I'm going to duplicate the layer
make it look a little sharper I'm going
to go right clicking filters everything
is in right clicks on the GIMP I'm going
to go blur Gaussian blur and I'm going
to just give it that little subtle bit
of a blur so that now it's a little bit
blurry if you look at the image close up
I'm going to change the mode to probably
a hard light just a kind of darken it
and give it some there's the original
there's hard light kind of gives it more
of a film look to it now I'm going to
grab this tool up here our paths tool
now you know me Eric that I don't I
don't work in vector at all you're not
the vector it's not a vector guy because
I never have been good at it I'm not an
artist I
so I don't really do any of that because
artists but i will use the path tool to
do this i'm single clicked one area i'm
going to go about halfway through the
image okay and notice a little bit of an
angle and now i'm going to click outside
of the image here and hold and drag and
see what I'm getting there so you can
get these kind of effects right and you
can change your curve and you get this
this beautiful nice curve you can move
it around and then you can complete the
curve by going around the outside and
then once you've got everything there i
can hit enter and it creates this
marquee inside of that area so now if i
right click and go layer new layer and
just a transparent layer and i
right-click a game they go edit fill
with anything it's black you'll see that
now if i get rid of the marquee it's got
this black area there okay so now i'm
going to use the because I filled that
black I'm going to turn on my lair lock
here the Alpha lock okay on that layer
and I'm going to change my colors to
like a gray I've done this by clicking
on my color here and the other one can
be white as it is and I'm going to grab
my gradient tool
where are you do they call it a blend
tool yeah it is they call it a blend
tool in the GIMP so now i'm going to
highlight there and see what i can do
I'm only filling that curve that I
created okay now if I change the opacity
of that layer bring it down you'll see
what it ends up looking like is that
little bit of a gloss yeah very cool
kind of a neat effect that yeah it there
and it seems like such a subtle thing
but all of a sudden starts to look like
this kind of beveled looking button next
step is I'm going to hit my square
marquee and again because we're working
in layers remember you can always turn
off that layer if you're not happy with
it and start a game just create a new
layer and go again I think that looks
fine I got a nice looking curve there
but you cannot you can experiment so now
i'm going to have got my marquee here
again square i'm going to click anywhere
and go control a I've selected all
you'll see that the Marquis is going
around the entire image okay i'm going
to right click actually i'll zoom in a
little bit so you can see i'm going to
right click with everything selected I'm
going to go select shrink I guess select
how many pixels of a board or do I want
i'm going to say on over and it put me
an image of this size let's say 10 so
now you'll see what that did is because
it's shrunk my selection it's actually
brought that in 10 pixels from each edge
so it's got a perfect border i'm going
to right click and go select invert and
now it's just the border that's selected
okay so now i'm going to create another
new layer this is going to be my border
which is going to end up looking like a
bevel and I got create a transparent
layer I'm going to fill that with white
which is my background color so now I've
got this white border around the entire
image
so if I turn everything else off you can
see that's the border ok so now to give
it that beveled look you know what we
need to do is we need to create like a
shadow on the on the lower portion of
that so what I'm going to do is I'm
going to grab this marquee tool up here
that looks like a lass ooh ok it's
called free select in the GIMP sometimes
my zoom throws me across the screen
sorry about that so now going to go over
here to the top right corner and I'm
going to click as close to the point as
I can there goes my zoom acting silly
again okay i'm going to try again click
and then see how I've got the line
that's my marquee that's where is going
to put my mark ii i'm going to put that
so that it's a straight line from corner
to corner see that ok i'm going to take
it down to this corner and i'm going to
click i'm going to take it right into
the corner so that it's a nice perfect
corner now going to go all the way
around the image so now what is selected
is half exactly half of that border so
now again we're going to have to turn on
our lock transparency because we only
want to fill that one part and we're
going to use that gray that I've done in
my foreground I'm going to go edit fill
with foreground color and now you'll see
that that portion within the marquee is
a darker gray because I've got locked my
transparent if that was turned off this
is what would happen if I filled it
let's see here
Phil foreground see what happens there
looks much different thing so by having
the lock alpha layer turned on I get
that so deselect and I end up with this
nice-looking beveled image with the nice
kind of button looking thing at the top
so that works with pretty much any image
and you can do that with you know if you
want to create buttons if you want to
create will be using a similar kind of
effect for our new website with any of
the player windows if you want to click
play on the images like on the video
that's what it's going to it's going to
have some kind of similar effect to that
so that's a very basic and yet kind of
funky effect burdens and I'll call that
the Glaus buttons from basic photo
manipulation using free software that's
GNU image manipulation program available
for free download for Windows Mac and
Linux at gimp.org and will of course
have links in the show notes for episode
number 160 a great little program
actually there's really no differences
between the windows version in the are
there yeah there but there by certain
they're they're both very similar and do
a great job and sometimes I get because
i use both photoshop and again depending
on the application so so that's why
sometimes I forget that you know what
the tools are called or whatever but we
get the weekend right impression right
so but that said because I'm so versed
in both Photoshop and the GIMP I can see
where we can we can do these things in
either Photoshop or GIMP so we don't
need to spend a thousand dollars to do
this kind of an effect so that's a nice
that's a nice thing next word
we're just about at a time no way yeah
are you eating well I just got Twitter
up in everything Molly the other didn't
want to use it while you're brainless
twit all you won't do it using Twitter
you might do it looking at a website
that streaming videos done through was
she was bad attitude totally totally I
was just checking out some suggestions
filmer I came from our friend Peter
Lewis but i'll have to check that out
another time with all the the changes
that we're making the show over the next
over the next month or so with the
quality with we're going to be upgrading
our software we're going to wire cast
for and we're going to be reviewing that
software very very soon very excited but
i would ask that hey pop me an email pop
me a viewer testimonial let me know what
you think of of the quality of the show
if something has changed if if things
are working better or worse for you we
want to hear about it this is your show
and we'd love to you know we want to
make this as good as we can for you and
certainly you know that said get your
questions in the way that you can
control the content of the show if
you're watching this you're saying oh
this is way over my head or this is
really you know this is way below me or
whatever that's how you control the show
is get your questions in pop me an email
live at category 5 TV and you will have
control over the content does everything
look 3dp right now it does um sorry
nevermind that's his random to sense
where we haven't fuckin this is wild
good times good time good time all right
that's it that's all right that's all
the time we have here hey we'll see you
next Tuesday night nice to have you here
tonight and DuPont me an email again
live at category 5 TV papas a viewer
testimonial at category 5 TV click on
interact submit a testimonial and don't
forget we have that printer to give away
it's a multi-function Center from
Brother Canada and you'll find out how
you can qualify by clicking on the
interact menu at category five dot TV
you'll be able to follow the links and
check out the printer as well so do that
this week and we'll talk
next Tuesday night for episode number
169 all right good night kids take care
now children good night Robby see ya
