hello here are the stories were covering
this week in the category 5 TV news room
the results from own fest are in Google
pixel was owned in just 60 seconds and
the Chinese hacker teams killed Safari
can laugh at a four second flash hack
Samsung has purchased connected car firm
Harmon 48 billion dollars in cash a loan
laptop computer can take down an entire
server farm in a newly discovered type
of denial of service attack and the BBC
has confirmed it will launch a new
virtual reality film the turning fort
the turning forest next week these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere now here's another great way
you can support the shows you love from
the category five dot TV network by
shopping gearbest that's the right Jeff
cat five dot TV / gearbest it's an
online store for the geek streak in you
or the loved ones well of course I mean
especially your loved ones right because
cat 5 TV / gearbest quite frankly has
all of the greatest tech gifts that you
can ever hope for at rock bottom prices
did that cell phones you betcha cat5 TV
/ gearbest has a wide assortment of
unlocked android cell phones and tablets
what about compute consumer electronics
those like a great gift absolutely from
high-tech watches to action cameras
headphones even virtual reality headsets
cat5 TV / gearbest has you covered they
literally have it all Jeff literally
really it's like a super store right
from the comfort of your own chair at
your computer through the interweb yeah
I there's no way they have it all it's
true that's just a bunch of a random
electronic Sesame what about clothes yep
both men and women fashionable apparel
at rock bottom SuperDuper prices kinda
like this well look at this coat what do
you think it's a slimming mock leather
jacket I love it it's available for less
than thirty dollars plus free shipping a
cat5 TV / gear best yeah all right you
kind of got me there Wow any other
questions for me jack uh now that the
winter is past flying season do they
have any good deals on say drone
couplers oh my goodness well check this
out dude they have everything check out
over 500 various drones and not only
that they're available mark down by
about thirty two up to sixty three
percent off the regular price love it
what's website again while you're going
to find gearbest on our partners pages
for any of your favorite category five
TV shows like new every day category
five technology TV the pixel shadow but
of course if you want to shop absolutely
right now and you want to go straight to
the site all you have to do is visit cat
five dot TV / gearbest so that's easy
tech five dot TV / your best that's
right happy shopping I'm statue der
Madison here are the top storage for the
week of November 16 2016 the Google
pixel felt to a team of Chinese hackers
alongside apple safari in Adobe Flash at
the own fast hacking competition in
Seoul last week Mountain View's latest
offering was smashed by white hat
friendlies from key who is 360 who used
an undisclosed vulnerability to gain
remote code execution for 120 thousand
dollars in cash prize the exploit
launched the google play store before
opening chrome and displaying a web page
reading owned by 360 Alpha Team the
google said the chrome bug that keen
team was the the Keen team found was
patched within 24 hours of the event
and the changes have already been
released into the stable branch by the
chrome team it was the second time in as
many weeks that pixel has been
compromised the first still unpatched 0
day was unveiled at the Mobile own to
own events in Japan hackers also
showcased this exploit at own fest
showing how they could compromise all
aspects of the phone including contacts
photos messages and phone calls ki who
360 also breached adobe flash with the
flick of a finger scoring the prize of
120 thousand dollars for that hack it
took four seconds for flash to fall ki
who 36 view hackers walked away with
more than half a million dollars in bold
money Wow the hacks concluded own fest
which also saw Microsoft edge hacked and
the first-ever zero-day exploits against
VMware Workstation I am blown away by
the intelligence and just that like I
just feel like it's almost machine-like
their ability to find a vulnerability in
like get in there are you suggesting
that their robots they are super awesome
robots maybe they're rich robots now all
set sadly it's only half a million
dollars which sadly I'll take it with my
hear you but when you think of the tech
world half a million dollars can
disappear like that what do you know hey
here's what are you buying okay I see
what you're saying in context right so
these these people are awarded half a
million dollars to save a company
billions of dollars right because the
potential loss if any of these exploits
were to be actually used in real yeah
makes sense right but I mean if you
figure it's a team of people so I mean
not knowing how big the team websites
five individuals each could be 360 that
could be why it's called 360 that could
very well be but saying is just five
guys that's a hundred thousand dollars
each and then you take the hundred
thousand dollars this is their one year
event maybe that hundred thousand
dollars is there money making for the
year and you've got all the text is he
like that's not enough
on it off I work for one yeah you're if
you're kidding right I just spent three
hours hacking and I only got a hundred
thousand dollars or seconds four seconds
it only took me four seconds how many
dollars yes that's how we measured in
25,000 if there's five guys on the team
wow wow dude quit your complaining that
is that it's really a cool like if it's
a a pastime or just like just one of
those crazy skills that you're just born
with like being a master pianist or you
like being a really great hockey player
if you just can do this and win money
for it all the power to you but see in
the chatroom gwg brings up a good point
says that's half a million dollars
compared to what they could have made
have they have sold the exploits Oh car
you saying it come now white hat they
changed her at their white hats so what
color has her bad hat brown hats I don't
even know when we just say red red hats
um well didn't I hear what happened to
the guy who didn't do it correctly
wasn't that last week that you mentioned
that he ended up getting charged yeah he
ended up getting charged he decided he
would exploit it and show off the
exploit in iOS 10 it turns out now he's
got a criminal record at 18 years old
wow you got it right you gotta do it
right when you all see on our website
because now we have the new news story
feature on the website when you see that
own to own is spelt pwn you'll all be so
proud of me for not stumbling on that
way to go Sasha for years I always just
called a pawn pawn yeah you can kind of
call it whatever you want you can say
pond or whatever but realistically I
think its own and and the theory is that
own spelt with pwn is because if you
look at your keyboard the P is right
next to the oh right so did at some
point somebody make a typo that ended up
being pwn clearly instead of 0 WN and it
really caught on clearly not Oprah I
don't even know what that moment oh oh
oh oh hey what if she was like I'm along
with a p
brah sir Oprah moving right along yeah
what do we got hung electro Samsung is
still in the news Samsung is in the news
again Samsung what blew up this week
Sasha this is no this is good oh this is
tentatively very good I'm cautiously
optimistic Samsung Electronics is buying
automotive electronics maker harman
international industries for eight
billion dollars as it makes a big push
into connected car technologies
internet-connected call cars will
improve in car entertainment and be able
to help with crash alerts and diagnosing
engine problems it will also be key for
driverless technology samsung said
automotive electronics was a strategic
priority oh hi assume so this deal is
the biggest overseas purchase made by
South Korean firm and comes as Samsung
is looking to recover from the
withdrawal of its galaxy note 7
smartphone anything in the news that's
not about a smartphone or washing
machine for samsung is great news the
fact that they want to go into a smart
car technology yeah i remember when i
was a kid that in my grandma's car your
door is ajar your door is ajar the most
pointless feature ever so now Samsung's
come your car is exploding your car is
exploding isn't it is it just me or did
just having a samsung phone on the
passenger seat cause your car to it
catch on fire that happened yesterday it
actually happened with a note not a note
7 but it was SNS 7 it was an ss7 in
winnipeg it yet in the guy's pocket it
was in his pocket get hot he says get
not in here yet sir on fire he was a lie
not literally then close enough if he
belt high he pulled it out and then his
phone went and he had second and
third-degree burns he shouldn't have
lied lied liar liar pants on fire by
down well I'm bump by a samsung pants on
fire yeah does that have a saying
well if I were if I were Samsung I get
you were Samsung if you listen up folks
if Sasha if I was Samsung this is what
she would do I would have quietly bought
this company I would have waited a
little while because this is a great
idea because right now they need
something fresh they need something new
but it's still so fresh and new in our
minds the galaxy note 7 the washing
machines i mean this is week after week
and now we have smart card technology
with may be possible driverless
technology it doesn't seem one thing I
want to try to my gosh I really hate to
pick on samsung because I know it's been
hard knocks for them but I've been
having trouble sourcing NAND ram and i
found out this is a true story it was
because a samsung distribution outlet
burnt down there having a really rough
time I actually like I my heart hurts
because I love Samsung products I I
always like I was indifferent now I'm
not so sure see half my house runs on
samsung mm-hmm so at one of these days
I'm sure I just won't make it to the
show because what happened Jeff sony
vaio this is why we buy wooden desks
folks for knocking and I'm sure thank
you are sick and tired of hearing about
Samsung will move along but it needs to
be sent okay I have to ask though yeah
if they decide to sell like if people
decide they want to get Oh Sam some
stocks would you say that ten times fast
what you call it a fire sale explosive
deals researchers said they have
discovered a simple way alone attackers
with limited resources can knock large
servers offline when they're protected
by certain firewalls the denial of
service technique requires volumes of as
little as 15 mega bits or about 40,000
packets per second to cut off the
internet connection of vulnerable
servers the requirements are in stark
contrast to recent attacks
domain name service provider din and
earlier security site Krebs on security
and French webhost OVH those assaults
bombarded sites with volumes approaching
or exceeding one terabit per second
researchers from denmark-based TDC
security operations center have dubbed
the new attack technique black nurse in
a blog post published Wednesday the
researchers wrote the black nurse attack
attracted our attention because in our
anti dido solution we experience that
even though or even though traffic speed
and packet were per second were very low
this attack could keep our customers
operations down this even applied to
customers with large internet uplink and
large enterprise firewalls in place we
had expected that professional firewall
equipment would be able to handle the
attack because the attack uses a high
CPU uses high cpu load on the firewall
in contrast to the traditional d das
which requires high amounts of traffic
it doesn't matter if the server is
behind a 10 megabit per second or a
gigabyte connection according to
researchers from Metro sec for a
security firm that collaborated with TDC
security on the research the attack
works against firewalls Francisco
symptoms their systems palo alto
networks sonicwall and 6 out so it
really just changes everything it kind
of puts everything upside down as far as
the the attacks because now it's it's
just a small amount of information or a
small like one simple computer that can
bring down a hole that's our bring
forward whole attack as opposed to like
a myriad of different computers I guess
upload it just takes one it just takes
one scary we've been saying VR video is
about to catch on and now the BBC has
announced the debut of a virtual reality
movie the turning forest the fairy tale
will be made available for free on
daydream Google's mobile virtual reality
product daydream is a mobile headset
which covers the
of the user and immerses them in the
film they are watching the corporation
has released the trailer for the
experimental project ahead of its
release within the next week the BBC
said the project is part of the
corporation's drive to explore emerging
technology and new storytelling mediums
for future audiences the turning fort
forest debuted at the 2016 tribeca film
festival and was originally created for
the oculus rift the BBC said that the
film has bitten now been enhanced to
further improve the sound design and
introduce new controller interactions
zila Watson executive producer of BBC rd
said the turning forest is unique in
that it's been designed from the sound
up using state-of-the-art audio to help
transport people to a magical world it
takes advantage of decades of research
and experience from our own team
partners and universities to create a
beautiful soundscape that we hope people
will love the turning forest has been
produced by the BBC's research and
development team in collaboration with
virtual reality production studio VRT OV
now funny to note that they put so much
emphasis on the soundscape of this movie
so it's a virtual reality movie where
you're wearing a headset and you're
immersed in a whole virtual reality
world but what they're focusing on in
this piece is the sound so what does
that mean about the actual visuals are
they diverting attention I think it's
absolutely necessary I mean if you're
gonna have VR mm-hmm I mean it's one
thing to just look around but if you can
have a 3d soundscape as you're looking
over here your hands something crashing
in the woods behind you you're gonna
flip around if you've got really I am
pathetic sound ah you're not going to
enjoy the 3d experience as you would
yeah you have some incredible soundscape
that that's the thing to it's it's
immersive audio it think about like the
way web does a web design is transition
to mobile first it doesn't mean that
it's not compatible with desktops now it
just means it's here's our focus and
then we're branching out from there with
audio for
you're talking about immersive what do
they call the the actual term is on the
tip of my brain but freaking cool it
eludes me like I work with binaural
audio what binaural audio does is I have
a headset a dummy head with microphone
ears and when i record nature sounds
nature sounds of Ontario Canada you can
find it on our website category 5 TV
when I record them and you wear
headphones you hear it in what's called
binaural audio so it's as if you are
right there it's immersive mm-hmm
however if i turn my head it does not
turn with me right right so to get the
full virtual reality experience the key
thing here has been well we've had
binaural audio and stereo audio and
virtual reality view but when I move my
head the audio stays in stereo right I
want it if I look at a monster that's
growling at me I want to hear it in
front of me that's where immersive audio
so within your left it sort of like
surround sound right right batter ice
around yeah yeah is way more immersive
in surround sound some I don't know the
word you're looking for Robbie but I
know that when you have a word on the
tip of your tongue yeah it's called
anomia well thank you for that and now i
know i was looking at this picture and
thinking how much red there is and it
reminded me of virtual boy do you guys
remember that yes I forgot about virtual
boy yeah obviously the girl graphics are
better it slightly it's just all the red
and thinking about virtual reality made
me think of our first VR headsets back
in the 80s yes terrible terrible
experience it really was yeah but it's
cool for the time for the time they're
the two weeks that it was on sale for
the short time thanks for watching the
category 5 TV news room don't forget to
Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our website from the category 5 TV news
room I'm
should your made us
you
