welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TB or
email us at live at category 5 gb
and now let's give here's your host
Robbie Ferguson welcome to episode
number 195 of category 5 technology TV
nice to see ya way to have everybody
here I'm Robbie Ferguson I'm crystal
tonight we are going to be covering a
whole bunch of stuff we've got some
viewer questions that come in this week
and you can email your questions to
Krista live at category 5 TV also we're
going to be covering part 2 of our video
production series which you'll find out
you'll be able to look at at cat5 TV /
vid prod we'll talk more about that but
tonight we're going to scale some clips
using open shot video editor also stick
around we're gonna be looking for
desktop alternatives for the new ubuntu
11.04 if you've been hung up on the fact
that you just can't get used to unity
we're going to give you some
alternatives tonight so stick around
also coming up in the newsroom we've got
Hillary who's joining us I him and
tonight Hillary is going to be talking
to us about the decision at the Supreme
Court you remember I for I was here in
the studio or actually was visiting us
via Skype video a little while back and
we finally have the Supreme Court ruling
and Hillary's going to be telling us all
about that in just a little bit also
there has been some chaos with RSA and
secure ID and you may or may not have
heard there another company that have
come under hacker attack and they have
revealed some information about what has
been exposed as far as what their client
data so stick around and also facebook
they know what you look like and they
are perfectly willing to share that
information with pretty much anybody so
we're going to hear from Hillary and
find out what she has to say about all
those things coming up in about 30
minutes time in the meantime get into
the chat room category five dot TV and
of course if you're on freenode if
you're using an IRC client or pigeon or
anything that will connect you to IRC
freenode net join us in category five
greetings to the chat room everybody and
how's your week going oh good so far
still early every Tuesday good so far I
never know I leave a little room for air
and
yeah yeah how about you busy yeah it's
been busy um we as you know we're hit by
a power surge a few weeks well I guess
it's probably been a little bit more
than that now and I didn't jot down the
date that it happened but we've we've
had two storms that seemed to take a
whole bunch of hardware around Barry and
and the first storm we lost our main
broadcast system as well as a couple of
miscellaneous things like some
microphones and even the water cooler in
the kitchen like just miscellaneous
things right then this most recent storm
which hit on Wednesday it took out one
of our UPS's fortunately no other
computer hardware seems to have been
affected but we had a UPS a thousand
volt am UPS that is completely shot we
took it in and they said they can't even
they won't even fix it and needs to be
replaced so so that that's not the worst
of it we've had like server after server
after server of customer servers that
have gone down because of the storms
hard drives that have crashed somebody
with a Mac computer who got hit by the
storm only one rate only one Matt
computer with ratio wise there is only
one no it wasn't yours but lots and lots
of hard drives that are crashing and if
there's anything that I've learned or
that I've tried to teach to people as
they come in with their crashed hard
drives especially you know guys who have
got they've gone out and bought an
external backup hard drive and they're
connecting it to their computer and they
just use it like extra storage and
you're saving your images and your
pictures in your videos directly onto
that one gentleman unfortunately in its
sad case it's not something to laugh
about at all it just didn't know any
better and was using a data backup drive
like that so it wasn't redundant it was
his only copy and because it was his
only copy he thought it was a good idea
to take it everywhere he went o course
the drive ended up getting dropped and
this is just in the past week like these
are the things that I'm doing
or that the staff that I work with
they're dealing with and it's just an
eye-opener so if you're if you're using
a data like an external backup drive as
an individual point of failure if you're
saving your data to that and you're not
saving it somewhere else at the same
time I would encourage you to reassess
your your setup them and make sure that
you always have at least two copies of
your critical data and preferably one of
those would be distant from the other
whether it be off-site data backup or
whether you be you know taking it to
work with you or something like that or
using a pogoplug to upload it to a
family member's house something along
those lines always good to have
something in place so there's redundancy
that's what I've been up against this
week wow yeah that busier yeah it's been
busy it's been good though on our
website if you go over to category five
dot TV I'm very encouraged as I talk
about you know power surges and and the
hardware that we've that we've lost here
at category 5 i'm greatly encouraged to
see that our viewers are once again
standing by us we've got our needs are
not not exceptional as far as they go i
mean the the workstation that we're able
to get is only going to cost five
hundred dollars and we're trying to be
as frugal as possible and get the best
deal that we possibly can but you'll see
that we're we're up at sixty-four
percent we've had that a fair number of
donations that come in this week jumping
up from i think it was forty forty seven
or so last week so we're at sixty four
percent right now towards our goal to
replacing the hardware that was damaged
or that needs replacing from from the
power surge and that's not taking into
account the UPS that we just found out
about that's not on the list and i think
im just gonna figure you know we'll just
have to buy another youth yes at some
point it's just inevitable so but but
thank you to everybody who's shown
support and who is continuing to show
support for category 5 a couple of
people have actually subscribed to a
monthly donation as well and that's
certainly very appreciated that
it helps to know that there's a regular
consistent amount that is going to be
donated and that helps to pay the bills
and usually those ones go directly
towards hosting and things like that so
we appreciate every every little every
little donation in every larger donation
as well that comes into the show
everything adds up and it makes a huge
difference as you can see 64% towards
towards that so viewer points this week
I did I did receive one picture yeah one
picture better be a good one it better
be a good one let's see here all right
your pictures for episode number 195
I've got one here from John Gallagher
who joins us via miro internet TV from
Glasgow and it's a it's nice to have you
joining us and there is a watching
category 5 up on the TV and very nice to
have you here and thank you for sending
in your picture John so we will we will
attribute 100 of viewer bonus points on
his account say I like that where we're
up beside the window there I got some
fresh air yeah I'm kind of I like the
window seat very good thing to say just
saying I like that it sits on a TV it's
comfy casual it's you can sit and just
enjoy the show and kick back and
watching on mural internet TV John can
certainly send us email live at category
5 TV because mural of course is
pre-recorded as opposed to the live show
but if you're watching live it's it's
neat because you can get you can be very
interactive with the show first half of
the show we always address your
questions as best weekend in the chat
room and speaking of questions I'm sure
we've got some that they're coming up
thanks again John and I will throw some
points on your on your profile and if
you would like to get some viewer points
just bonus viewer points just send us a
picture of you watching category 5 TV on
your device doesn't matter what device
it is even if it's a little tiny thing
like this snap a picture yeah
interviewer points you never know when
we're going to say hey trade in 100
viewer points and we'll give you
a cookie a cookie or a browser cookie
either way Oh before we get into the
serious questions there's a quick
question here in the chat room from al
ket he says where is Eric Eric is this a
silly question that demean way before we
get into the serious questions this is
very serious my friend when we got hit
by this power surge that took out our
broadcast system our main broadcast
system right now we're sailin as best we
can with an interim system that allows
us to do very very basic you know the
titles at the bottom the animation
launch our promos and things like that
our intro and extra but we have not
enough power on this system to power
more than one camera so we're stuck with
one camera and also we lost two
microphones so as I previously mentioned
this microphone that I'm using is loaned
to us by music pro on the south end of
Barry and I always encourage people to
go check them out so there's a show your
support for them supporting us by
letting us use this microphone just to
get us through this in term as we as we
work to raise funds both through
advertising and through viewer donations
to try to replace the defective hardware
so with Eric he is on standby he's going
to be coming in very soon we've talked
about possibly having him him come in
and we'll kind of rotate a little bit or
whatever we need to do just to get him
back on the air but as it is we've only
got one camera we've only got two
microphones including the loaner so so
we're kind of stuck and that's also why
we're doing the old what I call the
switcheroo with the newsroom at the
moment because we're just limited based
on the hardware that we're using in the
interim so once we're back up full full
force within with the replacement
hardware then we will be back to having
multiple cameras and all that kind of
stuff as well as that should be noted
one of the other things that we're
having to do right now is kind of tone
down the quality of the broadcast which
will be able to tone back up once where
once we're back up and running so
alright you can you can show your
support on our website cat5 TV / at sea
and that will take you straight to the
donate page and we appreciate everything
that any amount that you're able to
support us for so thank you for the
question great that's fire into some
more questions great we actually tonight
have a couple Twitter questions well so
our first one is from k gu c he said hey
goosey and hey juicy at kinko see are
you still using your unread box if so
how is it still working out for your
needs cool so i'm gonna see if i can
actually get that up on the screen you
can you can tweet us by heading over to
twitter.com / robbie Ferguson I'm at
Robby Ferguson or theirs at category 5
TV as well here's the question that
actually came in to at Robbie Ferguson
so am I still using my own red box
absolutely we set up this this machine
which basically is it's just old used
hardware just kind of stuff that was
laying around and built a data storage
server you've heard of the drobo yeah so
it's very similar to that in that the
drives don't have to match that can be
any size drive you can if one of them
fails you can take it out and replace it
with another drive and it rebuilds and
you don't lose any data claw so it's
very cool unraid is a software solution
though the lets you turn any piece of
computer hardware pc hardware into a
very global like system but you're not
limited to four drives you can put in as
many drives as you like we've got eight
drives and ours so and and it's it's
very affordable so and because you can
run it on old hardware I've put on a put
it on an old p4 that that I had just
like a trade in or something so built it
into that and I still use it we use it
for our first level of redundancy here
for data storage it has a lot of space
on its like four terabytes so like its
entire capacity and a couple times I've
actually upgraded
a couple times there Kevin so I've
actually had to take out a drive and put
in a bigger drive let it rebuild to that
figure drive and see well my dad is
there but now all of a sudden I've got
more space so unraid has proven itself
to be fantastic solution that we've even
had two drives at not at the same time
but two drives at two different times
fortunately that failed pulled out those
drives replace them and everything
rebuilt and no data lost so it works
great how was it working for my needs he
asks fantastically I mean everything
from just to have that amount of space
and to know that it is redundant in a
sense it is only it is single point of
failure so you still have to treat it
that way there still has to be a backup
of that device and that's that's how I
do it but but it is nice to know that if
a hard drive crashes to rebuild it is
just take out that hard drive and put in
another Drive and you're done and you
good to go but it works fantastically so
cool thanks for the question and you can
tweet me at Robbie Ferguson on Twitter
there's another Twitter question in here
from at Andrew Jamison Jamison Jamison
yeah and he says at Robbie Ferguson and
my video camera does not support an
external mic is there an easy way to
overlay an external external audio track
to sync with the voice hmm yeah I mean
there's there are so many different cool
devices this question coming from a
jameson on twitter let's see
I've done a couple of reviews of similar
products and I'm trying to think of the
names of them and Google is our friend
because it lets me type in category 5
and then the name of the product and it
and it lets me just jump right to it the
first thing that comes to mind we
reviewed a projector from all ends a
long long time ago i'm talking like
years ago being in our fourth season
we've we've gone through a lot of
product and that we've reviewed and we
reviewed this projector up here now this
company old lens also manufactures this
me quarter and i believe if i'm not
mistaken now it takes an input from at
least from a device but i don't know
that this one will plug directly into a
microphone any audio signal and voice
such as cassette tapes phonograph CD
radio etc so i don't know if it will
power a microphone but that kind of
device is what I'm thinking something
where you can just plug your microphone
into it record directly to mp3 and I can
you know I can go through and make
several suggestions but there are tons
of different devices that are like that
you can get a decent enough microphone
put a windscreen on it so that you can
use it outdoors and and then plug it
into one of those devices and record it
directly to mp3 or lossless wave or what
I usually do is I use a wireless mic and
connect it to a laptop computer so then
what you do is you're filming your shot
your camera doesn't have the ability to
use a secondary microphone so you're
kind of limited as far as the sound
quality goes and the built-in
microphones as you know they're built
for the home user if it's a consumer
camera they're built to pick up
everything because if you're filming the
kids you want to be able to hear
everything that's going on and that's
the way they build it so if you're
trying to do an interview or trying to
talk on a video and you're standing on a
busy street you're going to hear
it's no good for that kind of
application so you get you get a laptop
or one of these devices if you want to
get a battery power
device that will record to mp3 and just
plug a microphone directly into that
stick with a half-decent XLR microphone
like i'm thinking like assure that the
XM 58 or something along those lines
that would you know just be a good
all-round microphone I'll say that now
I'll totally it's a sm58 sorry i was
like sm or XM it's been a long time
since I've worked with one but it's just
something you know like a vocal mic
that's just straight like that and then
a cord that would go from XLR into a
quarter inch and then you can take the
quarter inch and convert it over to
eighth inch if you absolutely need to so
with that then using something if you're
on Linux you can use something like open
shot and you've got the you know the the
ability to move your track around and
you really just have to synchronize the
track and when you see I don't know
Hillary if you could pass me the oh
maybe you can't reach it but the clap
the clapper there are the clicker or
whatever you call it the you know that
chick marker thanks Hilary coaster that
goes to school for this stuff so she
knows the technical terms thank you
darling so this here you've seen these
oh here let's let's get out here you've
seen these being used in TV production
when thank you hell when they do this
Andrew ok that's an audio tick that they
synchronize to the video so as I do that
that's awesome as you do that it um
that's great dollar store but they have
better quality ones in the stores but as
you do that the video track then knows
ok at that moment is when that click is
supposed to happen they see in the video
in the audio track that that's where the
spike and audio is and they can line
that up open shot will do it open shot
unfortunately doesn't have wave table
visualization yet I don't think that you
can hear audibly if it's right at that
right tick and then you just leave the
camera recording you leave the
microphone recording you're good to go
so you just need to synchronize it up so
drag your track and you're good to go
hope that helps that I think is the
easiest way cool if you would like to
tweet us again it's at Robbie Ferguson
you'll be able to get your questions in
on Twitter I think that's cool a cool
way to interact with the show and of
course our chat room category 5 on
freenode or read on our website and you
can email live at category five dot TV
cool well we've got some other questions
here yes um so from Victor morals morals
a great topic about the open shot video
editor of course the only issue is that
you must use it with a great enhanced
workstation whether it be a desktop or a
laptop because open shot needs resources
to work so if you don't have a good
video card your pc will become slower
this is the case with my system best
regards from Costa Rica especially
especially if you're doing some 3d
visual production that's going to take a
long time because lung x that kind of
rendering process is going to tap into
your GPU the graphics card because
you've got got an nvidia card it's got
those cuda cores and those just allow so
much more to take place and and you're
right if you if you want to do any kind
of serious production especially if
you're working in HD it should be noted
that that you will need to have a pretty
exceptional system if you're just
working with you know SD video or if
you're just editing something down from
youtube it's not so much if you're
working with something that you have
pulled off your iphone or something like
it's it's not a HD video so that's a
little different but you're certainly
right these days a lot of computers I
mean that said if you have if you've
bought a new computer in the past couple
of years you're going to have at least
dual core system with you know for eight
maybe 12 gigs of RAM if you are instead
using a system that's that's getting
dated then yeah you may not have
the ability to do heavy video editing if
you want to get really serious about it
then you've got to start looking at
doing things like a raid 0 or solid
state hard drives in order to pull some
of the load off of your hard drives
because and we encounter this with the
show certainly as you're reading and
writing data to the hard drive at such
high rates it can take a long time and
it can cause some issues so definitely
true thanks for the thanks for the
comments here's another one from code
ours 360 this is the comment he says
just a quick tip for everybody who wants
to test their website for consistency on
all browsers check out browser shots org
browser shots org great tip this is a
pretty cool service that and I i I've
seen things like this but how do they
possibly have so many different browsers
available for testing I think they use
like maybe virtualization to emulate you
know to actually run these browsers and
take snapshots it's something very
custom so how does it work exactly then
like you don't have the browser
downloaded on your computer so devious
click on it and it does all right let's
take a look this is browser shots dot
org okay and what's neat about it let's
can i use your website is that yeah go
ahead so see wells designs com if you
want to send any money anywhere that's
where you want to send it so I've just
hit that and submit and I've just gone
with the default I'm just using the
default and see it's it's submitted it's
going to take three minutes to two hours
because i've selected 67 browsers so
what's happening is that it's gone out
to i guess a bunch of different virtual
systems they're running these different
browsers they're loading your website
they're taking a screenshot and then
they're putting the picture okay so
let's be done at an external yeah kind
of area then they send it back to you so
it's helpful from a graphic layout
standpoint but where it's not very
helpful is that it doesn't allow you to
experience
how does the menu function on my website
if I if I open it in internet explorer
is are the margins going to be wrong
because internet explorer doesn't use
compliancy when it comes to their CSS
that is interesting okay we've got our
first one in and this is on Casa hacka
see running counter to boot yeah and you
wouldn't think to necessarily install
that typically a web designer you're
gonna you're gonna use you're gonna want
to cross test with I guess Internet
Explorer and a couple of the versions
down to version 7 I suppose if anyone's
using version 6 you need to tell them to
get off of it and a lot of times that's
what will happen is healed if you're
using version 6 a lot of web designers
now are actually putting a warning
message on the site that says hey you're
using an old version your browser do you
know that's how those viruses get into
your system that's how those fake
antivirus think windows XP antivirus
fits into your system because you're
using an old browser and you're not
using safe browsing techniques so but
this saves you having to install all
that from from a visual perspective
let's see how it's coming along are they
still loading oh yeah starting to get to
know and it's nice that it's across
different platforms firefox on a boon to
eight so back to two thousand eight
again old browsers right there it is
cool cool thanks for the tips really
neat that's browser shot dot org and
definitely a good want to check out
alright so tonight I want to if other
still more questions I want I want
couple more video stuff yeah ah looks
like it might take how was upon hours
shall we come back to it sure how about
we have some time will uh I'll try to
get it in ok perfect and if you've sent
in a question and we don't get to you
tonight we will make sure that we get to
you very very soon pardon me okay so
we're going to bring up open shot last
week we got started with Openshaw video
editor very cool stuff and really is is
exceptional product and tonight we're
doing part two of our series which
you'll find a cat5 TV / that is vid prod
I wanted to say web dev after 12 weeks
of doing the web development so here we
are in open shot and within this
application what I'm going to do what i
want to show you tonight is just very
simply we've got last week we wanted to
touch on it we didn't get a chance I've
got our episode 193 and our backstage
pass for 193 now when we broadcast
category 5 TV we're broadcasting on 16 /
9 widescreen format so if you've got a
widescreen monitor you blow that up to
full screen it's going to fill that
screen perfectly if you're using a 4
over 3 monitor you're going to have
black bars at the top and the bottom
just like traditional widescreen so when
we're editing the video we're actually
editing it in widescreen so this preview
window here is showing us the video in
widescreen so what happens if I put
something in to my timeline that has
that is four over three for example our
backstage pass video you'll see what
happens is you get you see part of the
underlying video on the left and right
because we've got a 4 over 3 video which
doesn't fill the whole frame put on top
of the widescreen video so we need to
make sure that our videos are set up so
that they reach the edges of the video
that we're trying to produce and the
easiest thing to do is to do that right
from the get-go first drag your video
into the timeline and then start cutting
it up from there that way you don't have
to necessarily do this to every little
clip because you've already done it to
the master video and then and then
you're able to just place your video
anywhere you like so if we wanted to
take that video there that's our
backstage pass and you can view
backstage pass on our website category 5
TV during a live show ok so there's
Krista and I from the backstage pass
camera and if I now right click on that
and go properties
this is another one of those things
Chris Reich that were greatly improved
with the PPA edition or the newer
version of open shot is the ability to
zoom in your videos your ability to
change the layout of that video you'll
see on the Layout tab as we look at the
properties for this video clip which is
for over three in our 16 / 9 video we've
got the ability to change the height and
the width now we'd like to do that
proportionally so we can either use
these sliders and try to match it up or
what I'm going to do is I'm going to go
one hundred and fifty percent by one
hundred and fifty percent so that way
we're maintaining the aspect ratio and
it is exactly one hundred fifty percent
both ways so now you'll see that it is
if we apply that its larger but it's
still showing my arm there on the
left-hand side because we haven't
actually positioned it now that we've
made it larger and now it's cutting me
off there so if I again I'm back there
and I'm going to go into properties and
layout I didn't need to hit apply i just
wanted to demonstrate that for you so
now we've got the ability to move it
using x and y x is your horizontal axis
so that's left to right and why is your
up two down okay so if i want to make it
up i'm going to use a negative number so
i'm going to go minus let's say 20 okay
and then if i remember this is in
percentage so minus 20 I can still kind
of see the top of the sea on category 5
I might make it let's try minus 18 there
we go so now the sea is gone and in
order for me to apply that so that i can
just preview it all i'm doing is i'm
just dragging the slider at the bottom
here because that applies the the
setting for me so now i've set it so
that vertically it's good on my y-axis
so now i'm going to take my ex to move
it left and because we know we've made
it one hundred fifty percent wider one
hundred fifty percent higher i'm
actually going to set that to nice even
twenty-five percent so that it is in
fact centered
ok so now backstage pass is going to in
fact i'm just applying that and now
you'll see that it actually fills the
entire frame of my video ok so if i want
to use that and i can still move it
around i can see the sea is still there
a little bit and i can move that around
that allows me to to do that so a few
ladies would like to switch places we're
going to hit the news in just a couple
of moments if you have questions about
open shot video editor make sure you pop
us an email live at category 5 TV and
over the course of the next several
weeks we're going to be doing little
segments not necessarily all about open
shot video editor but we are dealing
with video editing on the linux platform
using free software so if you're
interested in that make sure you keep
watch on cat five dot TV / vid prod and
that'll be the place to be good stuff
hey hell hey everyone surprised Mike's
on we're good to go ahead yeah I'm good
to go Fantana yeah it's good to see you
thanks good to be here yeah um before we
go into the news though I have to tell
you this week's dollar store fine what
did you think that uh beam me up Scotty
Oh a young skinny Scotty look at that
cool that's for you you want to tell
them the idea that we have so we've had
this scathingly brilliant idea how we're
doing a video production on linux series
we thought it would be appropriate to
incorporate set dollar store finds in a
stop motion freeze break picture nope by
moving these little these little fellows
and we're gonna make around the star
wars i don't know if you can see this
Star Trek now Star Wars Star Trek Wars
I'm sorry I meant like a the entire
community yes you just say Star Wars I
didn't mean Star Wars by then start I
know you meant Star Trek you might love
oh don't hate guy they say the
difference these are fully articulating
and poseable so I think they might do
quite well to be incorporated into our
video production I curious as we you
gotta find some girls though because
otherwise it's gonna be Eric and I do in
all the voiceovers well except hill
hillary and krista both do a very good
deep voice impression especially krista
i think yes got it don't even know what
no good look at me I'm so we'll see
we'll see what but I could find in my
next oh that's fantastic got to so we're
gonna find out what dollar store she's
shopping at that's got all this Trek
stuff hey hey it's just good fun cool
thanks hail I gotta have a lot of fun
with that oh good Wow hey we are all
about fun I category 5 no it's only
fitting really moving right along into
important matters like the news
remember new from the category
may recall our guest from April loud and
Owen chairman of I for I in Toronto when
he was on category 5 TV he shared with
us what fair Supreme Court lawsuit
against Microsoft meant to patent
holders well no doubt louddon is
celebrating this week as Supreme Court
on Thursday unanimously upheld the 290
million dollar award against Microsoft
in their patent dispute where I for I
claimed a version of Microsoft Word had
infringed upon its patented method for
editing documents at the recent trial
which we discussed with luden on episode
187 the jury rejected Microsoft's
argument that the patent was invalid and
is upholding the original ruling which
goes back to the lawsuit which was filed
in 2007 our essay the makers of securid
has finally admitted publicly that the
breach of their systems we reported back
in March has resulted in the
compromising of their secure ID
two-factor authentication tokens the
admission comes in the wake of cyber
intrusions into the networks of three US
military contractors RSA's chairman art
covelli o has stated the company is
offering to replace the nearly 40
million security tokens currently in use
or to provide security monitoring
services for financial institutions RSA
is offering to also provide transaction
monitoring and facebook has apologized
for the way it rolled out a new system
that recognizes users faces and says
they should have done more to notify
members about the global launch its take
suggestions features scans uploaded
photos and automatically picks out
existing friends although users have the
option to switch it off some complain
that they were not explicitly asked if
they wanted it activated in the first
place facebook said that the system was
intended to speed up the process of
assigning a name to a pitcher known as
tagging
graham cluley senior consultant with the
security firm self OHS suppose said once
again facebook seems to be sharing
personal information by default he adds
many people feel distinctly
uncomfortable about a cell site like
Facebook learning what they look like
that's kinda creepy and using that
information without their permission mmm
so what are your thoughts about Facebook
being able to recognize you I think it's
kind of lurking myself but you can send
us an email on news from a category 5 TV
and let us know what you think and you
can get these full stories online on our
website at category 5 TV / newsroom the
category 5 deeming newsroom is
researched by roy w Nash with
contributions from our fabulous
community of viewers if you have a story
thinks worthy of on-air mentioned send
us an email at newsroom at category 5 TV
from the category 5 TV news room I'm
Hillary rumble thank you with that
facebook thing i think the scary thing
is that you know Facebook well enough to
know that somebody's gonna figure an app
that can get around whatever security
that they put in place to make it so
that all your friends have access to
this and then you think if they can
figure that out if they can tap into
this kind of technology on facebook
what's to stop somebody from seeing you
in the mall and snapping a picture of
you with their iphone and getting your
name and personal information and so
easy I know where you are and yeah like
it's like total lurking all the time
someone can always know where you are I
have an idea Lex it let's make it really
really easy for stalkers seriously
unbelievable that that's as it is what
it is yeah slogan of Facebook and
Twitter and whatever else I'm Geo
terrible the slogan for geo-tagging
there it is think it really easy for
stalkers turn off to your tagging stay
off facebook I cannot delay that I love
it and that makes me nervous cuz I don't
want people you know Meg alerting me and
yeah did now do you authorize people
that you don't know in person to be
friends that's the key I think but then
you always hear about how it's
compromised and how yeah people still
have access to your personal stuff your
pictures and things will even if you
google a lot of times you google your
own name and Facebook be the first hit
that comes up and it'll really key to
your your page and depending on your
security settings like it can have your
picture or no pictures or like where you
live like so you have to really be on
top of your your security setting right
because they're constantly evolving and
and and even if you think that you've
got yourself protected the scary thing
is if other people or not they've got
open profiles they've got pictures of
you they've got you make sure about you
yeah it's this massive network of their
keenness yeah scary stuff yeah thnkx oh
no prob this episode of category 5 TV is
brought to you by pogoplug at cat5 TV /
pogoplug and planet calypso join us in
the massive multiplayer online game cat
five dot TV / Calypso thanks for being
here thanks for the toy hey that's what
I'm here for can't wait to to set that
up tonight we are going to be talking
about Ubuntu if you've installed ubuntu
with unity that's a boon to eleven point
oh four just to back up a little bit
ubuntu is a linux desktop operating
system or some would say no no it's not
an operating system it's it's a
accumulation of open-source products to
create a desktop environment for
someone's computer there's really no
phrase to say it without stomping
stepping on someone's toes the fact is
is that it is an alternative to
microsoft windows on your computer to
run on your pc hardware and it gives you
access to free software beyond belief
and here i am running linux and
everything that i do that you see on the
screen is is running on this system
called ubuntu linux and 12 is a
fantastic accumulation of software or
fantastic operating system that's
available for you for free but recently
as of late they are really working to
push the desktop towards the touchscreen
I really get that impression from the
way that things are going with this with
the software itself the desktop which is
now unity is what it's called if you go
to boon to calm you'll see that the
interface has changed quite
substantially from what you see on my
screen because i'm using what's called
gnome and i'm using an older version of
ubuntu so that i can really just stick
with that version of Nome that I that
I've come to love and really like the
the layout in the way that it works but
they're really putting a push towards
this whole you know touchscreen devices
multi-touch you know getting linux on
this kind of device and getting linux on
tablets and getting linux on laptops
that have touchscreens and and all this
different stuff but really it feels if
you've if you use unity it starts to
feel like they've left the desktop user
in the dust if you use a mouse you've
been forgotten that's how it really you
get that feeling from the new unity
desktop unfortunately you know I would
say well let's just use gnome and you
see that Ubuntu does have a classic mode
that will allow you to run a boon to
11.4 in Nome and we've covered that
previously however gnome 3 is going much
the same direction of unity and in that
and it actually kind of started before
them I think where it is designed for
that kind of interface so it's you know
a touchscreen on your fridge and being
able to move things around and yes
that's the future but it doesn't help us
with our current devices where it is
very much a desktop we're very used to
and not that I won't not that I won't
change but we're very used to using our
mouse in a certain way and when I click
on something that's got to behave a
certain way Mac users I guess it's not
quite the same because you're used to
hitting the command key and clicking
versus a PC user who really expects a
certain behavior when you right click
right so with ubuntu now I've been fair
and I always try to be objective with my
reviews and with my testing software and
things like that with a boon to 11.4 I
installed it roughly a month ago I guess
that would be about right and during
that month I ran nothing but unity as my
desktop environment
experience has been horrified well it's
not that lovely to a desktop user I use
a mouse right and now i'm using a
trackball and unity is it just feels
like it's not ready for mainstream
that's probably personal opinion but
i'll tell you i've had more trouble with
running things in unity and getting it
to do the things that it really should
be able to do and the things that gnome
can do for example i have two monitors
on my desk one of them is horizontal one
of them is vertical so the one monitor
is taller than it is wide ubuntu now
with 11 point oh four does not support
that configuration if you want to have
two monitors they're the same
orientation that one can be bigger than
the other but there's the same
orientation they're both landscape or
they're both vertical unfortunately that
didn't suit my needs so yeah so what I
had to do is I had to go well which to
Mac oh I'm not where you're going not
horizontal I I didn't go to Matt no I'm
not spending ten thousand dollars on
hardware I already have good hardware
it's just getting sad you I don't know I
don't know about that ok so we've got
that is an issue little things like
hitting alt f2 to run your applications
and not being able to paste from your
clipboard the command that you want to
run how many times have you been on
linux and this is you know not meant to
be a ramp but if you're on linux here i
am on a boon to and if i hit alt f2
unknown and I have something in my
clipboard it will paste into their if I
copied a you know if I'm following a
tutorial or something it works if I want
to pay something in in unity if you want
to pay something in it does not work so
that's there's some big problems it's
unstable it crashes i'll be using
FileZilla and filezilla has never
crashed for me ever in my usage of
filezilla and that same version of
filezilla that i use on my older version
of ubuntu which works fine on that
version just simply loses mouse
responsiveness in unity still running if
I save my file it'll still upload it but
it doesn't go
it doesn't let me click on it so so I
have a couple of Biff's with unity for
sure so tonight I want to show you some
alternatives and we know that gnome is
unfortunately going that direction so if
we continue to go with gnome then we're
eventually going to run into exactly the
same problem because number three is
going to push us towards that type of
desktop so there's a couple of different
things that we can do and here I've got
an 11-point 04 system set up and I'm
running it in ubuntu classic mode right
now and I'm going to go into system
administration synaptic package manager
and from within their there are two that
I'll recommend that that you could
possibly try first one is called lxde
and lxde is a very streamlined desktop
environment for your Linux system now
this is assuming you've already
installed ubuntu so you've got 11 point
oh four on there with you and adi but
you're saying oh I can't stand this
unity I've given it a chance and I just
can't get used to it or I just don't
like it or I just can't stand the fact
that my programs crash it's just not a
good scenario right we can't work like
that lxde according to the repository
here the lightweight x11 desktop
environment it's a new project aim to
providing a new desktop environment
which is lightweight and fast so to a
search in synaptic package manager
simply for lxde and click on that and
install it and you will that you'll get
all the meta packages there are a few
but lxde is again very lightweight I
think it's under around 300 megabytes so
very very light but it's going to tap
into if you've already installed a boon
to you've already got some of those
tools installed like your word
processors and things that you the gnome
extensions that allow you to create
users and various things that are still
going to work under lxde but you don't
need to install them separately because
they're already there because you've
installed it 12 second one I'm going to
recommend that you could try you can try
either or you could try both is go with
X
ce4 package and again just install that
package you'll notice that I'm not
asking you to install xubuntu and the
reason for that is because when you do
install xubuntu it's a meta package and
what it means as a meta package with the
xubuntu desktop okay let's say I go and
Mark that for installation you'll see
that this is going to install for one
thing it's going to uninstall Ubuntu
desktop i don't necessarily want to
uninstall a boon to desktop i just want
to add okay but you'll see it's adding a
ton of stuff because it is what's called
a meta package because that's going to
basically convert your computer as if
you had installed xubuntu so instead
we're going the route of installing xfce
for so you still get xfce just like you
do in xubuntu but you don't get all the
extra stuff that is gonna waste waste
space and you're not going to lose the
ubuntu desktop okay so that's installed
so now once we've got those installed
now I've already done it just to save
time on the show you can click on this
icon up here and we don't need to reboot
or anything we're just going to go log
out and now once we log out that's going
to allow us to in fact switch our
session to either of the newly installed
desktops so I'll let you see what what
each of those looks like and and this I
hope is going to give you a little bit
of a perception of how linux works as
far as last week when we're doing video
production we talked about how the open
shot is able to tap into all the
different applications that are open
source and free and it uses them within
its application so similarly here what
we're doing is we're changing the the de
or the desktop environment for Ubuntu
Linux we're not removing a boon to Linux
we're not changing operating systems
we're just changing the desktop
environment so we still have access to
all the same programs all the same
applications that we have installed all
the same features but we're changing the
way that it functions
on our screen the way that we're able to
interact with it so if you're stuck on
unity here now we're able to use
something like like xfce for example so
now if I click on my name single click
I'm going to click on admin and you'll
see the down at the bottom of the screen
now you've got this pull up menu we now
have lxde as an option as well as xfce
so let's start with lxde so you notice I
haven't rebooted or anything and there's
there's really nothing to it alex de is
attractive from if you start with the
ubuntu server i find because it doesn't
come with the gnome extensions and the
gnome stuff it can be a little bit
harder to get a configure to the place
that you want it to be whereas xfce it's
it is a little bit different in the way
like it's a bigger program but both of
them are worth checking out so there we
are in lxde and you'll see that now the
menu is at the bottom and it's almost
exactly like what you're used to with
known for me
so you see you've still got access to
your Libre Office the game with a boon
to you've still got all of the stuff
that you have installed okay and that
allows you to then load now that now
lxde is my default because i've loaded
it once so I've got a tickle in my
throat that's why I'm like I thought you
just want everyone's attention sir yes
attention everybody I am speaking man
voice oh that wasn't even the man that
was like Scotty maybe maybe next show I
will talk in my bad boys just like that
see that's what I'm scared everyone off
the stuff I deal with impressive so alex
de I have to say I'm impressed with it's
lightweight it's fast and it's going to
be a nice replacement for our unity
desktop analog out of lxde a nice little
logout screen there and here we go so
now we're going to boot into xfce is
another option and again you can have
these things installed you can have more
than one installed you can switch
between them if you want or you can play
around with them and see which one you
decide is your favorite and then then
use that from then on okay once again
I'm going to single click on my name or
my login down here going to change that
to xfce
and the reason I'm bringing these up for
you is I want you to have a chance to
see and maybe you'll say oh well I like
the look of xfce better it's more it's
closer to what I'm used to with gnome so
it gives you a chance to get an idea
what what each system is going to look
like on your boon to 11 point 0 for
clean install okay and it is very fast
just so you know I'm running this on a
slow system that is has got a lot
running as you know so it will run
faster on your system i guarantee you
both of these desktop environments are
quite fast so this is xfce it comes with
a little bit of a dock bar at the bottom
which is configurable and your
applications menu is back up at the top
if that's what you're used to it looks
really good
let's see once it once it all loads it
is running slower than normal at the
moment just probably with everything
that's going on with the show but there
you go again all of your applications
everything is exactly where you would
expect it you go to office and there's
your Libre Office you can change that if
you want this is more of the traditional
gnome feel I think than the other but
both are viable alternatives to to the
unity desktop on a gun too so give those
to a try and if you are coming from
Windows you might also try KDE I am
personally a gnome fan as far as that
goes and but some windows users have
said that they prefer that but we can't
possibly cover all desktop environments
that are available in the course of the
show but just so you're aware that if
you've heard that unity is is not what
you're looking for if you think that wow
that's that's a showstopper when it
comes to to a boon to you can still get
a boon to you can still take advantage
of the fact that it has great
repositories it's got great support it's
got a very constant upgrade cycle and
consistent I should say so you can still
take advantage of that while giving
yourself a desktop environment that you
feel more comfortable with and not
having to have unity forced on you so
hope that's that's helped any questions
in the chat room we'd love to hear from
you category 5 TV and you can also get
us on freenode cat category 5 on
freenode there been any questions there
or do you have any question there was
that one question that we didn't get
totally yeah okay well if that pretty
much wraps up that so if you learned
something today so here's a question
from Dennis Kelly I he's using boot to
10.1 question can you do a walk-through
how to move my home folder to another
partition I've tried it but my system
ends up crashing oh ok so goon to
October's release from last year and
wants to move the home
system now you ask if you can move it to
another partition what would be the
purpose of moving into another partition
as opposed to another drive if you move
it to another partition you're just
causing your system to have to access it
you know your drive is if you picture a
pie that's cut up into two pieces now
your head has to move between those two
pieces and you're actually slowing down
performance quite potentially so if
you're moving it to another drive you're
actually increasing performance because
you're doubling the throughput of your
of your your data because you've got
your OS on one drive you've got your
data on another drive and it's it's
doubling the amount of bandwidth that
you have so if you're if you're wherever
you're moving it to basically what what
he's asking here is to take the home
folder which you know from Mac that it's
it's where all your installed the
configurations go like the configuration
files for those applications the files
when you create files they're all within
that folder windows users would be
familiar with like documents and
settings everything below that folder is
really your settings your my documents
your this and that your desktop all that
so the home folder on Linux is similar
to that it's where all of your stuff is
but one of the things that you can do
with Linux that's really really nice as
you can move that to another drive and
you can like I say double the speed of
the drive access because one drive is
running all your apps and the other one
is getting all your data and so it can
it can really increase performance plus
it allows you to take that drive and
you've got all of your stuff on that one
drive very very nice for backing up that
one drive and things like that so in in
a case like that what you really need to
do is you set up the second drive or if
you are using partition that's fine but
i would ask again why you would do that
because i think that's a negative impact
on your system but if it's a second if
it's a new drive what i would do is boot
up from your ubuntu live CD or any linux
live CD that gives you access to
mounting drives and partitions you can't
do it from the booted operating system
on the hard drive because your home
folder is in use as soon as it gets
booted
right so so boot from your CD instead
mount the you know the first hard drive
the one that contains your current home
folder and then mount your the empty
hard drive that you're going to be
putting the home folder on copy that
that home folder or potentially move
that home folder if you trust the drive
completely keep it back up always keep a
backup move that home folder onto the
new Drive and then using FS tab you're
going to need to know the uuid of that
new hard drive that you put in and your
mount point is going to be / home so
what happens then now there has to be a
folder still on your main hard drive
called / home but that folder has to now
be empty right because what we're going
to do is we're going to turn that into
what's called a mount point so it
becomes in Linux is neat because you
don't have a C Drive and a D Drive you
can have multiple drives and there are
all different pieces of your final
system so if programs get installed to /
ET ET c / or say slash USR slash bin
right there's a bunch of program data
there you can put that on its own very
own drive so it's pretty cool so once
you've moved that stuff out of there
there still needs to be that home folder
and then you tell FS tab that's in ET
cie so it's a file in your / ET c folder
okay if i bring it on
so let's say we've already moved that
stuff right let's use G edit just
because you'll be more familiar with it
will go pseudo G at it FS tab ok notice
I've already gone to CD / ET see the ET
cie folder being the folder that
contains this particular file the file
system table all right and within that
file it contains all the information
about your mounted hard drives so for me
look something like that okay so i've
got this is the uuid of this hard drive
and it's mounted on / txt for blah blah
blah okay so for you what you may do is
you install that new hard drive you get
the uuid with the command called BLK ID
and you then copy that okay and you
paste you can paste that and paste the
uuid of the new drive there okay so
replace that so your new Drive goes
there and then mount that on / home okay
all the other stuff can remain the same
if it's in the xt for file system as
well ok so then save that and then you
would type sudo mount dash a and that
remounts all hard drives from FS tab
well I guess you wouldn't do that until
you know it's you're going to reboot
here's what you're going to do because
you're booted from the live CD but I
hope that all makes sense BLK idea is
the the tool that I was telling you
about that will tell you the uuid of
your drive sudo BLK ID dev sda1 alright
so it tells you the UID of I guess what
I would do is SDA I don't know but look
out look that up I'm right out of time
but BLK ID tells you the UID of the
drive and then you can paste that into
your FS tab and you're good to go cool
keep a backup you're messing with your
career data great
yeah do you have fun this week oh good
good you can vote for your favorite
episode which everyone was the most fun
at our website category five dot TV
would encourage you to do so so that you
could help us determine the most loved
episodes of category 5 TV also I would
encourage you to check out our blip TV
page on the new blip TV blip TV /
category 5 and in the meantime we are
out of here every time wow yeah goes
fast it sure does nice to have you
ladies here thanks for being here nice
to have you at home and joining us
tonight and we'll see you next Tuesday
night thanks for being here
