welcome to category five technology TV
it's episode number five 10 for
Wednesday June the 28th 2017 so nice to
have you here and tonight we have got an
exciting show for you we are going to be
comparing desktop environments these
would be the thing that you interact
with on Linux so we're going to see how
Linux itself stays the same but the
desktop environment is what you actually
see as your Linux distribution so by
changing it you can really customize the
look and feel of your computer and we're
going to see how that works on debian 9
tonight so you want to stick around
here's what's coming up in the category
5 TV newsroom some Windows 10 source
code which could be used to exploit the
popular OS has been leaked to the public
the world's fastest computers run on
Linux nASA has designed a supersonic
airplane that doesn't create a sonic
boom and as predicted Nintendo is now
releasing a classic Super Nintendo
console stick around the full details
are coming up later in the show
this is category 5 technology TV our
live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in live every week on roku
cody and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category-five dot
TV category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 TV slash PPN and the International
Association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash ia IB
welcome to the show everybody my name is
Robby Ferguson I am Sasha tomatoes and
it's just us hen results tonight because
there's an air show going on there's an
air show and Henry got it Henry is a
pilot and we thought yeah I guess he
probably wants to be there it's true it
is pretty exceptional like tens of
thousands of people all gathered around
our waterfront and we hear them going
over you're going to hear them
throughout the course of the show no
doubt
because it's going on live right now
here in Barrie Ontario I actually bite
right through it on my way here and I'll
tell you it is every person in Barrie is
at the waterfront right now and they're
all wearing their like this is Canada's
150th yeah so you know that's like this
weekend so this is the big lead up to it
the Canadian Air Force is here doing
their stunt flying and everything else
so people are coming from all around I
heard like people from Orillia Toronto
all over the place it's incredible
everybody's wearing their like red and
white and their Maple Leaf and they are
waving flags and it's cool I'm gonna
claim colorblind work ray come on white
but I don't have any red I do have red
beds like my big red winter sweater so
yeah that's just not the weather for it
out there fashion yeah yeah well hey
this week I was able to fix the netbook
there it is so it's all ready for Henry
and it's got Debbie and 9 on it wouldn't
you know it but I just stuck a new hard
drive in there it's a kingston 200 and
240 gig or something like that
oh no kind of t so i think what happened
is is that the old hard drive just ran
out of space and it was so tiny
oh that works but it was just too tiny
for it so that's good now running you
salvaged it i got a rack up and going
it's a it's a day it's a cute little
thing perfect for the chat room i like a
random computer question for you yes
okay so you know i retropie on my pie
right now i have heard about this didn't
know how you did that
is there where you can undo that
temporarily and then redo it again why
would you ever want to do that - well
because it get married and i need to do
a playlist and i think that that might
be the best way to lay music right at
the wedding all right is that lays out
the best way there's a man called a DJ
okay there is a thing called a budget
okay so what are you thinking okay could
they have them play songs that you have
selected yes okay because I have a band
92 just push play that's right I have a
band that starting for like the later
part but I'm just talking like the
yeah here you okay
easy or is that like she's like overkill
to be honest with you okay because you
could set up a volumio player and get it
up and going create playlists and this
and that and then connect to it push
play you got to set up a Wi-Fi hotspot
I think but where's my best bet then I
think just like set up a playlist on
your phone or something or just like an
mp3 player but to answer your question
yes it can be done what you could do is
if you get a second SD card because you
wouldn't wipe it out and and then have
to reset up retropie no take out the SD
card alright little tiny chip put in a
new one
install the whatever you want on it and
then just switch them back and forth so
could I have multiple ones if I wanted
to do like a like a photo frame so it
would be just like a display I guess
like just a monitor really instead of a
frame yeah and then I would just hook it
up to my PI and have pictures cycling
through it but then it could also just
be my retropie when I want it to be but
again now see I love the idea I love
where you're going with it okay for a
DIY fun project yeah but I've done
weddings before uh-huh I've shot what
weddings from like a videography
standpoint and everything simplify make
things easy on yourself okay and what I
mean by that is cat5 dot TV slash AGP
Tech the black 1080p player okay mm-hmm
it has an HDMI output oh and it has a
USB and an SD card slot okay all you
have to do is stick all your pictures on
an SD card or a USB stick plug it in
push play done there's no setup there's
no there's no risk of this is not going
to work if I can't figure it out when
I'm supposed to be getting married today
right you don't need that you can't come
to Newfoundland to fix the same land is
a long walk Canada there's a party let's
part swim to it actually oh yeah you can
take a bit of a triathlon yeah
what okay that's the route I would go
all right so that answered my question
you may have access to one of those
because I just happened to own one I do
actually
one second okay not that one this one
here it is this is so long this is what
I'm talking about this has never been
open so I assume it's not an empty box
here you go this is exactly what you
need okay
that's it and just USB yeah SD nice
either one you can use it has VGA output
optical output AV output and HDMI output
now you just plug that into a TV done
sweet no setup alright that's what you
want to do that's how I want it yeah
cat5 TV slash AGP Tech but it's spelt
with a K agh Tech AGP Tek all right
you'll see that below alright alright
keep it simple I'm gonna don't address
don't add stress to your special day
okay thank you that's my trick all right
got new Eric's Black Talon drone it's
it's a micro drone but not so Micro
right it's smaller it's lighter but it
has a 720p camera right on the front
here I don't if you can see that at home
there's a little camera right there so
it has fpv goggles you put your phone in
it right you can fly this with fpv just
through your phone
oh that is neat so it's like a little
entry-level kind of racer lots of fun to
fly and we flying this on the drone zone
this season and really looking forward
to that that's the arocs it was shard
it's pretty cool and it flies man I flew
it at 30% speed and it was fast
carry me I can't wait to really get into
it well we've got a lot to cover tonight
we are going to be looking
at different desktop environments for
Debian for Linux any flavor of Linux
that you want to use we've got to take a
really quick break and then when we come
back we're going to be checking out
desktop environments for Linux and what
that means we're going to see some of
the most popular ones in just a minute
I'm mr. Graham
[Music]
welcome back this is category five
technology TV our website is category
five dot TV please check us out we've
got lots of great programming there 510
hours of tech and and then some plus
we've got some other shows as well so
check it out category five dot TV
finally started black mirror at your
suggestion a n first of all we watched
two episodes and then realize that we
had started on season three that's okay
so it doesn't matter what order you
watch them but it was very reminiscent
of the twilight zone with semester owned
in yeah a little bit you liked it though
yeah so watch out for the f-bombs it's a
little bit like you don't want to have
the kids in the room kind of thing but
there's a lot of fun there are no
episodes of that show that you think
that the kids should be in the room for
no no web so no it's even if it starts
now looking like it's going to be an OK
family-friendly episode it's not going
to end well
but as a fan of Doctor Who myself yeah
in the you know the way that Doctor Who
and in particular the Twilight Zone
every episode is kind of a standalone
thing doctor who has some running themes
but black mirror I found is very much
like Twilight Zone in that each one is
like its own movie right so it doesn't
matter if you watch them out of order
doesn't matter that I watched season 3
episodes 1 &amp; 2 first and then we're
going to jump back to season 1
have you finished at I finished all of
it yeah I'm waiting for more yeah and
there will be more you know though what
I watched yesterday and you all know
that I am like kind of uncultured when
it comes to old movies and such and it's
this is not even a really big deal
except that it was to me because people
make reference to it all of the time and
I'd never watched it also space I
haven't seen it yet oh and it's funny
because somebody was just mentioning it
to me a couple couple weeks ago it's on
Netflix oh my goodness it is hilarious
it is good and Jennifer Aniston's in it
she's like 6 7 no she's not that many
but that's kind of you know culturally
that is something that I should watch
yeah I win
yeah yeah you're ahead one movie I'm
ahead every episode of Star Trek that
has ever been aired I watched some Star
Trek The Next Generation when I was a
kid yeah because I had a crush on Wesley
Crusher and then he left the show in
season 2 or 3 or something yeah and I
stopped watching
he was cool though he's in stand by me
you got school now yes yes oh that's
that was painful when will we eat and
left the show because he thought he was
going to be a movie star and then he
didn't become a movie star I know just
take the blessings that you get folks
and run with them don't throw them away
because you think there's something
better that's G really seriously okay
are we ready to get into it
yes last week we looked at Debian nine
Debian stretch right really really
excited about this release because it's
the latest and greatest stable version
of the Debian Linux distribution the
response has been fantastic on YouTube
thank you very much for all your
comments your thumbs up and your new
subscriptions we love hearing from all
of the viewers who have been saying hey
I really love this show love what you
guys are doing
I appreciate that we all do and one
question in particular stood out to us
this week maybe you can take that for us
I can take it okay Oh except the blue is
not there so I don't know who are no way
somebody watched last week's episode I'm
going to get it okay can you believe
that the blue ink went out of my printer
and your name happened to be in Anna Lou
I'm guessing dark garbage no no it's not
garbage see maybe to see see would that
see oh it's killing me
you worked it out you make it up and I
get that you're the actual man he's
amazing what do you men do you never
know I won't know oh don't take it end
in a one what's gone about okay I'm
going to read it and then we'll define
okay good you have it before you even
say all right oh I was ready Tim hen one
if your question the man
I'm serious blue ink gone on the fridge
what you would know that because I said
so to the CNN for the one you already
knew it with you yes me it's gotta be me
it would've been great if we were like
it's Charles eleven okay so tell me
again it's cam cam hen one and before we
move on just making sure just skimming
making sure there's nothing else typed
in blue very good alright what is watch
last week's feature on W and nine and
said I'm really enjoying this channel
why don't you guys have more subs can
you do can you guys do a video comparing
different desktop environments I think
it would be an interesting video it will
be alright desktop environments we hit
on it a little bit last week and hitting
the that first question why don't we
have more subs hey get the word out
spread the word about Linux Tech show
spread the word about category-five
technology TV and that's how we build it
a lot of you know a lot of youtubers
will buy subscribers and we don't we
don't play that so so we appreciate each
and every one of our subscribers our
supporters click that subscribe button
if you've been watching the show maybe
you've been watching for some time and
you haven't subscribed maybe you don't
even have a youtube account so you just
haven't gotten around to it make sure
you sign up and then hit that subscribe
button and that really that helps
increase those numbers ikn one can go
wow look at how things have really been
taking off around here I did it it was
easy so you can do it easy thanks okay
so hitting the question we talked about
desktop environments what it means to
the Linux user what's funny is I thought
we had already done something like this
because a while back we were comparing
what I thought was linux desktops in my
mind and it was not we were looking at
various Linux distros right I'm pairing
Debian to Ubuntu and and so along with
that comes yeah well we're looking at
gnome 3 vs. unity sure and so on and so
forth but here's what what it comes down
to Linux is as we learned last week on
episode number 509 of category 5
technology TV Linux is the Opera
rating system and then on top of that
the developers the people who put
everything together choose which
packages to include with the operating
system so that can be you know do we go
with LibreOffice as the office suite do
we go with GNU image manipulation
program what do we include with this and
with that comes what do we use as our
desktop environment de as it's called so
that's what makes a distro is all of the
stuff that they've packaged together
into this particular version of Linux so
Debian is a distro of Linux Ubuntu is a
distro of Linux as well as Fedora and
open SUSE and any of the other ones that
you've ever heard of they're all
different distros of Linux so different
packages all thrown on top of Linux so
the desktop environment is probably one
of the key considerations when it comes
to what makes a distro look and operate
the way that it is but that said because
Linux is the the way that it's set up
you can have multiple desktop
environments installed and switch
between them without ever leaving the
operating system No
yeah so during our Debian stretch
installation last week I simply checked
off all the options so it has all of the
available options in in Debian and let's
I'm going to pull it up on the netbook
here so that I can kind of see and show
yeah we'll just log out to the login
screen oh you know what the netbook
doesn't have it all so my dad my laptop
here does so let's first take a look at
what's called cinnamon and as I'm saying
the the desktop environment is what you
see so this is the the way that your
operating system performs how you
interact with it where your menus are
how you open things how you navigate the
entire operating system that's what the
desktop environment
is mm-hmm okay so I touched on this last
week when I said if you don't like the
way that you know files open or you
can't figure out this or that with the
way the operating system interacts with
you with your mouse it's probably the
desktop environment quite likely okay so
you can switch it to the one that you
would like to choose the foo says
covered the dangers of mixing different
desktop environments under a single user
login so there is a danger of that I
wouldn't call it a danger if you have a
small hard drive then these are
considerations but when you install a
desktop environment it comes with a lot
of packages that make that desktop
environment what it is okay so one
desktop environment will include a whole
plethora of applications and things that
this desktop environment uses to make it
what it is okay then you install another
one and you get all the same kind of
stuff added to it added to your computer
but for the other desktop right so it's
just kind of read that might be
alternate versions you may have some
redundant software you may have multiple
versions of different things that are
similar you know I don't know all of the
applications that are out there but just
to throw at a really simple example
maybe one uses OpenOffice where the
other one uses LibreOffice so if you
install both desktop environments you
now have both and sometimes you can have
a conflict they're usually apt on debian
in particular and boon to other debian
derivatives it's able to reconcile those
dependencies the conflicts between them
and and it just means having extra stuff
on your hard drive that maybe you don't
need if if you're only going to use one
particular okay it's a fun experiment
though to throw them all on there and
see what one you like the most
that's what we're going to do here
tonight so that you get a sense of the
difference so this is the default one
Sasha
it's that cinnamon that is cinnamon yeah
so you know right out the bat what I do
like about it is from a linux apart me
from a wind
user standpoint the navigation right out
the gate has a bit of a Windows 10 feel
without all the clutter right right
we've talked about how the crazy big
tiles yeah we don't have the crazy thing
I actually have the super I hate those I
hate them too okay everyone who brings
in a computer for service that has been
upgraded to Windows 10 so can you get
that
is there anything is there a way to get
that awesome classic shell and we
actually have a video about it on our
website very five.com
we did it on Windows 8 to show you how
to get rid of it but classic shell works
great on on Windows 10 as well but you
could just take it one step further and
install Linux with cinnamon how do you
like that okay so we're going to take
the same approach to each desktop
environment I'm switching back and forth
we're going to look at a few of the
different things that we would commonly
do with the computer like creating a
document navigating to our files getting
on the internet let's get started with
cinnamon okay so first of all what do we
want to do create a document so here I
see office so I'm going to I'm going to
play like I don't know I'm going to play
like I'm a novice user an end user who's
never done this but I understand the
LibreOffice writer is my writing
application see at the bottom there even
when I hover cinnamon says create and
edit text and images in letters reports
documents and webpages so I know that
that's what it is if I point to calc it
says perform calculations analyze
information and manage lists in
spreadsheets
that's like except Excel right yeah so
what would happen if I actually typed in
Excel look at that so even as a Windows
user I'm able to find the Excel
equivalent let's try Word LibreOffice
writer is in the left so let's use the
Excel example
and click on it and now I'm creating a
spreadsheet just like I would expect to
so that was a pretty good experience for
a first try at getting into a
spreadsheet or a document worked out
pretty well so you could even type like
if you had a document saved on your
computer you could type the name of the
document in that search bar and it would
pull out that I don't know I don't know
this an application searches oh yeah in
my life ok well let's let's get to that
when we actually have created some
documents but let's let's make one so
we're going to go word just because I
want to pretend like I'm a Windows user
trying to learn Linux and let's create a
document and just hello world and I'm
going to save this so save as and my
friends use Microsoft Office so I'm
going to actually select to use a docx
file so that it's compatible they can
use it as well and I'm going to call
this hello world test do they have to if
they're using like word did they have to
save as a docx for me to be able to open
it and let those I just have to save it
as a docx to be a friendly neighbor to
them because theirs is dumb yeah yours
is clever ok good so it ok as long as
you're going in that direction as long
as you save it as a file format that
they can access out so in our case it's
asking are you sure ODF is a little
better I can say no I actually want to
use Microsoft Word format because that's
what my friends use in the office ok
close that hello world so this is an
application search search sacha not a
document search so you notice that your
document is not coming up anywhere in
that okay let's see if there is a search
there is one called desktop search hello
world
do you search on windows I am never used
search ever in my life Cal Cal my files
oh really
yeah but what I do use is I want to be
able to find like a computer my computer
or folders access right I never know
where any documents save anything so I
just search you just search yeah okay
well let's take a different approach
let's see if we can find our way to the
files now there's an icon here that
there's an icon here that looks like a
file folder so I'm automatically
thinking I'm going to point to that and
it says files if it opened a list of
recently saved files and that was enough
for me there is a list of folders
documents sounds about right yeah and
there's my hello world now let's go back
one and push the search button here and
I'm going to type in hello world there
it is okay see that's the route I would
go there's the search that you're
looking for right so okay that was
pretty pretty straightforward now when I
click on that Darby's saying there's a
tool called launch e that searches files
you know Linux is fantastic because you
can add these little features here and
there and that's part of the excitement
of getting onto Linux as you can
customize things right and add features
and all that kind of stuff the approach
that we're taking today is
out-of-the-box experience house cinnamon
going to feel for a novice entry level
user and what is my first impression as
that novice user so my next step is I
need to get on the internet now I see
that there's an internet button over
here on the Start menu or the menu or
the applications menu whatever we want
to call it I do see Firefox which I'm
familiar with so I'm going to click on
that and go into I don't know Google and
it works just out of the box very fact
yeah so I'm able to get on the internet
and that's fine we Sasha you would
mentioned you'd like to use things like
a calculator so let's see you know that
was easy does it do date conversion date
conversion like time zones no yeah
No okay so on my work right I have to do
care plans for patients and it's like 13
weeks of three times a week and I guess
oh I have to subtract how many
adjustments that they've had for how
many they're supposed to have would that
be like a feature of a spreadsheet or
something I've used a calculator before
before but I you can just select dates
convert like date calculation I've never
heard of such a thing inning
okay it calculates the difference
between two dates which is perfect tells
you like four weeks yeah three months
can I can I just be straight up real
with you but nobody else uses that no no
I'm not saying that but what I would do
in a case like that so what's the
question like if how many how many weeks
between now and September 9th September
9 yeah I know I'm lazy but it's just
like we just live in such a world that
you know when there are 10 weeks until
the 9th of September it's like the
answers are just everywhere and what
would be an example like years since
1979 it's like every answers I don't
need to learn math anymore I'm so darn
lazy it's not lazy isn't it now isn't it
it's not you're good all right okay so I
need to have a calendar a calendar yes
okay so these are program features of
the operating system these are things
that are added like applications okay
not specific to the desktop environment
but what is important is how would I
find that Apple yeah now that it is it
there is it there out-of-the-box I don't
know so I'm just going to type in
calendar there it is oh I see a couple
there's calendar which is exactly what
you asked for there's evolution which as
we talked to the last week is like
Outlook it has a calendar built in but
let's just click on calendar and that
looks like a calendar
that's kind of cool actually I like that
a lot
I'm kind of jealous I don't have that oh
yeah that one's better
nice and easy I synchronized what does
that do this is what I'm wondering about
is Kenneth no but again this is an
application on debian 9 that came with
it so this is not part of the desktop
environment necessarily this is just
part of Linux so it will sync with an
online account nice so I could I could
do exchange I can do Google Calendar as
that add an online account so I'm even
finding what I need to get this thing up
and going pretty quick this is like that
that's what makes it for me all sorts of
things that are what makes being able to
find yeah I like that I'm having no
trouble finding applications here one of
the big things with Windows 8 and even
into Windows 10 is that it was really
tough for people to figure out how to
actually shut down their computer so you
end up closing your laptop and then
realizing that it's not shut down it's
just in suspend mode I haven't rebooted
in 10 years and it's a big problem right
so how hard is it to shut down this
system in cinnamon that was easy
you want to shut down shut down and
we're done so cinnamon first impression
looks pretty darn good mm-hmm pretty
darn good indeed I'm going to log out
and then I'm going to check what the
next one the debian has for us is as we
look at Linux desktop environments as
introduced as brought included with
Debian 9 ok so you guys can't see my
login screen when I'm changing this
let's hit LXDE because Sasha likes the
name of I do like into that one when I
would solid pick oh yeah OSCE is very
very lightweight it was built
specifically to be a lightweight and
fast fast fast interface so it's not
going to be as robust as far as feature
set goes you notice that the it's a very
Windows 98
kind of interface but it is fast it is
lightweight it is perfect
for things like like a older computer
it's just quick and zippy nice and
simple
getting on things again really
straightforward getting on the Internet
all I did was just point to Internet and
I see Firefox there so that's cool so
the background picture doesn't change we
can change the background picture so I
imagine that they all would look
different I mean I guess they are like
not only yeah no no no this is Linnet
the desktop environment is is using my
profile okay if I want to change my
background if the process may be a
little bit different for each one but on
this one if I right click and then see
if there it is wallpaper then I can
change my wallpaper just like that okay
so I mean a right-click on your desktop
and then preferences that's pretty
traditional yeah hmm
so you probably need to download some
nicer wallpaper and or just actually
make this to make this reasonable
there's the default and the ones that it
comes with are pretty much identical to
that so that was easy finding my office
suite under office there's my calc
so having swapped to the other desktop
environment you see that my file is
still there very cool and that calc
allowed me to open a writer document and
I'm not sure why it's separating see
when I maximize it's not actually
maximizing my screen that could be you
can tell me if you're able to emulate
that it could be our video capture is
causing a bit of a strange behavior
there okay so this looks pretty
straightforward pretty simple so this is
the basic LXDE I like to run this on
servers and that lets me run without any
overhead when it comes to the desktop
environment so sorry I was saying so
who's saying one
that is relevant for this is what
happens if you plug in a USB device in
each one try that yes okay so I have a
USB flash drive here that has Debian
install on it so let's plug it in in
LXDE what do you want to do in
calculator in Linux does two days to
same oh yeah not not that I'm saying it
Dennis Kelly say yes nice okay so there
you go I've never heard of such a
feature it's such an important order in
my in my ever you are you're going to
teach there how can I do this on the
next show alright so that just brought
up the w9 USB stick ok directly no
problem do do we want to see what it
looks like now let's see what logging
out and restarting and shutting down
looks like again shutdown is really easy
we've got reboot suspend hibernate
switch user lock screen if you want you
know to step away Eva TV okay so I'm
going to switch user which allows me to
switch environment ok and let's see what
the next one is do I get to pick the
next winner yeah absolutely no you want
go with gnome yeah ok ok so this is
gnome 3 now I'm going to have a little
bit of trouble seeing things because
gnome 3 we had some little troubles
there getting it to broadcast to you so
I'm watching it in a very small screen
here but that's what it looks like out
of the box so you'll notice first of all
that the activities button is up at the
top here and things a lot different so
first of all I always recognize the
Firefox icon so I can get on the
internet no problem
it does have evolution on there as well
which is like the outlook clone with
email and all that
it even has writer just already there oh
that's neat so good that's cool maximize
the window okay on here oh it's a little
different I noticed I don't have like a
maximize minimize button but I can
double click on the top bar in it and it
goes there so if I open I'm going to see
my hello world document it's there no
problem ok so the other things that we
want to be able to do and that has a
cool kind of effect to it doesn't it
looks kind of different so how do we get
into things like your calendar
so I'm going to type Cal in there this
oh it has a really sweet kind of look to
it doesn't it yeah I'm I'm partial to
this one yeah already yeah okay so let's
bring up calendar there you go it looks
really clean like the decorations
everything looks like it yeah it's a
uniform it looks really good I like that
what about task switching so if I have
multiple tasks open I'm curious about
how gnome 3 handles this so if I hit alt
tab yeah I get a task I'll check it if I
hit the windows button and tab I get a
tabs task switcher what about things
like do I have anything else looks like
that's that's kind of it when I hit my
window button like the super button it
gives me that can you do that half
screen split thing where you do like the
windows button and then the left key or
the right key just to throw it to one
side I like to oh oh I see what you mean
like to yeah okay it actually operates
just like Microsoft Windows that way
that's a handy tip yeah I wonder if the
other desktop environments can do that
too but it is nice to see that gnome has
that so I can position things like that
right that's kind of cool
and from there I mean the the underlying
OS is the same so it's really just the
environment it's strictly how do I
interact with the computer and you can
start to see that and as the tutorial
goes on as the demonstration goes on
like I don't need to show you that I can
get on Google because okay we know we
can it's already in fact an exit Firefox
on Linux it's the same software it's
really just how do I get there that is
different so how do I get to my files
I'm going to just tight I'm going to try
that file and there we go we've got
files right there there's my file
manager I do see the search button there
just like before so I can type in hello
world and there's my document okay
so just like you would expect everything
looks pretty good and then to perform a
system shutdown how would we do that
here so let's first of all look under
the activities menu because it is an
activity
what does it have here show applications
oh there's a whole list of all kinds of
applications wholly not organized the
way that I like with the other desktop
environments that I saw did you notice
how they had like Internet and games and
everything this looks like a like we
would call this a cluster yes just yet
just a mess of all my applications
anymore is it organized alphabetically
is there a way of sorting easier or is
it well I got this novice few there I
don't see any way to do that I don't see
any like internet there are some things
I don't think I need on there oh
certainly there's a ton of stuff there's
maps on there I like that okay so if you
don't know the name of the application
or what it is you want to do it might be
a little difficult for me to find my way
here I'm dragging with my mouse and it
lets me kind of slide that's kind of
nice I don't know what I just did though
so if you have a touchscreen that might
be kind of nice but again not not too
keen on the organization of it now
what's down here frequent or all
applications oh that's okay okay so I
can see my frequently run applications
or all applications
that's something but what I'd really
like to see is like an organizational
structure there and I still don't see a
shutdown so I'm going to look over here
and there's nothing that is obviously a
shutdown thing to me I'll start with
that and that it's like a little
notification window and again nothing
really stands out as shutdown but we
recognize that symbol right and if I
push that it gives me the power off
option or restart so so we can find our
way there a little bit a lot as super
friendly but really beautiful really
gorgeous as a matter of fact so I'm
going to actually log out here so that
we can check out the next one which is
going to be KDE plasma
how do I get how do I get out seriously
like I just want to log out of my my
system here settings well there's my
name log out nice Oh Jeremy just said
click your username once you find your
way I not that difficult I like that one
it is kind of pretty yeah okay so let's
get over here I'm going to login let's
see what else we have so Debian nine
Debian stretch comes with the options to
install and you can install one or many
LXDE cinnamon gnome matei open box
plasma plasma being KDE so we've already
looked at matei on the show with the
boon to mattei you're familiar with that
it's like the gnome to 22.5 look it's
great for experience linux users who
like the old feel of linux but we're
going to look at today plasma which we
have not yet looked at so let's get into
that let's see if I can get the screen
up on your screen here so far so good a
little slower to load mm-hmm maybe cuz
it's more powerful do you think it's
more powerful fashion you think that's
what it is slow and steady wins the race
it can't seriously take that long to
load my favorite serious we did so
immediately I'm like that took a long
time to load yes and here it is and
there it is it's up on the screen okay
let's take a look at what KDE plasma
looks like so there we go I've clicked
on the K because I just assumed that
that's what it is I'm curious what this
thing is show desktop add widgets ooh
that sounds fun oh that's kind of cool
whoa right out the gate I can add a
couple others oh yeah I feel like every
single one I've seen is my favorite
until I see the next one and then it's
not yeah
right this is okay how do you do it just
drag oh nice oh cool
now I don't know how to move it it's not
where I wanted it
oh and you touch it there's a oh this I
added two of them nice when it's got the
date removed this one okay okay
desktop options uh so I don't know no I
don't think there's something to play
with yeah now you know the time lock
widgets lock widgets unlock widgets no
so that's something to play with I do
like that there's a kind of a fun fun
thing right of the gate you can press
and hold widgets to move them and reveal
their handles how did it know what I was
trying to do the two that you were doing
exactly what I do and frantically just
pressing everything pressing it okay
hold it in there we go
can you make it like a different size ah
when I say it once like that no yeah you
can oh my goodness see we're figuring
this out right on the fly here okay so
uh if your calculator won a calculator
widget so this is very much like a like
a phone interface unit idea so there is
a search here calc
there is no drag that on to the desktop
so what is it obviously isn't a working
calculator at that size can I make it
full size what if you make it bigger if
it changes what functions yes it's just
like an icon of a calculator okay which
to me is kind of it's like what no yeah
that's kind of a letdown
okay can I remove it all right so what
I've done is just hold in the button and
that lets me manipulate it okay so let's
get a look okay favorites I have none
yet but it thinks I like Conqueror
system settings file manager and
advanced text editor that's where we see
that this desktop environment has
defaulted to different applications I do
like the movement the animation the
fading the text editor is Kate which is
a KDE
senator versus maybe G editor pluma
applications Oh that see that's what I
like Sasha see in menus where I can go
internet and when I want to find Firefox
I'm not going to have any trouble there
it's actually called web browser here
with a little sub header that says
Firefox that makes sense to me
I like that works at Reis good okay so
getting into our documents let's see so
this would be like a good transitional
for like all of those people who only
use their phones right now true and now
I have a touchscreen yeah I clicked on
computer and I would expect it to bring
it up but it doesn't so I assume I have
to go up here to home then I have
documents Oh gross
sash it's opening things with a single
click Wow
so there's where the paradigm is just a
little bit different here every time I
single click it it does what I click on
searching now cut find hello world the
other ones had like it okay that that
was just slower I didn't hit enter it
was slower to search than the other ones
were they were very very fast to just
show the results we can I kind of have
to sit and wait edit single click in
these system settings so at the novice
user I'm going to guess that's under
control because my approach here is that
you know we're new let's say we're new
to Linux and we want to know you know
how hard is this going to be to change
or to manipulate make it the way that I
want it because single clicking to open
stuff is garbage I don't see anything
there that lets me change the way that
it interacts but there definitely is so
that's all to say you know Linux is you
can change things you can change the way
that it interacts but you may have to do
some digging configure no see I don't
see anything in there
see how I do that all right so what else
do we want to be able to find out here
Sasha so you can see the difference in
in each of these different desktop
environments how it it almost feels like
a completely different a completely
different operating system doesn't it
mm-hmm
and yet it's the same OS just a
different desktop environment that's it
different suite of applications that
come with each so now I want to shut
down there's one here called leave and
then I've got suspend hibernate shutdown
there we go
so we found our way around KDE plasma
pretty well as well yes so you kind of
have to look at that and say okay well
I'm going to install Debian stretch it's
Debian org to download it absolutely
free choose which desktop environment
you really love or if you're indecisive
you can actually check off a couple of
if you want during the installation
process and set up each of those and you
can change them just by clicking the
little gear before you log in before you
enter your password and then you can
change back and forth between them then
pick your favorite run with it there you
go Linux is very configurable very
customizable and as you can see even
though that's the same computer the same
Linux running w-9 we're able to
completely change the paradigm
completely change the interface by
simply changing our desktop environment
very cool
this is category-five technology TV
we're going to head over to the newsroom
Sasha what do you have today
here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom some
Windows 10 source code which could be
used to exploit the popular OS has been
leaked to the public the world's fastest
computers run Linux nASA has designed a
supersonic airplane that doesn't create
a sonic boom and as predicted Nintendo
is now releasing a classic Super
Nintendo console these stories are
coming right up don't go anywhere
Geoff Weston Gemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website
what are you alright
you're terrible actor what does where
acting comes into play oh I don't know
we're Arctic you're supposed to act okay
are you building a really cool website
you need hosting one of the things about
a hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
it's sure how much hard drive space you
have how many email account how many
domains can point to it well we've got
an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are going to get
unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name through for your own com
dice to put that amazing website that
you've been working on on there if you
run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cap five dot TV slash
dream host stuff instead of a papers are
just don't do it but hey it's a great
deal folks best deal you're going to
find five dollars and change per month
go to cap five dot TV slash DreamHost
I'm Sasha drew Madison here are the top
stories for the week of June 28th 2017
last week beta Eric data archive hosted
Windows 10 source code related to USB
storage and Wi-Fi drivers on its free
FTP site since then a spokesperson for
Microsoft has confirmed that this code
is genuine the breach was initially
thought to be massive the register
reported the delete consisted of around
32 terabytes of files they claimed it
included builds of Windows that haven't
yet been released
however it later became clear that the
leak was smaller than originally
reported and what's more a fair bit of
the data had already been made available
by Microsoft through the shared source
kit Microsoft's partners and licensees
had access to this through the shared
source initiative that doesn't mean this
data leak isn't serious though it's an
embarrassing black mark for Microsoft at
a
I'm that more and more people are paying
attention to computer security while the
source code has been removed voluntarily
by beta Archive it's unclear how many
people had already downloaded it it's
possible that it could still it still
could be distributed via other methods
and used to create exploits for Windows
10 Linux is still running on more than
99% of the top 500 fastest
supercomputers in the world same as last
year 498 as the top 500 supercomputers
run Linux while the remaining to run
UNIX twenty years back most of the
supercomputers were in UNIX but
eventually Linux took the lead and
became the preferred choice of operating
system for the supercomputers yep now
not even one supercomputer in the top
500 run Windows and of course no super
computer runs Mac OS because Apple has
not yet manufactured the ieee
supercomputer this information is
collected by an independent organization
top 500 that publishes the details about
the top 500 fastest supercomputers known
to them twice a year you can go to the
website and filter out the list based on
country OS type used vendors etc the
main reason for this growth is the open
source nature of Linux supercomputers
are specific devices built for specific
purposes this requires a custom
operating system optimized for those
specific needs unix being a closed
source and prepare for price propriety
press proprietary rights very holy moly
operating system is an expensive deal
when it comes to customization linux on
the other hand is free and easier to
customize engineering teams can easily
customize a Linux based operating system
for for each of the supercomputers the
world's fastest supercomputer on the
current list is sunway ty who lights
it's based in national supercomputing
Center in waxey China and has a speed of
ninety-three petaflop per second that's
93 quadrillion floating-point two
operations per second or put another way
93 million a billion not impressed yet
here's a number we all can think about
for a minute this supercomputer has are
you ready for this
10 million cores it's nearly three times
as fast is the second place winner wow
the only two super computers running
UNIX are ranked 490 third and 494 that
is so super cool Ravi I cannot even tell
you imagine that kind of speed like
that's not I don't even know what you
would do like I can't imagine what you
would be doing I don't like so grab my
brain doesn't think as fast as that
computer thinks like I don't know how
fast is the human brain thing not that
many petaflop flops per second no way
mind like well uh mine in particular is
only about two mine can't say that we're
provide for I can't say it nASA says the
preliminary design of design review of
it's quiet supersonic transport or quest
project suggests it is possible to
create a supersonic aircraft that
doesn't produce a sonic boom they've
been able to build a supersonic
passenger planes for decades but the
problem is that they are so noisy they
generate complaints when flown over
populated areas of land even when flying
below the speed of sound they're often
noisier than always subsonic aircraft
and generate plenty of complaints around
airports which try to keep things as
quiet as possible
so if not just not to disturb nearby
residents a quieter supersoft supersonic
passenger aircraft has therefore long
been on the designers minds as there's a
market for faster travel over land as
well as oceans which is why NASA is
running the quest program a statement
posted on their website Monday says
senior experts and engineers from across
the agency and the
had Martin corporation concluded on
Friday that the quest design is capable
of fulfilling the aircraft's mission
objectives which are to fly at
supersonic speeds but create a soft
thump instead of the disruptive sonic
boom associated with sonic flight today
NASA's commercial supersonic technology
project manager Peter Cohen explains
that the idea is to design the airplane
so that the shockwaves that are produced
in the supersonic flight are arranged in
such a way that you don't have a boom
you just have a general kind of gradual
pressure rise that produces a quiet
sound NASA's next step is finding
organizations willing to build a working
model of the experimental airplane and
fly it over American cities and towns to
hear how much noise it makes its hopes
that these flights could start in 2021
oh my gosh I'm just picturing like it oh
we didn't realize it's going to make a
weird sound
yeah we're solar it's gonna make a weird
yeah what the heck was that
light over American cities and towns I
think I know well that should that
should be good for Canada Super Mario
World starfox and Yoshi's Island are set
to be released later this year as part
of a new classic SNES console the super
the original Super Nintendo
Entertainment System launched in 1990
sold 50 million units worldwide the SNES
classic follows the NES classic which
went on sale late last year but abruptly
discontinued in April much to the
frustration of fans Nintendo said
limited resources were to blame but it
interested it would not make the same
error with the SNES a Nintendo
spokesperson said we aren't providing
specific numbers but we will produce
significantly more units of Super NES
classic edition than we did of NES
classic editions the assertion follows
accusations from the gaming community
that Nintendo was engaging in so-called
intentional scarcity the marketing ploy
was supposedly intended to drum up
publicity for the Japanese company which
launched its flagship new consoles
don't switch earlier this year as well
as the classic titles Nintendo will also
bundle in a game from the SNES era that
was never actually released starfox to
the console will cost $79 in the US and
$79.99 pounds in UK well I just have to
just like say for the record I do now
have a switch and I will bring it in and
show you if you would like it's amazing
is it good yes amazing ok can't wait to
see attack yeah thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our website from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Sasha der maida
thanks Sasha this is category 5
technology TV please do check out our
website this week it's a category 5 dot
TV it's been fantastic having you here
I'm so thankful to have had you here if
you're new to the show please go through
our website find out what we're all
about
and consider supporting us on patreon
that's a great way that you can become a
part of this community from a financial
standpoint it's nice and easy though all
you have to do is just throw a little in
the tip jar with each episode that we
produce and that makes a world of
difference to us as we continue to
provide this service to you for free and
and we hope to grow over the next little
while as well so we're coming up on our
10th anniversary you can't even imagine
isn't it just unreal like we're not even
like a few months out from our 10th
anniversary we've got tickets available
for you if you want to come and join us
here in studio make a trip up to Barrie
Ontario Canada beautiful place and we'd
love to meet you love to see you just
get onto our website category-five TV
and request tickets on the tickets page
of course yeah easy-peasy mm-hmm we've
got an exceptional show planned for you
next week as you know Henry is away this
week as he's out at the the air show so
that's a little recreational activity
for him but also he spent some time in
the week on the weekend at the virtual
reality conference on behalf of category
5 technology TV he was down in Toronto
Ontario for that conference conducting
interviews and
getting some some first glance at some
upcoming technology and we're going to
be checking in with him next week as
he's going to be joining us again and
have all that for us that is going to be
an amazing uniting show oh yeah
and to boot we've got your viewer
questions I know you've been sending
them in we appreciate it we've got we've
got you on deck Peter and Mickey
kasparek we've got your questions we've
got questions from all of you who have
been submitting them to us through our
website category 5 TV we try to catch
them if you comment on YouTube as well
and we're going to be addressing those
we've got some time set aside for you
next week and we look forward to seeing
you that helps antastic week hi
everybody
thanks Ashley hey thanks Ronnie
you
