it's Tuesday canary 27 2015 and hear the
stories were covering this week adobe is
trying to keep up with hackers who are
repeatedly exploiting security flaws in
their flash software an encrypted chat
service is launching amid a
controversial proposal in the European
Union despite being blind an Ontario
woman is able to look at her newborn son
thanks to technology ford wants to be
seen as a technology innovator with its
new center in silicon valley twitter is
bringing 30 second video clips to the
timeline and microsoft is reporting on
more than ten percent loss in revenue
these stories are coming right up don't
go anywhere depending on where you're
located in this big old world of ours
you may remember it as either the Sega
Mega Drive or the Sega Genesis and now
more than a quarter of a century after
its original release in Japan it's more
convenient than ever to take these
classic sega games with you my review is
coming right up stick around try it buy
it
I'm Sasha drew made us in here at the
top stories from the category 5 TV news
room adobe has released an emergency
patch for a flaw in its flash software
that was being widely exploited by
thieves the patch stops the flaw being
exploited on some versions of Windows
Apple and Linux operating systems in
addition it is investigating reports
that another previously unknown flaw is
being used in a popular cybercrime kit
sold online the kid is favored by gangs
who use malicious programs that demand a
ransom after it encrypts important files
this particular exploit can be used to
scramble files and demand a ransom seco
bakey banking details or hijack ads on
website on web pages as people browse
adobe said it hoped to produce a patch
for this other flaw this week as the
latest emergency patch did not fix it so
Ravi does that mean that they're
actually selling a kit for thieves on
line I'm not necessarily even selling I
mean sometimes it's available for free
yeah yeah like kits so somebody figures
out how to create these exploits and
then they release a kit that allows non
hackers we call them script kiddies or
whatever to create viruses malware and
things based on those exploits so if
I've determined hey you can hack by
accessing through Adobe Flash here's a
kit that allows other people to do the
same just by clicking a checkbox wow so
that's like the bad guys being
cooperative and sharing share
collaborating Wow well that is bad news
alright well way to go flash adobe
internet entrepreneur kim calm has
released an encrypted chat service
called mega chat to compete with the
microsoft own skype announcing the
launch of the beta version of his mega
chat service mr. calm said the video
calling would gradually be followed by
text chat service and videoconferencing
the news came as it emerged a top EU
official wants companies to be required
by law to hand over encryption keys
the EU counterterrorism coordinator
proposal follows a similar call by Prime
Minister David Cameron in a document
leaked by the civil civil liberties
group state watch gels dicker chav said
encryption increasingly makes lawful
interception by the relevant national
authorities technically difficult or
even impossible Mr Cameron said earlier
this month that he wants internet firms
to allow government to view encrypted
messages in order to aid the security
services mr. calm I kind of smirked as
soon as you said that way did anyone
ever expect that we'd be saying mr. calm
about someone Wow questions comments
thoughts concerns about that mr. calm
other than that I kind of like that he's
um coming up with Skype related like I
guess um competition I like crazy
government is cracking down on
encryption saying oh we need access and
you know here we've got other people and
companies that are trying to create
encrypted methods of us communicating
like people maybe don't realize how
insecure something like email is so you
know sometimes I'll have it happen where
someone will email me a credit card
number and I'm like no don't do that
ever there are probably a thousand
people reading that same email that
before it even gets to my inbox because
it's unencrypted so basically like a
plain text that I'm passing along and
anyone who sees it as it goes by can
read so if he's going to create a chat
service that is encrypted hypothetically
that means that people can't eavesdrop
which means government can't eavesdrop
and figure out with government and then
they step in and say we can't have that
now because what if there's terrorist
activities going on or being coordinated
through this platform legitimate concern
of course but where do you draw the line
as far as privacy goes right I don't
know oh this is the best news story I've
read in a long time Kathy Bates suffers
from a disease that robbed her of most
of her eyesight but thanks to technology
called East
right glasses she's able to counter
son's digits and see his smiling face
the glasses are essentially goggles
equipped with a camera and LCD screens
though somewhat bulky the glasses fit
over the wearer's face where the screens
transmit visual information in real-time
Bates's sister Yvonne felix is also
blind she and Taylor West a spokesman
for the company that makes the east side
glasses join us to share how the
technology works so essentially what he
said does I is enhanced functional
vision for people that have legal
they're legally blind or have low vision
to do that what we use is a camera sits
right over the bridge of the person's
nose um and we threw that camera we
capture a high-definition video that
were able to enhance in certain ways to
make that video more palatable to
someone's eyes so they get more
information through the eye to the brain
the result is uh what wasn't there for
someone that's legally blind their
natural I site becomes visible when they
use easy I have something called
Stargardt's disease ninety percent of my
vision centrally is missing and within
the two percent of the visual field
preferably that I have left it sort of
looks like it's been washed down so
there are limitations to the detail and
the depth of the distance that I can see
in terms of what the technology does is
it actually gives me central vision so
without it I would just see a big blind
spot but with it I can actually see
faces I can see um you know further away
I'm able to essentially you know have
functional vision just like you or
anybody else that you know basically it
brings me from 2400 vision which means
what you see a 20 feet 400 feet away I
need to see a 20 feet it sort of levels
of prank playing field and brings me to
you know the same sort of level so I'm
able to read again I'm able to see far
distances see faces and interact with
people right away there is magnification
and what that does is it brings objects
right to my face so it times it like
it's a one boy toy 1.5 times
magnification so if for example if I
were to look over at Taylor without the
eyewear just his head would be missing
but with the eyewear on I'm able to see
his eyes and his nose in his mouth so
he's very close to me and so right away
I'm able to get that close up I'm able
to see definitions and I'm able to
control the contrast so how much
lighting I get I'm able to define things
I've able to you know there's an
autofocus but I'm able also to manually
focus so I sort of have control of how
the environment is coming into my eyes
where this in my first I can also plug
this into my computer I can plug it into
a TV so anything there where there's a
screen involved I can sort of plug it in
and I can use the I whereas my screen so
it's completely mobile but it also
allows me to sort of plug-in digitally
to media if I need to see it like an
iPhone or an iPad as well sure so he
sits been available for about a year and
we're available both Canada and us at
the moment we're always looking to reach
out to the blind and low-vision
community to make sure that people are
aware that this is an option as
something that can help them balance
would like to know more about you say
love to answer your questions they can
either visit yvonnes microsite where her
sister Kathy's video is posted which is
make blindness history com or they can
go to our company's website where lots
of information is posted and that's a
sight I aware com according to the east
site website the Canadian made glasses
are the only innovation of its type
anywhere in the world that allow the
legally blind to actually see though II
site aren't covered by Ontario's
healthcare program the company does have
fundraising initiatives in place to help
those who could benefit from a pair for
bait the glasses are priceless she says
holding her son when I got to see a
smile it does feel amazing incredible
heartwarming awesome use of technology
gee I love it I love I think it's so
cool I just it's wonderful yay
technology yes way to go for doing
something good for one I I just if we
could keep going along this this route
where we're really helping to like
enable people that are limited in ways
you know become more free with either
hearing or sight or walking I mean it
was just the the self-lacing shoes on
last week's news story maybe two weeks
ago I love it I'll tone first hearing
aid Beltone exactly similar kind of idea
I'm improving the quality of life so
incredible all right ford wants us to
show that they're much more than just
trucks and cars they want to be seen as
technology innovators the detroit
automaker has long had a friendly
relationship with technology what was
its sync infotainment platform its
support for third-party apps and its
investment in on tottenham asst vehicles
but with its new research and innovation
center located in palo alto ford is
hoping to accelerate its relationship
with technology even further the new
center isn't Ford's first venture into
Silicon Valley but it is a much bigger
effort with former apple engineer at the
helm with significant experience in
consumer electronics semiconductors
aerospace and automotive tech Ford hopes
to build a team of 125 professionals
which would make the company one of the
largest dedicated automotive research
teams in the valley some of the projects
that are already underway include
collaborations with several universities
and technology companies such as
Google's nest you can for example set it
so that the smart thermostat
automatically switches your house to a
way mode when the vehicle leaves the
driveway and have it flip back to normal
mode when you're back home the nest
protect smoke detector can even send an
alert to your in-car dash to let you
know if something's wrong at home
modular upgrades are also in the works
instead of having to buy a new car to
get the latest technology
gee you could just go to a dealer and
have them swap out a hardware module the
module would contain just the core parts
like the processor memory and storage
leaving your dash screen and controls
untouched while the ideas are
interesting Ford is hardly the only
automotive company dabbling in tech
rivals like BMW Mercedes and Toyota have
been in the valley for some time it's
definitely not the only one tackling
autonomous vehicles and some of its tak
like active Park Assist still that's the
idea behind the new facility to develop
technologies that will move forward not
just newfangled ideas like self-driving
cars but the customer experience in
general which would make driving
probably safer sure we're a modular idea
mm-hmm that's kind of cool yeah so you
could really upgrade any car I just I
think that driving is definitely one of
those things who are the more help you
get with it the better so we can go
forward yeah twitter is doing a massive
upgrade as well twitter is upgrading its
mobile apps to let users capture edit
and post videos up to 30 seconds in
length as the social service looks to
keep pace with rival Facebook as well as
offer an alternative to youtube for
brief clips twitter director product
management gin and Kim dear said in a
blog post we designed our camera to be
simple to use so that you can capture
and share life's most interesting
moments as they happen in 30 seconds or
less as we know Twitter is so good at
letting people share their most
interesting moments
the idea is able to add short video
clips to any Twitter conversation with
just a few taps according to twitter
their 30 second video feature will
complement vine six-second long looping
eclipse Robbie I'm not worried about
people's inability to stop themselves
and think should I share this great we
got a 30 second video of the hamburger
now lovely it's totally sounds like a
vine rip off to me oh yeah 100 said I
was thinking you know i think is like
that that's literally vine it's a longer
is a longer chain i made it three times
as long you know where i think this
could be helpful though is that
twitter.com slash search is it's become
at least for many of us a news source
it's our place to get up to the second
news if you want to know you know if
you're heading out in a snowstorm what
do we do when we have that snowstorm and
if you watch backstage pass you know we
had a doozy of a snowstorm that Ashley
got stuck in I got home but you know the
first thing that we did was we checked
Twitter we use the berry hashtag and we
checked what's the weather and I said
you know make sure you avoid bayfield
street because it's bad so that didn't
help you but no it didn't help me at all
when it comes to news stories and as it
happens news which is what twitter has
become is not just communication but
news doesn't it make sense that i should
be able to post a quick video really
really simply from the app of the
accident of but then it's a whole new
danger exactly as I'm driving by and
everybody can be rubbernecker and less
for it comes up with the technology
where your car is driving itself need to
collaborate like the hackers see then
you wouldn't be watching an accident
because all of the accidents would be
completely avoided yeah and then we get
the the east side glasses and can see it
on the screen
this old I don't think that's gonna help
it'll white out in a movie scenario this
could actually work that's right some
sad news for Microsoft today Microsoft
profits fell more than ten percent in
the three months to the end of december
from earlier this year or from the
year-earlier sorry they reported a net
income of 5.8 six billion dollars down
eight ten point six percent on the same
quarter in 2013 the results included a
243 million dollar charge for
reorganizing the firm party to do the to
the purchase of Nokia's phone business
which Microsoft bought in 2013 so you
know that's a pretty big purchase
reorganizing at twenty six point five
billion dollars Microsoft sales for the
quarter were better than financial
analysts had expected Microsoft was
helped by strong sales of its xbox games
console over the holiday season having
sold six point six million consoles
during the quarter revenue front from
the licensing of Windows fell thirteen
percent in the last quarter of 2014
compared to the previous year Microsoft
is hoping the coming release of Windows
10 will boost its software division I
have a hard time feeling sorry for
windows when those numbers are so
incredibly positive 6.6 billion people
just bought a game console kind of
Awesome I I think and I wonder why this
doesn't come up in the news as well I
mean we're comparing to last final
quarter 2013 yes that is that final
quarter 2014 but remember that in April
of 2014 windows XP was deprecated so
what's everybody doing in the final
quarter of 2013 they're buying all new
computers for in time for Christmas
right so you know all the stores have
their blowouts and so is it really an
accurate comparison can we really say
that they're down ten percent well no
they were
were they up I don't know but I would
think they would have been up because
right of the hole microsoft windows XP
bear down i guess from their projected
earnings is that I think what are those
earnings based on the previous yeah it's
complicated and it does twist it and
spin it in a sort of negative way but
they really are doing quite well Sasha
if I can just back up a little bit sorry
if that's the end of that story it is
step on stories but chat room just
mentioned that Twitter actually acquired
vine which is interesting as Oh
competitor so I are they actually not a
competitor it's really a competitor it's
a hey we're doing it you did a thing
cool we're gonna do the same thing but
we're the same company so hey they
actually bought it back in October 2012
wikipedia so that I'm just out of the
loop with vine because I'm not really
into six second videos but well you
don't have to be in I'm gonna be one now
you can have 30-second videos are you
yeah Wow well Twitter way to make a
smart business move I feel like
Twitter's playing chess a little bit
awesome now for all your tech news with
a slight linux bias visit the category
five TV news room at newsroom category
five TV for the category five TV news
room I'm Sasha dramatis
