we're going to be looking at electricity
and how we can monitor the usage of our
appliances and various devices
throughout our household or business and
we're going to learn how to evaluate the
cost of running these devices Henry sash
of what devices would you say in your
house would use the most electricity my
computer the most yeah probably my TV
your TV I think so like the most as far
as phantom load or the most as far as
like well yeah there is right power as
well where if it's off it's still
seeping right you're an entire I like I
I'm crazy about that so I unplug
everything after I use it I don't know
so but I don't unplug my TV okay right
so I think that it probably my TV
everything else it's always plugged in
on my fridge so fridges maybe my friends
are afraid your my TV well I've got you
know we are a family of five I've got a
an upright freezer in the basement all
that I've got a full-sized fridge and in
the yeah I've got all kinds of those
kinds of high drain devices and central
air and all that kind of stuff as well
so nest is really helping us to cut down
on our our costs with the air
conditioning and the heating and it's
working it really is working well and
we're starting to see an impact there
and that's because nest gives us monthly
reports to show us how our usage is
doing so I've had now with the
transition from winter to spring and now
the kind of summer weather we have just
left everything turned off and so it's
really cool seeing our nest report come
in saying we've used no energy Wow
furnace and AC that's super cool it's
like our game in real life if that's
what you're doing it's like playing a
game in real life kinda is and when you
know this information this is a
thermostat a smart thermostat and it's
cool because I can bring it up on my
phone and I can see it from anywhere and
all this kind of stuff right well so but
when we know this information when we
know how our usage is affecting our
electricity bill it can really really
help us to control our usage make some
decisions so that we can cut down on the
cost here in Ontario Canada energy bills
as you probably have heard through your
local news source are through the roof
yes it's ridiculous it's pretty bad so
we set out to say okay how can we figure
out what appliances in our house are
draining our electricity and costing us
money so we're not really thinking too
much today about phantom power we're
thinking more about you know what
devices in the house are really costing
me money on an ongoing basis right
realistically the trickle of a vampire
power source might be a couple of cents
a month if that I mind and so much more
but topic yeah not the first thing that
I did was I measured the light bulbs in
my kitchen okay because we have under
cabinet lights right and I thought well
this would be a good place to start so I
did it and it was costing like 70 cents
a month or maybe 48 cents or something
something so negligible that I didn't
even really I didn't write it down okay
I don't assess or if I know how did I do
that and what is involved in doing that
well we've got a product this the one
that we're reviewing tonight the one
that we're looking at is branded as Rio
R and so you know it's probably
something that's let's see I'm guessing
it's like a China built kind of thing
because you find it you know if you go
to Amazon CA its Rio R and if you go to
dot-com it's a different brand is the
same product you know these products
where they rebrand all the time but the
product itself is awesome have you ever
heard of kilowatt kilowatt is very very
similar to this but I'm gonna tell you
what's different first of all both this
and the kilowatt you plug this into your
outlet let's pull it out so that I can
show you too bad we don't have a zoom
this week oh my dude I do I have an
overhead camera oh you want to see it
okay so as simple as it is it's just a
device like this you plug this into your
wall and you plug your device into this
so the kilowatt this is probably the
most popular model of something like
this okay it's like a power meter the
kilowatt loses the memory as soon as you
unplug it oh it doesn't have a built-in
battery or built-in it doesn't remember
this stuff so when you plug this into
your fridge and you leave it plugged in
for an hour 10 hours
whatever you want to measure when you
unrealistic volt built-in rechargeable
battery makes a lot more sense because
then I can get in behind the fridge
where I'm like going like yeah I can
unplug it and then I can pull it out and
look at the meter right and not lose
everything
yeah yeah so it's a cheap device and get
it a cat5 dot TV slash energy and there
you'll see that it's available on
amazon.com
amazon.ca through our lengths but also
amazon co uk so you see this is a 120
volt the dot co uk version is 230 to 250
so it'll work fine with your appliances
your freezer appliances yeah ok so first
of all I plugged it in as I said to my
lamps they didn't really generate any
they didn't use any energy to write home
about so I've started going around the
house to various devices right and we're
going to look at how those devices
performed if you will what kind of money
they cost me on an ongoing basis and
then we'll look at how the device works
before we get into that though I want to
refer to an email that we received from
orange man as we're looking at our power
consumption and the cost of power
consumption maybe Sasha if you can read
orange man's email and thank you for
contacting us I'd love to okay so orange
man says a few weeks ago we had a knock
on the door it was an electricity board
engineer here to change her old meter to
a digital one when he finished the job I
asked him what would happen to the old
meter and he told me they put it in a
big pile and they're left to rest so I
asked if I could keep it instead and he
let me so with the help of my friend
Mervyn who is an electrician I wired it
up to my Linux servers and now measure
the amount of Watts used per hour
turns out the servers only use 80 watts
an hour when I land at 181 I'm using
them
as a sidenote Mervin has since suffered
a heart attack but is recovering well
our thoughts are with him and his family
we're not all as handy as Mervyn and
orange man I'm not and even you know
being the mathematical genius that you
have to be to say okay how much is a
kilowatt hour how many watts are working
into this equation and and you look at
videos on YouTube and some professor
with a chalkboard has got his equation
up inaudible hairy though yeah it can
get complicated so here's another
advantage to this particular product
from cat5 TV slash energy not to sound
like a sales pitch this is not slap shot
this is just I want you to know where
you can get the proper product because
there are tons that look very very
similar ok ok so one of the advantages
is that this has a button right here a
button cost ah so we can actually figure
out in the device how much our
electricity usage is costing us Wow
ideal
uh-huh so first of all I plugged it into
my freezer at home we've got the upright
freezer and it was using energy but not
a whole lot okay then plugged it into my
fridge because we thought hey maybe our
fridge is not very efficient it came
with the house and it's not you know
it's not in the best of shape and so
after running it so what I did is I
plugged it in and first of all we need
to know the cost per kilowatt hour right
how can this thing figure out how much
the electricity cost if it doesn't know
our overall like what is the government
charging us magic yeah that's like Bob
just like that it knows so I pulled out
our power stream bill and this bill has
our breakdown for the month and next to
our electricity usage you see the
kilowatt hour cost which is 18 cents per
kilowatt hour here in Ontario so we also
have off-peak hours and things like that
you want to know how much it costs
off-peak then you can factor that in as
well okay but for the sake of my knowing
how much this is costing me I really
want to use here's here's what it's
realistically call me like a scenario
worst-case scenario I like a fridge it's
running on peak and off-peak so you
might have yes so on peak is 18 cents
per hour per kilowatt hour versus 13
cents during winter
mid peak and I guess it's going to
fluctuate it's going to change yeah
you're there so how do we do this okay
so first of all this device we just
simply need to tell it I got to figure
out all my buttons here I got so many
but so many buttons so many buttons okay
so now do keep in mind this is not
plugged in but because of that built-in
battery it does have all of the
information loaded and the dislocation
we're going to come up to but if I push
the cost button you can see I've set
that to my 18 cents to configure that
I'm just going to hold my cost button
down and it will start flashing let's
see there we go so now press function
and you can navigate function again to
move because we're not into the dollar
we're into one so I can go down for zero
up for one and then hit function again
to get to the eight and I can change
that accordingly so it's very very
accurate to live my bill because I'm
setting the kilowatt cost that the
government is charging me so my fridge
the the math came through after so what
I did is I ran it for 54 minutes and 20
seconds on on my fridge okay well went
and watched a show with my wife and then
came back and unplugged it and because
it's got the battery I could do that
it's great so it shows us the low was
11.1 watts the high was seven hundred
and ninety four point four so not
terrible less than a computer that's got
yeah our behind it but in 54 minutes and
20 seconds
it cost me two cents Oh
two cents two cents in it okay in about
an hour so to set our to result rate to
refrigerate it to a cue cold it's not a
lot of money so 48 cents a day right
it's not it's not much a for any cents a
day that's it so factor that into the
month let's grab a calculator here so
that we can start doing some actual math
okay cool so we've got 60 divided by 50
for point
- because that's approximately how long
54 yeah 20 seconds is not actually point
- but it's close enough so that's one
point one handsome change so multiply
that by my cost will give me the hourly
so 0.02 so my hourly cost is about 2.2
cents so if we take that and multiply
that by a day so 24 hours 24 is about 53
cents per day okay okay so not anything
to write home about
multiply that by you know say 31 for a
month it's costing me anywhere between
about fifteen to sixteen dollars $16.50
per month to have my fridge running
that's worth it it's absolutely real
food now I know now I know my fridge is
actually not costing me a whole lot of
money so when I get that 180 dollar
electricity bill my fridge is not really
a huge part of that
so rusting now my unit only plugs into
110 120 outlets so I can't plug this
into like my washing machine that's 240
oh my god no there are other devices in
order to do that but for this one I can
only do the appliances to plug into a
standard 110 120 LS Wow
so next up okay what else do I have in
my house that's possibly using some
electricity hair dryer set it nope start
a hair dryer you're only using for a few
minutes and you can off right star
gazers lecture my stargate kit here like
she like your computer - computer
computers I got like this sucker my
unread server is is oh pretty big it's
got I think eight or nine hard drives in
it oh my gosh okay it's got two Xeon
processors oh no how I just um - great
big honkin Intel Sam thanks Nancy you
don't need to like have a heater at your
house you just get your like computer
like your raid setup just to heat your
house for you you don't even know the
half of it it's a it's in a rough in in
our last Minh and in that rough in it is
significantly warmer than the rest of
the house absolutely so it's like a
sauna room that's how honestly I'm so
interested I run two servers at home one
of them is our our own raid server which
is our file storage all of our family
photos and family stuff plus all of the
category 5 backups go there because it's
off-site from the studio yeah that's a
lot of space so that's why we need so
many hard drives then we have a game
server for the kids to play on as well
so they can connect and do LAN LAN games
and stuff yeah with their friends at the
house so those two systems are running
and I plugged this in oh and this is
where you know this is the disclaimer
sweetheart if you're watching I want you
to turn off the show oh no I don't want
you to see what this is costing us hide
the dog yeah yeah I think I found it and
this is this is where this device is
amazing I would never know I know that
my computer is probably using a lot of
energy yeah I didn't know it was this
bad
ah ok so I still got the memory in here
from before when I left and you see 71
cents is the cost at 18 cents how long
was it running I've turned it on this
morning and unplugged it when I got when
I came to the studio 8 hours and 30
minutes eight hours in 30 minutes ha
okay let's see the cost of that it's
going to be a little bit more expensive
in the refrigerator a little bit okay so
eight hours and 29 minutes let's say
that so that's eight and a half hours
8.5 hours is 0.71 so 24 hours divided by
8.5 is the equivalent of 2.8 to
what would be the math of this so 71
cents for every eight point two nine
hours so eight point two nine divided by
couldn't you could you divide 71 by the
eight point two nine to get the cost one
hour and then times if i seventy was so
71 cents point seven one I hate doing
math well I hate doing math also but
knowing the cost of one hour you divide
the amount by the yeah so eight point
two nine yeah dot seven 1/8 point tune I
mean yes I think so
zero point eight cents per hour so if I
select try it
so then times a pickle eight times per
hour so take eight cents times eight
point two nine so eight point five and
that is sixty eight cents so very very
close yeah right you're right so that's
it so it's about will say zero point
zero eight five cents per hour times
24:01 day is the reaction configure yeah
okay
servers cost me about two dollars and
four cents per day that's right nine
sixty two cents a month no $63 twenty
four cents
come on so sashes right with the math
did you see how we did that we took the
cost so zero point seven one three so 71
cents zero point 7 1 divided by the time
as given in that in hours so we'll go
eight point two nine to make it
perfectly accurate so that's zero point
zero eight five six four blah blah blah
times so that's per hour 24 for 24 hours
so the actual real value without any
rounding or anything is that two dollars
and six cents okay
multiply that by 31 there's 31 days in a
month and a server is costing me 63
dollars and 72 cents per month
great you run it oh that's old if this
device cost less than half of that and
immediately she is going to knock my
electricity bill way down because guess
what's going to happen is I'm going to
start turning off my server when it's
not in use or coming off of some other
solution maybe reducing the number of
hard drives in there because that's
using a lot of electricity right so
immediately this has saved me more than
the value of the device already yeah
just like that and I found one thing in
my house that is bringing up my monthly
amount to by more than $60 so here we've
got bimonthly billing that's a hundred
and twenty dollars per bill Wow that and
remember I said the bill was a hundred
and eighty dollars cranky you could get
some solar panels on that or something
that is a significant folks that is
reality it is that's from two computers
running so and albeit one of them is a
server and it's it's a power hog never
stole like how many families out there
have like two or three computers exactly
you have all these computers all hooked
up you got you know everything else
you've got taxi and we tend to keep old
stuff like oh we don't we don't you know
for the for the kids playroom we're just
going to keep that old TV because we
don't want to you know why bother
spending the hundred and twenty dollars
and replace it with a flat screen or
satellite right and then while it's
costing me of that so the only way to
really know is to have something like
this or to have the genius to be able to
do what orange man did but hey this one
I can just take and plug in and it gives
me the actual cost
[Music]
