what you're a go to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 PP or
email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Robbie
Ferguson's welcome to episode number 173
of category 5 technology TV welcome it's
Tuesday January 11 it's another 11110
auro 111 indeed all this binary data is
wild hey everybody in the chat room yes
hello Eric it it has been insane getting
ready tonight has indeed been insane I
was saying Robbie's insane but but in a
good way I'm a good no I'm not actually
crazy it's just as crazy launched here
because we have a very special guest day
he'll surprise i am here live in the
studio but you didn't think you'd see me
for a while but guess what I'm here I
like the shirt by the way yes yes I am
repping the pogoplug right now last
week's uniform it wasn't here oh she's
got her shirt shutter sure hey tonight
we're gonna be learning how to program
our very own professional sounding drum
beats no I'm not going to do
box and nose yeah okay is that how we're
gonna do it it's exactly framing to do
it it didn't sound professional though
and it didn't look that good and you
should really wipe the spittle yeah I
got hit a little bit wet no not even
mentioned all the spray that you got uh
we have a massive slew of viewer
questions tonight we've got a lot of
mystery testimonials seems our brand new
website at category 5 TV is attracting
the masses and it is so great to have
you there and if you haven't checked it
out yet please do check out category
five dot TV nice to see so many people
joining us in the chat room and yeah we
get this puppy rolling right welcome to
the show 173 and of course if you are
watching this after the fact that show
notes will expose you to links
everything that we mentioned on the show
is going to be outlined there at
category 5 TV this show notes for
episode number 173 now fellas I've got
lots to tell you about what's coming up
and show newswise would you like to hear
love to I'm coming up in the newsroom
you guys can anticipate hearing about
the brand-new pogoplug video brings on
the fly instant HD video to the cloud
the shifting North Pole has forced the
tampa airport to close a runway
Nintendo's 3ds handheld gaming system
can harm your young child hmm and thus
adega gaming service is shutting down
but refunds are available so stick
around for the latest from the category
5 TV news room she says tadaga I say
kadaga whichever new I've never said it
it really ain't you've never said it you
sound like you're just dying over there
are you gonna have to leave halfway
through the show tonight I'm we don't
maybe if we get awesome Irish in my
coffee mmm no perhaps not perhaps not
not tonight you need to make it do so I
shouldn't get all the questions we have
questions here's what I bet you don't
have an answer for and Hilary if you
like to be ready for two took a lot of
the look fewer testimonials on our new
side of course ya hear from some of
those this is from Gator man hey Gator
man and Gator man who's on Ubuntu 10.04
ubuntu
yes why does planet calypso not support
linux place short sweet I'm afraid for
you to be talking to me talk to them
because it's a lot less risky for me
planet calypso is based on the CryEngine
to gaming engine which is it's part of
the CryEngine line of gaming engines so
that's from Far Cry it's a windows based
platform i think it's DirectX only if
I'm not mistaken it's it's fantastic as
far as the graphics go in the gameplay
it's perfect for a massive multiplayer
online game and the decision was made by
entropia universe or first planted
company when they migrated from the old
engine over to the CryEngine to that it
was worth the sacrifice of other
platforms knowing that people who are
really serious about the game will not
mind so much doing them like a dual boot
for example so really it's about on jaws
for mine it's called mine dark first
planet company is their fake name as far
as it goes in the game it's all good
they've got so many compania Entropia
universe okay that's what we're talking
about but essentially it's the engine
that they use for the game it's not
compatible with linux and that is you
know that's something that intropia
universe uses and it's been developed by
another company cool
so they're worth the dual boot okay yeah
way up time for more questions I bet I
bet we do here's ago we got so many
questions this week we're I ok bro so to
fly through mrs. from Jim into the
vitamin extravaganza down a potato
country ok hi Robbie do him do you know
an easy way to get TV out working I have
a geforce FX 5500 with s-video load
nvidia drivers version 17 3 dot 1 428 I
tried editing my ex configuration file
with no luck and had to reload OS I
guess I'm not that savvy yet I attached
a copy of oh he's got his ex
configuration file to demonstrate PS i
would like to watch my movies on my 36
inch jvc CRT thanks i also would like to
watch your movies on your 36 inch jvc
CRT it's not a peep that takes up a lot
of real estate sure does both this way
and that way you're coming tradition
yourself there Jim when you say you'd
like an easy way and then you're and
then you're getting into the xorg.conf
which is is a bit more complicated we
can do it with the GUI which is as far
as I'm concerned the easy way and the
way to do that is in your system
administration because you're using an
nvidia card and you said that you're
using the nvidia proprietary drivers
under administration you're going to
have a nice little button here called
nvidia x server settings i click on that
the second option here on the menu is x
server display configuration and you'll
see that I only have the one monitor
you're going to see two different
monitors there so you'll be able to
select your screen right click you'll be
able to enable configure set it up with
twin view so that you'll be able to
basically take your movie and drag it on
to another monitor essentially it's the
way that you'd want to do that so the
way that you'll see that because you've
got the two monitors is something along
these lines side by side you're going to
have your two displays one is going to
be your computer's display the other one
is going to be your TV the s-video
output and that should get you there
that's called nvidia x server settings
and it's available under system
administration in ubuntu linux when you
have the proprietary nvidia drivers
installed on your bluetooth system
alright i hope that points in the right
direction alright oh we have more this
is from i'm going to say Emma chi Robin
yeah I'm okay okay hello i bought a UPS
for my ubuntu lucid box it connects to
the computer by a USB here's the
relevant line from the l sub open bus 05
device 02 ID and agile erinc okay I
can't find out how to configure and
monitor the battery I was hoping it
would show up in power manager like on
my asus netbook the extra tab for
battery but it only shows on the AC
power and general tabs even after a
reboot how do i configure the power
manager to show the battery tab and by
the way don't ever go off here Thanks
okay
I don't think that was a request that
was it that was a command yes nemikhay
he said thanks we'll do our best okay
that's the plan dude honestly okay we
don't ever go off the air first of all
lsusb is a Linux command that allows you
to list all your USB devices all right
like LS USB so that's what that is what
you're going to need is nu T how drivers
and what that gives you is the basically
USB support I'm going to go into
synaptic package manager just a game to
do this through the GUI keep it simple
system administration synaptic package
manager and do a quick search here for n
UT da cal there we go and UT Hal drivers
network ups tools for the Hal interface
what the hell interface means is that
it's going to allow it to connect to
like you're saying directly to your
existing power monitoring in a boon to
the gnome power managers what what it is
so that is going to allow you to use
those USB UPS's most of the time if you
install that shouldn't shouldn't require
a reboot or anything just if worst case
unplug it and re plug in the USB device
but that should then be detected by noam
power management I should just come up
if there are any issues with that as far
as you know it's not detecting for some
reason sometimes the House version of
the the USB drivers for four NT can have
some problems so you can use the
terminal version as well
just by installing any OT but that's a
little bit more complicated so nu T dash
Hal dash drivers and i'll post a couple
links in the show notes for episode of
rescue the computer nu T Liz oh oh how
is Hardware access layers of all capes
and nut or nu T is Network ups tools
such a nut mm-hmm ok I hope that helps
I'm kind of looking here and keeping an
eye on things but i will post a couple
links there for you in in the show notes
for episode number 173 Cheers you don't
remember the computer 2001 how yeah yeah
oh yeah that's that's what I was not
mumbling about okay okay I took you
literally are you new no I am just noob
ok Hillary how are you doing over there
all I'm doing great yeah just you know
lurking on the internet monitoring the
chat room checking out the World Wide
Web could we take a look at some of the
viewer testimonials just to hear from
some of the viewers who have been
checking out the site this week most
certainly the only thing is I don't know
how far back we have red wheat hasn't
read any from the new site actually well
alright i will start with one from
january first from Scott Evans from
Australia he writes to us hi Robbie
Aaron and Hillary I'm submitting this
just in case i missed the first live
show for 2011 the new website looks
really cool and i'm now caught up back
on on back episodes as we've had some
friends visiting from vancouver so I
plan to be more active this year within
the cat5 community keep up the great
work as it is surely appreciated thanks
Scott that's awesome got another one
here from Greg hi Robbie and all been a
busy year for me so I missed some of the
shows but I do watch them when I get a
chance Robbie has shown me a lot of
stuff through the years and I am very
thankful for that I hope to start
watching the show live again soon thank
you
much from Greg got another one here from
how field hi Robbie Eric and all the
crew I've been watching category 5 from
the beginning maybe episode 2 I can only
thank Robbie for the knowledge he shares
and always with an entertaining and
courteous style I have never seen Robbie
annoyed expect for though except perhaps
when he burnt his head fishing and had
to wear a cloth cap oh the new site
looks great and again many thanks
talking tech I got the more should I
keep going oh yeah maybe a couple couple
more quick ones sure thing I love to
hear from the viewers Hilary we do I
mean it's like it's it's our it's our
food over here oh yeah it's great to
hear people and because everyone's from
around the world to right so it's really
cool it keeps us all together and
connected got one here from Troy from BC
hey Robbie a gang thanks for another
great year of content every single show
I learned something new about a boon to
and technology in general keep up the
good work and have a fantastic 2011 PS
the new website is leaps and bounds
better than the old one cheers and I got
two more can I keep going ok I can go
all night Jeremy V from Kentucky rights
to us watch the show off and on since
2009 when I started playing with various
USB linux distros mural was one of the
media packages that rivaled itunes so
while I'm is still a pc guy your show
and my netbook with mint usually show me
something cool every time I watch right
and lastly Dennis Finnegan from the US
rights to us saying the new website is
great really shows off your talents
Robbie wish I was less busy so I could
spend a day here and watch the episodes
i miss but i'll just have to catch up
when i can as you really don't need the
giveaways but oh you really don't need
the giveaways but it's nice to get a
freebie every once in a while because of
you i installed woobie on my asus
netbook but i can't connect to my Wi-Fi
yet i may have to ask you the master for
help my daughter now runs ubuntu after
she couldn't get rid of a virus on
our windows vista pc after three years
of sitting on the floor i finally
installed my second monitor why were you
sitting on the floor for three years
yeah why but I'd like to know wait it
was the computer my apologies attention
to themselves was your misplaced monitor
it's entirely possible um anyways you
didn't realize would be that simple you
might want to explain it in a show thank
you for all your help and eric is a nice
touch too but you really need another
great looking female to attract the
stronger sex haha okay ladies and
gentlemen may I a Hillary here welcome
back Hillary here thank you thank you
everyone and thank you everyone for your
comments and your lovely shout outs
because we really appreciate that so
drop us a line send us a testimonial
yeah you can do it on our website
category 5 TV and just click on interact
and you'll see the new testimonial
system and cool thing I I don't know if
you notice this Hillary but the new
system actually supports video
testimonials and I really encourage our
viewers to give that a try if you've got
a webcam or a digital video camera that
you can record yourself as actually
giving a testimonial love to get a hold
of that and we'll certainly you know
that gets posted on the website but also
it it will eventually be used in
promotional things like when we do our
anniversary show and everything I'd love
to have some viewer testimonials does
make sure you wear pals well that's kind
of important it before we stuff speaking
of appreciative viewers we had somebody
stop in I guess about a week and a half
ago that's right and just blew my mind
and I just I don't want to spend too
much time on the product itself because
we're going to do that down the road but
but I just want to give shouts out and
and just how amazing was it that we
actually had a viewer named Ian who came
came by the studio a week and a half ago
or so and both Eric and myself were here
and I think he had like a prepared
speech or some it kind of felt like he
was he wanted to just say you know thank
you for for what you do with category
five and and you know just was really I
was really touched by his
gesture to say you know thanks for what
you do we're in our fourth season of
category five and we do this for free
and you know sometimes there are you
know we get donations and the occasional
advertiser and stuff so that's that's
really cool but this this guy showed up
and and said here I'd like to give you
this and presented me with and literally
presented me with ya and ipod touch 4g
amazing yeah which is way cool very cool
and I've really been enjoying enjoying
it and I'd like to what I'm going to be
doing is I'm going to be preparing to
give the you know because I'm an open
source believer and and you know I'm
always wanting to promote the open
source software and non-proprietary
hardware so my perspective on the ipod
touch i think is a little bit different
than the average fanboy truth i told i
think it is but I have to admit I'm
pleasantly impressed with the feature
set and what I can do for free on the
ipod touch with the app store and then
the amount of free apps that are
available being able to VNC or rdp into
my computer and control the camera
angles for example that's something that
that I've been testified you were just
texting people I text I've got the chat
room I've got a little during the show
I've got email absolutely well and it's
fully internet connected through Wi-Fi
so it's in all essences and there are
many devices like this it's really like
having a little pocket computer that you
can take with you anywhere you go as
long as you've got wide a little wrinkle
just put a nice little wrinkle a little
jacket on it that's it's got the hard
component and the soft component to
protect it if I if it ever gets dropped
or whatever I've got the protective
screen on it I mean that's the most
important thing when you get a device
like this is making sure that you have
not sure I actually had a message from
Ian I will I won't read it verbatim Oh
is he here no no no Alyssa earlier today
oh yeah I had a text I hadn't heard from
a few days okay I said what's up and he
said Bo
his phone couldn't swim in Atlanta
landed in a in a certain well it wasn't
porcelain but it was on a greyhound even
though he did not go back in for it so
he hasn't his new shiny phone brilliant
yeah but you said the protective thing I
don't know whether that would have
really helped it wouldn't help against
no likey no one hurt stuff it is
certainly not waterproof there are
people asking especially gadwal and and
things like that in the chat room just
wondering you know if this truly does
have every app that you would ever need
and i think it's it's true but it does
well is that a fart machine said what
confession it is your virtual whoopee
don't ask people that's nice it's got
everything anyway so we're gonna be
taking a look at that from my
perspective as somebody who believes an
open source very strongly and certain
I've been really enjoying it I think
it's really great those were baked beans
not too cool beans Hillary haha but I'm
Shh this is category 5 technology TV
you'll find us online triple w category
five dot TV nice to have you here don't
be nursed it could be four of us we see
that like there is Johnny call you hear
the restaurants being quiet but yeah hey
John is all right I'm ready ok well this
is from Spidey Spence and enjoyed your
video on YouTube regarding the pogoplug
I am enjoying it as well though having
some setting issues the people at
pogoplug feel it is a bug with their
iphone app i'm able to stream all mp4
media over wireless and 3g through their
web based page but not the app my upload
speed is
point 0.51 megabits per second and
download anywhere from 18 to 11 megabits
per second i am with rogers and i'm
running a wrt54g router any suggestions
i'm making sure it is not my rotor
causing issues thanks a lot for your
time I have been searching for settings
for this with no luck thanks again ok of
course this wrt54g from linksys is a
good route or two to change the firmware
if you'd like to if you want to put
dd-wrt on that that's an option so but
we want to rule that out your question
is how can we rule out the rotor neat
thing about the pogoplug is that you can
take that device anywhere in the world
you can take that to a family member's
house that has high speed internet plug
it into their router you can take it to
school you can take it to an internet
cafe anywhere at all plug it into the to
the ethernet and boom it's got you've
got access to your to your router so
from your device you know take take that
somewhere else ok hug it in and then try
it from your device just to rule out
your router I think that was a try what
a presentation yeah exactly so but the
pogoplug can be placed anywhere so
that's that's what's really neat about
and also do check for any kind of rogue
applications on your network you say
you've got quite a bit of upstream but
if there is something running on one of
your computers that's for some reason
taking that up then you can have some
problems so might want to just you know
shut down all your computers on your
network at the same time and just see if
that if that resolves it and if it does
maybe you've got something like you know
a peer-to-peer software or something
that's running on one of those systems
windows can sometimes get those as
viruses and they're used to mass mail or
you know to do those kinds of things
and that takes a lot of bandwidth so you
may not know that it's happening shut
down all your computers or unplug your
computers just have the pogoplug plugged
into the router and and keep us informed
let us know yes let us know you like
that okay there's another one this one's
from steve c and this is a from the new
site he's running XP / 7 okay hi I would
like to take this opportunity to
apologize for this lengthy email and
also congratulate you on the new
category 5 TV website I'm currently head
of the recording team at my local church
we create DVDs and CDs of the services
at our church it has been decided that
we need to upgrade our computer system
we are currently running on Windows XP
but wish to upgrade to Windows 7 this
will require me to buy some ram and
upgrade and an upgrade copy of windows
seven currently we use adobe audition to
record audio but after the upgrade we
will lose this installation I wish to
convert to an open source program and
was hoping you could provide some
suggestions is our da city is audacity
best I would be happy to install Ubuntu
or improve studio or other linux disk on
the system however I believe that this
would disable our ability to print
directly onto the CD face using our
canon pixma IP 4200 many thanks Steven I
see okay a multi-faceted question not
just long way don't it make sense to you
know we need the details in order to be
able to help you out first things first
to answer your question yes audacity is
an excellent open source recording suite
for audio production and things like
that but it's I think it's kind of a
reasonable learning curve it's a little
bit harder to use than some of the other
applications they're out there but it's
it's reliable it's good it can have
problems uh if if I've heard of
uncertain systems where it may have you
know if you're running like a I don't
know
what version but if there is a bug it
can be hard to recover from but
hopefully that wouldn't happen to you
though and whether or not you go with
open sources really it's up to you and I
and I do try to go with as much open
source as I can but there is a piece of
audio production software that I prefer
because it is it's not open source it's
not free but it's it's cheap it's
affordable and it works really really
well it's extremely reliable I've never
had trouble with it and it's under
constant development by one guy oh it's
made right here in Canada as a matter of
fact I think it's well the guy's name is
chris but it's gold wavecom not to push
you away from audacity try audacity if
you're looking for open source
absolutely but my personal preference
just because of ease of use and because
it is affordable is this application
called goldwave it's a fantastic audio
recorder / editor it records unlimited
it'll fill your hard drive with high
quality recording you've got everything
that you need at your fingertips it uses
all different kinds of plugins this is
windows only it will work under wine
though if you do decide to go to the
Linux route but as you were saying okay
and again that's cool pardon me gold
wavecom $49 for lifetime license and you
get the updates and everything like that
and I do stand by and I think it's a
great piece of something usually a there
are gold watch and download and try
before there is a frozen eight-year I
yeah and you can keep using that
indefinitely and especially in part me I
think you're passing it around eight
idle voice with the free version you can
try you could put that through a whole
service and you're just recording one
thing so you would basically press
record at the beginning of the of the
sermon press stop at the end save it as
a WAV file or an mp3 or whatever you
want to do probably save it as a wave so
you've got that master file that's
lossless and then compress down to an
mp3 from there just by going file save
as and you can install lame all the
instructions are on the website but I'd
be happy to walk
through it but yes there is a free
version that will work just me but do
support when you've got a piece of
software like that I like to support it
and like like I say 49 bucks for an
entire lifetime of updates it's very
good so that's that next was your could
you do it on Linux looks like it here's
a document that I found on the blog on
penguin twitter com and this talks about
is just basic information about how this
user encountered the same issue we're
using the boon to Linux with the IP 4200
from Canon and had trouble getting it to
select the correct tray for printing
directly on the disk surface on
printable cds what they did is they
change the printer driver to have the
media size as a CD of five inches media
type is CD which you'll find in the
Advanced Options and media source is CD
tray so you need to change those things
in your driver options when you're
printing it from ubuntu linux otherwise
it's going to try to print out on the
paper tray as opposed to on the CD i'll
also post a link to that penguin tutor
com blog entry for you in the show notes
for episode number 173 so that you can
follow through with that and actually
read over what that user has found with
regard to using the IP 4200 on Ubuntu
Linux and of course if you go to the
ubuntu route then you're using open
source software you've got audacity
you've got a slew of available audio
recording applications that you can use
on that computer and and you've got that
whole community of open source people to
to back you up so definitely would be I
think that would be a good rep to go as
well so let us know white what you
actually decide and we'd love to hear
from you but I'll just kind of you know
give you as much information as I can to
help you make that you know the decision
based on that
good luck hope it works out this is
category 5 technology TV i'm your host
robbie ferguson and i'm eric kid and
over that i was looking at more
questions here all we've got will do
those over there we've got a Hillary
honey I'm Hillary and I'm ready to do
the news fantastic Santa from the
category 5 TV newsroom cloud engines inc
announced the latest addition to the
pogoplug product line at CES thursday
the pogoplug video further solidifying
pogo plugs place as the multi media
server offering of choice with the new
version a video encoding chip provides
on-the-fly encoding making your
multimedia content available instantly
and in true HD quality no matter what
device you're using you'll now be able
to watch and share your true HD video
directly from your pogoplug video the
pogoplug video can be purchased for just
199 US dollars i believe and for more
details you can visit cat5 TV / Pogoplug
the shifting of the Earth's magnetic
north pole has forced tampa airport to
close one of its runways to repaint its
designation runway 18 r / 36 l will be
re-designated 19 r / 1 l when it reopens
on Thursday the other runways will
change over later this month the
magnetic north pole has been shifting
towards Russia at a rate of 40 miles per
year for the past decade as reported by
BBC News Nintendo is warning parents
that their new 3ds handheld gaming
device could harm children under six
years old according to the report a
statement on in tendo's 3ds website
warns consumers that there is a
possibility that 3d images which send
different images to the left and right I
could affect the development of vision
and small children well some would see
this statement as a pre-emptive warning
others see it as a red flag feeling that
Nintendo is making sure they can say we
told you so when the lawsuits begin
Nintendo warns users that younger
children should only play the 2d
versions of the 3ds games trans gaming
is closing down the cydia gaming service
which brings windows
gaining to the Linux platform in a
statement posted on their website Friday
it was revealed that the cydia
technology will continue to benefit the
Linux gaming community in a new
incarnation but will become available as
a toolset through the game tree
developer program thus adega gaming
service will stop functioning after
februari 28 and users have purchased a 6
or 12 month membership which is still
active must email email the following
address account at sedaye go that's ced
eg a calm by saturday at the latest and
a refund will be issued for your
remaining time while the updated today
go engine under game tree will not be
made available immediately you may sign
up now for your free game tree dev ID at
game tree Linux com this will ensure
that you get access to the latest and
greatest sedalia technology moving
forward you can get these full stories
at category 5 TV / newsroom the category
5 2tb newsroom is researched by roy w
nash with contributions from gadget
wisdom guru becca ferguson and our
wonderful fabulous community of viewers
if you have a news story you think's
worthy of honor mention send us an email
at newsroom at category 5 TV for the
category 5 TV news room I'm Hillary
rumble
category 5 TV is brought to you in part
by planet calypso this massive
multiplayer online game is available as
a free download from cat five dot TV /
Calypso now once you've got two
downloaded and installed on your Windows
computer make sure you say hi and
there's something for everyone here on
planet calypso from hunting to mining
crafting and just plain socializing and
having fun with your friends you can
download it for free at cat five dot TV
/ Calypso if you're a Linux user like
myself of course this makes it worth the
dual boot cat5 TV / calypso i'll see you
on planet calypso this is category 5
technology TV and you'll find us online
triple w category 5 TV and tonight we're
going to learn how to give you a beat
we're going to give an erica beat all
right height of GT no synaptic package
manager is how I'm going to do it in a
boon to linux very cool just do a search
for hydrogen now remember i'm on a boon
to you might be on another linux distro
and you can get that out of you know
your standard repositories it should be
in there or of course we'll be sharing
the website address with you as well at
the end of the show hydrogen is a free
drum machine / step sequencer and yes it
does support midi input as well and
we're going to we're gonna check out
some of the stuff that we can do with
this which stands for musical is for a
digital interface absolutely sure does
just let's drill this hydrogen i'm going
to select for installation and as well
let's now it's going to give us all the
extra stuff that we need let's get
hydrogen drum kits as well that's gonna
give us all those extra kicks and snares
and I've hit apply I'm gonna go through
and and let that install so is good yeah
so when you're gigging you're doing a
you know whatever show you're doing well
I would want to drop a beat not drinking
beer and play guitars yeah you want to
drop a beat if you had a laptop computer
for example okay you could sit down
beforehand program it in all your beats
save them as the name of the song and
then when you go to play you just select
the one that you want to play hit play
and you've got it exactly the way that
you practiced it of course this can be
used for many other things as well if
you want to just jam and you don't have
a drummer perfect here goes almost
arrows good to be yeah you wait
I was bringing the electric drummer with
me even when I have have a real drummer
you know just sort of what we look let
them know what's here in the bus yep by
the way I try to behave don't mess
around try to behave don't mess around
drummers are the worst kind of breed
aren't they I regular I'm going to be
quite a rare display of me keeping my
moshi Ryan and all our other drum fans
out there okay here we go and they're
probably thinking hey how could you show
them how to use a sequencer that's a
sore spot well I'll get sensitive though
the changes have been applied it's going
to close that and let it let's see let's
see what this thing looks like so here I
am in a boon to linux on my laptop I'm
going to go into sound and video now
I've got the hydrogen drum machine
Meredith in a sad looking a little
penguin with set of drumsticks well yeah
ok so here is our kit and did you notice
how quickly i got this i did notice that
how quickly is set out it's working it's
ready to go we can start laying out
those phat beats well i was thinking
maybe we could just get maybe dotted
quarter ate half on the base and we can
do that too and something on two and
four on the snare and i mentioned that
we have many input we also have keyboard
input so you'd have to find your way
around the keyboard find out where
what's where so you just spelled oh well
there we go that's why music didn't work
out for me single-click will let you
sample any of the samples if you're not
happy with the kit look over here sound
library we've got all these system drunk
it's the system drum kits or even has my
old drummer there go to roll TR 626
really there for floats 3626 there we go
ok so i'm going to right click on that
one and go load now that's loaded the TR
626 there it is here's our step
sequencer which is defaulted to eight
eight steps so for force time and we can
lay down a kick beat this is my kick
drum okay
I'm going to put that on the one so now
hit space okay we're running by default
in 120 beats per minute so far so good
meet up with but I was saying we but
what do you want we're going to pick the
snare that sounds best with this that's
that's kind of where you want to rim
well we could do a little shopping
punchy what kind of things we want to do
the bluegrass isn't you could put it on
the 8th nose off it goes okay that works
let's start with that
I'm gonna change my res 2 16 so that i
can add quarter notes i get rid of that
base check by single clicking again okay
we stop plans oh I just thought was
watching oh we ready song joong okay
okay oh you only keep so yeah so let's
say we want to drop let's put down a
high hat okay and you could play with
this is the fun thing is that you don't
have to be a musician to play with
something like a step sequencer you can
just have fun hear it in your head and
just have a good time with it know that
you know if we're in for force time we
have to have that consistent kind of
dune dune doing something along those
lines find what kind of hat we'd like
okay so you see how much
we have a bug
so just to show you a little bit more
advanced how you can work with that step
sequencer so that's the most basic
incarnation of hydrogen here which is a
free software available for your linux
desktop pc the linux laptop and you can
program any amount of drum beats
basically with all these kits that are
included for free so that what we've
done is we've created pattern one so if
we switch playback mode to song instead
of pattern we can now loop that so let's
say we want that beat to happen four
times okay so you have it happen so now
we can trigger our next pattern for the
next four right so let's change patterns
here okay amazing over to 646 but its
ways your program oh yeah so here let's
let's change it up a little bit so you
know what I can actually do I can layer
why don't I layer these patterns on top
of each other okay so now this is going
to be like a ride symbol or something
coming in after four
wherever you place it controls where
that ok so if I play the song from the
start you're going to hear that it's
going to play my first beat and then all
of a sudden the ride is going to Canada
when this starts that's a very very
basic incarnation of how hydrogen is
able to work but of course being that
there are so many different drum kits
there's a lot of opportunity for you to
play around make some music and if you
have any knowledge like be a you know
playing guitar or even just even if
you're just learning the guitar it's a
fun way to you know put down a basic
beat it's the heck go to the restroom
yeah it really does think a little more
fun yeah and you can you can really you
can make it build because you know how
the song is going to progress so you can
take those patterns and you can create
new patterns for say the chorus for
example so when the course reform role
yeah you can do a little bit less true
because as I've shown here you can
actually layer patterns on top of each
other so this doesn't have to be pattern
one and then pattern to it can be
patterned one and then add pattern to
write this so there's a lot to it that
way
so that is hydrogen gain available free
of charge it is available in synaptic
package manager if you're in a boon to
user it's available in your repositories
if you are on any flavor of linux I'm
sure it's there and if not we will
actually have the well i'll give you the
link for it right now it's available for
download for many different platforms
hydrogen dash music org and there is an
old basically like a better version of a
windows installer as well so if you're
on Windows and you still want to give it
a try that might be an option for you
with that so it's not really meant for
the newer one of those versions button
well what I mean is that they had
created a windows installer there
focuses more on linux so it's kind of
fallen by the by the wayside and that's
older but but it's a functional system
it's really really cool and then again
as I was saying you could save your your
beats as you go and you'll that you'll
be able to recall those again load up
yeah check it out hydrogen dash music
org this is category 5 technology TV
okay you'll find us online but category
five dot TV nice to have you here hey
hell howdy I you're here and I can't
hear there you are I'm hidden behind in
the secret corner of the studio angel I
project yeah that's good to see ya thang
well we've got a couple minutes to
squeeze in your questions category 5 TV
you'll find us in the chat room and
would love to see ya make sure you say
hi well here's one from gym again and
Jim loves the show frustrated on the
fact that I can't seem to get the show
on my tivo series 3 ah I have looked on
the internet can't seem to find a
workaround any ideas thank you Jim
tebow requires us to apply for inclusion
on their service and we've gone through
the process many times and and they have
to actually approve you to be a part of
their distribution mechanism so last i
had checked we were still pending
approval on the tivo and i'll show you
what i see tivo approval requested and
that's literally all that i see ya so
you heard yes hang in there the request
is out Tebow knows we exist it is just
it's wait for them to say yeah you know
what let's get this program on on our
device and you know sometimes it's
sometimes it's difficult to get on to
different devices but we do everything
that we can to try to make sure that the
show is accessible to you in the
meantime of course we do have other
mechanisms for you to be able to watch
the show and I hope that you'll stick
around and enjoy the show however you're
able to yeah in d thanks for watching
stick around mm-hmm we have another
question this one's from Dennis Kelly
Hey hi Robbie is enemy territory quake
Wars free to download hmm thanks this
was sent using his blackberry thought
i'd share that that's random that's an
interesting question because enemy
territory traditionally was always free
fantastic game it was it was basically
the the predecessor to or not the
successor pardon me too Wolfenstein ah I
remember the
so enemy territory came along totally
change things as far as online
multiplayer gaming and stuff you know
that we're talking after Unreal
Tournament game of the year edition and
we're talking like next step and it was
available for free then we find out the
enemy territory was actually a trial run
that they were using to create this
ultimate online gaming experience with
quake Wars so quake Wars as a commercial
application enemy territory is still
available free of charge so if you want
the quake wars game that you have to pay
for if you'd like enemy territory you
can get it right off of their website
it's available as a free download and
it's available of course for linux and
for windows and for mac and and it's a
good game as well it's it's all designed
to be a multiplayer head-to-head what
I'm going to do is let's call this one
ET X for us no enemy territory cat five
dot TV / ET now will actually give you
the the free downloads of enemy
territory that's pretty cool that is
really added that button to Firefox
today thank inhale it would be good to
be able to throw your URLs right live on
the show yeah there you go cat five dot
TV / ET will give you an enemy territory
but not quake wars because quake Wars is
indeed a commercial application
enjoy thanks Anna okay here's another
one from my form and this is from Larry
and Eli Larry's running ubuntu hello
category five team I'm in need of a
storage solution I require 10 terabyte
of storage space that I can mount as one
drive I checked out the series on unraid
and I don't think it will satisfy my
needs from what I understand you can't
span all the drives into one large drive
am I wrong do you have any ideas as to
how I can accomplish this I'm thinking
of freenas but I haven't had a chance to
look into it yet windows solutions are
out of my price range regards Larry all
right Larry just a slight
misunderstanding with regards to how
unraid works and I stand by on rate i
really really love my own right server
it's it's just he loves his own I really
do it just runs I don't have to think
about it but it is commercial freenas is
free so depends on what you're looking
for as far as that goes because there's
that debate right which one do you go
with but you saw unraid you know what it
does so how does it work with your 10
terabytes so you build up that array to
the point where it shows as a 10
terabyte capacity let me bring up my own
rate server here and I'll show you how
this works it sounds like a pile of
storage did ya
that's how well it works is that I had
to type my password three times because
I couldn't remember what it was but
that's okay I'll go to on menu so my own
raid server has one two three four five
six seven eight drives in it with a
total of three point one nine terabytes
so you can get that up to 10 terabytes
if you like by simply using bigger
drives I've used a lot of little dry is
there a little bit of the size of the
drive you can use their know so see
notice that I've used a bunch of cheap
old drives that I've had laying around a
couple of 320 gangs so my my array is
fairly small 3.19 terabytes which is
actually really big more than you know
it's lasted us this long and we've still
got a lot of space left three 156 gigs
free so the way that it works is that
now I create a user share to my own rate
bonds and what it does is that share now
I mount it on my computer as a hard
drive so it shows up on my computer as a
single hard drive even though we know
unraid has multiple hard drives so now
when you save anything to that drive
it's actually saving across multiple
hard drives plus your parity disk so
you've got that redundancy as well so
while it isn't a single hard drive it's
not creating a volume of one drive its
access to your computer as one drive or
one samba share essentially if that's
the way you want to do it so for example
if you were just going to create that
one drive you could but you may not want
to do that you may find that it actually
works better to split it up
different shares let's say it was just
called on right so you create a share
called unraid and that is your one share
on the entire unraid server mount that
to your to your computers and that shows
up as whatever drive you mounted ads or
whatever mount point you mount it as and
anything you drop onto that goes on to
whichever Drive unraid allocates it to
go on to plus the parity so so it does
work like one drive to you so it's just
not traditional rate in the sense of how
raid actually creates like a volume a
little bit different but works the same
form and user standpoint as far as that
goes so so don't give up on on right I
think it's still a great great solution
for what you're looking for okay and
definitely freenas is another another
good one all right another question here
from ellicott sure old Robbie and
Friends OS that's a Hillary John here
okay I need to install ubuntu lucid on a
computer without internet access i have
the iso on a the ok and i had
successfully used it as a live system on
that machine how do i perform the post
install updates upgrades and video
driver for instance without internet
access is there a way to download an iso
image that contains up to the minutes so
to speak updates that i can direct the
newly installed 0 bluetooth did you see
noodley i did not safe I have no idea
what I want to see the closed captioning
whatever it was i searched of all just
so you know you're given gadget wisdom
guru some ideas as he thinks that Robbie
and friends sounds like a great variety
show coming up next after this
well Hiller is just putting on her tutu
now so we should better believe it sure
okay so there's there's so many
different ways you can do it apt on CDs
is something that's really cool for
getting apt like software Debian
packages that you want to be able to
install through apt look up apt on CD
that's available in the repositories on
a boob tube but that won't do anything
for your drivers but you know what
drivers you need for your nvidia chipset
and stuff right so you can download
those from their website you're not
going to get the same ones as the abou
new system then there's the other option
of install it as you want it to work on
your computer on another computer or in
a virtual machine and then use
clonezilla and make a basically like an
image of what you're calling an iso of
that part of me that is everywhere with
clothes Oh laughter broke my CD oh I
broke let's say you installed ubuntu
into a virtual machine and this is
theoretical but it should work it
without you know because you don't have
internet do it on a computer that has
internet install Ubuntu into a virtual
machine set it up the way that you want
it get all your updates get all your
software that you need it's not going to
get your video drivers remember because
it's a different video card but you can
download those from the proprietary
website and then make an image using
clonezilla of that and image that back
on to the actual native system and I
should work as well there's different
ways to do it but apt on CD is the way
to get the app stuff get the get the
downloads for the drivers that you need
on on like the nvidia website if it's
and I'm video card for example
so I hope that helps it's a little bit
of a new unique scenario but of course
there's always the you know it's always
it's always a lot easier just to you
know take the take the system somewhere
that has internet let it run all its
updates get it set up to that point
where its operational with the internet
and then take it offline that's the
easiest way cool that's really all the
time we have tonight no guard me what
have you done to me must be something in
the room or something I think so yeah
sorry i really don't you club this cough
yes thanks everybody for joining us are
you doing this show myself next weekend
mmm sorry Hilary what are you uh what
are you doing in town you're just
hanging out I have escaped school
temporarily um no mice class is going on
a field trip I didn't know you've been
on field trips in college but we're
going to see some of Canada's lovely
broadcasting Studios later this week so
I'm just I'm just cruising and one in
the neck of the woods I always love to
come to cat five so I am here yeah
thanks for coming compras ok seems nice
to have you here and we gave us an
opportunity to give you your public
lecture which i think is very loved it
very important see this vision of the
class trip and the teacher care having a
rope develop the kids holding on to it
and following behind it the prof but not
like that huh I hope everybody's had a
good night do get your questions into us
live at category 5 don TV how you can
also email us off our website get
involved in the forum to we've got the
great new community forum on category 5
TV would love to get you involved in
that and it
it's a lot of fun and so we're seeing a
lot more community involvement which is
a big part of what what this upgrade on
the website was all about getting
getting more involved with with our
community and getting our community more
involved with each other and I think
that's starting to happen so very
excited about that everybody have a good
night lab fan Cheers gwg gadwal scorpio
55 join us in the chat room nice to see
Scott Alan Pope Cory qui write a song oh
we really need to know just thinking we
should do like a song a real song a real
support it okay downloadable from our
website only we're gonna be a great idea
the cat5 song yes you watch for a piece
with that we will leave you with this
have a great night ba take caree good
week we'll see you next week I'll be
here speaking of cake I have cake I'm
fine for cake mrs. Doyle I use your
father there's cocaine in it
Oh your knuckle kid was my advice no I
meant him watch call them raisins right
shipment
I want thanks
