welcome to category 5 technology TV
episode number 394 for Tuesday April the
7 2015 I'm Robbie Ferguson I'm Hillary
rumbles so nice to see you nice to see
you thanks for jumping in at the last
minute like that here is here she is it
was Kelsey's night and kelsey is
learning to do the whole driving thing
which is kind of cool and scary at the
same time so if you're in Barry and
let's stay away from the sidewalks good
idea tonight well we this week I mean
you've been looking at our inbox we have
received so many of your emails this
week that we have no choice we had we
have this spectacular thing planned and
we had to scrunch it up and throw it
aside because we've got to go through
your questions that's what we're
committed to tonight so without wasting
any time we're gonna jump right into
fewer questions with another viewer
question extravaganza best one ever
though that's the plan Sasha der made us
Hey hello here's what's coming up in the
category five TV news room researchers
said they've uncovered an active
campaign that's already stolen more than
1 million dollars using a combination of
malware and social engineering you can
now download android apps and launch
them on windows or linux pc mac or
chromebook a russian coder has revealed
how he discovered a way to delete any
video on youtube video game streaming
pioneer on live is to shut down after
selling several of its patents to so me
Mozilla is working on a new feature
called Tracking Protection that is
helping users identify and block
websites that collect personal data even
when do not track is enabled
and an Australian Court has ordered
internet service providers to hand over
details of customers accused of
illegally downloading a u.s. movie stick
around the full details are coming up
later in the show this is category 5
technology TV starring Sasha dramatis
Hillary rumble
christo wells
your kid
and your host Ravi Ferguson
welcome to the show I'm Robbie Ferguson
well how you been keepin it real yeah
you know how I do yeah we've been busy
around here and we got some fun stuff
coming up this weekend we've got
something going on what is what's
happening here at studio D this weekend
well bring in a group of kids and we are
doing like a film festival workshop so
we're teaching kids how to shoot just
basic like video skills shoot edit come
with an idea storyboard in hopes of then
we're going to be making a music video
to submit for the toronto international
deaf have some experience doing that
kind of stuff mine is ronto
international deaf film festival very
cool yeah a lot of fun so it's gonna be
get a lot of kids coming in a good chunk
leg well there always last minute but I
have at least 10 kids confirmed so far
great gonna be pretty packed out oh yeah
good Rayna oh yeah thanks to carry five
for learning the awesome studio space
isn't that cool that we can do that kind
of stuff folks that you know here we are
in the community of Barrie Ontario and
as a volunteer organization you know
being able to participate in these kinds
of things and that's probably something
that you know a lot of these kids are
going to remember for the rest of their
lives and yeah you know maybe some of
them will end up getting into video
production and things like that so it's
exciting and privileged to be able to be
involved in in that kind of thing so
very cool well hey we've got a ton of
questions to get through tonight he'll
so when you're ready you can just jump
into the mailbag in the meantime you
know i'll just say shouts out to
everybody who's joining us and i see
tons of folks coming into the chatroom
and if you're watching on roku tonight
or if you're catching a catching us live
through any of the means of doing that
well get into the chat room great way to
get your questions in and it is a viewer
question extravaganza so it is you
waiting for I just wanted to tell you
all that category 5 TV is a member of
the tech podcast network if it's tech
it's here you can learn more about that
at cat five TV / tpn
additionally we're members of the
International Association of Internet
broadcasters and you can learn more at
cat 5 TV / IA ib thank you to everybody
who has supported category 5 TV this
week through contributions we appreciate
your your financial support to help us
do what we do here but also a lot of
people have been using our affiliate
links which you'll find on our website
category five TV you go to support
support us and you'll see the affiliate
links there amazon is such a wonderful
player as far as supporting the show I
mean you're going to shop anyways and a
lot of stuff can be bought through
Amazon these days so for those of you
who have been using that as a way to
support the show thank you very much
really interesting to see some of the
things I don't see any personal details
of the transactions or anything like
that but but we do get a report at the
end of the month that shows us what has
been purchased through our affiliate
links and and it's really interesting to
see people buying things like gift cards
which you may want to give anyways there
or even deanne's I mean I I might buy a
I use gas as an example because
everybody needs petrol for your car
right so you can buy a gasoline gift
card off Amazon support the show in
doing so and then put it in your gas
tank how cool is that all around yeah
but thank you everybody for all your
help expenses have been on the rise here
at the studio and that's largely well
it's it's it's based on growth I guess
and just the way that things have been
going we've been on a growth trend we're
receiving about 190,000 views per week
here at the network and we're growing so
so that number is increasing but also
we're bringing on more shows we signed
on to new shows this week so it's
official category 5 TV is now category 5
TV network which has always been a dream
of ours to expand in that way so so
we're very very excited about what's to
come from category 5 TV you'll start to
see things rolling out Roku is going to
be one of the first to receive category
5 TV as opposed to category 5 technology
TV which is
category 5 TV now so things will be you
know changing as as that progresses and
it's an exciting time but with that you
know with everything bandwidth is a huge
expense for us right now so I'm looking
at ways to to cut our bandwidth costs as
best I can we're using LTE internet
because of where we're located we have
to use cellular towers in order to get
our internet connection because fiber is
the only fast enough option and it's
through the roof expensive so so LTE is
expensive as you know it's very
expensive to stream HD video through
your cellular connection but it's still
cheaper than fiber so but it has been on
the rise as well and so we're looking at
different ways to to help us keep those
costs down as well as we really
appreciate your support in helping us
offset those expenses thank you I guess
the only change that you're going to
notice is that the show from basically
here on em we're doing experiments
starting with April where after each
episode of category 5 TV that episode
that you've watched live will be
available the following day as opposed
to the same day and that should actually
help us to offset the the band with a
little bit by spacing it out over two
days and actually I can then take the
files with me on a flash drive and
upload a different connection where it's
less expensive so that's going to make a
big difference I'm sure we'll see after
April how it goes yeah so there you have
it thanks everybody okay wow thank you
everybody in the chat room we Agra moto
is asking what kind of broadcast do we
have well what we do we broadcast live
in this resolution which is I think 360
or 480p so that people can watch it on
pretty much any connection you can get
it on your Roku you can get it on your
computer on your phone but then but what
we're actually doing is we're recording
two disc at the same time so you see in
wire cast the record up up there at the
top check out at the top right kilobits
per second 50,000 57
wasn't kilobits per second and so we're
actually recording two discs at this
huge astronomical bit rate and at 720p
so the files after the show are this
giant 720p file that we then have to
process and then upload to to our
various endpoints so rather than doing
that from here through LTE we're going
to take it off site and do it through a
different internet connection which will
be a lot cheaper but it means taking
more time in order to get it to you win
some you lose some but mm-hmm it's all
good you still get your show it's all oh
yeah oh yeah it is all good one day is
not gonna kill you beauty wow thanks for
your input ill one day is not gonna kill
you know I know okay it might kill me
because I like to watch myself right
she's like I got to get home to watch
the show that I just produced I'm not
joking I'm serious all right well yeah
I'll get it to you on an SD card how's
that I accept not unfortunately cannot
do that worldwide let's get into some
viewer questions okay this like inbox is
exploding so we will see how many we can
tackle first question of the evening
comes to us from blythe 55 I'm running a
new program on linux mint 17.1 cinnamon
it is called vuescan but never i never
really installed it like other programs
to start i have to enter this into the
CL and he lists some stuff i don't
understand ok why is this different than
installing something like gimp with an
icon in the program's menu etc can I
look over your shoulder yeah that we're
just kind of you understood translate
say the craziness ok so want to use
vuescan it's not installed like other
programs so i assume they got a tar file
and have just untied it which would be
like an unzip operation on windows so
you get a zip file it has all the files
within one file at our on linux is the
same thing ok essentially so when they
extracted it they've got this folder
full of files look back at
last week's episode episode number 393
okay because we installed and used a
program called duplicate II and it's
similar in that we did it without
installing okay so the difference here
is that so vuescan okay what he's saying
is I go in CD vuescan so change
directory vuescan so that's where you've
extracted it too then chmod you plus x
view scans what you've done there is
you've given executive all rights to the
vuescan file so now it's not just a file
that will open up in your text editor if
you run it it will actually run as a
program Linux is a lot safer than some
other operating systems that we won't
name in that in order to run a file as
an executive all which means it can do
things on your computer you have to
actually give that file permissions to
run as an executive ille so by CH
modding at U plus X he's made that file
vuescan executive so then you type dot
slash vuescan this is what I'm seeing in
this email dot slash means run something
in the current folder ok ok and then
vuescan there's no spaces their abuse
can being the executive will file which
we've already made executive all so the
question here does that does that make
make a make a bit more a bit more clear
sashes shaking her head no it doesn't
that doesn't do it no okay she's a no
learning words well okay basically what
we're saying here is this program
doesn't need to be compiled there's no
Deb package there's no it's not in your
not installing it through synaptic
package manager but that makes me think
is it in apt is it in yum is it in
synaptic package manager maybe that
would be a better way to do it only
because then it keeps it up to date
let's do a really really quick search
vuescan no it's not in there in my
default repositories so what what you're
doing is you're you're executing a file
a program that does not require
installation going into terminal and
you're running it is it a GUI f
believe it is so in that case you can
add it to the menu it's just that it
doesn't do it by default so let's take a
look at how we do that so I mentioned
duplicate II because last week I was
using duplicate a and if i wanted to i
could find the executive all that's the
maybe a bad example because of the fact
that these are exe s and i'm using i'm
using mono in order to run them but
let's just say okay let's just i'm just
going to create a quick folder here test
and in that folder I'm going to just
create a fake file called vuescan
alright we're going to pretend that
that's my executive so what i can do is
i can copy and in linux when you copy
what's really really neat about that
look at what happens if i bring up my
text editor and i pasted it has copied
the actual location of the file okay so
what's cool about that is now i can
right click on my applications menu and
go edit menus and then i can say okay
where do I want this it's vuescan so I I
would assume by the name that that's a
graphic utility I don't really know but
let's say it is graphics now I can go
new item and then I can go okay let's
call this one vuescan and then the
command is tada I paste it in right
wherever it was located and then when I
hit okay now I've got vuescan on my menu
and what does that mean when I close out
of that and I close out of that if I go
applications graphics I've got whew
scared yeah so now I've basically
circumvented the issue of not having
vuescan or whatever application is on my
menu so when you get a distributable
package so this package is obviously
doesn't require anything special so
they've made it so you can just open it
and click on it and that's kind of nice
shot cut that would have been a good
example it's another one where you don't
have to install it or anything whereas a
deb package which would also represent
things like synaptic package manager
apt-get the installation tools that we
can use to
to install programs on our computer on
Linux those things they check for
dependencies they automatically install
stuff they automatically put things on
the menus they're more like like let's
say the setup.exe on Windows they go
through and they set up a bunch of other
stuff so that's the difference okay so
nothing to be concerned about easy to
add the menu item I would just suggest
that you put that vuescan folder
somewhere that makes sense if you're
just a single user environment you're
the only one who needs to use it you
could for example make a folder called
programs in your home folder and drop it
into there and then create that shortcut
so that it's always there if it's on
your desktop or something then it's
gonna you know maybe you did eventually
delete it by accident not realizing it
yeah that's try so it just has to do
with organization of your smile system
likely just name it do not delete this
do not delete this is just a folder of
everything that you don't want to delete
you don't accidentally delete this
folder all right there you have it valid
hopefully that helps come thank you
makes sense of it did it make sense now
well I can't go into any deeper
explanation on that one believe that it
is alright pressing onward we have a
question coming to us from whiskey zero
hey whiskey zero saying hey Robbie what
is lib notify client I saw that on your
twitter page and I'm so curious oh by
the way good luck with the new try it
diet program I'll be watching pass my
regards along to Sasha sure ok so what
is thank you all shafts bombshells okay
live notify client is what is that is a
notification Damon is it a Damon yeah I
think so anyways it's a notification
system for linux and and we linux always
kind of needed to have a universal
notification system that other
applications can use to do pop-ups and
live notify
is one of those solutions so there are
various different ones out there and
that would allow you to create
notifications in an application how does
that affect anyone so imagine you've got
ten different programs all running on
your computer let's use an example
that's really really easy for me to
create because we need easy tonight
because that's where I'm at email you've
got an email health and it's minimized
so you're not watching it actively would
it be handy if up on the screen would
pop up a little notification window that
says you've got mail yes here's what's
from so live notified becomes that
engine to allow that email program to
send a signal to your screen in a little
pop-up window with a little X close it
out tooltips will say things like that
the programmer can develop into it John
uses an application he's located in the
Netherlands and from the Netherlands jot
is able to communicate with us as an
executive producer of the show and in so
doing he's able to let us know if the
camera is not working or if work if our
microphones are off or something like
that which is very very handy for us
because he can't be here physically John
if you if you could just be ready for me
what I'm going to do is I'm going to
bring up Wirecast cam here and I want to
show you what lib notify is able to do
in an environment like what we do here
just really really quickly I've just got
to connect into the camera let's see why
just cam and it's been a while since
we've used the Wirecast cam yeah there
it is okay 103 is the IP address and
connect are we in we're in oh good there
we go okay there we go so yeah we're
gonna do mine minimizing it was just
minimizing email because we don't like
to expose anything private no we do not
have it okay that's to locate our
viewers to reach adam viewers hey do i
madam no man so John okay so does the
job and it does got dropbox we've got
chopped up here under something we can
see what's going on so John just signals
John if you could just make something I
can see what lib notify doesn't see what
will justify the system here this is
Hillary's laptop you can use Hillary's
laptop and once jock gives us a signal
once jock gives us I'm just assume I'm
making the assumption of Josh's son
makes you free John is what I making
some food I better make this very moment
at this very moment I did get a snack
yeah I did get a snack your your life
John get your life John compensate for
time zone compensate for that I guess
the 32nd delays somebody much that
really tell John hey jaja on man hey
Johnny something am I using Debbie in am
I using fine yeah she's on debian here
except see here like that good I very
nice good I very nice very nice oh and
it looks like our sample here or I can
load the job bot if shot himself is not
actually monitoring job on oh ho ki do
it all I want to show you what live
notify isn't much in action here we
could do the news now and then somebody
taught a chance till anybody live
notified John yes somebody doing do that
come on come on everybody let's see here
if I can log into job on jatta oh ja ma
where are you in the Netherlands gonna
go knock on his door okay so uh so I've
got job bought up on my screen so this
is what this is you see what shots I see
that
that's very cool isn't it it's our
little secret you're gonna have to watch
the show show in order to learn what all
this does okay so let's switch back to
our okay let's switch back to her okay
so now I hate needles if I was job now
became person if I was John I can handle
this job so it's gonna go into your top
live notify is gonna be up in the top
right-hand corner yeah okay so you're
set ok so I'm going to say let's say
okay so John now has signaled us from
the Netherlands great job John and so
her system within a certain time is
going to say great job now please see
over here today great so now we also got
a signal over here so that we saw and
out there also just refuse to help us
turmoil screen is being communicated to
us so that that you saw on the laptop is
called lib notify it's a system that
allowed me to write a simple tool that
connects to that database and
communicates it to Hillary so that if
I'm not paying attention and my
microphone is off um then I'll know
it'll be like ding ding hello yeah so
that's that's live notify very cool no
you know a universal system for
notifications turned out jot had to
actually step away for a couple minutes
so he did miss it unfortunately yeah
message I just a message from ja oh it's
gone alright job I Love You Man is it
just that was wonderful timing well
Sasha if shot now we're getting pings
thanks yeah okay uh well we're gonna
jump over to the newsroom if we may and
right now Tuesday April 7 2015 and here
are the stories were covering this week
a sophisticated multi-level cyber
thievery campaign is underway which at
its heart uses malware to trick users
into conducting wire transfers through
thieves posing as their banks technical
help line
Google is blurring the lines and making
it so Android apps can now be run on any
computer be it windows mac linux or
chromebook a russian coder discovered a
way to delete every video from youtube
in a matter of moments many of on lives
patents have been sold to Sony forcing
them to shut down Mozilla is working to
put privacy back in the hands of its
users with their new tracking protection
feature and Internet service providers
in Australia have been ordered to hand
over personal information about users
who downloaded an illegal an illegal
copy of a u.s. movie these stories are
coming right up don't go anywhere what
would you think is a good deal for web
hosting $300 me four hundred dollars I
don't know seven thousand million
gajillion dollars I know that's not a
good deal what if you could get web
hosting for only 70 bucks for an entire
year sounds actually pretty good what if
we could throw in a free domain name
registration like your own com Wow what
if we gave you unlimited email accounts
and unlimited storage space for your
website sounds pretty good you're
supposed to say that's not enough Robbie
what else can I do for me keep giving me
more stuff ok how about unlimited
bandwidth how about a 50 gig offline
off-site backup service this is too good
to be true what 70 bucks go to cap 5 TV
/ dreamhost that's cat five dot TV /
dreamhost and when you're checking out
use the coupon code cat five TV and
you're going to get all that stuff and
more cat five dot TV / dreamhost with
the coupon code cat five TV back to the
newsroom here's Sasha I'm Sasha through
madison here are the top stories from
the category 5 TV news room researchers
campaign that has already stolen more
than 1 million dollars using a
combination of malware and social
engineering the direwolf campaign that
it as it's been dubbed by IBM's IBM
security researchers targets businesses
that use wire transfers to move large
sums of money even when the transactions
are protected with two factor
authentication the heist starts with a
mass emailing that attempts to trick
people into installing dire a strain of
malware that came to light last year the
dire versions observed by IBM
researchers remained undetected by the
majority of antivirus products that's
scary infected machines then send out
mass emails to other people in the
victims address book then the malware
lies in wait IBM security intelligence
researchers John Kuhn and Lance Mueller
explain in their blog post once the
infected victim tries to log into one of
the hundreds of bank websites for which
the Dyer is programmed to monitor a new
screen will appear instead of the
corporate banking site the page will
explain the site is experiencing issues
and that the victim should call the
number provided to get help logging in
Oh as soon as the victim hangs up the
phone the wire transfer is complete the
money starts its journey and bounces
from foreign bank to foreign bank to
circumvent detection by the bank and law
enforcement the success of the direwolf
campaign underscores the need for
improved training to employees can
better spot malicious emails and
suspicious ruses like the one involving
the phone call to the targets banks this
is happening more and more and it's the
scariest thing especially I mean for
this it's large sums of money but it can
happen even with small sums of money I
even my sister's fiance she's getting
married at the end of the summer hmm
he's just finishing up his last year of
university and he got at his university
is on strike or just finished a strike
and he got an email from his university
saying we're going to give you back some
of your tuition money because you've
missed so many classes and all we need
you to do is let us know where you'd
like the money to go and prove that you
are who you are so please give us your
social insurance now oh and your visa
number so we can you know refund you so
Robbie I mean we've done a lot about
fishing so what what do you think that's
that's got to be an inside job because
they got to know who's going on
at school if they know the story of the
strike that you know something's going
on there that's a little fishy but um
unless no and then this oh and a oh yeah
and what's what you're saying now okay
so it's basically now where that gets
into your computer will call it a virus
and if i go to my online banking it says
sorry this site is down please call this
technical support phone number for
service how many people fall for it and
pick pick up the phone and say so this
is a DNS hijacker I would assume so when
I go to that website the hijacker then
intercepts it and serves up this fake
website check for secure certificates
anytime you're looking at a website
because I would assume that you're not
getting the secure certificate when
you're looking at that so we're how do
you check for a secure certificate well
that would be your your browser itself
so when I go to online banking let's
let's bring one up name a bank any bank
teat here in Canada TD yeah so TD Canada
Trust com so when I go to TD Canada
Trust com it redirects and blah blah
you'll see two things first thing is
that the address then skips over to
https that stands for secure it has a
lock next to it and that lock means that
it is a secure connection and it says
when i hover over it verified by
verisign single click on that and it
will tell you a little bit more about
this particular certificate okay i'm
going to zoom out a little bit here for
you it will tell me a little bit more
about the certificate when i click on it
and it says the connection is secure all
right now more information will tell you
a lot more information about who owns
this and what see that this website does
not supply ownership information so
that's just the type of certificate that
it is for some reason TD doesn't have
their name on the certificate but at
least we know that it yes it is a secure
certificate it is they're using 128 bit
encryption which is pretty lame if you
ask me for
Bank a big bank in Canada's using only
128 bit encryption sorry I my kids
personal websites have 256 bit
encryption my combos loan right now I
didn't even know that exists so if you
go to a website that's not secure yeah
it doesn't have the ass does it have
like an unlocked lucky thing or it just
has nothing uh I wonder if I have a
sample of something like sure wouldn't
be so you're like just a general info so
yeah in general everybody should be
looking to see whether or not that lucky
thing is there and then if you're doing
anything that's secure that should be
protected behind a secure certificate so
if i go for example if i skip over to
google.com you'll see it also turns to
secure because i'm going to be entering
personal information into that so if I a
single click on that it tells me blah
blah blah verified by google inc they're
making their own certs that's handy oh
this one also doesn't show any owner
information that may be Oh verified oh
no that may just be that that's what the
browser that's Firefox and they're also
same kind of deal but so a website that
isn't secure let's say category 5 TV
okay notice it did not change to a
secure cert great and that is because
we're not doing any financial
transactions or anything like that or
now but as things change you can you can
go to let's say your website Sasha to
any dot category five dot TV so try a
buy it you'll see did turn to a secure
certificate and it's a little bit
different I have a very secure site do
have a very secure site because as the
internet evolves and as things evolve
more and more everything is turning to
secure certificate websites so that that
data cannot be intercepted by well it
can be intercepted but it can't be read
because it's not plain text it's
encrypted so it can't be intercepted in
a plaintext fashion by I guess you know
the Snowden thing kind of brought it to
light but NSA hackers spies super spies
SuperDuper spies
the way the way this particular virus
works to get around that and the fact
that some people might know that is they
get you to call technical help right
yeah well they intercept it they stop it
so that you don't actually get to TD
Canada Trust so before I get to this
website I've typed in the website
address but instead of getting this
website i get an error message that says
the websites down call this number for
support i call that number they know
enough about me to from the from the
virus to to be able to make make it
convincing and then they take my banking
credentials well what what is your login
username and password so that i can test
it in our system here ok yeah and as
you're doing that as you're giving it to
them they're logging in on another
computer that is getting them to the
site and stealing all your funds scary
you can never be too safe never to say
folks always look for that little lucky
thing a little lucky thing alright
Google's convergence of chrome and
Android is taking a big step forward
this week after launching a limited app
runtime for chrome AKA arc back in
September Google is expanding its beta
beta project to allow android apps to
run on Windows OS 10 and Linux it's an
early experiment designed primarily for
developers but anyone can now download
an APK of an existing Android app and
launch it on a Windows or Linux PC Mac
or Chromebook there are some limitations
by default only one app can be loaded at
a time and you have to select landscape
or portrait layout and whether you want
the app to run in phone or tablet style
developer developers will need to
optimize their apps for arc and some
Google Play services are now supported
right now making that process a whole
lot easier so that means any of my apps
I could run on my my laptop which is
Linux right that'll be cool and I wonder
if the convergent convergence will end
up being a drive to you know the
Chromebooks and I think about how you
know you will now you can run your
right apps on those as well that opens
up a lot of stuff angry birds for one oh
boy oh no but I'm thinking what I'm
thinking is like is things like FL
Studio mobile edition and the ability to
do really cool camera apps and things on
true other platforms and because it's on
google chrome and you don't need to have
android you can do all these things on
any kind of computer doesn't matter what
its running that can be very good that's
great news here's interesting news her
russian coder has revealed how he
discovered a way to delete any video on
youtube a demonstration of the technique
was posted online showing that once he
had copied a part of the videos web
address he could use it to wipe the clip
rather than exploit the hack he instead
reported it to Google who fixed the
exploit within hours and gave him a
five-thousand-dollar reward hmm while
this exploit could have been used to
almost instantly purge YouTube of all of
its video content the coder joke that he
would have been content just to wipe
justin bieber's music videos okay so I
read this story earlier and the first
time I read it I thought this is great
the second time I read it through that's
right I read every news story twice I
thought $5,000 $5,000 come on we really
saving but all of YouTube my goodness
like he's holding YouTube hostage really
like I've got this malicious code but I
choose to release it you know what are
they you and they say thank you here's
five thousand dollars how much money
would they have lost in even one day of
not being 15 minutes talking about the
monetizing videos and how much money and
how much business would be lost and how
much like response from users there
would be if YouTube had all its videos
deleted and the cleanup oh my goodness
this is episode number 394 of category 5
technology TV what would it mean to me
if I lost three
94 episode of the show right having to
upload 394 times 2 gigs per episode yeah
we'd cost you more than five thousand
dollars just yeah I mean what is google
for you all of that work yet I've bigger
thank you a much bigger than much bigger
thank you i think this year the
community could come together and do
better than that giving this guy you
know a penny each this say hey thanks
for this guy deserves a huge reward for
knowing that getting it fixed and not
exploiting it although what he said
about justin bieber is not nice and
Justin fever most recently was roasted
so he doesn't need anymore not nice
wings I don't know I just think that
they aren't gonna touch it folks not
gonna go there a little bit better yeah
alright alright video games streaming
selling several of its patents to Sony
the california-based firm had allowed pc
and tablet owners to play console titles
which were run on its computer servers
but controlled and viewed in the gamers
home Sony is expected to use the 140
patents it is acquired to support its
own PlayStation now streaming service
online was once valued at one point
eight billion dollars but has not been
doing well since 2012 when many of their
staff lost their jobs when the company
was sold to a venture capital firm after
running up about 40 million dollars in
debt while Sony is shutting down on live
in its current form cloud gaming is
alive and well as Sony works to expand
its PlayStation now service which
debuted last month in the UK bringing it
to more platforms and removing the need
to use a gaming console to play your
favorite game titles so I guess this is
just one of those cases where you know
they'll buy it and they'll turn it into
something great takes money to make
money and when you're 40 million dollars
in debt I guess yeah those patents while
they're hot and absorb the feature set
into your own platform makes sense smart
move I like it Mozilla is working on a
new feature called Tracking Protection
that is helping users I
ooph I and block websites that collect
personal data despite the fact that the
browser has the Do Not Track policy
enabled browsers have included an
incognito feature for years now and you
would think that would be sufficient but
it's not some websites still gather
information and that happens even if the
user enables the Do Not Track option
that are present in most browsers today
in a world can turn very much with
privacy having websites get data from
your computer without your consent is a
problem even if it's only cookies or
other meta data tracking is the
collection of a person's browsing data
across multiple sites usually including
content um tracking down sorry tracking
domains attempt to uniquely identify a
person through the use of cookies or
other technologies such as
fingerprinting well Firefox has a Do Not
Track feature that tells websites not to
monitor your behavior companies are not
required to honor it blows my mind Fort
firefox's tracking protection feature
puts the control back in your hands by
actively blocking domains and sites that
are known to track users Tracking
Protection is a very new feature and
it's only available in the nightly
builds of the browser which means it
will take a few months until it reaches
the stable branch I didn't realize like
I just assumed Robbie that when you have
like the incognito on or that never make
this assumption very incognito yeah that
now it's safety town emails with the
president's home address social
insurance number it appears that then
they can't track you know oh wow so now
it's a little bit better I think this is
where there's a misconception I think
even the president the United States
doesn't quite get that if you have a
phone number you can find the person's
name even if it's not on the printout so
if I have your IP address go to max mind
calm blow your mind max mind that's how
we'll remember it all right field jingle
max mind calm for example uses
geolocation service punch in an IP
address
tell you where it is I don't like that
yeah but what's crazy about a tracking
cookies remember we had this discussion
sash a couple weeks back and you
probably remember at home about that
camera that's low resolution in a
shopping yes and they're saying well
it's safe because it it attracts you but
it doesn't know who you are because it's
too pixelated mm-hmm but my suggestion
was well what about the one HD camera at
the entrance of the mall that gets a
nice 1280 by 720 picture of your face
and then compares that to the low
resolution stuff and said well it can
yeah we're not actually tracking your
face and know exactly who you are we're
tracking you as an anonymous pixelated
individual but we can actually
cross-reference that to that first
picture similarly if I've got your IP
address from this this and this site and
then you log into this site and that
site contains your information now I've
got something to cross-reference and say
huh we've been watching you now we've
actually now we know who you are so that
the information itself as the president
has said is not personally identifiable
oh yes it is if you cross-reference it
to other information so then is the
damage done now for me like is there any
way of going back yes Sasha yes it's too
late for you I don't even know what to
do now they all know who I am okay an
Australian court oh speaking of tracking
an Australian court has ordered internet
service providers to hand over details
of customers accused of illegal down
illegally downloading a u.s. movie in a
landmark move the federal court told six
firms to divulge names and addresses of
those who downloaded the Dallas buyers
club the case was lodged by the US
company that owns the rights to the 2013
movie the court said the data could only
be used to secure compensation for the
infringement of copyrights in the case
the applicant said that they identified
four hundred or
4726 unique IP addresses from which
their film was shared online using
BitTorrent the judgment to release the
personal information of the users comes
admits to crackdown by the Australian
Government on internet piracy so that's
a good movie firstly secondly 7,000
people doesn't seem like a lot of people
but this is obviously like a sort of
it's a crackdown right let's set an
example of these people I just I
personal information I realize they're
saying it can only be used for you know
all your sure sure I just don't love it
I mean I realized piracy is a bad thing
but privacy I think Trump's that you
know what's funny about that story
coming up after our discussion just two
minutes ago is that it just goes to show
well sure we don't have the information
we have the IP addresses of all these
thousands of people but we don't have
their personal information so you think
you're safe right but who does the
internet service provider so let's take
them to court and force them to give us
that personal information that we can
then good right I mean if these people
put like connected the dots they could
get all the information of these people
right they just want to have it legally
so they couldn't do anything with it
right they have to get it in that they
have to force it in a legal way not
everyone has to use legal means to get
this information though right sometimes
the end of these episodes I just I'm
scared really how well can we creeped
out Sasha door maybe don't have restful
sleep okay night let's pretty sure she's
going home and deleting all her accounts
firstly I drink like 15 cups of coffee
while I'm here and then I read all of
these scary news stories for all your
tech news with a slight Linux biased
visit the category 5 TV news room at
newsroom category 5 TV for the category
5 TV news room
i'm sascha through Mavis Thank You Sasha
this is category 5 technology TV welcome
to the show my name is Robbie Ferguson
you can follow me down there yeah Hilary
to to Nana's co-host today you're on
Twitter too but we don't have your
Twitter there it's easy seldom you
Hillary Rumble I remember sometimes at
all I use it a lot so follow me instead
do it why post really interesting things
hmm so hey welcome to the show thank you
for joining us if this is your first
time here we love having you here please
make sure you register on our website
right dress place to be the best place
you heard it here category five not TV
okay straight back into viewer questions
because that's really all we got time
for it yeah all right let's do it all
right let's do this Andrew rights to us
saying I'm trying to make a page and has
links on it hi Andrew my job much
basically I'm a shot Sonya he's tryna
make a page that has links on it and
when the link is clicked it sets a URL
variable called sac section and then
reloads the same page for example he
lists here index dot PHP would be
reloaded with index PHP ? sec equals one
or something like that okay based on the
value of the URL variable the page would
then show specific sections of the site
and hide others if a different value is
added to the URL variable say woe ? sack
equals two then a different section
would be displayed I managed to get the
test page to display a block of text if
there was an entry in the variable
however when the variable changes or
becomes unset the text does not go away
so he has attached a photo so we can see
what this even means very well have you
seen the photo I was not actually photo
he actually included a PHP file yeah
you're right yeah the file the actual
file okay so I've got this
hmm some odd anomalies there okay so
let's take a look so andrew is working
with PHP trying to get this file to to
use get variables and mention to me on
Twitter you know there you guys really
haven't touched on this on your basic to
intermediate PHP yeah okay so we'll
definitely go there so let's let's take
a look at this code that you've created
so far and ruin it and this is this is
how we learn right is playing around
first of all what's all this garbage at
the end here um that's curious i I'm
going to delete that okay because that
falls outside of the HTML closing yeah
grace is there so it doesn't even exist
okay so let's look at what you're doing
okay taking andrew and and viewers at
home who are interested in learning a
little bit about coding this is kind of
entry-level stuff than that but it's
good to learn and you need to know it
will take you through this line by line
okay so first we're declaring a doctype
and this doctype is an old doctype this
is HTML for transitional this is not
html5 you might want to look at a new
doctype if you want to be html5 okay so
this is the I don't need to go line by
line literally opening the header and
closing the header that's good okay
contenttype you're using utf-8 character
set and it is the first thing in your
header that's a good move because if the
if this were down lower it would it
would cause the page to reload if the
character set was different that's the
title that shows in the the title bar of
your document ok so we've closed the
header we've opened the body and we've
opened a paragraph that says if the URL
variable test okay so open that so this
is PHP if is set underscore a dollar
sign underscore get so what that means
is if I have set in my browser at the
end of the URL ? anything ok because
it's if is set so maybe not what you're
looking for but it certainly gets the
job done so so what we're saying is if
they have sent some kind of a variable
then do this
all the stuff that I oh not all the way
down there let's see where it ends yeah
all the way down there so if get is set
so if they've set a variable let's do
all this so first of all dollar sign sac
equals dollar sign get sex so that means
that the user has entered you know the
file dot file dot PHP ? sec equals and
then we're saying one or two okay so i'm
going to use to as the example so that
is now dollar signs sex so now we know
dollar sign sac is valued at two if str
len dollar signs sec is greater than or
equal to one then okay so str len what
do you think that that means sterling
sterling exactly we're talking about
James Starling today no this is a string
length okay is the PHP query here so if
the length of this string is greater
than or equal to one so basically hey
we've got a character in there so dollar
sign sac has something of value so it is
not null that's fine I mean but where
does that fall short can you think of it
based on what I've just said I know I'm
putting you right on the spot can you
think of it in the chat room anything I
don't even know what you asked okay
Andrew here's where your script falls
short if str len dollar sign sec is
greater than or equal to one then okay
and I know what you're trying to do here
you're trying to say if they had set
dollar signs sec to one or two or three
or four right what happens though if
they set it to zero because you are not
using the number you are using the
length of the string so if they enter 0
it's still going to be greater than or
equal to 1 as long as it has anything
there if this is equal to D it is still
going to have an str len of greater than
or equal to 1 it's one because that's
the length so what you're actually
trying to do
from what I'm gathering here is you're
trying to say if str len is greater than
zero so if my string itself the value is
greater than zero for a little bit of
safety you might even say let's say
let's make sure that this is an integer
and add int val to our declaration for
dollar sign sex so now if they put ASDF
as the as the SEC equals then it will
just be null alright so we're saving
herself from a little bit of trouble
there we're not getting too big on this
into security okay next line echo
variable set and here it is echo sec
very good so that's that's good alright
this this brace here is from that if so
I would just go like that just to clean
that up so that I have a little bit more
clarity as to where things line up and
then if they didn't enter see because
it's if dollar sign SEC is greater than
zero no variable set or or invalid
variable not really accurate right
because then you've got these if
statements down here so here you go
Andrew this is what we're going to do
okay so if str len let's clean this up a
little bit we don't need to close and
then reopen PHP in sequence it's going
to look just like that so if string
length of dollar sign SEC is e 0 hold on
equals well that is your set at you're
making a declaration to create a value
as opposed to asking at what the current
value is so if I say if dollar sign sec
equals with a single equal sign five it
will always be true because i have only
put one equal sign so I'm saying set it
to five so it will always be true what
we need to do here okay we already
determined we don't want to be using str
len because that's the wrong thing to be
doing we actually want to use the the
value of dollar sign sec so it with that
statement as it is this again will
always be true
because sec equals two means hey make
sec equal to I don't care what they said
it is going to be to you have just set
that what you're actually meaning to do
here is equals equals so what that means
now is she changes the statement
entirely now it says if dollar sign SEC
the value of that is exactly equal to
the number two then echo this put it out
on the screen else echo no variable set
and it could be said it could be one or
it could be five right that's that's the
case so there you go so we fix up your
script it's going to work now and you
can continue to go now go else if and I
would encourage you to take a look at
switch case in page P go to php.net do a
search for switch and you're going to
love that it's along these lines else if
dollar signs sec equals equals one echo
it's boom one right so you can do that
and do do something for one there you go
okay but and the reason i've used else
if there is because we know it's not too
so we don't need to do if right if i did
it that way then it's going to evaluate
both expressions so it's a little
heavier on resources because if sec
equals two we know that it can't equal
one so why evaluate this why use the
system resources to do that so we say
else if so we know it's not too so then
check the next variable there you go I
hope that helps watch it in slow motion
watch it in slow motion well yeah do it
see your shame because you're Speedy
Gonzales over there I think though that
if you if you follow along and with the
things that are coming out of my face
hole you'll you'll maybe figure that in
part that information to you Andrew
Wilkie doodle I'm gonna save that and
I'll spend our tax and it back to you
okay
I was a good question we have any real
quick questions or is that I'm just I
can't believe the time is fly I know how
does this happen every time sasha says
it's like the show could be and people
say in the Chandra the show could be two
hours but remember at the top of the
show you know how are talking about
bandwidth here's what's funny though
Robbie is that you give us this sheet
yes right and like there's like his
parents it makes you invisible yeah cool
is that but the interesting thing about
this sheet is that there's like things
that we can bring up if we you know run
short on thongs to say we have a section
on our sheet right called time fillers
right which has never since i started
ever happened the time fillers are
actually from 1973 and we've just we're
waiting nibblies down to them yeah there
you have it what's a good problem to
have I'd say I think so and that was fun
i hope that that you learned something
we gotta stop calling it viewer question
extravaganza though it's gonna have to
be just we're gonna cover some questions
tonight we're gonna try to get through
three of them we did three they're good
question thank you so much for sending
the man hilary do you know how they can
get questions to us what's the best way
to get those in um puri Latham that's
one way no that's how you send checks uh
there you go live a category five on TV
you can email us Phyllis please do or
even in the chat room sometimes people
just pop up questions as they're doing
it or tweet them or like send a video of
yourself asking your question like do
anything oh man I love that oh I'm just
coming up oh then the cat bowl cat phone
why won't you call me just give us a
rain delay guy come on take two seconds
good good I'm circuit and calls right
after you go our phone numbers at the
bottom of the website but it's easy to
remember 2545 cat5 TV love it we need a
jingle
that's on the to-do list 2545 cat5 TV
it's a texas number so it's local to you
if you are located in texas
unfortunately not everyone is intact not
everyone but i know you're there check
out map dot cat five dot TV we know you
exist so thanks for tuning in good show
guys good show thanks everybody thanks
Adam for being here and doing a great
great work that you do on the camera
thanks hill thanks Sasha thanks to you
we hope you enjoyed the show category 5
TV broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven pm eastern
if you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV check out the local
show times in your area at category 5 TV
and find out when you can watch live and
interact in the community chat room
category 5 is a production of prodigy
digital solutions and is licensed under
creative commons attribution 2.5 canada
we'll see you next time thanks for
tuning in
