hello and welcome to new every day my
name is Kari and my name is Jen and on
today's show we're in part three part
three of a man named Phil
this is new every day with Jen Wenger
and Kerry web
[Music]
hello everyone we are in part three of a
man named Phil we're in the book of Acts
and we're in chapter 8 and verse 26 and
we're looking at this guy Phil Philip
Philip we call him Phil I have a friend
named Phil whose great youth pastor and
so actually when I think when I read
Philip I'm like oh yeah Phil Jesus tells
people about Jesus and yeah actually I
remember hearing a speaker talking about
Paul and how in that time period you
know if we like you're Jennifer and I
call you Jen so we shorten people's name
as terms of endearment well they
actually kind of lengthened people's
names Oh as terms of a dip endearment
like Priscilla instead of prissa oh I
know very interesting so if we like him
we call him Philip not Phil fella so
Philip so yes we started off with he's
one of the seven men that was set apart
to take care of the tables and then when
Stephen was was stoned the persecuted
church scattered he went to the town of
Samaria the towns of Samaria proclaimed
the gospel
I'm rate amazing miraculous signs happen
a man named Simon who's a sorcerer
believed was baptized was baptized and
then saw the power of the Holy Spirit
coming through the laying on of hands
like I want to buy that and Peter and
John who showed up they were like and so
we ended off last week with the question
of okay we don't think they dropped
Simon but maybe someone came alongside
Simon and mentored him walked and
alongside him and discipled him so here
we are back focusing in on Philip and
the Ethiopian and Phil is just walking
along and he just listens to God and I
really like this so can you read it Jen
yes so start at verse 26 now an angel of
the Lord said to Philip go go sev to the
road the river the desert road that goes
down from Jerusalem to Gaza so he
started out and on his way he met an
Ethiopian eunuch an important official
in charge of all the Treasury of Candace
queen of the Ethiopians this man had
gone to Jerusalem to worship
and on his way home was sitting in his
chariot reading the book of Isaiah the
prophet the spirit told Philip go to
that chariot and stay near it
then Philip ran up to the chariot and
heard the man reading Isaiah the prophet
do you understand what you're reading
Philip asked how can I he said unless
someone explains it to me so he invited
Philip to come up and sit with him the
eunuch was reading this passage of
Scripture he was led like a sheep to the
slaughter and as a lamb before the
Shearer is silent so he did not open his
mouth in his humiliation he was deprived
of justice who can speak of his
descendants for his life was taken from
the earth the eunuch asked Philip tell
me please who is the prophet talking
about himself or someone else then
Philip began with that very passage of
Scripture and told him the good news
about Jesus as they travel along the
road they came to some water and the
eunuch said look here's the water why
shouldn't I be baptized and he gave
orders to stop the chariot then both
Philip and the eunuch went down into the
water and Philip baptized him when they
came up out of the water the Spirit of
the Lord suddenly took Philip away and
the eunuch did not see him again but
went on his way rejoicing Philip however
appeared at as as itas and traveled
about preaching the gospel in the towns
until he reached says RIA and that is
the last we hear about Philip it's
amazing it's an amazing story yeah and I
think even from you know two episodes
ago when we're when we were first
introduced to Philip at least in this
section yeah he was scattered but he
just preached wherever he went just
preached were like yeah it picks it up
again right now the angel of Lord told
Philip to go somewhere and so he went
yeah and then it ends again with right
afterwards
Philip however basically the Spirit of
the Lord took them away and wherever
what does that even feel like I don't
know but I've always wanted to fly my
whole life I've always wanted to fly and
is that like a transponder a trans you
know like like in Star Trek when they
yes the twirly sparkle come yes did the
Lord truly Sparkle I don't know but this
is where it like literally the Spirit
suddenly took Philip away and then
planted him down I know I know but this
is the nature of the kingdom of God like
I legit believe it so do i and then part
of me wants to say do it to me what does
that look like and the interesting part
is I have heard of things like this not
in the North American context but in an
African context right
we're friend a friend of mine was
praying in his community and literally
saw someone fall out of the sky I know I
know I like I believe him because he
doesn't make things up so I know it can
happen yeah and I like I I read this and
I'm like all Philip did was preach the
gospel because did you notice how he
didn't stay to the disciple of the
eunuch no he was just like bam bam
scattering the seeds gathering the seem
the lord aizen people done and he's not
the one that's saying he's done the Lord
is the one who's saying he's done he's
not like okay this looks like a good
place to stay because it says after last
week's passage now the angel of the Lord
said go so he went so true so after in
this story with the Ethiopian the angel
of the Lord again picked him up and took
him off right the spirit of Lord so it's
like he was fully surrendered to go and
do whatever it was that the Lord wanted
him to go and do and it was just to
preach the gospel and people came to
know him and Dan came to know Jesus and
then he baptized it in like let me don't
know what happened after that so we
don't know if he was finished or if he
was put down somewhere else if this was
just a story to say this is like the
power of what happens when people are
fully surrendered to God yeah like I'm
just like I want to I want to be an
opportunistic Christian like when I
think about an opportunistic feeder or
like a bird of prey yeah like if there's
already something going on they'll just
go and like join in they'll eat
whatever's there you know but I want to
be that in the sense that if something
comes up I'm just ready to go that way
yeah if God's like go jump in that chair
I'll be like okay you know go jump like
go over on the long side I'd have to
carry it okay so go something in good
shape it's going flow but anyways what
ok wait yes I know you go ahead ok ma'am
I like it Phillip ran to him and heard
him reading the prophet Isaiah mm-hmm so
like who was this guy why was he going
to Jerusalem I remember learning about
this one time and I can't remember the
exact details um but anyways what I also
appreciate is that Phillip was just
ready to engage him he didn't need the
whole plan spelled out for him from the
spirit but just not like I need to go
there and God's gonna take care of the
rest
yeah it was like there was nothing like
you're gonna work with chariot then
you're going to say a B and C and then
you're gonna step in and then it's gonna
be amazing you're gonna baptize him he
didn't have a plan
he was just like go run beside the
chariot and then you're just trying to
tell him the truth I know cuz he like
the question he asked was well do you
understand what you're eating like
you're right yeah like and it just
allowed the conversation to go from
there
yeah and tell me please who is the
Prophet you know and it was just so
powerful that Philip took that off the
opportunity that was presented in front
of him by the Holy Spirit right that's
the important part it was presented to
him by the Holy Spirit and then the Holy
Spirit just gave him everything that he
needed yeah
and that backs up those passages in the
Gospels verses don't worry about what
you're going to say when you're walking
with the Lord
he's like take care of him he's gonna
take care of it and you and I also
appreciate that ok the angel the Lord
said go here but the disciples or the
Apostles also like they would start
going somewhere and then Holy Spirit
would be like nope not here they'd go
somewhere else when you'd be like it
over here but they still went and did
stuff yes and people some people say oh
I'm just waiting to be led but if you
don't just go out and start running
beside chariots don't run with traffic I
that's a bad idea but hit on that then
the opportunity might not come so let's
take a break we're gonna take a break
whether you shop on thinkgeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category-five TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching hey everyone
thanks for staying with us and thank you
for tuning in again we would like to
thank all of our partners go to our
website new every day TV you can check
out all of our partners who help make
this show possible so just wanted to say
thank you so much and thanks
category-five TV and Robbie Ferguson for
making this show possible gen we're
talking with Philip I know he's running
along beside the chariot and the
Ethiopian eunuch invites him in and he's
reading Isaiah in his Isaiah 53 and he
says he was led as a sheep to the
slaughter and has a lamb before it's
Shearer is silent so he opened not his
mouth
in his humiliation his justice was taken
away and who will declare his digit
generation for his life is taken from
the earth and the eunuchs like who who
is the prophet talking about himself or
someone else and then it says then
Philip opened his mouth and beginning
with this scripture preached Jesus to
him so he's using the Old Testament and
Isaiah 53 is just like this remarkable
remarkable chapter about Jesus written
700 years before Jesus came and I know
we've talked about on this show before
but it's so remarkable so push pause
right now go get your Bible and open up
Isaiah 53 with us so you can see it for
yourself and let let God speak to you
through this incredible Scripture do you
have it there I do all right
you want to start reading some of that
sure so actually starts the beginning of
or the end of 52 in chapter and verse 13
see my servant will act wisely he will
be raised and lifted up in highly
exalted just as there were many who are
appalled at him his appearance was so
disfigured beyond that of any man and
his form marred beyond human likeness so
will he sprinkle many nations and Kings
will shut their mouths because of him
for what they were not told they will
see and what they have not heard they
will understand who has believed our
message and who has an and and to whom
has the arm of the Lord been revealed he
grew up before him like a tender shoot
and like a root out of dry ground
he had no beauty or Majesty to attract
us to him nothing in his appearance that
we should desire him he was despised and
rejected by men a man of sorrows and
familiar with suffering no one with whom
men hide their face like like one with
from whom men hide their faces he was
despised and we esteemed him not
surely he took up our infirmities and
carried our sorrows yet we considered
him stricken by God smitten by him and
afflicted but he was pierced for our
transgressions he was crushed for our
iniquities and punishment that brought
us peace was upon him for by his wounds
we are healed we all like sheep have
gone astray each of us has turned to his
own way and the Lord has laid on him the
iniquity of us all he was oppressed and
afflicted yet he did not open his mouth
he was led like a lamb to the slaughter
and a sheep before his Shearer's is
silent so he did not open his mouth by
oppression the judgment he had was taken
away and who can speak of his
descendants for he was cut off in the
land of the living for the transgression
of my people he was stricken he was
assigned a grave with the wicked and
with the rich in his death though he had
done no violence nor was there any
deceit in his mouth
yet it was the Lord's will to crush him
and cause him to suffer and though the
Lord makes his life a guilt offering he
will see his offspring and prolong his
days and the will of the Lord will
prosper in his hand after the suffering
of a soul he will see the light of life
and be satisfied by his knowledge my
righteous servant will justify many he
will bear their iniquities
therefore I will give him a portion
among the Great and he will divide the
spoils with the strong because he poured
out his life unto death
and was numbered with the transgressors
for he bore the sin of many and made
intercession for the transgressors and
so beginning with that scripture Philip
told him about Jesus and the good news
about him and if he's familiar with
Jewish culture and the Passover and what
the why the Jews sacrificed a lamb so
that in the Old Testament the book of
Exodus so that the Angel of Death passed
over the Israelites when they were in
slavery in Egypt they were saved from
death because they sacrificed the lamb
and put the blood over the doorpost and
that seen them that's that's part of the
Passover story and I encourage you to go
look that up in Exodus but it's saying
here that Jesus took on our sin he took
on our grief he took on our sorrows and
he was slain and and by His stripes we
are healed and it's just amazing cuz
each verse in this book in this chapter
it prophesized and speaks about the Lord
Jesus no even though it's isaiah 700
years before and so when when the eunuch
is hearing this look yes your slaughter
and love why should i be baptized it's
like this is what i believe yeah oh yes
so he says what he believes right yeah i
like that so let's let's just do it yeah
i love it yeah because he recognized as
as philip was unpacking the scripture
i'm sure all that i want to say all the
cylinders started firin going thing they
need anything this is the one because
part of what i believe what i've been
told about this passage is he was a
follower of the jewish faith so he knew
like that's why he was reading the
scriptures and so he was going who's
going to jerusalem he was going to
Jerusalem to worship so you know and I
think his heart was ready and that's why
the Spirit of God brought Philip to him
and that's where if you're if there are
people in your life right now that
you're praying dear Lord Jesus
and someone to them like pray for
Phillip yeah
pray for Phillip who's just gonna come
alongside by the power of the Holy
Spirit you know say what are you
thinking about this is what I'm thinking
about and then speak some truth in your
life and they're gonna come to know
Jesus yeah and we were like wow Jane you
said that so fast like as if that's
gonna happen but it does and so we need
to start praying for people who don't
know Jesus that someone will come
alongside because maybe it's your
husband or your wife or your child or
your close close friend or a mom or a
dad and you're like they've already
heard it from me that's okay
pray for a Phillip yeah pray for a
Phillip to come alongside and just say
hey yeah what are you what are you
reading yeah because the thing is
probably God is stirring something in
their heart but they don't might not
want to share it with you but they'll
share it with a Phillip yes a neutral
party I'm neutral party and so we have
to encourage you to do that and the
other thing I want to encourage you too
is if you have an extra Bible ask God
who you can give that to and just
encourage them to start reading because
God uses scripture to draw people to
himself and then a fill lip comes along
and can open their mind to it yes which
I just love why don't we pray Jen yes
okay Lord we're so grateful for the word
that you've given us in the Bible and
that we believe that it's true we know
that you are who you say you are Jesus
you rose from the dead you've called us
to a kingdom that seems kind of
upside-down
and yet God you can do incredible things
thank you for the story the true story
of Philip mm-hmm and how you used him
and why would you help us to walk in
faith and have ears and hearts that are
open to just listen to you and go and
tell people that's great news I pray
this in Jesus name Amen amen
thanks for tuning in yeah thank you so
much for tuning in we encourage you to
go to chapter eight give it a read ask
Holy Spirit what is it that you have for
me from this chapter how can I be a
Philip or how can I pray for a Philip so
we leave that with you this week
have a good week Cheers catch a new
episode of new every day every Friday
morning and new every day dot TV
we're also on Kody Roku flex YouTube and
Facebook or if you're in Southern
California tune in every Sunday morning
at 6:30 Pacific on channel 33 television
for the high desert
