it's Tuesday January 12 2016 and here
are the stories we're covering this week
google has banished several apps after
finding out they were making
unauthorized downloads and fake reviews
in google play online video is about to
get a lot more colorful as youtube joins
the likes of Netflix and Amazon with HDR
video Lumosity is brain training games
deceived customers and Microsoft has
revealed details about the data it is
tracking via its new operating system
windows 10 and a father in Pembroke
Ontario is warning parents of kids with
xboxes after 17 year old ran up a credit
card bill of more than eight thousand
dollars these stories are coming right
up don't go anywhere you've got mad
skills now hone them learn new skills or
improve your existing ones with online
video tutorials and training from Linda
calm through our special link at cat
five dot TV / Linda learn software
technology creative and business skills
you can use today to help you achieve
your professional goals join today and
start learning will give you this chance
to try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat5 dot TV / Linda I'm Eric
Kidd and here are the top stories from
category-five TV news room google has
banished 13 android apps from let's play
marketplace after security researchers
found the apps made unauthorized
downloads and attempted to gain root
privileges that allowed them to survive
factory resets one of the thirteen apps
which was known as honeycomb has had as
many as 1 million downloads before it
was removed according to research from
researchers from look out the mobile
security provider that spotted the
malicious entries they said the
explanation for the apps hundreds of
thousands of downloads is the malware
itself first off some of the apps are
fully functioning games some are highly
rated because they are fun to play
mischievously though the
apps are capable of using compromised
devices to download and positively
review other malicious apps in the Play
Store by the same authors this helps
increase the download figures in the
Play Store specifically it attempts to
Detective a device is rooted and if so
copies several files to the slash system
partition in an effort to ensure
persistence even after a complete
factory reset the best option for
removing these malicious data I saw what
happened there it's tricky it's tricky I
I think I hit a key on there hey that
the the first step is to to catching
this is to back up any data worth
keeping and then reflash the rom
supplied by the device maker as always
people should remain cautious and alert
when downloading android apps and be
aware that even when apps have been
admitted to Google Play and receive a
large number of positive reviews there's
no guarantee that they can be trusted
with big-name TV makers and movie
studios all pledging to support high
dynamic range or HDR technology it was
only a matter of time until the world's
biggest online video platform got in on
the action according to Mashable
YouTube's chief business officer
confirmed the service will soon roll out
support for HDR allowing streamers to
watch videos in a lot more detail while
HDR has become a buzzword is likely to
make a big difference to the way you
watch TV and movies this year in brief
terms HDR captures a wider range of
contrast and brightness the resulting
images show greater detail in darker
parts of the screen and highlights a
wider range of colors allowing you to
pick out the details that you may not
have noticed before what it does mean
though is that you will need a
compatible TV or display to view
YouTube's range of HDR videos the way
they're meant to be viewed LG Sony and
Vizio will soon release the new 4k sets
with high dynamic range support built-in
and PC makers
following the trend Netflix and Amazon
are on board to ensuring the streamers
can also board the HDR bandwagon that of
are interesting are you familiar with
HDR technology entry only seen it on my
Rogers email saying yeah you know I can
oh it's coming I can sign up for really
yeah HDR is basically you saw the tool
that we were using levels how I was able
to bring up the brightness of the whole
scene and it really improves things well
HDR takes typically three images and
they're different exposures so where
Adam for example has us right now at an
exposure so that you can see our faces
really well but behind me things are a
little bit darker so what HDR would do
is it would brighten up the background
and keep us all so bright and and it
really makes it so that you can see all
the depth of the image and usually uses
the three exposures but I wonder how
they're going to do that for video I
know that there are ways to emulate it
but how do you possibly get three
different exposures on the same lens but
it's going to be so that's you know my
mind is not thinking about how do i
watch it my mind is thinking how do you
do this really how do you create that
still sure because you use a tripod you
hit three different exposures and then
you merge them together and you get an
HDR image but that's really interesting
us via eager to see what it looked like
lenses but then they wouldn't be lined
up they'd have to be so precisely lined
up to be able to shoot like that I don't
know and if I have three lenses I'd be
shooting in like 3d you only need two
lenses for 3d and 3ds better although
HDR 3d now you're talking ah the company
behind brain training game lumosity has
agreed to pay two million dollars to
subtle false marketing claims Lumos labs
has said it's games helped users perform
better at work and even alleviated the
symptoms of Alzheimer's disease but the
US Federal Trade Commission alleged it
did not have scientific evidence to back
up the claims the company must now
contact all of its customers to offer
them a chance to cancel their
subscriptions Washington 2007 lumosity
consists of 40 online
purportedly designed to Train specific
areas of the brain in advertising
acclaimed using the games for 10 to 15
minutes three or four times a week could
help users achieve their full potential
in every aspect of life make me a better
news reporter it also said the games
could alleviate the symptoms of dementia
stroke and brain injuries but the FTC's
Bureau of Consumer Protection director
Jessica rich said Lumosity preyed on
consumers fears about age-related
cognitive decline the games had been
widely promoted through TV and radio ads
on networks including CNN The History
Channel and Fox News the FTC says Lumos
has also failed to disclose that some
consumer testimonials on its website had
been solicited through contests that
promised prizes including a free iPad
the FTC had wanted to find Loomis labs
50 million dollars but said it was
accepting the smaller sum of two million
dollars because of the company's
financial condition the company must
also offer customers an easy way to
cancel their subscriptions which range
from 15 dollars to three hundred dollars
in January last year the company said it
had 70 million members worldwide Wow
Microsoft has revealed details about the
data it is tracking via its new
operating system Windows 10 in a blog
the firm listed statistics on how many
minutes has been spent by users in total
in the edge browser and the number of
photographs which had been viewed in the
photo op the firm also said that Windows
10 was now active on over 200 million
devices however some people have
questioned whether the data tracking is
a threat to privacy since Windows 10 was
launched Microsoft has been tracking
information about how those with the OS
are using it until now though relatively
little has been known about what data
are being collected security expert
prof. Alan Woodford told the BBC he was
interested to know the long-term plans
for the data this information may be
collected for one purpose but how long
it will be stored and what else they're
going to use it for is unknown as soon
as it goes outside the country it's no
longer protected by things like the
country's data protection laws and it is
not clear where data relating to Windows
10 is transmitted and stored all right a
father in Pembroke Ontario is holding up
his latest credit card bill as a warning
for parents whose children have xboxes
Lance Perkins says he was shocked to
learn he was on the hook for money after
his 17 year old son racked up thousands
of dollars in online gaming charges the
costs first appeared on an earlier
credit card bill but Perkins says he
didn't originally notice them by the
time the next bill arrived the total
amount owing had grown to eight thousand
eight hundred dollars with interest Xbox
charges annual fees so the gamers can
access multiplayer games online there
are also separate fees to purchase games
additions and extensions but Perkins
says the business scheme is misleading
especially for a young person without a
credit card of their own xbox does offer
tips for parents to avoid unauthorized
purchases by children the console
recommends creating separate Xbox
accounts for each user and making a
password for signing in and making
purchases and if children want to buy
games on their own the gaming system
recommends parents purchase a gift card
for their child rather than providing
access to their credit card linked
accounts nice big thanks this week to
jeff weston roy wa ash and our community
of viewers for submitting stories to us
if you found a news story you'd like to
send like to send email it to newsroom
at category-five TV for all your tech
news with a slight linux bias visit the
category 5 TV news room at newsroom
category 5 TV for the category 5 TV news
room I'm Eric Kidd
