hello and welcome to new every day my
name is Kari and my name is Jen and on
today's show we are doing the winds of
change so the question we want you to
think about is how do you feel when you
have to make a change and to convince
everybody else that that's the right
choice so we'll be back right after this
this is new every day with Jen wagger
and Kerry Webb
[Music]
hey everyone and welcome back to new
every day thank you for tuning in again
we're so happy that you're here and Jen
we're sitting down to continue in the
book of Acts we've taken some breaks
here and there to talk about other
things and have other guests on the show
and now we're coming back to it and
we're already in chapter 11 I know and
it's so exciting as we sat down to look
at this chapter originally we thought so
what is there to talk about Jesus and
ambition yeah hostage and then as we
sort of dug into it we thought there's a
lot of really good stuff here mm-hmm and
specifically talking about the winds of
change when change happens and the
question that I asked you about before
we went to our intro was you know how do
how do you feel when you have to make a
change and I know for me I do not feel
like I am a change agent I like things
to say the same so we'll talk about that
in the next show actually had to deal
with change but that idea of being a
change agent and I actually find myself
being in the position of a lead pastor
then I'm the one that is often having to
make the change I'm the one that people
are looking to to make the change and
the question that I often ask myself is
how do I get everybody on the same page
so the change doesn't come like a a slap
upside the head or like when you open
the door for those of you are in a
northern climate when you open the door
and that cold breeze comes in here just
like you know and all of a sudden you
change and you put on here your
heavy-duty winter coat and your heavy
boots and your earmuffs and right
because that's not what you expect it's
almost like trauma to your body yeah and
for those of you who are not in Canada
we have had an icy icy cold blast like
minus thirty five some mornings Celsius
Celsius and so it's like for a lot of us
you know this change is like oh how do
you shock to you with this and you know
our poor weather men and women who have
to tell us what the weather's like are
probably feeling like how do we tell
them again yeah but it's gonna be so
cold and so here we are in the book of
Acts
talking about change because in the in
Acts chapter 10 Cornelius has seen a
vision and he is a Gentile so he isn't a
believer he isn't a Jewish believer per
se and so Peter who is a Jew devout
follower of Christ one of the first
disciples is called to actually assure
them into the kingdom which was a big
no-no so now that Peter has had this
experience a vision came from God saying
this is going to happen you are to go
and welcome them in now he has the job
of going back to Jerusalem which is the
hub of the Jewish faith and saying look
this is what's happened so he is the
change agent yeah so why don't we read
that yeah that sounds good
all right so this is Acts chapter 11 I'm
reading from the New International
Version the Apostles and the brothers
throughout Judea heard that the Gentiles
also had received the Word of God so
when Peter went up to Jerusalem the
circumcised believers criticized him and
said you went into the house of an
uncircumcised of uncircumcised men and
ate with them Peter began and explained
everything to them precisely as it
happened I was in the city of Joppa
praying and in a trance and I saw a
vision I saw something like a large
sheet being let down from heaven by its
four corners and it came down to where I
was I looked into it and saw four footed
creatures of the earth wild beasts
reptiles and birds of the air then I
heard a voice telling me get up Peter
kill and eat I replied surely not Lord
something impure unclean has never ever
entered my mouth the voice spoke from
heaven a second time do not call
anything impure that God has made clean
this happened three times and then it
was pulled up to heaven again right then
three men who had seen who had been sent
to me from Caesarea stopped at the house
where I was staying the spirit told me
to have no hesitation about going with
them this these six brothers also went
with me and we entered the man's house
he told us how he had seen an angel
appear to
housed in his house and say send to
Joppa for Simon who is called Peter he
will bring you a message through which
you and all your household will be saved
as I began to speak the Holy Spirit came
on them as he had come on us at the
beginning then I remembered that the
Lord had said John baptized with water
but you will be baptized with the Holy
Spirit so if God gave them the same gift
as he gave us who believed in the Lord
Jesus Christ who was I to think that I
could oppose God when they heard this
they had no further objections and
praised God saying so then God has
granted even the Gentiles repentance
into life mm-hmm it's interesting Jen
how Peter reiterates the same story so
this this is told twice in full in
chapter 10 and then Peter explains it
all again I know in response to the Jews
who said what like you went you went
into uncircumcised men and ate with them
that was like a no-no and maybe let's
take a step back Jen and talk about why
that why was that a no-no and it seems
like what is this racist like why
wouldn't they accept the Gentiles so
where does that come from so all the way
back to Abraham is when circumcision
started and it basically was an outward
sign that you were a follower of God
hmm right so there's stories all the way
throughout the Old Testament of when
it's like okay you want to be a part of
us then you're going to have to be
circumcised you got to wear our gang
colors yeah that's it so the gang colors
were circumcision and so then and then
you you were not allowed to associate
with people who were not circumcised who
did not claim to be followers of God
Jehovah now is that because like they
had to have set rules that they didn't
cross otherwise they would be sucked
into being pulled away from the Lord and
pulled away from following him because
we see that in the Old Testament how
they end up following other gods yes and
yet worshiping other gods and involved
in like krei
the immoral behavior by sneaking over
and hanging out yes or intermarrying
with with non-jewish people exactly and
so there was this like hard and fast
line they just you don't even eat with
them you know I don't want anything to
do with that I'm not even eating with
them yes and so that was the line that
had been drawn is like if you were a
devout follower of God you are not to
associate with people who are not
because you will slip slip slip slip
slip and so there's the line and so
they're calling Peter on it saying hey
like yeah you've crossed a line and and
so that's why he asked he goes right
from the very beginning of where it
starts so he tells the story which is so
important for people to hear yeah we
were just talking about the power of
someone sharing a story yes and he he
walks through step by step what happened
to bring them up to speed and the power
of someone's experience it can be so
meaningful to others because it makes it
real yes and so you know part of his
because he's having to tell this to tell
the story because God has given him a
new word that Gentiles are now to be
accepted right so this is like joining
the club join the club this is
life-changing this is for their religion
this is now like whoa new teaching so
are they Jewish like do they get
circumcised does that rubber right which
came comes up later right exactly
and so here's Peter having to say this
is how I received I want to say the
mandate to go forward with this change
yes and so and what's interesting is he
says the whole story because that's what
he received and move forward so he in
his mind well if I received that story
and that's what caused me to move
forward I will use the exact same story
and tell it to these people and because
there are certain things that they would
have picked up on like the three times
so the witness right when God tells us
something you know two or three times
there's a witness there's something that
he wants us to pick up
and also knowing they would have known
Peters story probably of having denied
Christ three times and Jesus having told
me I'm sure every time so so there's a
about the number three though so he use
Lots talking to Peter it's covered in
three it's coming in threes yeah so
Peter had to think through how do I get
these people to understand that this
change is from God like he had actually
had to think through yeah how am I going
to get them to accept the change that's
a really good question let's take a
minute to think about that and we'll
take a commercial break yeah
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching hey everyone
welcome back thanks so much to all of
our partners who make this show possible
if you go to our website new every day
TV click on our partners tab you can see
all of the organizations and supporters
who helped make this possible including
category 5 TV
we're under that umbrella and that
Network who makes this show possible
we're part of that category 5 family yes
we are so when you support us you're
supporting them so mm-hmm
we left her the question like how did
Peter go about instituting this change
or encouraging speaking to these people
the Jerusalem church about accepting
Gentiles so we've said it was a big
no-no and yet here you know he's being
interrogated to say to come up with a
response show us the evidence show us to
show it in West and part of the evidence
was he shared exactly what God had told
him so he shared the vision yeah the
whole vision he didn't leave it out he
didn't like modify it to sort of suit
his own needs he said the exact same
thing as what's written in the previous
chapter and then he had other witnesses
with him so it wasn't just him who had
the experience there was other men other
because it says the the six other men
these six brothers also went with me and
we entered the man's house so he had six
other witnesses to see what happened but
then the Holy Spirit ultimately was the
final witness and when we talk about the
winds of change like
and the Holy Spirit is talked about the
wind the breath of God yes moves in such
a way that we can't always see or detect
it and yet Holy Spirit is active in
changing others people's lives and
bringing about change before we realize
it and what I think is another gives
kind of it gives supporting evidence to
Peters story that this move is actually
from God that God wants to accept the
Gentiles is that he said the men were
sent from Joppa right the men were sent
there so God was moving in Cornelius's
life he sent the men Peter had it
confirmed in a vision that he should go
he did and then there was a work of God
and it says how the how the Jews respond
says if therefore God gave them the same
gift as he gave us when we believed on
the Lord Jesus Christ sorry Peter says
us who was I that I could withstand God
like they received the same gift the
same spirit and so Peter having received
this and then sharing it as the leader
of the church there it gives credence to
it because he's saying like Who am I to
withstand God he is the change agent
he's the catalyst but the ultimate
change comes from Holy Spirit and I
think that like for you to you or
whoever whatever leaders sometimes
change comes from laypeople or just you
know normies like me in whatever
situation if the Holy Spirit who works
in advance like the Holy Spirit says
that he moves ahead of us preparing good
works for us to do that we should walk
in them yes he already can prepare the
hearts of the people to receive the news
yes and the Lord chose Peter so you have
Cornelius the lay person who's something
is happening in Cornelius his heart and
gods like now's the time so he prepares
Cornelison hearts right to set to
receive and then he chose Peter because
Peter was the person of influence to
actually make it happen had
lilius just received the holy spirit and
had gone to Jerusalem it might not have
been received at the same way so they're
coming from yeah so there's Peter like
leader it's like one of the leaders of
the church right like the head disciple
on this rock I will build my church so
God Jesus had already set him apart as
like the lead yet and then so he
receives it so it's important also when
change happens like the leader very much
is the one that Institute Institute's
are gives it credence so he's already
God is working in the hearts of the
people yeah so then there's the leader
that can make the change happen
yeah person of influence it's so
important that if you are instituting
that change that you are hearing from
the Lord and that's when he says who was
I no he didn't he did not come up with
the idea the idea but God spoke to his
heart yep he followed it through and
then he responded realizing that he was
the one that really had to make the
change even though he's not the one that
came up with it and then he just simply
says who was I to oppose God and then he
trusted the Holy Spirit because it just
as he explained he explained he didn't
like argue with them yeah I said it
doesn't say and Peter felt the need to
face punch or to use his authority to
say look like I was with Jesus don't you
think I would hear from the Lord that
that lad
so there was no need for defense because
the Holy Spirit did it so when the wit
exactly the Holy Spirit did it when the
wind of change comes in if it is spirit
lead he's already preparing people's
hearts
he's already preparing people's hearts
he's putting people in place to actually
make it happen and when it's from the
Lord even though for Peter in the
beginning was so uncomfortable like he
wrestled with it lore like Lord like
I've never eaten anything unclean where
are you going with this
and so the Lord actually walked him
through change yeah so that Peter could
walk through change with the people in
Jerusalem yeah and that's often how it
happens so you might be thinking well
I'm not really a change
agent but that's okay God can still be
using you to be that change agent he's
going to prepare your heart he's going
to prepare the hearts of the other
people and he's gonna go before like
that's why it's like the wind of change
like the wind comes in and very often
you know the Lord pull something in my
heart and then I'm like okay Lord then
you need to prepare the hearts of the
people so that when I say something
there's a heart to receive it yes cuz
that's how you really know if something
is from God is that all of a sudden
people are like what God just told me
this about that and God just to me and
you're like whoa and sometimes it feels
like an arduous process but it happens
happens
so there's so much more to talk about
this I have so many more questions and
so we hope that you'll join us next week
same time same place and we're going to
keep talking about the winds of change
and what it looks like to look at change
theory and who who you are where you fit
in that change theory yeah doing a pray
for us gender here we go so Lord change
you can orchestrate change and you do it
in the coolest way and so if you are
calling some of our viewers to be chaid
change agents would you give them
courage to hear what you're saying and a
belief in your spirit to prepare the
hearts and prepare the way to prepare
them so we're going to trust you lord
we're gonna trust you to use us to bring
about the changes that you want in your
kingdom we pray this in your mighty name
amen amen
thank you so much and we'll see you next
week see ya alright cheers Cheers
catch a new episode of new every day
every Friday morning at noon
dot TV we're also on Kody Roku Plex
YouTube and Facebook or if you're in
Southern California tune in every Sunday
morning at 6:30 Pacific on channel 33
television for the high desert
