hi and welcome to new every day my name
is Carrie my name is jen and on spatial
we're going to talk about this being
nature's french so
[Music]
mmm
and
hi everyone thanks for tuning in to do
every day we're so glad that you have to
bin I know I say it every week but I am
so thankful as we're traveling back from
the United States back home to Canada
and said Carrie do you realize people
actually have traveled along with us
through this journey and people-watch
faithfully and we're just so grateful
and if you're new to the show or if
you've been watching faithfully for a
long time check out our website new
everyday TV check out our partners page
if you feel that you can support us
financially can still make just a
possibility then we would so appreciate
that there's opportunity to do that on
the website to everyday TV so Jen so
here we are this is going to be our last
installment as far as we know because if
we start saying a lot about our trip our
last installment about our trip our road
trip to Tennessee sometimes you get
talking about things you know like you
know what that's a whole nother show
instead of squeezing it in week and so
we our thought is that this is going to
be our last installment of our road
so that being said I said to carry like
what is it that really sort of sticks
out to you or you know made some
impressions and it's interesting because
one of the things that really click with
us because you might be saying why don't
you go to 10 feet coast and the reason
went to Tennessee is basically i had a
week holidays and anyone spend a lot of
money and buy one on groupon which is a
site online that just has hotel deals
and i started looking for a cheap hotel
i'm like oh there's a cheap hotel which
of course we now know from previous
experience why i was see why it was
cheap there were other occupants there
are other occupants that we did not want
to share space with I if you're just
tuning in for the first time you want to
let those occupants where you go back to
the first episode and you'll you'll see
what what they was closed ocular anyways
that being said I a Google bit and it
said okay that's in gatlinburg I said
well what's in Gatlinburg and it was the
Smoky Mountains and I went ha we can go
hiking and we just love doing outdoor
things
I guess one of the reasons why i love
being al-qaeda's because that is where i
connect with the Lord I just
I walk down the road and I hear the
birds and their different songs and I
see they're different colors and I I
hear the chipmunks kettering at each
other and I just get really excited
about being outside and no i'm not a
tree hugger in the sense of I'm not out
there twenty-four/seven I enjoy being in
nature because I connect with God in
nature and so the thought of me spending
you know a week outside was actually
quite like yeah that's what I want to do
and so when I mentioned that to carry
she also was like wow and so we wanted
to share with you some of the
experiences that we had outside and just
listening or taking in God's creation
and it says that the earth resounds the
glory of the Lord and in Romans chapter
1 it talks about that leave it's quite
obvious God's power that you see in in
nature and so
what was one of your I want to say
favorite times remember full time
outside like times that we spent we were
hiking too I believe the theorem Falls
and we came across like an ass Cartman
there was beautiful mass in the distant
and then I heard Eagles I heard them
calling I'm looking with you looking and
I looked up in there for Eagle circling
and yeah it would just reminded me of so
many verses that the Lord says that if
we trust in him and he will lift us up
or rather not for we were walking out
the same you'll soar on wings like
eagles so that was really meaningful to
me I also really appreciate it I'm able
to think about God and nature but on the
flip side I have noticed that when I'm
in cities and concrete jungles of
various sizes this is
and I'm walking and I'm by myself but
with so many people it can also feel
isolating and I think about God more in
the city really even though I love
nature like I would be camping more I
could but I do i do think about God when
I'm in the city and looking at all
people it's different it's different
aspects of the games of creation right
people are his masterpieces and I can
appreciate God when I'm surrounded by
different people but also what about in
nature what kind of spark this
conversation was we were listening to a
beauty that we are from the country
music hall of fame by Alabama and one of
the thumbs has I'm just sitting outside
being a friend of nature being matrix
man to something like that now that it's
really cool yeah and
we went on several heights and all of
differing various levels of difficulty
and the one hike that we went on to was
Rainbow Falls that was the first one and
it was tough like we hadn't read a sign
we just were told yep you should do it
and it was uphill both ways is what it
felt like like it just was two hours of
seats up hill climbing and I'm thinking
really this was so hard and yet when we
got to the top it was more of a hey done
it sounds good like it was good that we
got there and what's interesting though
is that because the water is so dry our
water is not dry well in the land is dry
because there's a drought is that it was
a wee bit displaying with the most
amount of water that was coming over the
rocks and we're thinking we just hiked
like two hours uphill to see this triple
triple triple triple
and we're like really love the time for
ya and yet on the way up we had these
beautiful views and we listened to this
chipmunk or squirrel it was just like
mattering never nattering mattering it
was like you know don't watching where
I'm putting lineup so watch me like to
watch me and it was like get away wait
it was like he mattered at us the entire
way there and then we're going back and
he starts up again and we're thinking
what's wrong with that squirrel huh and
we also saw on our way and so actually i
speaking what's going through you know
the birds heads and what's going through
the chipmunks head like what is it and
and that god created those creatures
like he genuinely cares for the birds
clips of his eye is on the sparrow right
so if he provides for the sparrow how
much more will he provide for us and I
was like God loves his creature like he
loves us but he also loves inspiration
and the Bible says that the earth groans
for the day that the Lord will come and
redeem it the Covenant of creation
starts you know at the very beginning of
time in the book
Genesis where God made a covenant with
his creation saying that he was going to
care for and the fact that he put a man
eating the garden to steward it to care
for it shows that he actually genuinely
loves what he has created and wants us
to take care of it and that's something
that we don't talk about very often
right we get we are here and it's like
well this is our medium right this is
the medium through which we travel is
this world we don't actually stopped to
look at it and so we're going to go to
commercial break and advert on pause
here but you're watching the commercial
I want you to think about when was the
last time you cause in creation and just
to fit in so exactly
Jeff Weston yella you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what are you
all right you're terrible actor what
this we're acting comes into play oh I
don't know what our think you're
supposed to act ok building a really
cool website are you building a really
cool website you need hosting one of the
things about a hosting account is you
don't want to have limitations put on
your website let's sure how much hard
drive space you have how many email
accounts how many domains can point to
it well we've got an amazing deal for
you for a very limited time cat five dot
TV / dreamhost for just five dollars and
a bit of change per month you are going
to get unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the roof of your own
comm site to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a wordpress
site five sign up cat five dot TV /
dream home don't potato the papers are
just don't do it but hey it's a great
deal folks best deal you're going to
find five dollars and change per month
go to cap five dot TV / dreamhost hey
and welcome back this is new every day
on Kerry done skin and we're talking
about on the wrap-up of our trip to
Tennessee
and how we have just really enjoyed
seeing in God's creation
how when you're walking through creation
helps to contemplation things have
gotten you felt looking at bookstore in
the mountains oil yeah called sanctuary
sanctuary it was about a man who was
just really struggling in life he had a
relationship with God and yet he was to
start on the party marriage broke up and
really seek me out where to find God and
yes he had a church family and yet he
read his Bible but he he found that he
needed to get outside actually to get
away from everything and just connect
with God through nature and Jesus said
it says a Jesus withdrew to a quiet
place because I think sometimes and i
agree with carrie you can be in the
center of a whole bunch of people and
feel isolated and create space for God
right haha but but you're still isolated
in a sense that you are alone even
though you're with people right the same
is with Jesus when he was drew he's
appear to hear God's voice mrs. heat was
through to a lonely place where he was
true to the mountainside and I feel like
we are often so busy that we don't
create space to hear God's voice and I I
read an article about how being in
nature unplugged actually can lower your
heart rate and produce healthy
like the results are good for you to be
I'm in quality good physically good for
you outside yeah just to be outside
unplugged it was important to be
unplugged like turn off the cell phone
like just go for a walk and the thing is
every time I have made time to go for a
walk and I just I feel like the spirit
to start speaking to like either he'll
drop a song into my heart or you know
whatever i've been ruminating on I just
fine I start thinking about that and I
give it over to the Lord and I have
friends that's how they connect to God
and we did talk about this as all idea
of how can you connect with God and I do
connect with God through the word like
reading a word and thinking asking
questions but also being in nature and
one of the things that I've read and I
have friends that have been it too is so
often we came in on think Oh Lord I'm
not connecting with you through you know
reading the word or through personal
worship well then I encourage you to go
for walk and that's okay like just go
for a walk and I want to say and open
your eyes like it was interesting carrie
picked up this little like feather type
of plants
puppies a month yeah and we're just
looking at and going wow god you're so
good like you creatives and he didn't
discreet one type of moth there are
several types of loss yeah on the ground
it's like and then their loss on the
tree and why did it only grow halfway up
the tree and we just got I want to say
caught up in God's creation he didn't
just create one type of tree because as
you walked through the Cedars of Lebanon
state park like we would say oh it got
really dark it wasn't because of someone
behind the tree it was actually because
or behind a cloud it was because the
tree or a sense of man this horse was so
dead and he didn't just make one type of
theater these Cedars of Lebanon was like
towering above us and then there were
oak trees and maple trees and like iron
wood and ash and look why did God create
you know so many different types of
trees like why didn't he just create one
and it's because he's enlighten us and
sometimes you know he wants us to
actually meet with him in creation like
I love sometimes you know going on and
picking a piece of wheat and then you
pull up all of the the heads and you
know you say tree or Bush to your voice
where she did as a kid but then to
actually examine this and the see those
little seeds in there and to realize
like
they're so intricately designed and how
much more does God love I and so I just
might you know walk through creation
like it happened on every single trip
like on one we saw while turkey and how
cool is that and whether we thought bear
we thought yeah which is really cool
they call them bear jams in the National
carcasses interesting but every time we
went for a walk it was like God was
there and so I don't know if you have a
spot where you can go for a walk or is
it that you you just make some quiet
time even if you're a totally a people
person you go to Starbucks and get a cup
of coffee you know and just enjoy being
around people but but you are isolating
yourself actually hear from the Lord or
you know I applaud yeah yeah there were
there were trails through the forest
that said quiet walking trail I get to
encourage people to take why I'm awesome
and so we want to encourage you you know
as we're sort of we are ending off our
road trip we do want to encourage you to
take some time for the Lord and i know i
will at the beginning of every year I
love tape and sometimes halfway through
i will be two or three days of this time
with the Lord like away from people it's
a conscious decision to be a way so I
can hear from the Lord or read a book
that I feel that you want me to read but
it so that I can hear the Lord's voice
or spend time in nature so I can be
connecting with the Lord and so I
encourage you
to make some space for the Lord to get
out in nature whether it's i want to say
the outside kind of nature where there's
trees and swamps and forests and flowers
and birds or if it's like the urban
forest yeah through parks or a bench or
something like that yeah and I think
this is something that people in general
do desire to get away from the busyness
of their life I mean we see it every
Friday easy summer and every Sunday
evening in the summer when people are
coming north and we have included that
they're driving up to the Muskoka such a
beautiful area in Northern Ontario they
want to get away yes so there's a desire
in us for I want to a wide open spaces
and whatever that looks like you but we
desire I think wide open spaces because
it creates space for God to speak to us
both you know whether it's at 10 minutes
in your hands wrapped around that hot
cup of coffee and just breathing in and
breathing out or standing in front of
your kitchen window and you know as some
of you might have another house and I'm
sorry about that but if you love it I'm
so happy
but just taking that time to breathe in
so maybe it's putting up a bird feeder
and just watching the birds coming and
just taking those that time to pause and
that's really what vacation is at least
for me is taking that time to Claude
fitting new opportunities to connect
with God and connect with friends and
it's like okay here we run I feel
refreshed so we hope that you find times
of refreshing in your life that's God is
just to renew your pure spirits I want
to say I want to be like that jumpstart
to the next chapter in your life
whatever that might be and it might be a
day it might be a week it might be a
month might be here sample idea of what
is that next chapter but are you pausing
long enough distance okay
we got ready to go so I'm not knows
we're just going to pray for you and why
don't we do that now yes Father thank
you for today thank you for the creation
as you say thank you for making us and
allowing us giving us the capacity to
actually enjoy it as well and I pray for
our viewers got maybe they're going
through a special time and they need to
get away so you could help them to find
that place so they can go and be quiet
and lord I pray that you with sweet
pictures but in a way yes in a quiet
place thank you Jesus for setting the
example that you did that you set aside
time to go and be quiet and pray the
Lord we commend to speak to you and ask
the public to do that when cranky
I'm just thinking as your brain Carrie
I'm feeling the Sun come in on my face
and maybe that's all you need is you
know in your place of work maybe there's
a window with some Sun just go stand
there for a minute as you're waiting for
the photocopier to run through and just
enjoy or if you carry works in an
emergency room there's no windows
there's no windows though I know I seek
out some ambulance bank yeah but this
doesn't look at it and photos inside yes
so ferocious take time to pause click on
o'clock and i'm not know we hope that
you have a great week outside doing
whatever makes you feel refreshed have
enough see you later
you
