here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom a
startup in the UK is making huge waves
by lowering the cost of robotic
prosthesis using 3d printing technology
a California electronics recycler is
fighting to stay out of jail after he
admitted to copying thousands of windows
reinstallation disks to use with
refurbished pcs AI researchers at Google
have developed algorithms that can
assess the risk of heart attacks by
analyzing retinal scans a clock designed
to run for ten thousand years is under
construction these stories are coming
right up
don't go anywhere whether you shop on
thinkgeek gearbest B&amp;H Photo Video eBay
or Amazon or even if you want a free
trial of audible you'll find the best
deals and support the shows we produce
by simply visiting the shopping sites
you already frequent by using the links
on our website visit category-five TV
slash partners for the full and
ever-growing list and help us create
more free content like this show thank
you for shopping with our partners and
thank you for watching this is the
category-five TV newsroom covering the
week's top tech stories with a slight
linux bytes i'm sasha Rickman and here
the top stories were following this week
a UK startup is changing the way we see
prosthesis open bionics is working hard
to create affordable 3d printed Bionic
hands that actually work but are about
30 times cheaper than other prosthesis
on the market they operate using sensors
attached to the skin to detect muscle
movements the muscle movements control
the hand and open and close fingers open
bionics teamed up with the National
Health Service in the UK and has been
trialing their Bionic hands with
children as young as 8 right now the NHS
spends approximately 75 million dollars
per year on prosthetic services young
children often don't have access to
these devices because they're not small
enough or they're just too expensive
so for example their parents can't
afford to supply them or the NHS cannot
afford to supply the patient with it the
co-founder of the company says seeing a
young child being able to move fingers
individually for the first time is
really cool
open bionics is currently working on
arms that are straight out of the
science fiction universe themes from
Marvel Disney and Star Wars Star Wars
trip franchises are available the goal
is to make kids feel proud of their
prosthesis this changes the image of
prosthesis from a medical device to
Bionic arms inspired by famous
characters currently the arms take
roughly 40 hours to 3d print the
person's limb is scanned with a tablet
then the design of the prosthetic is
then planned out finally the prosthetic
is 3d printed a royalty-free agreement
has been formed between Disney and open
bionics
this means themes designs have even more
potential the company sees a future of
making prosthesis fashionable and
accessible to all this is one of those
really great stories especially if you
know somebody who has had either an
amputation or is born with only one limb
and you think to yourself ok now it can
be like it's it can be like a
conversation starter trendsetter oh yeah
my question to you Robby and you might
know the answer to this is if your 3d
printing something like do you 3d print
the electrical components are you 3d
printing rubber what do you do oh I got
you ok so what's really neat about what
they're doing let's see if I can bring
them up I'm just doing a quick search
for open bionics it takes us to open
bionics comm they've got some really
cool stuff there I'm going to show you
this folks like this is the kind of
stuff that sash is talking about can you
imagine as a kid how outstanding that
would be oh my goodness like come on
they've made it cool but what what they
have is you can actually download
blueprints and things like that to 3d
print it yourself Sasha but so here's
the thing so they've got a shop where
you can buy the the components like the
this is the tendon line here for example
and you may not know what that is but
you will in just a moment they've got
actuators that you can buy as well so
that you can you can set it all out they
even have gel fingertip grips so that it
gives you a better grip on things and
all the needed screws and things like
that so the things that you can't 3d
print you can buy directly from open
bionics but as the name suggests being
that they are open they really have made
it an open platform so that you can get
a hold of the 3d printing diagrams and
print it yourself so then you only have
to buy the components that you can't 3d
print is such a neat idea yeah so
there's the muscle sensor for example
and the electrodes that that make it
work and you can if you don't have a 3d
printer you can go ahead and buy a
bionic hand already made and if you look
really really closely I said you'd be
able to tell where those tensors go do
you see in between the finger joints
yeah that's where the tensors are so the
the actuators pull on that string and
make the hand actually operate okay how
cool is that right but I'm making it so
that it looks like Iron Man for example
and a kid that could have that and be
like that it's just totally changes
things and I love that and the thing is
the reason I think a lot of parents in
the past but the the cost with it being
so prohibitive because kids grow and
they change so much but if you can bring
the cost down then as kids grow they can
go through different themes right like I
remember with my sisters when they had
braces they were excited about choosing
their braces colors right yep you can
actually change what your arm looks like
really as you grow and then you can you
so you can do a Disney theme and then
you can grow into a more adult version
later really like Iron Man can I show
you one more thing Sasha I I need to
show you this a search in google for
open bionics a de adaa
gives you a list there's the the circuit
controller like the controller itself
that they manufacture and sell looks a
lot like an Arduino to me and all this
stuff here so you can see how they've
actually laid this out so that people
can get in there hey here's how did
here's how to print it yourself here's
how to you know you can get the here's
how to insert the actuators here's how
to put it all together here's how to
install like the instructions are right
on their website this is the future
I just am blown away I mean look at how
much detail they've given us here yeah
it is Arduino they've they're showing
you how to install the Arduino software
there look how slick the presentation is
like it's oh yeah it's not clunky in any
way like it's very clean beautiful
there's how to set up the attendance
just unreal folks and this is what so if
you were to 3d print it yourself there
you have it that's what it would look
like not quite as beautiful as the ones
that they do themselves because they
probably have much better 3d printers
than a home person does right but and
and it's neat to Sasha that you can get
in to talk to your local library a lot
of libraries public libraries these days
have 3d printers for public use really
you can download the blueprints for this
and take it to the library to print it
wow I did not know that
yeah our library here in Barrie has a 3d
printer what yeah that's cool so check
into it I love when new stories are this
like mind-blowing ly awesome this is a
great one my California electronics
recycler is fighting to stay out of jail
after he admitted to copying thousands
of windows reinstallation discs to use
with refurbished pcs as an e-waste
warrior Erik Lundgren wished to see
discarded computers fixed up and reused
rather than crammed into the holes in
the ground to encourage people to
refurbish and continue using unwanted
LPC's he burned and distributed 28
thousand copies of the IT giant's window
XP and seven restore disks these disks
can be used to wipe clean a machine
storage and reinstall a fresh copy of
Microsoft's operating system
well US prosecutors weren't impressed by
this caper Lundgren was taken to court
and in May of last year he pleaded
guilty to conspiracy to traffic in
counterfeit goods and criminal copyright
infringement at the time the 33 year-old
Rosetta California resident was
sentenced to 15 months in jail and fined
$50,000 his co-conspirator Robert J wolf
of Boca Raton Florida at the time was 54
and was placed under six months of house
arrest and given four years probation
but the district court granted Lundgren
a stay of sentence allowing him to
challenge the punishment without a trip
to the clink is this fair though the
computers he created the computers he
created the discs for had valid windows
license keys the discs were in one sense
cleaning tools for wiping a machine and
preparing it for reuse
rather than depriving a depriving
Microsoft of a window sale
it was the value of those discs however
that were used as the basis for the 15
month term after all Dell offers its
reinstallation media for free from its
website while Microsoft's typically
chained charges for copies of its
operating system arguing that a copy of
Windows is essentially useless without a
product key and that all of the recycled
machines had their own valid Keys
Lundgren's lawyers suggested that what
he did was merely make it easier for the
owners to get something that they
already were entitled to for free Wow
so in my opinion this was not even
illegal this is not worth I don't think
that's worth a charge what do you think
okay I I read this story and I tried to
wrap my mind around it because I get
what he's doing I get the copyright laws
I'm inclined to agree with you I don't
think what he was doing was illegal I
think and again I'm not a legal
professional this is just my layman's
perspective
but I think he got caught in a loophole
I don't think it was necessarily
intended for this is it a loophole or is
that the courts not understanding
legitimacy of Licensing versus media
well that could yeah that's probably a
better way they don't not understanding
how it works because I mean at the end
of the day it's not like he was doing it
from a piracy stamp I mean this stuff is
already it was already accessible was
already available yeah
that's such a gray area though it is
media itself has the software but you
can't activate it without a valid
license key and the license key is valid
so is it legal is it illegal yeah I
think it technically is illegal I
suppose to us in a technical sense I
mean I guess I guess maybe it is but I
don't see that it was done as an illegal
act I don't see that it was done that's
not a come on you this was a kindness
right this is saving the environment
right other than this these computers
would be trash right so isn't this like
an act of earthly kindness this was an
act of earthly kindness no but I mean at
the end of the day it's not like it was
it wasn't stealing it was I mean the
keys were right there I'm sure you've
got the sticker on the case I know so
had he just refurbished these computers
and sold them without the media would he
have been cool probably because they're
getting them on the media I I don't know
I mean I guess at the end of the day if
a portion of the sale was converted as
you know third party whatever if it
checks for the media yeah that would
that have then made it now legal who
knows like anybody know comment below
here's the only crime that I see here is
that he didn't install Linux on those
computers yes I agree
sustained
artificial intelligence researchers at
Google have developed algorithms that
can assess the risk of heart attacks by
analyzing retinal scans by looking for
common patterns in images of retinal
scans and matching them up with data in
the patient's medical records one
algorithm could determine if someone was
a smoker or nonsmoker to an accuracy of
71% another algorithm that was focused
on the blood vessels in the eye could
tell if somebody had severe high blood
pressure or not a sign associated with
increased chances of stroke there models
can also predict other factors such as
age gender and the chance of a heart
attack or stroke
Lillie Tang a product manager at Google
brain explained given the retinal image
of one patient who up to five years
later experienced a major cardiovascular
event such as a heart attack and the
image of another patient who did not our
algorithm could pick out the patient who
had the cardiovascular event 70% of the
time while 70% may not seem as accurate
as you want according to the researchers
at the according to the researchers the
level of accuracy is actually very
similar to the more traditional method
of drawing blood to measure cholesterol
levels so this is really good as far as
advancement in helping to self diagnose
things before you have to take the extra
step right craft reminds me of that
remember you know if you look to the
left you're lying yeah you know or
whatever that was yes that's right
but to think 70% accuracy that's that's
kind of surprising I may have missed it
in the story but how many times did they
run this test like more than once okay
but we don't rely quantifies 70%
accuracy was there ten yeah seven of
them got right was it ten thousand tests
this is what we don't know Jeff assume
let's just assume that this was a very
thorough very scientific test right
before before any scientist is gonna
release a paper it's going to be
thoroughly examined thoroughly tested
right so now let's think about all of
the ways
this could either help us or not because
I'm thinking about retinal scans of the
future when all of a sudden you're
denied access to a country because you
might have a stroke while you're there I
already have a fear of AI looking me in
the eye and saying you are going to die
soon okay so I have I agree with Sasha
on this one I think the more we use
technology to automatically assert a
health condition it opens the door to
discrimination and I mean I'm not gonna
get into are you saying that to know
that you are going to have a condition
is to discriminate so no not to know but
to take that information and bar you
from something like imagine you go to
sign up for insurance yeah you know you
want to get health insurance and your
insurance provider comes to you says hey
can you just take a look at this little
box here and we go this by the way we've
determined that even though you've not
been diagnosed you've had X Y Z happen
and now because of that your premiums
are this under like like we're talking
about making assumptions based on an
imperfect system 70% is great but it's
not a perfect system 100% of the time
how did this become that Sasha what do
you think how did this become that
because is this not if I would like to
know if I'm going to come down with this
problem right so this is perfect in the
hands of the user this is really great
in a way my Fitbit tells me my heart
rate and if my heart rate went off the
charts I would think okay something's
wrong with me
same with this retinal scan if all of a
sudden it flagged something I would
think okay I need to get myself to a
doctor now that being said as long as
it's in my hands in my control it's
great and once it goes into the hands of
somebody making it discriminatory
judgment against my health that's where
it's an issue I would like to hear from
someone who has a condition where they
are having to check their cholesterol
like that right you're having to take
the brick test on a recurring basis how
much does that cost you is it is it cost
prohibit
in some cases and would it be better if
you could just go to the local pharmacy
look into a machine and have it report
back your results just by a retina scan
yes see that still freaks me out but see
okay this is regularly telling people
you're gonna die cuz they go my nose is
running Google what was wrong don't ever
you're gonna die yeah like I have a
headache you know is gonna scare me like
don't ever do it folks Google is not a
doctor is really like it's a cool
technology you can scan your retina and
they can tell you like they can tell
just by your retina if you're male or
female if you're a smoker or nonsmoker
if you're about to have a stroke or not
or if you're lying if you look a little
to the left
a clock designed to run for ten
millennia without human intervention is
now under construction the ten thousand
year clock is a project of the long now
foundation a non-profit organization
that wants to make long-term thinking
more common it's being built on property
owned by Amazon founder Jeff Bezos
beneath a mountain in the middle of the
desert in Texas there is currently no
completion date scheduled for the
project
the clocks creator American inventor
Danny Hillis first publicly shared the
concept in an essay for a wired in 1995
in it he describes his vision of a
timepiece that takes once every year
with a century hand that moves just once
every 100 years and a cuckoo that
emergence ever emerges every 1,000 years
the clock is designed to capture energy
from changes in temperature to power its
timekeeping apparatus according to the
long now foundation but it will not be
able to store enough energy to display
the time unless visitors wind it with a
hand turned wheel the project has
attracted the support of influential
artists and thinkers in
addition to Bezos whose contribution of
42 million dollars makes him the largest
financial backer British musician Brian
you know a famous for his ambient
compositions has built a mechanical
melody generator that will produce a
different chime sequence every day for
10,000 years like the clock hands the
chimes will only work if visitors power
the clock the first prototype of the
clock which was completed back in 1999
is now on display at the Science Museum
in London according to the long now
foundation visitors will be able to hike
to the site to see the finished product
Wow
that is neat that's cool
so the cuckoo only happens every
thousand years yes what what's to say
it's gonna work and what's to say anyone
is ever going to remember what it's
supposed to do well right what's this
like what a lot of what's to say right
it's art that I had to search for this
Brian Eno because I was curious about
who he was and to think that he's
created and melodia melodic mechanism to
add to this clock so that it chimes and
stuff that's cool I was thinking of the
guy who did the the marbles and played
music by having the marbles drop down if
I was this guy I would not do a
different tone or melody for every day
of the 10,000 years because nobody lives
that long and nobody's gonna record it
and pass that down you could just a loop
it right you just need a different one
for every light every thousand years it
just goes back to the first song exactly
that's a really long playlist so okay I
feel like the obvious question is not
being asked so I'm gonna ask it why
right the other obvious one is 42
million dollars as the biggest financial
backing exactly okay this is a lot of
money for us thing underground well why
do we need this done have you ever heard
of the Antikythera mechanism like come
on could you imagine
10,000 years from now finding this clock
and it still works and seeing the
technology from 2018 and how people were
able to come together and manufacture
this thing I have no idea what we're
gonna have in ten thousand years a
thousand years we're gonna be living on
other planets potentially but like we've
the world is falling apart like this
past week we've had the Arctic is warmer
than parts of Europe so don't you want a
clock to still be here when there is no
civilization left to read time like what
why the space aliens know that we were
in intelligence why I just explained it
to you it's no no you gave me some
cockamamie idea so the aliens know that
there was an intelligent race here
10,000 years ago we we meet that is why
it's really neat and the fact that
visitors have to wind it to power it
means not only do they have this really
neat thing that somebody is obviously
paying a lot of money for oh yeah yeah
but it means that they'll generate
revenue because they'll be tourists who
want a Shriner here at the toe who knows
like every thousand years starting one
which means that they'll be people
people camped out like they do like at
the casino for the slot machines trying
to wait for the cuckoo every thousand
yes not every thousand years hoping
they're getting one and look if you're
Jeff Bezos because you can yeah because
you can see and that's the most sensible
answer that I have heard there you go
because you can but just don't try to
figure out art you know I think that's
my problem I don't understand art I
really don't just appreciate I have a
very literal mind and so like I don't
understand Picasso I you know somebody
like puts a pencil on a table and they
go it's expressive I don't get it no
that's a writing tool so it's a clock
it's a clock but that
it's just it's not even it's barely art
it's just a clock that moves really slow
for a very long time it's like what is
time right
maybe that clock is moving very fast
some beings I think the problem is he's
just making too much money he doesn't
know what to do with it I I will take a
little bit of that money you know what
we will build a Raspberry Pi clock you
give us that forty million dollars can I
just as we as the story comes to a close
can I just put a different spin on it
and say hope for the future to think
that 10,000 years from now
human beings in whatever state that they
happen to be in 10,000 years from now
are going to observe this art piece and
say wow to think so here in 2018 that
we're looking forward to 10,000 years in
the future and saying we will still
exist we will be prosperous we will rule
the world 10,000 years from now and
someone will observe this and say wow
you know what will be even cooler if in
10,000 years from now in a cave in the
middle of the desert of Texas is
actually under an ocean that would be
neat because the world could change by
then shifting like crazy and we might
still continue shifting but you know I
hope that wherever it is that they put
this thing something happens in like the
first year and it gets like completely
unutilized so I could just laugh and say
why why big thanks to Roy W Nash and our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our web site from the
category-five TV newsroom i'm
Richmond
[Music]
[Applause]
you
