welcome to category five technology TV
experience is a free worldwide
interactive we join the community
welcome to episode number 208 of
category five technology TV great to see
you it's Tuesday September the 13th 13th
September G back Robby nice to have you
here and thank you for him how have you
been I am well open forever you've been
working Tuesday nights I've been working
I've been yeah I've been teaching some
guitar but stuff it's you know I don't
have any virtuosos you know making any
records or anything yet but I got some
really cool students yes it's been good
very good been fun that's crazy well
this age is great to be seen mm-hmm I
think that's Keith Richards line it's
now an eric kid line there it is there
it is captured great to see everybody on
the in the chatroom there
Gadwal hey das bomber boys those great
really just waiting for an opportunity
to do there you go well we'll do those
later over over a cup of tea all right
yes no that's from last week's show
where you start working on stop-motion
video oh and what was really cool oh
there he is there there he is there's my
guy on my computer's right on your
compare yes there is and what was really
cool is we've already started receiving
submissions for the contest voiceover
contest so those are really really super
cool we're gonna probably talk about
those we've got a couple of emails there
we'll get to them if we can tonight so
I'd love to chat a vote about the
voiceover contest a little bit well
that'll be fun basically we did some
stop-motion last week Hillary and I and
we use these characters to do the
stop-motion video and viewers are taking
the opportunity to add their own
voiceovers was this hillard yes that was
that was Hillary and and I was Sulu and
and it was it was really awesome now she
she she dominated the the fight but
that's all good the other thing that's
been happening is that people have been
doing their own stop-motion with clay or
with Lego or whatever else being
inspired since the show so it's been
really neat to see some of the messages
that have have come in this week we're
going to be looking at a whole bunch of
awesome stuff one of the things we're
gonna be looking at is Libre Office and
making sure that it loads as fast as
possible we're gonna talk about that but
we've also got lots of viewer questions
Eric's going to be talking or are
someone up in the news got lots of stuff
going on the newsroom I'll let you we
have just telephones we have news room
let me tell you what's going on in the
news room please I can tell you I can
tell you very now so coming up in the
news room windows clone react OS could
get a massive boost with funding from
the Russian president that's cool yeah
that is very cool
Carol Bartz has been fired as the CEO of
Yahoo sorry I'm gonna try to behave
tonight Microsoft's cloud services spent
2.5 hours offline raising concerns about
the cloud a defunct NASA satellite
weighing in at 6 tons that's metric tons
is going to hit Earth in the next month
stick around these stories and others
are coming up in about 30 minutes very
cool thanks Eric you are very welcome
what do you think your new chair I love
my new chair I don't know if you can see
these friends
there it is there there you go so what I
actually did is I had I had my son give
me a hand with these and and so I
actually tweeted this week Zek is
assembling one of these chairs for me
thinking I might give this one to my
co-host okay well I was gonna say there
is a little bit of a list to the port on
this one but that was on Zak he did a
pretty good job four year old yeah yeah
he had a lot of fun and really enjoyed
doing a project with that and there he
is that is kind of cool yeah we had a
good time on Twitter this week
lots of stuff came in as I was saying
some people have been experimenting with
with stop-motion video since seeing it
on the show very cool stuff mark the Tri
geek says I am having way pardon me that
cop came out of nowhere
way too much fun making stop-motion film
with my son's Lego next up lightsaber
battle Yoda versus who could it be
by the way it's Robbie Ferguson's fault
and that's how you can message me on
Twitter it's at Robbie Ferguson as Mark
the draggy has it done their very math
man 47 aka Dennis Finnegan says Robbie
Ferguson perfect for stop action found
the Pico Dali good for small spinning
shots coolest gadgets and check out that
link very cool device and we're gonna
actually he actually took the time to
send in a detail the email as well so
we're taking a look at that alright
and I think mark the Tri geek kind of
inspired me to think up something a
little silly and I'll just I'll just
kind of put that up for you tell me if
you get this you can't imagine my
disappointment when I realized we
weren't going to meet Yoda after all but
just do a bunch of stupid stretches I'm
confused he didn't get it my wife says I
I saw the tweet but I didn't get it if
you get it post in the chat room I'll
give you 50 viewer points 50 of them Wow
I thought it was funny yes d-man a 10-4
54 points has got it the reference Chris
Rock I'll give you some to the reference
to yoga oh my goodness you got a very
punny
yes but the lowest form of humor unless
of in fact yeah we're deeper you know
100 less you were the one who came up
with the pun I guess and then it doesn't
we yes so you probably didn't find it to
be such a low form of humor yeah I also
had wondered this week if James Brown
ever woke up in a funk we have some
testimonials that were submitted this
week I will take a look quick look at
that have you got those up by any chance
I'm not sure I can do this anymore okay
submit of your testimonial on our
website its category 5 I think I'll do
that right now yeah that guy in the
green shirt oh should get a haircut
yeah a little long isn't it let's see we
have have some testimonials here I've
got let's see right over here if you
click on interact and sub you'll see
viewer testimonials and you can submit
your own and there's also you can review
some of the testimonials that have come
in I've got one that actually came in is
the first one that ever came in for
major Tom the fish says hey Major Tom
congratulations on your cool space home
my cat is a big fan of you every time
she sees you she has that big smile on
her face anyways happy floating and Beth
greets to Commander Robbie and his
ground control engineers as well that
comes to us from Andy in Switzerland Wow
you know I used to watch commander Tom I
think it was a station out of Buffalo
New York
there was commander the guy's name was
Tom Jules and it was on I think it was
out of Buffalo New you know this is no
man well it was commander Tom you're
right so this is Major Tom yeah I'm just
completely wrong it's higher rank yeah
walleston interesting
and then we've got that yeah you can
take away we've got one there from here
Leonor in California the the buck
masters where are you looking
yeah I'm looking right there yeah okay
well hi Robbie and gang my family really
likes the show your production quality
has greatly improved over the years I've
gotten such the runaround from different
OS and hardware manufacturers so he's
had such a run around from so many
different OS and hardware manufacturers
that he moved to Linux
I currently dual boot with my newest
system that came with Windows 7 7 seems
to be ok if I don't mind Microsoft
doling my time with their updates I
would not have used for them if I could
get my GPL 2 HP plotter recognized and
limit any distro suggestions
thank you again the Buckmaster fergie
plotter late california masters the
whole family sitting down and watching
the show nice to have you here that's as
far as finding a distro that will so
that will work with your HP slaughter
we'd have to if throw me the the model
number but I think you you'd have just
as much luck to get into Google how old
is the device and and what kind of
support does it get good place to look
when you say plotter though I'm
envisioning a rather large yeah is
something that's used with more of the
CAD yeah drawing stuff a little bigger
than your average inkjet or laser I just
wonder does does CPS or cups support
plotters that's a that's a question that
I don't know the answer to let's see
we'd want to look into that I think if
you if you have the model number we
could help you try to find what what
driver you could get for your Linux
system I don't know that it's gonna be a
specific distro I'm really enjoying
Zorin OS right now to be honest with you
Zorin OS ultimate that's 10 euros to buy
it and that's it's really good it's I'm
really enjoying that
and I see that some viewers have
actually made the switch to Zorin OS as
well which is an Ubuntu based distro so
it's a you know it is Ubuntu at its
heart which is Debian at its heart
so you still tap into those repositories
that are going to are so famous for but
you get the advantage of really sleek
really clean operating system that's
that's built for I think you the user as
well alright well that's it for
testimonials tonight just the two that
came in this week and we've got this
I've been encouraging viewers and
encourage you to actually send us a
postcard an actual physical postcard
find one that that has a picture of your
town or something that reminds you of
your country and and send it our way
you'll find our postal box on our
website category five tv scroll to the
very bottom or go to contact us and
you'll you'll well we'd love to receive
a postcard because mail is kind of snail
mail is kind of slow these days we don't
get a lot of it anymore everybody
submits everything by email you know
which is fine we're not going to get
into a Canada Post discussion today
definitely not we are not we are we talk
about things that make us happy on this
show that's that's our intention all
right we are also not going to talk
about postal strikes or anything of the
sort and I want to see what you got here
well send you a year supply of free
batteries that would make me happy
cat5 dot TV slash free batteries make
sure you check them out eco alkaline ZAR
eco-friendly carbon neutral batteries
the first batteries ever to be certified
carbon neutral
check it out cat five dot TV slash free
batteries for your chance to win a full
year supply I kind of quickly did the
math and I thought okay how do you
determine what a year's supply your
supplier batteries is one pack of
batteries a week okay which is you know
it's some people may go through more
than that you may go through less but so
you're looking average year it's fifty
two packs of batteries does pretty
decent you take seven dollars a pack of
batteries say and all of a sudden it's
like 350 to 400 dollars with batteries
it's like that's pretty substantive and
you didn't have to go and get him did
you you didn't have to go out and get
them yeah
they come right to you anywhere in the
world cuz will ship them anywhere you
know was where yeah this is a worldwide
show I do my best to make sure that when
we're sending out prizes we can send it
anywhere in the world so cat5 dot TV
slash free batteries for your chance to
win
what about st. Mary's Bay Newfoundland
look it's a we will send an hour's drive
I'm your solely drive it there okay yeah
is it red yeah really and we'll send it
there I mean well it'll get there what's
our way we will find a way to get those
batteries to you because I have faith
that you were gonna win this friend so
get onto cat5 TV slash free batteries
for your chance Chris that guy in st.
Mary's Bay probably doesn't have
television accident' internet access so
he's probably not watching this anyway
no well it might be that's why offerings
possible maybes got satellite can't
believe there's places without internet
I mean you can go you can literally go
to like third world areas if you will I
was just guessing I I'm and wrong they
have high-speed Internet so how and yet
I know there are places you can go about
a half hour north of here and there's no
high-speed Internet that my friends and
I've had days at my house where there's
been no internet and the provider says
oh it's something you've changed but it
was a breaking ball that side but okay
well that's a little different yeah but
no but to actually not have access to
high school or to be just on the outside
we were going to talk about things that
made us happy people were saying well it
must be a really tiny town well there's
actually a town in Ontario called tiny
Township and I've been told that they
have they are if you're watching from
tiny Township let me know but is it true
that there's no high-speed Internet well
we need to petition or something find
out what what we need to do before we
jump into viewer questions because I
know we've had a lot to go through
tonight with you they're practically
going to become a viewer question
extravaganza I believe tonight but with
the October 31st festivities coming up
you know what whatever
is October 31st well you know what
happens is that category five opens up
the category five costume store yes yeah
we have a very our very own official
costume store it's a year-round thing
you can get party supplies and
everything else but especially we're
good at stocking the best costumes
everything for grown-ups kids whatever
you need you can get on over it's cat5
dot TV slash costumes literally that's
all that is cat5 dot TV slash costumes
we've got a fantastic selection now is
the time to order because we're gonna be
able to get those to you just in perfect
timing you'd have them really really
quickly right now orders haven't started
getting crazy yet okay it's usually you
know the last couple weeks that things
really get crazy and we start running
out of stuff so that's you know a great
chance for you to get a really
exceptional costume you remember my
Starfleet costume from I remember that I
actually picked that up in our own
costume store well fantastic
that is through our partnership with
party marked and party Mart donates a
portion of each sale to category five so
you're actually indirectly helping
support the show at the same time so if
you're thinking about going out and
buying a costume this year
make sure you first check out our
costumes to our cat5 dot TV slash
costumes alright and I'll let you take
it away with with some questions JVs
Cece I don't know well here's something
from Peter Lewis this is not a question
oh we were looking for questions okay
viewer statement we know this going into
it this is not a question but some info
you found on the internet about GIMP the
GNU image manipulation program cool that
correct when I was downloading a version
of GIMP for Windows XP this gives you a
gimp on both windows and Ubuntu it also
makes it possible to download help files
for GIMP so you can see HTTP colon slash
slash - wind sourceforge.net
- doc sourceforge.net / stable dot html'
okay so that is in fact that's fantastic
and thank you for the yeah for the link
it's actually kind of a roundabout way
to get to the windows build of the GIMP
and is that it's having trouble loading
on my system right now but what what
I'll show you if you go over to gimp.org
and again thank you for the tip because
it simple my my window system yeah you
do it's a great tool fantastic I use
Photoshop but do yeah but yeah it does
some things exceedingly well hmm one day
I think we should have a battle between
camp and Photoshop because there are
some things that GIMP does way way
better than Photoshop there are a few
things that Photoshop does better thank
you
sizing things really that's one of them
does with sync interpolation it's quite
good on the GIMP so try that when you're
resizing an image in the GIMP if you're
finding that it's lossy you're probably
using cubic interpolation so when you go
image image size okay choose sync sync
from the interpolation menu it's a drop
down can you see if that helps I'd love
to know from you if a little changes did
a while ago that because maybe we've
nipped that in the bud and you have no
reason to go to photoshop whoa looking
at their website this is gimp.org the
official website of the gimp the link
that you're actually providing is if you
go way down to the bottom of the website
we can see down we dam if you're
watching the Friendly Giant you know
yeah it's just like just like that
you know we've got downloads for UNIX or
Linux Windows or Mac OS 10 so if you
click on the windows 1 and then we click
up on the Installer to download the
Windows version it's actually taking me
to the one the site that you're that
you're mentioning in the email there so
for those who want to find that you're
absolutely right this is a fantastic
tool
but you can indirectly get it directly
from gimp.org because they link to this
particular build which is hosted on
SourceForge and it's a build of the GIMP
for Windows you can download that
absolutely free the GIMP just so you
know as as Eric and I are kind of
hinting at is is an alternative to the
rather expensive commercial tool Adobe
Photoshop which is a fabulous tool
absolutely it's great tool yeah however
free versus yeah if I went into a store
and they had this steak and this steak
and this steak was 20 bucks and this one
they'll give me for free just to try it
and I can I can keep getting that steak
for free if I want I'm probably never
gonna need really need that $20.00 steak
maybe not probably not so I'm probably
not you know if you if you learn to use
the free tool you're probably not going
to need to spend the $900 or the $400 if
you're a student it can be pricey all
right what do you got for me what do you
got well see there's another one from
Peter Lewis he was walking BBC iplayer
because he wanted to watch back episode
of Torchwood oh the time it was on we
had visitors so the morning after I
watched the episode of category 5 and
then watched Torchwood in the program
there was an actor who looked very much
like you I mean you I think who played a
baddie definitely of course okay so to
see if you think it resembles you a
picture a picture I've also sent you the
link to the program clip as well PS when
you see the clip I hope you are not into
mass murder Robbie Robbie look like me
Peter Peter Peter
well you know he he's a lot more here
than you do that's true he it kind of
reminds me and maybe it's just because
it's me you tell me in the chat room if
you think that that that man looks like
me but it kind of reminds me of every
time we see a bald man my kids pipe up
and go daddy daddy that man looks like
you kinda reminds me of that but maybe
it's because it's just me so I want to
hear if the chatroom agrees that that
that indeed looks like me I assure you
that whatever it is that he did I do not
condone well thanks for the email yeah
show them that picture rubbing no sorry
yeah okay one question that if show okay
here's a dear Robbie I would like to ask
you a question regarding USB sticks
there are four ways of storing data on a
medium my first way is magnetic ie audio
cassette video tape er SD card with the
one and zeros stored magnetically
another way is to store the ones and
zeros optically which produces peaks and
ridges into a CD DVD or blu-ray disc the
peaks and the troughs troughs I think
are cut with a laser the peaks are the
LS and the zeros are the drops okay
another laser is used to read the peaks
and troughs we're going way back to yeah
okay well the next method is used in
computer memory which is two transistors
connected to so that one of them is on
and the other one is off flip-flop this
is repeated many many times to store
lots of bits of information since one
flip-flop is used to store one bit of
information a small battery is used to
keep the flip-flops in their states
what I cannot understand is when you
take a USB stick out of a computer after
storing some information on it how does
it keep some information on the stick
when there is no power applied to the
stick is there a small battery which
keeps the information on the stick when
the stick is pulled out of the computer
basically I really want to know how it
how is how it how does it keep the data
on the stick and if the stick for
example was not in use for a month on
end as the data degrade on the stick
many thanks Peter hmm Peter I think it's
it's an interesting question you've got
one of these and how does it actually
store the data without a battery or you
know if it's been sitting on the shower
for the data for that matter have you
missed me tons it sounds like you know
quite a bit about data storage
mechanisms and things I could you
research that and get back to us no no
but I think as Eric was reading this I
was sitting here gone yeah not that
you're anything but enlightening and
enjoyable to listen to but as I clicked
my pen it stays where it was as I
release the pen it goes back to its
original position there's two toggles on
this pen so I can either have the pen
out or I can have it in those are the
two options so a floating gate
transistor which is different than than
just a standard single gate transistor
contains basically two different options
you've got it's closed or it's open and
if it's closed for example there's the
electron actually gets captured between
that and the control transistor so it
can't be moved unless the electron is
unless the charge changes all right so
really I mean thinking of it as a very
very tiny microscopic J V SEC thinks
that there's actually a tiny person
inside
how interesting yes it is quite possible
it's an E set pen it could be a robot
lots of guesses in the chat room Smurfs
do it Thank You Deena but basically
you're looking at a floating floating
gate transistors is a little bit
different because it's got the two the
two transistors in it so look look it up
I would say Wikipedia will probably have
I mean Wikipedia is the basically the
world's knowledge as far as that goes I
don't know if we want to search for
floating gate transistor I think you do
want to floating gate MOSFET comes up
might be an interesting read this is a
bit more general I think see if there's
uses structure modeling simulation
application applications neither those
really help us okay let's go back to the
old Google machine let's type Wikipedia
USB flash media floating gate there we
go flash memory Wikipedia flash memory
is a non-volatile computer storage chip
and if we scroll down here there we go
floating gate transistor and you'll be
able to read up some information there I
guarantee a Wikipedia it's got all that
for you but basically it's like I say
you've got two positions and that
electron is going to get basically stuck
in in between the control gate and the
floating gate and so the floating gate
can no longer move so then the change in
the charge makes it so that the floating
gate is in the second position so so you
get millions and billions of these
little tiny transistors and that's how
your data stored so it's really kind of
interesting I think yeah how did
somebody think of this and if you look
at it on a graph well the pen is pretty
impressive but if you think about it on
a grand scale you've got something that
can move up or down and if it's down
there's a bubble in between so it can't
go up anymore and it's like it's
I know it's not magnetic media but how
is it affected by if you set it on top
of the speaker magnets still good yeah
well because the electrons can yeah
moved right let's slice up yeah so you
don't want to do that don't do it don't
grab an old cassette demagnetizer and
and clear but I knew that it would hang
on to the the data for years and years
and years Kelly yeah
years and years and years ago they sent
me a promotional USB stick and I'll be
like 128 megabytes was huge and yeah and
actually it was huge too but it doesn't
fit into some USB ports because there's
housing around it but I found a couple
of files that I had on it from like 10
years ago I'm still getting yeah it
still worked
very cool ok we have a question yeah we
have a question from Joe and it's
regarding Ubuntu 11.04 all right how do
I get the boot up sequence to show the
devices it loads etc it does this when I
log out of Ubuntu but not when I boot up
hmm that was the whole thing that was
the whole thing that was it yeah
brilliant we now know the boot up
sequence wants to see it happen there's
a cool tool that's available to it into
a cool tool I'm gonna see if I have it
in synaptic package manager' here let's
see
it is called startup - manager this is
one way to do it
there it is I guess it's just startup
manager will do it grab you splash
splash screen configuration tool and
what it does is through a GUI it lets
you edit your configuration right so
show boots flash uncheck that show
texturing boot is cool what is kind of
cool the reason that I brought that up
first startup manager has a cool thing
where it actually kind of does it in a
graphical mode so it's a little bit
different than just like you can grub or
something but then if you don't want to
go that route just go the old-school way
and the way we're going to do that is
edit your actual grub configuration so
people laugh at me when I go to terminal
to to do sudo so what I'll do is instead
of going to terminal I'm gonna go GK
sudo all right so that's the sudo
command for within gtk so I want to G
edit that's my editor ET c / defaults
slash grub I believe it is if I thought
no default correction there we go if I
click it I will know there we go
okay because I am GK food ode super user
I'm able to edit this file anything if
you did not use sudo GK sudo you're not
going to be able to do that here's
here's the line that's causing you to
not have text mode okay they can't what
is happening here all right this line
here grub CMD line Linux default equals
there's two problems here one they've
got a splash screen that's graphical and
two you've got quiet remember how in the
traditional Linux days you could hit
escape and it would display your text
right that's kind of an ideal situation
defaults of the splash screen but if you
hit escape it would show you the text so
if you would like it to run in that mode
all you have to do is remove the word
quiet so that it's now going to look
like that so you still get the splash
screen but if you hit escape it will be
text alright now if you want take it one
step further and only ever be text just
delete the whole thing so that it says
quote quote and it's empty
alright that's gonna do text mode for
you in grub that's all there is to it
easy breezy because you're super user
you can save that file
oh you'll also need to do a grub update
so here you go with your terminal
accessories terminal okay
once you're there sudo update grub mmm
generating grub CFG it goes through and
does it all for ya I'm just done it's
all there is to it cool thanks for the
question lots of questions tonight and
we better jump into the news and we'll
come back to your questions we have more
questions we got lots and lots of
questions but I'll let Eric jump into
the news cuz it is that time and we'll
be back with with more viewer questions
right after that all right
you can talk from the category-five TV
newsroom there was a note on the screen
telling me to shut up for three to five
seconds like five to ten this is this is
abuse I think this would be I haven't
talked to the Union about this a free
open-source windows cloned react OS has
been in development for over a decade
has caught the eye of russian President
Dmitry Medvedev a student at a Russian
High School the president visited
recently gave mr. naved have the
president a brief overview of the
project and asked him for 1 million
euros the system's developers say it
runs on all Windows programs but is much
faster than its Microsoft equivalent if
it gets the financial boost it could be
usable in the near future they had the
students presentation must have been
impressive since mr. Medvedev replied
that he'll think about it adding that
the project was indeed very interesting
yahoo chief executive Carol Bartz has
been fired by the internet company after
two and a half years in the top job the
company said in a statement that mrs.
Bart's was removed from the Board of
Directors effective immediately
Tim Morris Yahoo's chief financial
officer will take over the position
stockholders seem to be sided with the
Board of Directors since yahoo shares
jumped more than six percent in
after-hours trading once news of the
firing broke millions of Microsoft users
were left unable to access some online
services overnight because of a major
service failure hotmail and SkyDrive
were among the services affected but
particularly embarrassing is the
temporary loss of office 365 the
company's alternative to Google suite of
online apps Microsoft said the issue
appeared to be related to the Internet's
DNS address system such a major problem
is likely to raise questions about the
reliability of cloud computing versus
local storage its service also went
offline briefly in mid-august less than
two months after it launched the latest
disruption is believed to have lasted
for around two and a half hours
last week Hillary talked about the fact
that space junk is getting out of hand
with a staggering estimate of 370
thousand pieces of junk floating in
orbit of Earth at speeds of up to 22,000
miles per hour how many is that in
kilometres per hour right now NASA is
warning that there's a 1 and 3200 chance
that pieces of a defunct satellite could
hit someone when it plunges from orbit
in the next month or so it would be the
first time in history someone was
injured by space debris the upper
atmosphere research satellite or uar
asked for short yes likely pronounced
yes ran out of fuel in 2005 and could
land on any of six continents most of
the satellite is expected to burn up
during reentry
but a hefty 1/2 ton of metal will still
plummet to the Earth's surface is being
tracked by the joint Space Operations
Center of US Strategic Command at
Vandenberg Air Force Base in California
but NASA admits it has little to no idea
where it will come down or when it
predicts that it will enter the
atmosphere in late September but it
could be October these space agencies
said that the crash site will be
anywhere between 57 degrees north
latitude and 57 degrees south latitude
and the remains could scatter over a
500-mile area a spokesman for NASA adds
if you find something you think may be a
piece of yours do not touch it contact
the local law enforcement office for
assistance
get the full story is a category 5 TV
slash newsroom the category 5 TV
newsroom is researched by Roy W Nash
with contributions by our community of
viewers if you have a news story you
think is worthy of on-air mention email
newsroom at category 5 dot TV for the
category 5 TV newsroom I
kid it's kind of scary I don't I can't
remember out time in my lifetime it's a
fairly wide range and for that long
range - you look at at the map that
they're giving us and saying okay well
somewhere in here is where this thing is
gonna fall could still fall in the ocean
they don't really that's like yeah it's
kind of scary I'm thinking about it
looks like if you're really really way
down in the Antarctica way basically
anyway north
you're probably anywhere where there's
population yeah you're at risk and I
compared that to category five TV
viewers and this is what it looks like
and it's interesting to see even from
that that population is really within
that within those lines so you know
we're really really hopeful that there's
still some patches of water in there
there are some patches of water yeah
yeah so but wow really reiterates the
fact that it's it's problematic that
it's like that year 2000 problem
that'll never be a problem in our life
you wonder but what's happened is they
had all these satellites up in space and
orbiting the Earth and they had some old
space debris that was up there and then
there was a test missile sent up to that
was a an anti-satellite missiles or
whatever anti-satellite spacecraft boy
that destroyed a couple of them and
caused massive amounts of debris oh so
now we've got this problem where okay
well it's pretty serious there's lots
and lots of junk just flying around the
earth and this is probably not gonna be
the last big piece that could possibly
and you know you figure probably a piece
of something this size what I'd have
been up Oh Berta
but even if piece that size smack in the
earth that what speed we have you're
talking 20,000 could be a heck of a
crater oh yeah 500 miles yeah what do
you think we'd we'd open up the the cat
phone to you tonight if you'd like to
give us a call seven oh five seven three
nine ten fifty six we'd love to hear
from you you're welcome to give us a
ring and let us know what you think
about all this space debris and and what
is now sang about this orbital satellite
that it's a that is quite possibly going
to hit the earth so somebody took
exception to me saying well there's
still a few little patches of water
there the Atlantic and Pacific or just
patches of water no but a lot of land
that's what's scary you know there's a
70% chance to little hit water one
suggestion in the chatroom is invincible
mutant who says give the debris to cap
5tv
and I would welcome that because we
recently did an e-waste run and I just
took a bunch of old computers and I got
like 75 bucks nice so I wonder what a
6-ton satellite would would give me
Eddie waste now we're thinking right now
we're thinking I know you're supposed to
call the police but instead if you want
to just kind of box it up and talk about
five category five technology TV is
brought to you by Pogoplug cat5 dot TV
slash Pogoplug and he can also I'd also
encourage you to check out one of our
other sponsors which is Planet Calypso
free online game at cat5 dot TV slash
Calypso so we'll leave the the phone
line open for just a few minutes time
we'll jump right back into viewer
questions we've got lots of those well
we have one here from John Zimmerman hey
John and running Linux Mint 11 okay okay
I have just purchased the black and
clear Pogoplug pro on ebay okay but I'm
having trouble installing the dot tarf
file type in Linux I have never had to
deal with these types of files and I am
fairly new to Linux everything I try
based on reading forums does not work
thank you for such a great show I don't
know what it is about Canada and
Canadians but you all seem so nice and
relaxed I could not imagine Canadian
having something like American road rage
I held it somebody the other day without
why don't you would yeah thanks again
John
aka a blithe 55 from Atlanta Georgia
cheers time hey Big Show to Atlanta
Georgia indeed all right I think there's
a hockey team down there anyway anywhere
you go you're gonna run in
to people that you want to call a you
ARS satellite oh he tripped over that
lies go round it up and alls gonna
giggles you ARS but tower being such a
the key point it's just - just be cool
my babies don't say all right I'm
looking at their website here Pogoplug
calm downloads PC Mac Linux what like
Linux isn't PC come on and it gives me a
hard G Z file look at what happens oh
okay so tar dodge easy first of all
let's back up say okay well what is a
tar gz or in Canada G said it's a
compressed file sorry if you're familiar
with with Windows if you're familiar
with Windows you'll think about a zip
file which is fantastic I could go into
nostalgia worship first in your head a
zip file is basically a compressed
archive
okay so tar.gz is a tard its GZ a
gzipped
tar file so the tar means that it's a it
could be multiple files compressed into
not compressed parmi compiled into one
file the GZ represents that it's gzipped
so it's then compressed so you've got a
tar gz means that it's possibly a bunch
of files all in one file and then the GZ
means that it's shrunk down to be quick
download so at our dock GZ file is a
compressed archive of something so in
the case of polka plug okay you open up
that file and it has within that file
the Pogoplug FS file okay so what do you
do with that now how do you install that
what do you do so all we're going to do
is just hit extract and we're gonna
throw that in let's say your home folder
make a folder called Pogoplug all
lowercase
okay and then I'm just going to extract
it there so it's there I'm going to show
the files and now forget about the
tar.gz I have this Pogoplug FS file
sitting in that folder now that is a
script file right click on it go
properties permissions and you'll see
it's allowed executing file as a program
but you can't double click on it or
anything because it's a terminal program
so if I double click on that it's not
gonna seemingly do anything because it's
waiting for terminal input which means
if I bring out my terminal applications
accessories terminal now that I've
created that mystical folder called
Pogoplug remember we went all lowercase
so CD Pogoplug okay I hit Pio and then
tab because I'm already in home so you
might also go CD home Pogoplug okay
that's what the tilde means and now I'm
in there so now if I do an LS which is
like das dir public log of S is there
and if I go dot slash which means run a
program in the current folder Pogoplug
FS hit enter error while loading shared
libraries do you get that because that's
a different issue altogether on my other
computers that I've ever done this on it
loads up just fine and I'm going to get
information there about about what I'm
supposed to do because it's a command
line it's basically like a man line tool
so you're gonna run it and with the
switches of your username your password
where you want to mount your polka plugs
to and then it's going to be mounted so
I would loved free to get to that point
tell me if you're having that shared
library issue too because it looks like
I'm missing health class 64 on my system
which I can I can repair but we think
that's probably an unrelated issue so
alright let me know it's invincible
mutant same here what's up he wants to
chmod plus x on Pogoplug ffs well
already is because it came out of the
tar is an executive a file but yes if
it's not now then the invincible mutant
is correct remember when I right clicked
on that file and I chose let's go back
to it
that is an important point thank you
invincible mutant typically you're it's
going to already be plus X or executable
I save that into Pogoplug so if I look
at that file right click on it in my GUI
go properties permissions allow
executing as a program is checked if
that is not checked you need to check it
but what you can also do is from the
terminal back where we were and it is an
important point because you can't
execute a program that's not executive
all so Pogoplug so what I can do now is
I can go chmod plus X for make it
executable Pogoplug FS and then hit
enter and now it is the exact same as if
I had a checked off that checkbox very
same thing but done through the terminal
instead okay thanks for the tip and
thank you for the question I hope that
that helps at least point in the right
direction but again it's a command-line
tool it's a terminal tool you need to
run dot slash Pogoplug FS space and then
all the commands so you probably could
type dot slash Pogoplug FS space dash
dash help and that will output like I'm
using dos as the example what you used
to get when you would go slash question
mark it's like the help information
right so there you go well we have time
for more questions or we let's jump into
a real quick tutorial that I want to
give you all right about how to get
Libre Office to run faster on your
system or at least seemingly so all
right I'll just type in my water one of
the things that you're seeing on in the
computing landscape these days Windows 8
is coming out guess what well it boots
faster nice that's like the thing these
days it's like oh well does your
computer boot in three seconds ok let's
compare operating systems just put Linux
Mac and Windows side-by-side on
identical computers push the power
buttons and see which one boots up
faster because that's the one that I'm
going to go with because it's so
it's ridiculous come on check me if
slight hint of sarcasm no it's it's
really ridiculous who cares how fast it
boots I want to know how fast it runs my
applications how well it performs and
the boot thing doesn't really matter but
we have this perception that boot time
and load time is is really where it's at
with that perception in mind we can take
Libre Office and make it Zippity zip
fast okay
yeah this works for OpenOffice - of
course labor office is a fork of
OpenOffice so if you're running either
or this will work for you but somebody
said to me that I just can't stand Libre
Office because it's so slow somebody
said that to me and I said no it's not
you just need to do this let's let's
demonstrate no no no drum roll I'm gonna
go into office LibreOffice writer okay
that's like my word here comes here
comes on your time Annette word yeah
look at that okay and it's up that's
what they're talking about okay we don't
want to have to wait for five seconds
for our applications to load anymore
which I understand but we don't want to
wait for our computers to boot any more
let's do this edit no tools beg your
pardon options okay so this is the libre
office or OpenOffice options menu you
see on the left hand side libre office
or open office they're already pulled
down go to the memory tab really really
simple there's a cyst tray quick starter
that you can enable if you have that
QuickStart module installed which most
people will simply check that off hit OK
and let's close Libre Office and we're
done all right would you like to know
how much of a substantive I was gonna
ask difference that that mean
okay yeah well I had two questions for
later okay what's what's your question
okay so
how lickety-split Lee will it off and
that was I guess everybody's question
how much of a resource take is this
little making the QuickStart thing sure
I don't think it's much at all
especially when you consider these days
every system has got 4 gigs plus of RAM
right that's true we have to be mindful
of is that systems these days are a lot
different than when we had 1 Meg of RAM
and it was and we really had to conserve
it's not really the same anymore
I remember when I went from 4 megabytes
up to 8 megabytes on my 480 satis big oh
yeah I thought we've done gonna go
applications there your office know how
much memory is wasting ok LibreOffice
writer it's not really wasting though
when this happens okay I'm gonna go 3 2
1 click there it is Wow
so that instantaneous as far as loading
we should actually have time the first
one well you can do that if you want you
can see how much about wasn't goodbyes
good idea that's literally how fast it
was you'll see that you now have a
taskbar icon up here which is your quick
starter okay
and from there you can in fact launch
zoom kind of messes with me sometimes
lets get out of zoom from that Quick
Start icon you can launch any of those
applications you can open documents and
things like that let's see if we can
actually determine how much memory is
being used by Quick Start it's it's so
unsubstantial though that I really
wanted to know - really wasn't it was
not just I asking that question
alright see if I can get it
what was it called quick start want to
know the executive 'el name I'll just
run time any other questions in the
meantime that are coming in the chat
room I'm using Tom Cantrell yeah just
got to find it don't know the executive
or name let's see okay
I'm not seeing questions here okay any
questions for us just jump in the
chatroom category 5 TV and of course the
cat phone is still open seven oh five
seven three nine
10:56 so like a bat phone yeah pretty
much like that
what yeah has anyone got a fly touch
three android tab has anyone got an HTC
hd2 running android maybe not yet know
if you can find the executive all name
for me for that i'll tell you how how
big it is so but i don't know it so I'm
not gonna take how much time to look in
it there we go it's a cool tip run mmm
check within without it running yeah and
see how much memory you have I do that
doesn't seem to be a matter of your
system that lag much no if you need your
office writer open quickly yeah music
wait how much of the difference is it
made right it's like it's absolutely
incredibly minimal I mean I've only got
four gigs of RAM and that's like that's
the minimum Spector 10:55 like the
tutorial you did on open shot but favors
kdenlive hmm could you do a segment on
kdenlive in the future it's great
software yeah sure I can do that
of course people you know a lot of
people are running the gnome desktop so
I don't know if the
you know we'd have to look at the fact
we'd have to be very clear that we're
getting some KDE libraries and stuff
with that but definitely would love to
take a look at it and tell us that pop
us an email and let me know what what it
is that you really love about about
Katie KDE
and live and we'll will definitely
feature it on the show if you like sure
all right cool
we've got just a couple of minutes left
gang so nobody's calling the cab phone
that's fine but you're welcome to if you
want to just give a quick viewer
testimonial and let us know what you
think of the show pick up the phone give
us a call 705 739 1056
if you want to say hi to Eric who's been
away for a long time a long time great
to see you my friend hey we have a
correction do we have time to read a
correction we've got three minutes
dear Robbie I gathered that Hilary would
not be on this week's episode to read my
note for something she was offended
about the looks I give her I wish to
issue a correction to her statement of
last week the language spoken by people
in Israel is not as she mentioned
Israeli it is in fact Hebrew although
there are several other languages
including Arabic spoken there she
advised that she could not learn to
speak every language which is
understandable to assist her in her
education I have arranged an excellent
education tool for her courtesy of
YouTube where drover learns how to say
good morning in Hebrew and there's a
youtube link and yeah you want to put
that up there I don't have any sound on
the demo system but I'll find it for you
and I'll show you for comm I'll put a
wash I'll put a link in the show notes
for episode number 208 that's very cool
and yeah of course it's predominantly
going to be Hebrew in Israel I would
expect yes a lot of English spoken to oh
yes when you read this it will be
nighttime so the appropriate phrase in
Hebrew would be Leila Tov pronounced
Lila Tovey or at the beginning there
category 5 is an international show I do
usually keep my secular religious life
separate but as I am on the subject of
Hebrew the Jewish holiday of Rosh
Hashanah begins on the evening of
September 28th and this begins the
Jewish New Year the birthday of the
world rather than risk one of you trying
to predict seasonal wishes I will
express them to you and the entire
community in English may you immediately
be inscribed and sealed for a good year
Shalom gadget wisdom guru yeah thanks
for the info and and appreciate the
emails and well it's incredible that we
have such and in such an amazing
representation around the world here at
category-five like if if we look at the
fact that you know okay well there is
America and how things look on the the
coast it's kind of like when somebody
gets one of those bee beards you know
that's very pretty and they have to be
singing off to the bumblebees yeah okay
okay
but it's because we're represented all
over and and I think part of it as well
I mean look at Germany and the UK it's
just outstanding how many viewers we
have in in the area but what happens is
is that because because the show is
actually live and because we broadcast
live at guru as you know sometimes
things slip your mind or it's like you
you just are like moving through
question into question it's like what
was I talking about again oh yeah oh
yeah don't they speak Israeli oh you
know it's like this is one of those
things so I appreciate the email very
much you know people might think we
speak Canadian can you Annie sometimes
we do speak Canadian a Canadian a hose
it
I'll Drive in the future how many
Mackenzie references can we get into the
show he had to fit one in sorry I wasn't
sure how many notes would get away
without a copyright infringement yeah it
was under 30 seconds okay yeah oh no
they're Canadian they're very nice
so they would never they never they
never get road rage no never
heck no and I'm here three good times
well we're right over time everybody
nice to see everybody I was just you
know I'm just kind of saying it's it's
neat that we have viewers all over the
world and and we honestly we can't even
keep up with all of the different areas
that are represented on the show and
it's become to the point where the whole
world is watching we should do a road
trip there you go we'll do each of the
different continents who's paying for
that no it's clean a trip we'll pay for
the road if every viewer represented
$1.00 thank you so much for being with
us tonight it's been fun great having
you here Eric hey does this work are you
are you done working on Tuesday night no
bro are you gonna be busy again but I'm
gonna try to get back again get you back
here soon enough it's such a child
kids kids I should have thought of that
I should have thought of that you've
heard it before
I've what's your choice thanks to the
first I didn't say it have a great week
everybody yeah
