welcome back to another episode of a new
every day my name is Carrie and my name
is Jen and on today's show we're going
to talk about just another ordinary day
part wah wah yep
you've got mad skills now hone them
learn new skills or improve your
existing ones with online video
tutorials in training from Linda calm
through our special link at cat five dot
TV / Linda learn software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today to help you achieve your
professional goals join today and start
learning will give you this chance to
try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat five dot TV / Linda welcome
back to another ordinary day on new
everyday and then we've talked about how
God when we invite him into our lives he
turns are ordinary nests into something
extraordinary and give us opportunities
to see him moving in our lives yes and
you brought up an individual in the
Bible who had many ordinary days and
then some truly extraordinary days that
changed his life yes so last week we
talked about Peter and John and how
amidst their ordinary day of going to
the temple lame man was there and simply
you know ask them for money and in that
moment they heat through the power of
the Holy Spirit he was healed and so
we're gonna jump into the and that
became an opportunity for the gospel to
be told so we're going to jump into the
Old Testament today and look at just a
regular young man his name David and
just a regular guy regular guy youngest
his family probably got picked on all
the time and so he was sent out he was a
shepherd boy that's he just looked after
his father's sheep and then one day a
man named Samuel comes he was the great
prophet and has supper with his family
for what he thought um well David wasn't
even invited to the supper he wasn't
invited to the supper
is out because somebody had to look
after the Sheep and so there is Jesse
his dad with you know all of his sons
there you know and yet Samuel didn't
want to see any of those sons because
you know he first saw Italy ab i believe
the oldest and thought oh it's gotta be
him he's got to be the one that god
wants to make king over israel yes and
gods like no way man and basically jesse
trots out all of his sons and Samuels
like no no no no and finally is like is
there anybody else and Jesse's like
you've got to be joking it's just like
this David there's David and he's
looking after the sheets and so there's
you know so Samuels like running at
David could you imagine like he's just
an ordinary kid an ordinary shepherd boy
and so they go out they get him they
bring him back and God's like that's him
and so here is David being anointed in
front of all of his brothers he's like
uh I woke up this morning beside a sheep
like it was an ordinary day yeah like
and how and we've all experiences where
a phone call has radically changed or
day for good or for bad word or for bad
and so here he gets he gets the text
message from dad hey good Samuel wants
to see it come on in and so he comes in
and Samuel anoints him to be the king of
Israel ordinary just became
extraordinary like what just went from
his low end job to the king yes now you
didn't jump in the palace right away no
he did not jump in the palace in fact he
probably went out back to his Shepherd
job because we're told later on I in
chapter 17 of First Samuel that his
brothers were off at war and his dad
texts him again saying come on in you
got to take some lunch out
got to take food out to your brothers
and it's interesting because David does
all of us in obedience never wants to
say I'm the king yo yeah I don't need to
bring them cheese yeah nothing he just
obeys isn't that interesting he's just
simply obeying and so he comes in he
gets you know the lunch bags the cooler
takes it out and just doing what any
other brother would be doing that's just
it like it's so ordinary when you think
of it you know guess the text comes in
guess the food goes off and his brothers
are hiding along with all the other
Israelites because they are afraid of
this giant named Goliath who comes out
every day and says you know we're let's
really okay well it says verse 16 of
which chapter chapter 17 it says for 40
days the Philistine came out every
morning and evening and stood before the
Israelite army and in front of that it
says verse 8 he stood and shouted to the
Israelite soldiers why have you taken
positions for battle I'm a Philistine
and your service all servants choose a
man and send him to fight me if he can
fight and kill me you'll be we will be
your servants but if I can kill him you
will be our servants then he said today
I stand and dare the army of Israel send
me send one of your service to fight me
when Saul and the Israel and the
Israelites heard the Philistines words
they were scared and then it goes into
tell about how David was sent out to
feed his brothers and this and the giant
did this for 40 days one of the base is
a little time it is a long time and so
David he goes out and takes the food to
his brothers and he hears this giant
accusing God's people and David I verse
all 25 Dave's like what is going on
because
men are running away in hiding he says
they said look at that man he keeps
coming out to challenge Israel the king
will give much money to whomever kills
him he will also let whoever kills him
marry his daughter and that thought and
the father's father's family will happen
that will not have to pay taxes in
Israel David asked the men who stood
near him what will be done to reward the
man who kills his Philistine and takes
away the shame from Israel who does this
uncircumcised Philistine think he is
does he think he can speak against the
armies of the Living God in David's mine
he that was ordinary talk for him and
here it is Miley or anyone ya like like
why are you so afraid we are the armies
of the Living God like for him he wasn't
he I don't think he was being like bald
I think he was just being honest like
why are we why are we running away from
this like we serve God for him that was
out of the overflow of the heart the
mouth speaks cuz he was you know a young
guy so who was he that you know say
anything and yet he's saying but we
belong to God he was just saying what
everybody else should have been saying
hmmm so and that's something to think
about is is our talk as believers in
such a way that it becomes ordinary to
talk about an extraordinary God hmm that
was a really good question and when we
get together with our friends who
believe the same things is our talk
about what is God doing and how amazing
he is and you know what I've caught that
in myself some times where I I don't
engage in the conversations that I
should it's not bad right but sometimes
when I talk about with my Christian
friends but if Jesus is the Lord of my
life God is the king you don't ya this
is my life he is my life then it should
be part of her conversation shouldn't
write like I should just come out you
know when we start to get discouraged or
fearful do we join in with the fear as
what they were being afraid or do
you say but God and oftentimes whether
it's at work or with you know friends
and they're talking down yeah oh man you
know I'm never going to get this
vacation man the morale and really bad
or blood blood blood sometimes instead
of offering a word of truth and
encouragement I just don't say anything
or kind of go along with it yeah and so
that's something that we need to be
mindful of is does our ordinary talk
represent an ordinary and extraordinary
God right we should have an
extraordinary talk that becomes ordinary
yes where it's just natural that we
would immediately say well God can deal
with that what God can deal with that
like who does he think he can speak
against the armies of the Living God
like and then he goes on to say is there
not a cause like come on well yeah
things going yeah and he goes on to say
to King Saul don't let anyone be
discouraged I our servant will go and
fight this feeling like it's nothing
like I come before you in the name of
the Living God like it was part of
David's ordinary to have an
extraordinary God that was just who he
was he allowed his ordinary to be
extraordinary he didn't settle for the
for the mundane the doubt the fear he
settled for the fact that he served an
almighty all-powerful God so his
ordinary day seems extraordinary to a
spot for him was just ordinary his
ordinary was extraordinary because he
allowed God to move in and through him
you know generally think of like the
definition of ordinary something's only
ordinary if it has happened multiple
times in the same way right because it's
expected and sometimes to talk about God
maybe to talk about God but your
workplace or with family even can feel
awkward yes initially
and I feel like sometimes the devil
wants to discourage you being like well
you don't really believe that you've
never talked about it before hmm you
know you're just saying that to make
yourself feel better you know if a
situation comes up and you say you know
what I believe that God can can guide us
through the situation or why don't we
pray about it when you start to talk
that way it can feel awkward and not
very ordinary but I I feel that as we
continue to walk in obedience gen it
will become more ordinary yes yes right
I agree because it he goes on because he
talks about in verse 37 the Lord who
saved me from the lion and the bear will
save me from this Philistine I guess is
ordinary to us is extraordinary which is
his ordinary like that really because
like you said he just got used to trust
in God so when the Philistine came up he
is just like it's another bear it's
another lion God God saved me from those
before why would he not save me now
especially when that Philistine is
rising up against the armies of the
Living God yeah so for him this was a
no-brainer yeah like for us were like
whoa what's going on but for him it's
like this is nothing because his
ordinary day was so couched in who God
is that it was like let's get going
let's just do it and so which for some
reason I have to continually be reminded
of the the extraordinary God that we
serve mm-hmm and it just takes that one
step out and God will meet you there yes
you know when Jesus called Matthew
mm-hmm he's like okay come on and he
just took that one step yeah it's just
life yes and that reminds me of a song
that says enough light for the next step
it's just the next step we just have to
take the next step
in obedience in faith and trust take the
next step now the Lord does not say we
those steps have to be running hey it's
a step it's a step it's a step and
that's all that David did was just
obediently one step after another after
another till the point and the bear the
line with his quarrel and that's rabid
squirrel yeah yeah he probably did he
started small and worked himself up God
you know first out does not necessarily
asked us to slay a giant yeah but it
does say to whom much is given much is
expected so if you have walked through
some pretty hefty trials odds are the
Lord is going to continue to present you
with things because you've been found
faithful or give you the opportunity to
encourage someone else who's going
through something similar yes and maybe
it's not maybe it's not like I a big
thing like okay I want you to go preach
this sermon on Sunday to a hundred
thousand people but maybe it's I want
you to call your friend that you've been
thinking of and actually pray with them
yeah this little step by a little step
and as a result he said in verse 45 but
David said to him you come to me using a
sword into Spears but I come to you in
the name of the Lord all-powerful the
God of the armies of Israel you have
spoken against him today the Lord will
hand you over to me I will kill you and
cut off your head today I'll feed the
bodies of the Philistines Philistine
soldiers to the birds of the air and the
wild animals then all the world will
know that there is a God of Israel so
again he's turning over the glory to God
just like Peter and John yeah right i
said no no this this is not about us yes
this is about what Jesus did and now
hear about his goodness yeah you being
the exercise everyone gathered here will
know the Lord does not need swords and
spears to save people the battle belongs
to him and he will hand you over to us
yes he took the situation and glorified
God in it it is not me I'm walking in
obedience but it is God who gives the
battle and he said all these people will
know yeah leaves the glory
just like when Daniel was interpreting
the King's dream yes he said I cannot
interpret dreams but there is a God in
heaven who can you know yeah bound upon
these mysteries and and give these
revelations he said it turns it over to
God yes gen when I look at David's life
Daniels life John and Peter what do they
have in common but they all spent time
in prayer and getting to know Jesus yes
God got angry we want to encourage you
today that in the midst of your ordinary
day that you make time with God that you
make time to spend time in the word time
in prayer time and personal worship for
golly conversations so that it doesn't
seem so strange to be talking about God
it doesn't seem so strange to just you
know without that Bible verse because
you've been in the word right it doesn't
seem so strange that when you feel that
tap tap tap with the Holy Spirit on your
on your shoulder to talk to that person
that doesn't seem strange it's just more
okay God guide me today that I might use
whatever ordinary situation has
presented to me for your honor and glory
that people would come to know you that
my faith and I'm sure David's faith was
strengthened once again I'm sure Peter
and and John and Daniel when they saw
like they knew that was going to happen
because they had faith in God but always
when we know something's going to happen
or whatever and God does show up we're
always like and her faith is
strengthened but so often we don't even
open ourselves up to let God do
something because we're afraid that he's
not going to show up and yet his work
his word so often says when you call I
hear you and he he comes in the way that
he sees fit and so we just have to
believe that he hears us and he will
respond and he will be glorified but
you're right David made time for the
Lord Daniel made time for the Lord Peter
and John made time for the Lord so we
encourage you today to make time for the
Lord that he will just
and minister to you and so those things
that you know just seem so ordinary then
become Wow an extraordinary opportunity
for God to move can you pray for that
forest mountain sure Heavenly Father we
thank you for today we thank you that
you are an extraordinary God who does
amazing things with things like
obedience and faith so Father forgive us
where we have not obeyed and forgive us
for where we have not had faith and
opened ourselves up to you would you
remind us today that you are good that
you are faithful and that when we open
ourselves up to you that you really will
move because your God help us not to see
you as a little God with limited power
but an Almighty God who is all powerful
and so father I ask that you would take
the lesson that you've taught us today
that you would put it deep in her heart
and that we would step forth in faith be
with our viewers bless and encourage
them today thank you for Robbie Ferguson
this family category five TB bless and
encourage them today you are good god
help us to turn over our ordinary selves
to you so you can do immeasurably more
than we could ask or you can imagine and
your name we pray amen thanks again for
tuning in this week thanks to our
partners click go to our website new
everyday TV click our partners page
check them out got some amazing partners
with us now and we hope that you'll tune
in again next week for a next episode a
gin I agree until then
pass a great book see you later
you
