the following program is made possible
by the friends and partners of God quest
ministries
who cares if the days of Genesis are six
days or long periods of time we knew and
this show we want to tell you why from
the CTN studio in Pensacola Florida this
is the creation today's show I'm one of
your host air covin and i'm joined by
paul taylor and we're going to be
talking today on today's show about a
newly published book called no time for
itching ears it's correct a great book
by the way thank you very much your vaca
Paul is the author of that book and
we're also going to be answering a
couple of questions from viewers about a
literal interpretation of Genesis
remember if you have questions this is
your show we believe the Bible is
literally true and scientifically
accurate in every details
you
this is the creation today's shown we've
got a great show for you today as we go
through some more fuzzy words talk about
those and what's going on in news
articles around the country we've also
want to talk about your new book uh are
the newly published book no time for 18
years uh great great read i really
really enjoy that but i know we can't
spend too long token oh go on that okay
thank you Paul we're gonna we're gonna
talk about that the whole show to start
off though this show we've actually got
a new segment called the rundown where
we're going to give 30 seconds per topic
and I've got a couple topics listed Paul
up and ask you about a couple and you
can pick a couple and ask me about them
and so we'll see how Paul does on the
rundown are you ready / they're going to
check to see whether or not we can
answer questions rapidly and whether
we've got the information there at our
fingertips be ready always to give an
answer we got to be able to do that
you're going to be first up at it oh
great you've got make it an easy one
okay well we'll try we'll see how we go
so you've got 30 seconds all right on
which to talk on the topic that I'm
going to give you in gain a moment and
the topic is carbon dating that's
exactly 37 dating starting now carbon
dating is a very neat scientific idea
where they take the half-life of certain
radioactive elements to try to determine
how old something was when it died there
are several problems with carbon dating
number one it never can prove the earth
is millions of years old if the entire
world were made up of carbon-14 within a
hundred thousand years there would be
none left so it's a neat i scientific
idea bottom line is it does not work
when they think that when they know the
age of something that doesn't work when
they don't know they say that it might
work brilliant one seconds ago was that
it okay that wasn't okay yeah answer why
do you think I think that was that was
fun there's quite a few extra things
that could have been said but then you
didn't have hell we're 32nd totally them
in so I'll see no okay not my turn I'm
gonna crave meat will school you let's
say eight out of ten be I do all right
eight out of ten I'm happy about that
okay let me ask you about one then what
about um think here okay okay okay since
he did carbon dating
on me let me do a fun one on him Paul
you have 30 seconds to talk about global
warming I markets saying go well global
warming is the idea that the earth is
getting warmer because of increased
carbon dioxide in the atmosphere and
what the Bible says about that is that
in Genesis chapter 8 22 we read while
the earth remains seed time and harvest
cold and heat winter and summer day and
night shall not cease so God is not
caught out by the things that human
beings do the the things that we have in
mind so therefore we have not got to be
worried about anything that might happen
with the climate is God knows anything
oh right on time not bad not bad good
answer too because so many people get so
worried about what are we going to do
with climate change and what are we can
do about this there's nothing so we
could have said man you I didn't say
anything about carbon dioxide not
actually being the most Akutagawa house
cat in it there's a lot of other things
maybe we should do a whole show and not
something that would be about you know
what global warming is if you want us to
talk about that citizen say yes to a
show on global warming or as they call
it now climate change but you're right
the point is God is the one who controls
it we don't we leave we really do leave
that to him don't we absolutely yeah
absolutely okay well that was a tough
one so what I think we'll do now is
you're gonna have 30 seconds now Eric
all right all about the significance of
Mount st. Helens Oh 30 seconds begin now
I love it mount st. helens is a
modern-day evidence for the worldwide
flood when it erupted a big piece of mud
went down and flowed at 7,200 miles an
hour and when they go back and look at
what happened to the mud it actually
stratified it is now layered and you can
go there and see that it's all layered
lending evidence to catastrophic
processes creating the layers we see
today the Toutle River got backed up
because the mud flow once it went over
the dam the mud damn it carved it out in
four minutes right hand
amazing those are the things that I
really think of when I think of Mount
st. Helens is we see strata now from a
catastrophic event and we've got a
miniature Grand Canyon those are the two
things that come to my mind when I think
about st. i have a significance on then
of course there's absolutely superb DVD
out at the moment sir which takes a bit
longer than 30 sec with with dr. Steve
Austin great gray one Kyle Justice did
that and put that together that a great
job putting that together solutely i
forgot to score you what are you going
to give me another determine where no
one was very good that i'm going to give
you nine hours it's cool okay your first
one I'll give you 9 out of 10 and so if
you get a tour above you're the winner
of this round let me give you something
something fun here then um okay I got
something I got something how about you
have 30 seconds to talk about zircon
crystals on your marks get set go zircon
crystals are little crystals that you
find in Granite's they are partially
radioactive they contain uranium so you
can date them by uranium lead dating
secular scientists will date them to
about one and a half billion years old
but also they're giving off helium so
you can measure the rate at which helium
diffuses from those crystals assuming
they were very old or that there were
only six thousand years old and then you
do experiments on hearing diffusion and
you find that the experimental results
of a healing diffusion fit with the
crystals only being six thousand years
not with being busy 02 seconds over but
oh my goodness ten out of ten right
there Paul that I could not have done
that that's impressive now there really
is some cool science behind the zircon
crystals and what they find isn't that
there is I'm there's a huge amount that
could be said then and the really the
important matter there is that you know
you could assume that those crystals
were a couple of billion years old you
could assume there were 6,000 years old
we can calculate how much helium has
gone from those crystals so we can
measure two different rates Wow of
helium diffusion calculate two different
rates one very slow one very fast
depending on how all the crystals are
and the thing
the experimental results you then do fit
with the creations for you we have a
loose with you that is so cool there's
some great books out there I know Robert
Gentry does stuff on polonium halos with
Croatians tiny mysteries yes does the
rate project cover room this is this is
mainly been covered by the way great
project what you need as a two-volume
book called radioactivity and the age of
the earth published by icr well we got a
great show got a couple of announcements
that before we go into the next couple
segments where we answer questions about
the literal sixth day of Genesis
speaking of the six days of Genesis we
are in the middle of the Genesis series
project which is incredibly exciting you
haven't got to see this yet I got to see
some behind-the-scenes recently the 3d
animation of Genesis chapter 1 through
chapter 3 i'm watching it with the
glasses in 3d it will blow your mind
check out genesis series com and you can
see some behind the scenes of the
Genesis series project it really is
going to be incredible I can't wait for
that and if you're going to look for
some of the products that we produce
then have a look at the new creation
store website same address creation
story RG but a brand new website it
works so much better and you're gonna
have a great shopping experience on
there you really are absolutely we
really encourage you to there's a lot of
people that if you want to talk to him
your friends have questions and there
are lots of resources that have the
answers and I'd really encourage you to
help your friends be a witness to them
starting with the very foundation
starting with creation hey not to
mention your newly published book no
time for cheers is out and it's on the
creation story o RG she can go there and
get that if you come to Pensacola would
you sign it form I'll do sign copies of
that if you want then of course it will
reduce the value because that would be
stupid so you can buy it at a used price
I have that app well listen we got a
great show talking about a couple
questions on the a
the earth will cover those all right
after this creation today is introducing
a new audio resource the Holy Bible on
double speed because it is difficult to
find the time for lengthy reading
sessions we sometimes miss the big
picture produced by reading an entire
book of the Bible or a large section
without interruption the first disc of
this three-disc set presents Alexander
scorpy's wonderful reading of the Bible
at the original recorded speed the
second disc is digitally enhanced to
one-and-a-half times faster than the
original speed third disc is literally
double the speed of the original audio
recordings you can now listen to the
entire word of God in 37 hours we offer
free downloadable playlists to maximize
your reading options with this new
resource we invite you to fly through
the Bible to gain an amazing new view of
God's Word i'm eric Ovan from the
creation today show I know firsthand how
much your monthly support would
encourage the category 5 TV team support
the show by supporting category 5 at
patreon.com / category 5 welcome back
you're watching the creation today show
with me Paul Taylor and with Eric Hovind
coming up in this segment we're going to
be talking about why it's absolutely
vital to have a literal interpretation
of Genesis yeah and what are the
different interpretations is actually
several different ways people try to
interpret Genesis 2 to make it fit what
they wanted to fit so we'll be talking
about that but first I want to go over
another article on fuzzy words cuz this
fascinates me how much real science vs.
fuzzy words is in scientific articles of
today and you know that the period of
time that we've been using to prepare
for these shows and the last couple of
weeks have been just full hour articles
that have been great for fuzzy words
couple of weeks ago on a show we talked
about fuzzy words in a dinosaur about
what dinosaur is going yeah I was
absolutely amazing but we've there's
been another article has been doing the
rounds in several different news
agencies about the supposed evolution of
human brains
and it's all down to apparently changes
in code in the DNA that the DNA has been
copied and at some point it's been
copied wrong mistakes of F comma opera
and according to mutations are about
mutations cause mutations have caused
changes in the code which are then led
to the human brain growing larger than
our supposed cousins the chimpanzees so
it's just a mutation that gives us a
bigger brain and this is what separates
us from the chimpanzees yeah and again
I've got a copy of an article from The
Daily Telegraph and it's full of those
same fuzzy words by duplicating itself
two and a half million years ago the
gene could have given that's the phrase
see I could have given early human
brains the power of speech and invention
leaving cousins such as chimpanzees
behind I love the title of the article
did a copying mistake build man's brain
well this is incredible answer because
the the point is that copying mistakes
changing the code are the supposed
mechanism by which they we supposedly
get speech and so on now it would be
interesting if you talk to our colleague
who does all the work on the website and
saw and can you imagine if he sort of
copied the entire website but changed
one letter in the code yeah how useful
is that going to be those of us who've
ever done a little bit of coding of
websites PHP coding a things a lot of
you just make one mistake I mean in PHP
if you just type a space in in the wrong
spot in the wrong place space at the end
of a line you will often find that the
whole thing does not work it doesn't so
you don't we wouldn't get a website that
suddenly develop the power of speech
yeah you know what's interesting we've
we've talked to a guy named JC Goethe
crazy fellow arrested a singer who's
done some research we got to have him on
a show to talk about that that would be
fascinating I think it would be great to
do that and he's done this talk on the
subject of information yes and he's
shown how in fact the information often
you read it forwards in the DNA but
actually you then read the same code
backwards and it does something else and
it has a different meaning so one letter
wrong in the DNA without chocolate
messes up two definitions forward and
backwards but without stealing his
thunder it's even more complex that we
have any notable it's just amazing to
talk to him and get that information out
well here Paul you've taken that that
article and you've actually highlighted
in yellow the fuzzy words this could
have happened it may have led to this
could have caused this probably did and
there's a lot of that there's a whole
lot of that yeah so what's the real
science behind this well there's very
very little real signs though at all the
real science is that our DNA is probably
similar in many ways to the DNA in
chimps but you know even that if we eat
if we can see that's interesting by the
way this article says that chimp DNA is
ninety-six percent similar to humans
other articles have said ninety-eight
percent so they can't even be right on
that but you see even that doesn't imply
that we evolved from common ancestors
with chimps now that all similarities in
the DNA actually implies the chimps and
humans have a common designer exactly I
mean did you know snow cones are
ninety-eight percent water yes
watermelons are ninety-eight percent
water but they must have evolved from
the same place exactly clouds are under
percent water they must have both come
from clouds of course seeing you talk
about DNA we share sixty percent of our
DNA with bananas really wow I know some
that share even more than that but you
gotta keep an eye out on these articles
for the fuzzy words that come up in
articles they really they really really
show you how much science is behind
there yeah you know I colleague in
charge of social media posted a link to
that article on our Facebook page right
I didn't be quite useful to have a look
at our Facebook page and join in the
arguments joining the conversation on
these sort of matters yep facebook.com
slash creation today and you can add
your voice to that okay why is it
important to have a literal
interpretation of Genesis I want to get
to that but first let's go through and
talk about some of the different ways
people used to interpret Genesis some of
the names of them you're familiar with
all of them kind of give us a rundown of
some of these and what what they try to
teach well there are some people who
will simply say well the Bible's
figurative so we don't need to believe
Genesis at all right therefore they they
would take a theistic evolution view
there are other people who take a
theistic evolution view but want to
believe that
Genesis is true so they've developed
something called the framework
hypothesis where they try and say well
this is literature and it's giving these
essential literate truths but we still
don't really believe it anyway that's a
second visual way to try to combine
though we do believe but we don't
believe ya into one okay as a third view
an old earth creationist view now these
people are interesting because they
claim to be on our side they cleanse to
be opposed to evolution but they take an
older few sometimes known as a day age
view because I each day of creation must
be a long age of time there's a fourth
view related to that called progressive
creation right where these people again
say they don't believe in evolution but
what they say is that God created things
on different periods of time millions
and millions of years apart they take
the days of creation also as figurative
but they don't necessarily even appear
in the same order as i doing Genesis so
they're trying to reject evolution but
keep the millions of years and say okay
god made this whatever whatever kind of
evolution says evolved her or the Bible
teaches okay they made this and then
millions of years later got added to it
this and then millions weights later
added this ok well the progressive
creationist access all the astronomical
evolution business you know they are the
big bang theory and so on gotcha okay
then there is the gap theory there's
this idea that there's a gap of millions
of years between the first two verses of
Genesis and there is actually another
view related to the gap theory that's
quite popular among some people these
days the idea is a gap of millions and
millions of years before the first verse
of Genesis they maintained that they
believed everything in Genesis 1
literally but this say that there must
have been millions and millions and
billions of years before the actual
events of the Bible started now the ruin
recreates re-creation theory is the idea
that God made it all then it was
destroyed Lucifer's flood and then got
remade it that's basically gap not
pretty much the same as the gap yeah
there's other variants on it but it's
basically the gap theory that there was
proposed by Thomas Chalmers take not by
Schofield in his restaurant taken up by
dake in his reference now why do you
think these different theories you got
the literal theistic Old Earth Day age
progressive framework gap why wire it
seems like all these other ones
the literal is trying to add time to the
Bible what they all have in common is
that they are trying to add time because
they have taken the authority the idea
that there are these long periods of
time they haven't found that in Genesis
they've got it from elsewhere they claim
that science has found this and
therefore they have to make a difference
in interpretation so they are taking an
authority in every case from outside the
Bible posing it on the Bible taking
modern-day scientific thoughts and
putting it above as authority over
Scripture and I believe in profits 30
that you are not absolute god bless you
with details okay so whatever this is
there of the literal 68 how do we know
that we're right let's talk about that
right after this break
welcome back you're watching the
creation today's show with Eric Ovan and
Paul Taylor and we're talking about why
the literal interpretation of Genesis is
so important we've been discussing the
age of the earth and you said that
really the other interpretations of
Genesis comes down to trying to
incorporate the age of the earth right
it is it's about trying to incorporate
ideas about the age of the earth that
come from outside the Bible so it's
there for imposing an outside authority
on to the bible instead of taking the
bible and what God has said in his word
we get a number of questions on the
subject one such as the one I'm about to
read and that's why this is such an
important topic and we wanted to take
the time to cover it there's a question
from Melinda in Minnesota aaron paul i
have just a question about the age of
the earth you guys talk a lot about the
earth being only 6,000 years old and I'm
not disputing that but I was just
wondering about the difference in God's
time and human time what a thousand
years is just the blink of an eye to God
if that is the case then the six days
that God created the world in would have
been much more than just six days six
days God could be millions of years to
humans what are your thoughts on this
thanks well of course is quite true that
millions of years to God could be what
day to humans or vice versa because you
know God is outside time but that is not
what's important here because that's
completely missing the point when we
have the account of creation in Genesis
is God telling us what he did you know
and he goes on to talk about other
things for example in Exodus chapter 20
verse 11 we're right in the Ten
Commandments and one of the commandments
has a reason given for it it's the
fourth commandment which tells us that
were to take one day out of the week is
to be special to the Lord and there's a
reason for that and the reason given in
Exodus chapter 20 verse 11 his God says
in six days I made the heavens and the
earth and on the seventh I rested now if
that's the case if it if this was
figurative if God was just saying these
are millions and millions of years then
what's the point of the fourth
commandment how on earth couldn't
possibly read you know you've got to
keep one day in seven holy says God
because I made the world in six million
years long period
figure it's of time and rest in whatever
it doesn't make sense it only actually
makes sense if the six days of literal
and there's several other places in the
Bible that use that phrase the seventh
day it's in Hebrews it's an exodus it's
and several other places in Scripture
there isn't a single place in the Old
Testament where the word day is used
with a number where it means anything
other than a 24-hour day it's about I
think it's about two hundred and thirty
four times I may have got slightly run
with certainly over two hundred times in
the Old Testament you have the Hebrew
word for day yawn with a number and in
every single case it always means a
24-hour day now if you say but time
doesn't matter to God so it could have
been millions of years well it could
have been millions of years but you're
right time doesn't matter to God he's
not locked inside of it some famous
verses that people used to support that
our second Peter 38 a day is with the
lord is a thousand years and a thousand
years as one day so they use that but
does verses are not talking about the
creation of the world those verses are
saying look God invented it he's with us
right now he's with us while you're
watching it because this isn't live he's
in 1817 hundred sixteen hundreds he's
all throughout time yes so time doesn't
matter damn of course time doesn't
matter to God but what God says he's
true matters to God that's right and you
know when Jesus said that Adam was from
the beginning of the world we read in
Matthew 19 Adams from the beginning of
the world then that matters because if
Adam was not from the beginning of the
world then then Jesus lying you know and
Adam was there in the creation week made
in the creation week and the phrase that
Jesus is uses uses their the phrase in
the Greek means from the beginning of
the world not the beginning of creation
absolutely matters is absolutely vital
you know I often think those people who
say well the world could be older than
six thousand years or that the days
could be long periods of times eyes are
those points you are missing the point
which is that Jesus believed differently
so the question that you have to answer
if you want to say that the days are
long periods of time or if you want to
say that the age is more than 6,000
years because it doesn't matter it
mattered to Jesus and do you believe the
words of Jesus or not and you know I
sometimes get a bit worked
Christian Christian say that it doesn't
matter that this is a divisive issue you
know they're dividing themselves from
Jesus if jesus said it's important then
it's important and this is this is
something that we find fascinating
because we we travel and speak in
churches we go there to try to help them
understand the foundations of Genesis
from a scientific perspective and the
biblical perspective and there are a
number of churches that will not talk
about this subject I mean despite the
god's word says evening and morning the
first day evening and morning the second
day evening and morning the third day
they go you know what that's divisive
let's not talk about that yeah wow you
know and it makes me want you know
modern science has said that that the
can't be six days of creation well hold
on a minute modern science has said that
a man can't walk on water that's true
modern science has said that a man can
turn water into wine modern science has
said that a man can't heal the sick will
raise people from the dead or for that
matter rise from the dead himself and
you know what I believe all those things
that's right it's we're talking about
the creator of the universe here guys
we're not talking about somebody dealing
in our realm okay you have to step
outside the Creator can do whatever he
wants he can make it in six days six
million years or six seconds and he told
us exactly what he did he said he did it
in six days and you know a friend of
mine who's a creation speaker in in
Britain had a lady come to him and say
you know that I I'm not going to limit
God to doing this and his reply was yeah
I don't limit God he says I limit myself
to believing what God said and you know
our friend Kyle Kirby or as often said
well you know people have said well I've
read what you said now god now I'm going
to tell you what you meant you know
arrogance people have when they want to
tell god what he actually meant that is
so true you know anything other than
this if this isn't your authority it's
something else then you have the wrong
authority this has to be our Authority
God's Holy Word his revealed word to
mankind speaking of car Kirby by the way
yet which we would
he's got a great ministry reason for
hope had been with answers in genesis
for years really wants to focus on the
youth of America sees that man the youth
are going astray and really wants to do
things to combat that so his ministry is
focusing on that as good a ministry
called reasons for hope and the websites
a bit difficult to remember his real
good reasons on the word hope you've got
to have the abbreviation so it's r fo r
h dot com r fo r h dot com reason to
hope and you can remember him and he's
doing a great work he is actually coming
down to the proof of God conference in
orlando florida this October twelfth and
thirteenth and we're excited about
having him there the memory but have a
look at Cal sites if you on the book in
book of any particular but particularly
though they gifted to speaking to you
he's got his due been working with a
company doing some great videos called
debunked if you want to check those out
fast paced entertaining yet a great
clear message about the creator of the
universe and some of the questions that
people have about them yeah well if
you've got questions yourself and please
make sure that you send them to
questions at creation today o RG of
course we're on twitter if you want to
twitter us at creation today and on
facebook facebook.com slash creation
today and we invite you to join the
conversation there and get involved in
teaching people the truth you can talk
to people about the truth on twitter
can't you Paul you can indeed on
facebook there's we for some reason we
attract plenty of people that don't
believe God's Word is true so you want a
mission field come on and join it man
we're tracking them all over the place
absolutely well this has been a
production of God quest ministries yeah
we want to thank you guys so much for
enjoying season two of the creation
today show make sure you tell somebody
else to watch this and get their
questions answered on these most vital
and important subjects god bless
do you need the tools to defend your
faith visit our websites for up-to-date
content attend one of our live events
and shop online at creation store org we
are creation today
Oh
