[Music]
so Sandy Lane says every distro I try to
boot from a USB Drive has a grub problem
we're not talking about the bugs by the
way you sprinkle on the grass like
limestone or something that kills no
it's like some kind of living organ the
drive is a grub problem it just goes to
the grub prompts okay what am I doing
wrong hmm okay couple of things could be
going on there now your Drive itself
could be faulty and so it's failing when
it's creating the the grub bootloader
when you put a distro on to a USB flash
drive to boot from you have to you have
to during that process you have to image
it and I've run into this where folks
have taken that image file downloaded it
and put it on the disk right just as a
file or like decompressed it and dragged
all the files over and that may be what
you're encountering it could also be the
tool that you're using to image it I
would recommend that you check out
etcher
ET CH ER and that application will allow
you to first browse to the image file
you need to unzip that image file that's
important so if it comes as a zip file
decompress it so that it's just an IMG
then once you've browse to that IMG file
you need to specify the target device
easiest way to do that is to have all of
your USB devices unplugged so that
etcher sees that there are no USB
devices currently available right then
when it asks you when it's waiting for
you to select a device plug in your USB
flash drive and it will be the only one
that pops up that way you don't have to
risk overwriting the wrong device right
and also it will make sure because if
you've got two devices plugged in I
guess there's a possibility with some
applications that it might write to one
disk and then put the grub boot loader
another it could happen not with that
juror is pretty good but so make sure
that you do that and then go with click
on flash and it will go through and it
will even verify that everything worked
out and if it's still not working then I
would look at the file that you
downloaded the image itself they will
always have what's called an md5 or a
checksum or a sha file that you can
compare to the md5 sum of the file
itself that you've downloaded so if it
for some reason got corrupted during
transit it may you can flash it over and
over and over again and it's always
gonna fail right there's always gonna be
something wrong with it because the file
is corrupted right but your imaging
application won't know that it will just
say yeah it worked the image file is
exactly what was written to the disk but
it doesn't know that the image files
actually corrupt right so try redownload
the md5 hash and make sure that you've
got a good download before you burn it
again and on the off-chance we are
actually talking about the little white
larva get a new that might be yeah you
may want to get in maybe the USB Drive
is faulty absolutely and it can happen
and they they have a finite lifespan so
that's that's how it goes
[Applause]
