what you're about to experience is a
free worldwide interactive broadcast
from Ontario Canada we broadcast live
every tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time
get your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Robbie
Ferguson welcome to episode number 167
of category 5 technology TV i'm your
host Robbie ferguson he's laughing
because this isn't an episode with the
episode each episode was before we
started Wow welcome to our dynamic
broadcast this evening we are the
dynamic duo well trio trio yeah we're
here with us too how are you doing Eric
I am well good good and just happy to be
here and glad to be alive anybody
joining us in the chat room follow kid
Eric on on Twitter oh come on I not
tweets twits for many days Nino tweet
long time in love with exactly all right
I haven't tweeted since I had forced
those things in a can down you through
okay hi question anybody here follow me
on twitter and if you do you'll
understand these bags under my eyes how
do you like those no i wasn't punched
out although i feel like it Becca did
indeed have the baby everybody's healthy
and doing well so tonight we are gonna
do our best it is getting a little long
yeah cheers social runner boat Robbie's
hair hey Chris you have no idea what
I've been through this week there's a
little bit of hope you can hear that or
not but not quite as much as you but I
shaved just looks like it under here oh
right are there yeah and you know I
shaved the underside of my arms that's
about it yeah so okay so thanks
everybody in the chat room so tonight
flat out honest we didn't think
tonight's show was going to go through
and we still have our doubts but I've
basically stuck to the fact that we've
never missed a show regardless of so we
thought would come in and say hi so
we're here we literally are here to say
hello we may not be able to address many
questions tonight we may have to cut the
the show short there are so many
variables that we don't even know about
but I'm here Eric's here Hillary's here
and it's great to have you here as well
and I hope all of our American friends
at a lovely thanksgiving yeah happy
Thanksgiving everybody yeah um and
further to the Americans I'm just
wearing my golden shirt and you do
remember the 2010 olympic stone the
Winter Olympics sure I did yeah that was
Canada three twos I'm way and in
overtime as you know at seven forty
seven forty i was doing my show that was
7 40 in overtime ok seven four seven
minutes and forty set ok really yeah
yeah yeah dad will office wants me to
just leave the set and
Heather you're going to take over all
right so Hillary how are you doing hey
world i am doing fabulous here at my
remote location for category five
congratulations ferguson clan for the
new baby very exciting and also what's
exciting is what's coming up in the
newsroom I don't know if you guys can
handle it the makers of a boon to have
announced seven new software partners
and Vancouver's HootSuite service has
hit the million user mark and lastly
Microsoft Kinect is blowing early Sony
movie move sales out of the water so
stay tuned for the latest news from the
category 5 TV news room thanks Hilary
you keep them well out there at school
oh yeah fabulous learning lots it's
great it's very good three days or is it
party time oh you know how it is you
know I I go to school I go to class it's
all good she's real good she's a good
girl okay so leave it at that okay good
one Hill nice nice response you gotta
keep Eric clean um really well behaved I
thought apparently what fairly well
behaved cheers well nice to have you
here and we'll check in with Hillary in
just a few minutes and we'll see how far
we can get into the show as well so if
you're new here if you've never joined
us on category by the new year yeah well
yeah you know how things roll around
here though and for those of you who
aren't too sure about our usual format
tonight we are not sticking to it and we
are not we're just kind of here just so
that i can hold hold up my reputation of
never missing a show and I just I
couldn't I couldn't miss a show on you
but really it's hard to be here and and
everybody's upstairs I've been kind of
playing mr. mom for the past since
Thursday is Thursday night if you're
following on Twitter some people
mentioned that it was really quite cool
to be able to follow the new birth on my
Twitter account but I really have not
had a lot of time to to do anything but
take care of the kids driving my
daughter to school it's it's it's
amazing how much my wife fits into a day
credible my goodness yeah so as far as
tonight show goes we're going to do our
best to answer your questions in the
chat room and just kind of hang out have
a good time and we'll just kind of we're
here so ask you to join us a category 5
TV and again if you're new here please
please please please do visit our
website category 5 TV and check out some
some of our broadcasts as well what are
you saying sometimes it shows a little
more content rich that's definitely a
possibility ok you know that one night a
week where you're really really feeling
tired so you make crafts dinner and and
hotdogs for days what's this crap dinner
mac or macaroni and cheese for those of
you who are not familiar with kraft
dinner that's that's kind of tonight
it's not like you're in the states too
but I don't know if they have it and
that can be our poll for tonight that
can be our conversation kb does every
one of their know what kraft dinner is
ok a reminder for you that if you're not
presently registered on the category 5
TV website tonight is your last chance
go to our website right now its category
5 TV get registered for free I don't
mean that it's the last chance to
register you're going to be able to
register beyond tonight but we are going
into lockdown starting tomorrow morning
so basically at midnight it's December
first lockdown so our site is going to
be not accepting any new registrations
for the next for the next month so
january first when our new site launches
here's the kicker if you're registered
already or if you're not registered and
you get registered before the end of
tonight's show or before we actually go
into lockdown tonight then you're going
to actually your account is going to be
imported into the new website and at
that time there are going to be some
category 5 viewer points attributed to
your account at random intervals so some
people are going to see as many as 15
category 5 you viewer points some people
a few maybe the lucky ones who see
upwards of 50 category 5 viewer points
what those are our web-based points that
are going to be a part of our new
website and those can be redeemed
or ballots in order to win awesome
hardware such as as the printers that we
give away nanodots and something like
mine in a bug did they I had a super
think I said I figured in too much and
you gave them away oh yeah you gave them
away so on the show I just knew that
that I couldn't ever let you see them on
the air again they were in fact in
pretty cool beans way to change the
subject oh sorry oh but you can get onto
our website register tonight its
category 5 TV if you're not already
registered even if you registered two
years ago three years ago you're still
going to get those points so don't worry
about it if you're already registered
you are a part of that system you're
going to get a notification email when
the new system is put into place but
with those points right off the bat
you're going to be able to redeem them
for ballots for downloadable software
you'll be able to get commercial
software for free as downloads using
your your your category 5 viewer points
things like that you'll be able to get
discounts from various different vendors
coupon codes and things like that so
definitely you want to you want to be a
part of this and certainly down you know
if you're not able to make it tonight if
you're watching this after the show and
you realize the site is already in
lockdown and and it's not an opportunity
for you to get those free points there
will be tons of opportunities for you to
win free points as well in the future
once we launch our new website so this
is a good way for everybody who's
registered to to get a nice little head
start with him with a hand slip a
handful of viewpoints close to have a
handful of men or boats well what is it
with you in a no dots honestly they're
gone they're cool but you are like a
nano nut
I thought which it reminds me I found an
interesting website i don't know if i
could find it tonight while we're
actually on the air not likely you can't
show that alone here oh you don't know
from joke
hmm probably wouldn't be able to and
this is the way tonight Joe was going to
go no don't because I don't know where
it is but there was there was a website
i will show it on a future show it's
really really cool it's like people who
are totally obsessed with nanodots IE
but they put together the most
incredible creations photograph them and
put them up online literally smash them
know they really do but when you've
spent that much time putting something
together that is ridiculous you probably
don't want to set it right away okay hi
everybody watching the chat room
category 5 TV you can join us on
freenode at category 5 is the name of
the chat room bk7 HSE Scott is just
telling a telling you that being a nano
nut is better than being just and that
you look just okay putting that out
there all right thanks for the thoughts
cool I don't think you're gonna really
find much in the email I don't think I
don't have a whole lot of new questions
here because that's from last week
that's the nature of tonight's show so
this is this broadcast tonight is for
the die-hard category 5 viewers who love
to be here like to have a coffee with
their friends you can hear my kids
screaming upstairs and and don't mind
because that's just the week we've had
it's been it's been quite an adventure
the past week i'll tell you i've got a
couple of pictures that i'll be sharing
with you in just a little bit like to
see the baby and of course you can
follow me twitter.com slash Robbie
Ferguson and get more pictures there as
well I'm going to try to get into email
here and see what we can come up with
all right that sound good you have any
pictures of raw because a little bit of
spittle owners lapel or not yet no okay
I'm always the one taking the pictures
at this point you can email your
questions live at category 5 TV or
probably tonight best thing to do would
be to get in the chat room just because
we are kind of it's going to be a
challenge for us to stay on top of email
and things tonight if you send something
to the attention of Eric kid that that
will probably be noticed
Robbie hey to happen to know what ports
are needed to access lubuntu repository
hmm hmm I've never really thought about
it being outside of port 80 good
question good well so we can find that
out fairly quickly
I'm just doing a quick search for
apt-get port port 80 if over HTTP yeah
of course oh and then it would it be
under SSL or otherwise it would be
standard as far as I thought I've never
really had it all let's port 80 if it's
over HTTP mm-hmm well
it's over ftp it looks like apt just
uses standard ports as I would have
thought so you'd be looking at port 80
for HTTP right standard you'd be looking
at is it 443 for secure 421 if it's ftp
i can't say for sure may be careful if i
say anything cuz and Jenna I'm wrong
then people laugh at me well I'm gadget
wisdom gurus upset with you is he good
idea well you told him he should
probably run out and buy you know a
netgear gigabit replacement router sure
so he went when he get he went and spent
money and it's all on your shoulders he
hasn't even set it up yet though haven't
set it out hasn't even set it up yet oh
you set it up and once the joy kicks in
damn you no comment till the joy tension
you can't comment until that kicks in
the utter bliss but you inspired him
that's great which which model did he
get interesting to know he did not tell
me what model the one that I got the
3,500 i think it was i went with instead
of the 3700 which was recommended
because I don't need dual-band I don't
have any devices on my network that use
dual band I do not even like Wi-Fi I
probably will if I get like a tablet or
something like that I'll love it as far
as reliability of Wi-Fi I just I don't
really like to use Wi-Fi at all so
that's that's me because like we get a
lot of interference here there's just no
open channels here and so we always do
or talking about your kids but even even
our microphones we sometimes get some
interference with them we just have this
problem where there there's so much
interference and in this area downtown
core that it's just I couldn't I've
never really relied on wireless so I
went with a non dual band save myself
ten bucks there
you ten bucks yeah ten boxes ten bug
what I just find it on I haven't spent
it yet okay because it never existed boo
boo boo repositories are rarely websites
so right so it's worked out in port 80
yeah unless his ftp it'll be for 21 yeah
okay cool then Tyros rock is sad because
his netgear is an unsupported rotor oh
we're all sad though absolutely rude a
debbie downer yeah now we're the whole
the whole world is sad now pires rock so
for HTTPS mm-hmm apparently port 443
good nice did I say that you may have
but I was paying attention to get will
instead yeah I understand God will much
nicer guy and better looking much better
looking hey Hilary Hilary don't you
don't you don't you respond you do not
have to feel obligated just smile and
nod that's pretty much what you have to
do with this guy over right next to me
here it's kind of what you have
we'd love to get some questions in the
chat room and I'm looking at the email
here which we I know that there are some
questions there it's just kind of
sorting through what's with relevant and
and what is we had a lot of spam we get
a lot of spam people as soon as you put
a live broadcast on the air you get a
lot of spam you I was going to make some
comment and I thought better of it oh
yeah was a mighty Python there was it
just to do a spam no it was not anything
to do a spam a lot gwg again wisdom guru
is a WND r3500 l same one I bought buddy
are you going to dd-wrt it just like I
did make sure you read about what to do
there you have to use a very specific
version of dd-wrt if we do decide to do
that okay what's up this is just comment
the guide will it is not really sure
he's better looking but he's a lot
younger and has more hair sure i'm
just-just that does not take much no no
no guy so you know that that's that's
available but you could be and Chris
right now sooner or later you're a
Canadian and you have all your teeth so
that's pretty good looking that's pretty
alright he doesn't play hard I have all
my teeth yeah yeah I just don't play
hockey very well but if I were real
players yeah yeah okay
okay I got I i thought you know here's a
couple I'm getting a lot of email about
planet calypso you can get information
about the the game at cat five dot TV /
Calypso you can download the free client
there okay you'll Harry Belafonte
Calypso is it no sorry i'll stop yeah
please do otherwise I'm gonna have to
pay royalties I think that's not public
domain by now okay um no we do have a
question okay how do you troubleshoot
your wireless drivers even listening to
me 10 10 listening to me well I did hear
something about a living soul planet
calypso and then I went off on a harry
belafonte tangent and then all the
sudden here green back in it was oh look
a squirrel yeah sure this metal plate is
getting that interference I was talking
about earlier okay I'll just send some
what the issue is Greg in Texas if
you're having if you're having like
interference issues I love dd-wrt
because I can make a run a scan on all
of the nearby networks find out what
ports are part of me which channels are
being saturated so that I can kind of
pick the best channel for my router as
far as on your computer and depends on
what your issue is but certainly a lot
of help in the chat room here and a lot
of help at blue two forms as well that's
a wide open question and wide open
question what were you talking I was
back to planet calypso I got an
interesting one from Lance man says I
just joined entropia universe planet
calypso I wasn't able to find any way to
make money or gain skills can you give
me some info on that also you gave some
info on how to contact in Game else you
gave some info about how to contact you
meaning me in the game could you please
review that as well interesting question
because planet calypso being a real cat
based economy in game it's pretty
revolutionary that you can make money in
the game doing jobs virtual jobs and
then you can cash out take that money
once once you've made you know the
equivalent of five hundred US dollars
you can withdraw that into your your
bank account so you can turn that into
world currency right so a lot of people
go into the game thinking okay I'm going
to make some money I just heard about
like you look at never die who bought a
piece of land an asteroid in fact took
out a loan against his house from the
bank some swampland in Florida no sir
well the guy bought virtual land with
whatever against his house right two
hundred thousand dollars for this piece
of virtual property that doesn't
actually have any tangible value and
just and he's made I think it was per
year he was making two hundred thousand
dollars in taxes and things that people
were paying in order to go to his land
on in the game it's very much like a
real economy and $100,000 would leave
well he paid two hundred thousand but he
just sold it Oh for it i think it was
closer to a hundred thousand dollars or
I i think it was like 600 members mundo
it was like six hundred thousand dollars
for me that's what started the jots
trying to confuse me I think he sold it
from way more than he paid maybe killing
off of this thing okay John's just
correct me paid a hundred thousand
dollars that matter the main hundred
dollars with three decimal points now
which shots not from around here okay
and then he made six hundred fifty
thousand dollars in the sale oh right I
was just giving an example jot actually
knows this so you can afford to button
road he sure can but that's absurd so
people so people often are thinking oh I
can make money in this virtual game i
give you know sit around eating pizza
and chips and become one of those guys i
mean it is virtual money until you make
enough to withdraw on you can withdrawal
if you want you can do
he's done and he can use that money in
real life watch it's real money Wow
figure that it one ped is equal to ten
cents ped bean project and trophy a
dollar okay so if you put ten bucks in
u.s. dollars you get a hundred ped back
it's like a hundred bucks you can buy
stuff you can invest you can play the
game and hopefully you turn a profit if
not as a cheap entertainment right you
don't have to deposit that you can if
you want I did that once I should get
into this well so then you know you go
through and you bought a tool to do
mining you go out you do mining and you
find crude oil and then you flip that
over and process it and sell it and
people use it to fuel their vehicles and
well you've made a profit so anyway so
so then people think well let's play the
game for that I don't play the game for
that so I can't really give you a much
advice there the advice I can give you
is it's a game cool really while some
people do make money in the game can't
be your motivation you got it just you
know I go in and I'm and I'm socialized
and I love just hanging out with people
and I love just you know I love running
around and realizing the glass of wine
oh no that's funny you should say that
because I met up with jhad in Game one
time and he had a bottle of wine he
popped the yeah I guess it was champagne
you pop the cork and was spraying it all
over the place in a row in the game so
yeah definitely so I'm just watching the
chat room there so anyway so forgetting
about the whole money thing Lance man
because you're probably not going to
make enough money to really care that I
think the point is that like for me for
it for example the whole time I've been
playing for a couple years I've put in
like ten bucks okay and I play and it's
and it's fun and it's like that's
renting to movies and you don't have to
do that but it gives you a little bit of
a boost because then you've got money in
game and you can do stuff so that's
that's all fun fun good if you're
playing too to make money
it's very I personally would think
that's doubtful unless you get really
really good and your skill or you buy
something that's worth a lot of money
that you can sell for a lot of money you
can buy things when they're cheap and
you can make a little bit like you could
buy vehicles for example it again you'd
have to deposit you have to kind of have
money to make money if you deposited
enough money to buy a vehicle for 72 ped
when it's really really cheap and then
when the price goes up in all of a
sudden they're 400 ped you've made it
pretty good it's just like any economy
you're making pretty good money on that
but then again it's going to take you
awhile before that turns into real-world
money because it you know it sped it's 1
to 10 ped yeah so when you think about
it a vehicle if I paid 72 paid for it
seven dollars and twenty cents is what I
actually paid out of pocket but then if
i sell it for 400 ped that's 40 bucks so
you're you're doing okay it's not
something to make money off of them okay
that's my opinion because I wouldn't I
wouldn't recommend you try the game to
make money so then he asked about making
gaining skills when you're new to the
game what you want to do is you want to
do basic stuff stuff that you can do in
the game without having to deposit
because as soon as you want it oh yeah I
want to go hunting well you need a gun
well you need ammo for that gun make
sense right so don't start off thinking
like that started so you've got a device
that they give you to sweat you've got
these creatures that you can extract
sweat from the creature which can be
refined into other things like mind
essence dude play Hillary hmm Hillary
plays all the time I can tell she's I
can see her she said was her like just
like that just like that ellery I'm so
sorry Jim still
hear me I was I've tried to figure out
Twitter that's what i was doing actually
i was over now already so you registered
on twitter i did but i don't get how to
do it it's kind of confusing you're
gonna head out the show it's just like
information overload like perpetual
right back yeah there was an episode
recently where where we Eric and I I
walked Eric through how to set up a
Twitter account you should probably
check that out he'll because we kind of
go over the basics of how how that works
how to follow somebody and stuff like
that so you're not just bombarded with
everybody's tweets I feel bombarded by
everybody's gone I'm just like following
all these people just because oh yeah so
yeah only you Hilary can we can we say
on the air what how we can follow you on
on Twitter yep just Hillary Rumble I
think that's what I put you think try to
figure it out i'm pretty sure it's
jewelry rum okay i'm gonna give it a go
Hillary Rumble seeing all the rules with
this you don't want to post anything to
identifying finally joining the boundary
is this I I feel like twitter is
information overload and yet I machine
by it and she's an orange egg you can
now follow I know delightful Facebook
Twitter nominate head all right Hilary
well we'll definitely will follow you
there for sure that's what she says
we're talking about planet calypso
thanks oh alright yep no I have an
action here I can choose I can block
Hillary Rumble you wouldn't want to do
that like a reporter for spam Wow okay
there we go there we go I just kind of i
find it cute that you know if we refresh
after showing it on the air all of a
sudden there's people following that's
great everybody go follow Hillary what's
that I said hallelujah but now I feel
like I have to be interesting if people
are gonna be following you do have to be
interesting Hillary le pressure there's
so much pressure on Twitter to be
interesting if you are interesting your
tweet your tweets maybe feature here on
category fun Hillary what do you feel
about that you're gonna my looks like
that was his nowadays beautiful how do i
do you feel like you're ready to hit
those news stories for us oh yeah I'm
ready and comin atcha right now the
category five TV news room since the
release of a boon to 10 point 10
canonical continues to gain partner
support in a press release last week
canonical the commercial sponsor of the
boo to announce seven new software
partners new partners include box
ice-pops view ripped a no you know we're
glad stir wave maker and zend according
to the press release canonical software
partners work closely with the
development teams who deliver a boon to
and thus ensure that installation and
operation are of the highest quality
more information on canonical software
partners can be found on the canonical
website then Cooper based HootSuite
media inc said yesterday that it's
popular application for managing Twitter
accounts now has more than a hundred or
a million users while the company says
that most users are still largely using
the application as a Twitter management
tool but it is being used across other
platforms and networks as well including
Facebook LinkedIn and by space the suite
offers team collaboration across social
media platforms scheduled updates result
tracking and is free to use you can take
a look at the HootSuite service by
visiting HootSuite com on October
thirty-first sony announced proudly that
1,000,000 PlayStation Move controllers
had been sold in
the 30 day since its release but their
numbers are being blown away and out of
the water by Microsoft's very cool
connect device for the Xbox racist 360
which is sold more than 2.5 million
devices worldwide in only 25 days with
the Christmas season upon us Microsoft
is trying hard to keep up with more than
16,000 vendors and keep them stocked by
upping production and expediting
shipment you haven't seen connect yet
it's probably better than you think it
is utilizing a 3d video camera and an
intelligent motion recognition software
the Kinect is able to put the players in
the place of the controller using
natural body movements to control the
aim game characters with the Kinect
selling for only one hundred fifty
dollars and offering brand new gaming
experience to xbox 360 users it's
already well on its way to being one of
the big movers this season get all these
full stories at category five dot TV /
newsroom the category 5 Jamie newsroom
is researched by roy w nash with
contributions from gadget wisdom guru
becca ferguson and our community of
viewers if you have a news story that
you think is worthy of honorary mention
send us an email at newsroom at category
5 TV but a category 5 TV news room I'm
Hillary ramble category 5 TV is brought
to you in part by planet calypso this
massive multiplayer online game is
available as a free download from cat5
TV / Calypso now once you've got two
downloaded and installed on your Windows
computer make sure you say hi and
there's something for everyone here on
planet calypso from hunting to mining
crafting and just plain socializing and
having fun with your friends you can
download it for free at cat five dot TV
/ Calypso if you're a Linux user like
myself of course this makes it worth the
dual boot cat5 TV / Calypso i'll see you
on planet calypso
this is category 5 technology TV episode
number 167 i'm your host Robbie Ferguson
167 i am eric kid i am the co-host yes
indeed I bring a coffee or bring me
superantispyware pins brilliant I asked
the questions I'm the good-looking one
no the furry one that's definitely not
mean the one who grows here yeah all
right I'm one who doesn't sleep much so
we're talking a little bit about planet
calypso and one of the questions that
the Lance man had there was how can we
meet up in game and I've had this
question coming by email okay well on
planet calypso which is available as a
free download cat5 TV / calypso and in
that game once you've got it installed
and running on your computer we can
actually become a part of the category 5
TV viewers society and that allows us to
do things together we can we can I can
basically come and teach you how to use
the game effectively we can just hang
out we can have a fun time I've been
known to take people for drives places
where there's lots of creatures and
things like that so in order to to
participate in the society of category 5
TV what you have to do once you have
gotten through the new arrivals own you
are going to teleport to a place called
port Atlantis once you get there you'll
see what's happening here is it's
actually loading the level that's why
it's kind of jumping like that once it's
loaded now I meant so now what I want to
do is I want a head I'm going to
actually show you where you want to go
in order to get to the society terminal
and do feel free to explore the the
universe as much as you like you'll
usually see me hanging out in this area
if I'm just socializing and
visiting people I've never seen me run
before never seen me run that's exactly
how I run just like that so you want to
just keep on going this direction and a
head up here you see the sign where
we're heading is the social area and
we're going to be able to join that
category 5 society if you had left here
and look through these buildings the
equipment building there there's a bank
around the corner in the social area
here you're going to be able to join our
society and once I see that your
membership has been submitted to to our
category 5 TV viewer society then we'll
actually be able to communicate in game
you'll be able to presage a once you've
added me as a friend and we'll be able
to chat actually live in Game meet up
you can tell me where you are and I'll
come get ya or whatever we need to do so
over here you'll see a society terminal
actually two of them and if you right
click on that terminal and choose
operate or alternatively of course you
could double-click on the terminal and
what you can do is you can press C to
jump to all of the societies that start
with C because there's a lot called
Calypso you're going to have to scroll
through a couple pages and you'll see
category 5 TV viewers alternatively what
you can do is you can actually use that
search box that you saw there and just
type in for example category 5 and when
you hit enter it's going to give you the
one result category 5 TV viewers and you
can actually then follow the the prompts
just point to any of the icons there and
you'll see one that allows you to
request membership to the society pretty
straight forward as far as how to
actually become a part of our society
and then from there we're gonna go on
runs together and have a good time be a
lot of fun cat5 TV / Calypso if you want
to get in on that so be a lot of fun
it's good to see John I gained in game
haven't seen him in a while I've never
seen him mm-hmm he's in our room he's in
our promo it was he's the guy who comes
walking up behind me oh you didn't know
I did not know that now you know jocks
little 30 seconds of fame right but all
right certina case hang on hmm well okay
then this is category 5 TV and again if
you're joining us for the first time
tonight this is not our usual format
because of the fact that Wow while my
family's grown we my wife and I well my
wife primarily let's say that hey we all
were wrong we really did it really was
just like that I'm still just like that
and I can't believe these bags under my
eyes because like the glasses kind of
hide but oh my i'm actually Ravi I think
you'd better famous job you've done a
wonderful job thank you but it all till
going and we're here on a Tuesday night
and like i said earlier in the show
didn't think we were gonna be able to
make it tonight bless my sister she
called me up and said can i come and put
the kids to bed and watch the kids while
you do your show who's that oh heavens
no or i called i called you earlier
tonight today i don't think the show is
going to go on I don't think we're gonna
be able to do it was five o'clock i was
still cooking supper for everybody and
just madness definitely need more coffee
Chris right thank you I take it with two
cream so yes Cheers reminder please
register on our website category 5 TV
tonight I see a couple of registrations
that are coming in or it maples critic
nice to see you certainly make sure you
register tonight because then you will
be eligible to what you will get those
extra fewer points when we roll over on
new site and we are locking down tell
them what they can win well it's it's
going to be so vast I mean it could be
anything from DVD download versions of
category 5 that's the basic stuff like
being able to get downloadable I so's
and things like that being able to get
coupon codes for fifteen percent off of
particular products that we're working
some deals with being able to win things
like pogo plugs
a no dots printers we are in talks with
many many companies to allow you to to
actually win some cool stuff so those
points are going to be kind of you can
accumulate them if you want you can work
to the point where you've got hundreds
of points and then all of a sudden oh I
really want a pogoplug so you spend all
your points on pogoplug ballots you can
have ten ballots you can have 50 ballot
though and you're upping your chance of
winning that prize so so it's a really
cool system I think it's going to be
really exciting so do check for that
that is coming on the new website
category 5 TV which launches launches on
january first in the meantime you're
going to notice that the old site the
current site i should say for the next
month is going to become kind of
stagnant as far as that goes will be
posting just the new episodes and
nothing more the site is going to be
slowly replaced with the new site and
january first we're going to flip that
switch if you're interested in becoming
a part of our bed a team these are
people who will be able to log in during
that one month betta period from
december first to january first if
you're interested in becoming a part of
that to be able to source us with ideas
tell us what you think tell us what
works and what doesn't work and what we
can do to improve it or if you even have
the ability to to assist with some of
the programming and things like that I'd
love to talk to you so drop me an email
live at category 5 TV and we'll see what
what can be done that way cool is
somebody must see Pyro's Rock wants no
other than this upgrade how to your
interviewer points there are many many
ways for example every day that you log
in you get a viewer point so if you go
to category 5 TV you log in boom you got
a point you click on a banner ad you get
a point so there's all different things
that you can do within the site every
time you watch the show you get a point
so it's it's it's really quite dynamic
it's pretty cool and those points just
continue to add up so right off the bat
you're going to get a nice
little little push as far as fewer
points go and down the road there will
be not only those ways of getting points
but also will be offering things like
prize giveaways where you can actually
win a large number of points which can
be used against anything you like can
you take them to a better buy comics
yeah but actually gather I'm working on
you will be able to hopefully really do
clip so based transactions using fewer
points so we'll see how that goes
wouldn't that be cool how would you like
to have a hundred ped there you go Wow
oh boy Greg in Texas is working on a
joomla site tonight yes very cool well
some folks were wondering if the new
site would be a joomla basically the new
site is going to be powered by the
latest version of joomla heavily
modified and customized and i'm not
allowed to say too much because i put
some restrictions on what I'm allowed to
say oh well there you go it's going to
be a really exciting upgrade and there's
there's a lot to it it's if you are
familiar with terms like Ajax or dynamic
or social networking then these are all
things that that are a big part of the
new category 5 TV al Kent says Robbie
the current site is very messy shows my
room well I tell you what sorry how
can't you start a show for your friends
and a couple of a couple of customers
and people like that and just put it
online and then suddenly one weekend
have 60,000 viewers from five
and then what will keep it up build from
there vanilla it was never that site was
never intended to be what it is to be as
big as it is I think there's some like
20,000 articles on it it's ridiculous it
has holes in it like nothing else and I
agree with you it's it's confuzzling
because there's so much stuff and it's
it's I tried my best at the time to
organize it and it's like well it was
never intended to become what it was
what it is so now what we're saying I
finally put my foot down and I said you
know what I know it's going to take a
month to develop so we're going to lock
down the doors on the old site we're
going to start really working hard on
the new site we're going to be building
an incredible website that's going to be
much easier to use going to have much
more dynamic contents we've got a new
flash player flash based player i should
say which is which is powering h.264
video playback everything on the site is
going to be H dot 264 so we're looking
at way better quality than the old flv
format videos and we're in the process
of migrating all that all of our RSS
feeds are being redone to be dynamic and
have a lot more features to them and
also to to free up time for us for me in
particular where you know every people
don't necessarily realize but when a
Tuesday night rolls around after the
show I'm spending hours setting up RSS
feeds and getting the on-demand video
working and stuff like that so a big
part of the new site is automating a lot
of that process hopefully freeing up
probably about an hour two hours each
Tuesday night for me which lets me
dedicate time to other things be it
improving features on site writing
product reviews things like that she'll
be great in some new vid
that could no God wills wondering if
those of us who are already in the beta
mm-hmm or betta as you like to say they
still need to email I'd love it if you
would just because I get so many email
and I'd love to have them all at once
and then what I'll do is I'll email
everybody at once just kind of go
through and copy copy and paste email
addresses and VCC UL that would just be
helpful for me so that would be great
yeah if you want to be a part of the
betta team even if you've already
responded to me pump me an email tonight
that'd be great gadget wisdom guru the
NAR a new RSS system that i developed
it's fantastic it's all database driven
every episode right now every single RSS
feed i have to manually create each feed
for each week now it's all powered by
database dynamically generated by a
system that is posted under a different
hosting account it's not going to pull
from our main website as far as
bandwidth and all that stuff goes live
again / me live again oh there there
goes oh slamming live at category 5 TV
it's the email address to get mia with
regards to becoming a better tester
that'll be great or if you have
questions of course that will be
hopefully answered on next week's show
things are going to be a lot different
next week we're going to be back to our
normal format and i think he's gonna
give life is better than normal yeah
sure no I'm gonna have a little less
hair next week I don't think at this
rate for sure
cool just watching the chat room yeah
there was a question about why we
haven't gone with the aura I didn't
catch who asked that but truth is i love
i gloat oh yeah our model agra modem the
the end pires rock asking about html5 i
started developing under the-- aura and
html5 had a lot of problems with certain
things with the codec and it's nothing
about the codec it's about my needing to
automate the entire process my goal is
to be able to make it so simple for me
to be able to create each week's show as
far as the content following the show
goes once we broadcast we have a
recording what happens to that recording
we have to convert it to the formats for
all the RSS feeds all of the the players
and everything that goes out so how much
work is that going to be depends highly
on what formats we choose to distribute
of--they aura was was proving to be more
work than the h.264 unfortunately
because I would much rather stick with
an open format I think you know that it
was it was having some trouble there
were some lip synchronization issues and
we tried I tried one day maybe at this
point H dot 264 is working perfectly
it's very very good quality and
everybody I think there's still a lot of
respect for H dot 264 even in the open
community just but it's a good format
you got to admit even though we'd
probably rather look towards the future
of html5 that could come back but I'll
say as well in the whole redevelopment
process one of the key things that I've
done is develop things to be very
changeable for example with the RSS
feeds I said everything is powered by
the same database so if I decide okay
we're going to change everything toothy
aura all we have to do is just run a
script that will automatically create
the fiora files on each WMV say for
example and then it will automatically
change all the RSS feeds because it's
all powered by the same
vase the system is 11 system very very
easy for us to change things so that's
what I wanted to do just make sure that
right now when we change a format when
we change something I have to go back
and recreate every single entry in an
RSS file and when you've got you know
almost 200 hours of video that becomes a
lot of work so we're automating that
whole thing cool so I hope that that
kind of clarifies why we have gone with
the H dot 264 html5 is fantastic but it
does still require a compatible browser
and I do also want to take the the show
outside of the browser you know that
I've talked about we were originally
going to launch the the desktop player
and where we got held up was clogged
fiora unfortunately for me as much as
I'd love to say it was a success but H
sub 2 64 is going to allow us to begin
working on that desk top layer again
very cool maybe you can win a brand-new
printer from Brother Canada and category
5 technology TV visit our website
category 5 TV click on interact and at
the bottom of that you will see that we
are given away a printer for you
multifunction center with all the all
the stuff we started late buddy oh we
did remember he's like dude you're at a
time dude you pronounced diaspora wrong
knows betta betta mmm tomato tomahto
hose well I get enough from the type run
if I get enough of this from the chat
room so he didn't like them let's just
start naming past us or is it pasta I'm
going back to pipeline Polly Agra modal
chuckles
indeed yes that was shrugged okay I
can't wait to be able to bring the baby
on the show in the meantime all that i
have is pictures what is the baby to ask
questions shrieks Liam Daniel Ferguson
was born on Thursday night 725 p.m.
there is 10 pounds ten pound baby coach
I'm just saying I'm just saying my wife
is a trooper he's a beautiful babe he's
you can't even he's quiet he's good I
heard that was intense that's my nephew
Oh who's here because my my darling
sister is here to to watch the kids for
us oh my goodness Greg in Texas are our
first son was ten two and and here Liam
is is 10 pounds and before that tally
was pretty big crew tally was only seven
pounds I think six ounces or nine ounces
well under 88 pounds so you can imagine
my wife shocked I was a big baby too so
I think it's the boys in the family
actually I've heard people say you're a
big baby oh I am a vacation Oh sticking
it out with us tonight everybody I have
no idea when we're the one-hour mark
because we started late and I don't have
my bring Tim here yeah I bring Tim was
used for timing contractions for the
first time in the history of great
accountant oh that was me thirty dollars
according to bring Tim people are
googling the difference of what's a bone
what's a pound well combo 454 grams what
do you mean I don't know what that is in
C pillow life for you Brits out there
though google.ca for me google com or
wherever you want to go 10 pounds in
stone kilograms 10 pounds is 4.5 I just
told you this florida graham wanna see
how you do it or uber arms in a pound so
the deep google you can convert pretty
much anything to anything yeah but but
folks in in England don't they you stole
how do you wait how many fortnight's
there you go they actually know what is
10 still 0.71 stone okay well yeah
what's that pyros Rock wants to know if
you've used wolfram alpha I guess not
apparently not not today not familiar
with the way you type all right good
times email your questions to assess
area I'm chuckling it to get rules
google but i'll leave it's a lot of fun
to join us in the chat room to as you
can tell from eric's sir i will try to
pay attention to you instead of the chat
room he's just like what did you say
what was that about planet calypso i
have a question here from dogs but he is
were asked don't you just love the
decimal version of an imperial system
and no i don't but the metric system
actually pretty smart just what just
happened to the show I said that it was
going to be kind of weird tonight but
how did this happen dear me oh my
goodness as I was saying email us live
at category 5 TV if you'd like to get
your question in on a normal broadcast
next Tuesday night you're gonna be here
we have a special guest as well uh I'm
very soon oh yeah yeah little secret for
you the secret talk about that later
should I be scared no no no don't forget
register on our site category 5 on TV
last chance we're locking it down for a
month you're just getting and subscribe
to our RSS feeds my pens did I can't
make any notes
thanks
are you gonna do now I don't know but I
made a scribble with your hand didn't
work yeah that's right what do you got
going on this week we're off top again
well I don't know what we were thinking
maybe Liam could be our new guest host
but next week yeah dream on well we'll
try to bring them on it's tough because
I can't really go upstairs and get the
baby and bring them down and high we'll
just chat amongst ourselves for a few
minutes while Robbie Burns William gets
to thought about it I thought about it
then I realized I don't trust you don't
trust me I've you doing this show notes
that night and we also no lo said we'd
be talking about hockey in beer and and
bushmills irish sorry uh really anything
could happen anything anything deceptive
webcam the baby for us Chris reg says I
I would love to yeah right now I'm just
you know I've stabbed and snap a couple
pictures it's it was tough to get a lot
of pictures of the baby cuz i was i was
very much involved in the in the birth
and so it was it was different this time
around three babies this is there three
and besides that becca said if you snap
one more shot I'm gonna know sorry I
promised her I'd only take good good
photos to the baby and sellers me but
yeah I love to Chris for sure and thanks
for being with us this week I'd love to
see you on planet calypso I have not
logged in since I've been home I
literally have been just going just
going I'll get there though like I'm
back to work on thursday well Chris
right God wants to know if Christie will
be blessing us with a baby soon y'all
married up and stuff not gonna talk to
her about that
uh so heyo to her former news person
yeah yeah she's uh she's getting excited
about about the radio station on radio
yeah yeah they went to radio is there
they're doing the Christmas music right
now and so that gives her a bit of a
break and so she's enjoying a couple
days off very then it's kinda nice if
she's watching hey nice Jon's taking the
day off to re actually gave John the day
off because I did make the calls i said
we're not gonna be able to go live today
and then look at how short content-rich
this show was thanks Eric Thanks look
sorry I didn't get to your email sorry
we didn't get to your questions in the
chat room there's another reason okay
yeah we'll reach just make up a show you
know it's just like okay today we're
gonna be reviewing that it's just all
right so Little Miss convert our CEO
you're in quarter of phone jack RCS yes
Brian very nice I was gonna get it every
week FML Bertha but we'll leave that
will leave that alone have a great week
and thanks first I have a week have this
race to have a week that's it we're done
we're different I'm an American this is
a wonderful and talented lovely
intelligent robbief retired yes I'm
exhausting mr. mom Robbie have a great
week
