here are the news stories were covering
this week in the category 5 TV newsroom
the lesson learned from Dutch Court
crime does pay
ransomware thieves have been let off
with community service
another German state plans to switch
back from Linux to Windows Google has
followed the lead of Apple by banning
crypto mining apps from its Play Store
Microsoft wants to stop Windows 10
updates from annoying you these stories
are coming right up
don't go anywhere Jeff Westen Gemma
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website what are you you're a terrible
actor
what does where acting comes into play I
don't know you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash DreamHost to sign up for unlimited
web hosting for your website with
unlimited email accounts MySQL databases
the latest version of PHP WordPress and
more and even a free domain name
registration it's less than six dollars
per month so sign up today cat5 dot TV
slash DreamHost
this
a category-5 TV newsroom covering the
week's top tech stories with a slight
linux - I'm Becca Ferguson and here are
the top stories were following this week
two men who masterminded various coin
vault ransomware infections will carry
out 240 hours of community service as
punishment for compromising thousands of
computers and profiting around twelve
thousand dollars from their users the
sentence was handed down by a court in
Rotterdam in the Netherlands where it
was ruled brother's melvin and dennis
van de ben DB had earned leniency based
on their cooperation with police lack of
a criminal record and young ages at the
time they were collared in 2015
melvin was 22 in dennis 18 at the time
of their arrest prosecutors had asked
that they receive a year in prison in
addition to the 240 hours of community
service coin vault surfaced in 2014 as a
high-profile scrambling malware software
encrypted victims documents and demanded
they pay a ransom of one Bitcoin were
the few hundred euros at the time to
restore access to their data while the
pair was only charged with infecting
1259 machines researchers have estimated
that the actual number of pcs hit with
the malware was more like fourteen
thousand with victims in more than 20
countries it was claimed in court that
about 100 people coughed up the ransom
demands before antivirus makers were
able to develop a decryption tool to
unscramble hostage files the malware
would only be eradicated fully in 2015
when the brothers were arrested and the
full decryption keys were recovered
interestingly it was the pair's Dutch
nationality that brought them down
researchers were able to pinpoint the
locality of the authors to the
Netherlands after finding snippets of
the code containing flawless Dutch
phrases that are usually only used by
native speakers of the notoriously
difficult language Kaspersky Lab who
helped lead the investigation and
eventually an eventual takedown of coin
vault said that despite the lenient
sentence the ultimate take away from the
three-year ordeal should be but in the
end extortionist do
caught hmm and get 240 hours of
community service for something
sometimes folks are made to be used as
an example like like let's let's let
people know that hey you do not want to
go down this road route of criminal
activity using computers and this is
quite the opposite of that where yeah do
you think that they should have a much
less lenient sentence well first of all
what happened with all the money that
they collected well I'd imagine that the
courts would have taken it I mean if
they can't have
they can't have just given them the
money okay well 240 community hours of
community service and now you're rich
you can keep the money in your bank
account no I don't think that's yeah
case but I mean did the victims get
their money back that's what I wonder Oh
or did they get their files back like
what about the what about the victims
that didn't get their files back hmm I
mean cuz we're assuming I mean that the
Kaspersky tool that is used to decrypt
it maybe because they've got the master
keys they can but people are not all
gonna know that they can reach out and
download a program to decrypt their
files by then maybe they've moved on and
took taken the loss or maybe some
companies were put out of business by it
think about a small company that whose
entire file system was encrypted and
they didn't have the money to cough up a
Bitcoin mm-hmm that went up to 1,900
dollars in value and then they they went
out of it maybe they went out of
business yeah I don't know I get I
wonder what a comparable sentence would
be for shoplifting like just in terms of
dollars and cents
if you stole X number of dollars from a
store versus crypto coins so twelve
thousand dollars from a store are you
gonna get just 200 for 240 hours of
community service no you'd be spending
some time in jail yeah for sure if you
walked into a bank and took $12,000 do
you think you're gonna just do community
service feel like it's a it does seem
like a very very slight sentence
I don't know maybe the judge didn't
think it was that big of a deal I don't
know perhaps maybe if it was if they had
stolen more than 12 thousand maybe that
that was a deciding factor like if they
had stolen a million dollars maybe they
would have gone to jail
and I think that the along that vein the
the fear with that mindset is that they
didn't go out and steal a target at
twelve thousand dollars no they let
loose a piece of malware that could have
caused that did cause a lot of damage
for a lot of people and a lot of
companies yeah and so they got away with
twelve thousand dollars say but what
about the damages what about the damage
that cannot be seen or calculated or
measured that's where you know I think
that maybe they should have taken that
more into account versus all these young
chaps were just having some fun you know
doing what kids do these days hacking
yeah I don't know what do you think they
don't like people being used as an
example per se but maybe this was a
little bit too lenient certainly I would
be feeling that way if I was one of the
people who got attacked mm-hmm by their
ransomware yeah the German state of
Lower Saxony plans to follow Munich's
example and migrate thirteen thousand
units from Linux back to Windows
apparently undaunted by the cost of the
Munich switch which we reported in
January could be as much as 100 million
euros Lower Saxony is considering making
the change in its tax office the state
seems to expect a much cheaper
transition with a first year budget 5.9
million euros and another 7 million
euros further out the tax office argues
its decision is driven by compatibility
fieldworkers Intel and teleworkers
overwhelmingly use Windows while the
open SUSE variants are installed on its
office workstations
the office workstations are also aging
and due for replacement something that
helped open the door for Windows the
move is in its early stages however with
Lower Saxony government currently
defining the framework conditions of the
migration and this will be followed by a
pre selection of possible solutions we
can only hope that Lower Saxony has a
better time of it than Munich after 15
years of using Linux Munich voted in
February of 2017 to start the long march
back to Microsoft some Microsoft
software approved hard to kill even
after so long
for example Munich stayed with Microsoft
Exchange for mail servers hmm okay so
we've got an IT crew that maybe doesn't
know about these software alternatives
that we've talked about on the show for
example Microsoft Exchange so if
Microsoft Exchange has got them held up
why aren't we looking at Zimbra you know
like an alternative that is available
that is not a proprietary Microsoft
product yeah we had a talk on episode
number 568 of category 5 technology TV
you and I about the kind of the the
alternate compatible software looking at
Microsoft Word Microsoft Excel Microsoft
PowerPoint versus LibreOffice and Linux
versus Windows and being able to use and
and finding that there is a lot of cross
compatibility but if you're used to
Microsoft Windows and that's what you
use at home you might come into
libreoffice and say oh every time i save
a document nobody can open them or i
can't open them at home so what's the
solution to that just to save it as a
dot Docs right whatever to save it as a
direct format for the one that you're
trying to open it in so if you're gonna
open it in word save it as a docx and
when you go to save it gives you a whole
list of ways that you can save it if you
just scroll through you would see the
option that you wanted so it's not like
you even have to be told to do this or
google this it's right there and the
options when you go to save yeah so the
default of course is gonna be open
document format yeah that's the default
but you just click the arrow down to see
what your options aren't in pick pick
Microsoft where if that's what you need
compatibility for it so there's always
an alternative so to think of the amount
of money
being invested in this switch and and
quite frankly if say if hardware is
aging we've found that aging hardware
works really really well with Linux
versus Microsoft Windows is always
pushing for and we have a we did
experience this recently with it and
Becca's my wife by the way if you didn't
know this we experienced this recently
with your laptop we're even on Linux
we're starting to see that but because
there are so many different flavors we
can switch and the story behind that is
Becca's running ubuntu on her aging
laptop but the laptop is still great but
a kernel update deprecated some a CPI
drivers that make it compatible with her
laptop so now we have to actually edit
the grub bootloader and there is a
little bit of fan fan dangling to make
it compatible and it causes a couple of
little minor issues like the volume
control buttons not working now and
things like that well and it wouldn't
boot you know we can we can fix that
we've editing the grub bootloader but
you may not know that if you're just a
novice user for sure so but looking at
that and saying okay well if boon 2 is
pushing forward like Microsoft to push
you toward newer hardware and your
hardware is still great and works great
and does everything you needed to do
it's not slow by any stretch it works
really well so we could just grab a
different flavor of Linux we don't have
to keep on Ubuntu we can just change to
another distro even if we want to just
put Debian on it and flavor it the way
that you want install matei and make it
look good and make it work really well
and then we've got compatibility for
another few years
so if hardware deprecation is part of it
sure there comes a time when you've got
to replace it but linux is gonna get a
lot more longevity on any hardware than
Windows is guaranteed ante so that's not
an excuse come on Google has followed
the lead of Apple by banning crypto
mining from apps from its Play Store an
update to the company's developer policy
reads we don't allow apps that Mayan
cryptocurrency on devices
the company had previously been
cryptocurrency mining extensions on its
Chrome browser this move marks another
step by banks and tech companies trying
to get to grips with the practicalities
of cryptocurrencies the ban does not
extend to all software involved with
mining virtual cash Google like Apple
said it would allow people to make apps
that let the managed mining being done
elsewhere such as on cloud computer
platforms when mining is done on device
there is a risk that the smartphone will
overheat as a result of intense
processing the mining can also quickly
deplete batteries some malware gangs
have also moved to adopt cryptocurrency
mining many poorly protected websites
have had mining code inserted on them to
use visitors computers to generate the
cash the cryptocurrency mining
restrictions are one of several changes
google has made to its developer
policies okay there's one I got to
disagree with yeah I mean you I would
love to hear your thoughts below I think
what we're doing is exactly the opposite
of what we should be doing and by we I
mean think about psychologically what
we're doing here so anyone who wants to
mine they're now being forced to move
over to a rooted phone mm-hmm so that
they can gain access to mining software
if they want to mine on their phone so
there are two two spectrums for mining
there's the malicious miner so somehow
malware keeps getting coupled in with
crypto mining and making crypto mining
look like malware it's not so yeah
remove all the malware from google play
that mines software without the users
permission but if I'm a user who wants
to mine cryptocurrency and I want to use
my phone to do so you're not going to
get a very good hash rate but if that's
what you want to do you want to do it so
let me do it that's a completely
different thing so if I install a video
game and that video game is mining in
the background without my permission
that should be banned yeah if I am
mining turtle coin and I want to mine it
on my phone I should be able to install
that software because
I want that mm-hmm okay so there are
entire communities of people who are
constantly asking in the forums how can
I mind this cryptocurrency on my phone
how what do I need to install how do I
get this set up and if we now remove all
that capability from Google Play now in
order for those users to be able to mine
on their phone they have to route their
phone by routing their phone and by
using illicit software now because now
we've made that software ELISA they're
opening themselves up to malware yeah
because now it's only available in the
hacked store so now who knows whether
it's doing other things in the
background that I'm not giving it
permission to yeah that's a that's a
risk so I wish that they would stop
coupling cryptocurrency mining with
malware yeah they're not synonymous no
no unfortunately crypto mining is just
something that malware has been using
because it makes the money yeah but it
also makes me money so stay away from my
minding software
I don't mind on my phone because like
they say it could overheat and it but
that's a choice that a user makes if
they want to do that mm-hmm but if they
started blocking software on my
computer's and things like that then
that would be a big issue yeah you seem
to agree wholeheartedly you're like our
cryptocurrency portfolio is doing pretty
good so I don't want this to stop what
do you think
are you mining cryptocurrency and if you
are are you doing it on your phone and
does this affect you and how be
interesting to hear from the community
as to whether or not this affects you
mm-hmm
Microsoft is finally doing something
about the way Windows 10 handles updates
and it's using machine learning to
accomplish the task if it's successful
updating Windows 10 should in the future
become much less annoying Windows 10
Windows 10 can be a little aggressive
when installing updates unless you know
how to manage Windows 10 updates
they'll come thick and fast and start
installing when you least expect it
possibly rebooting your PC at it in
opportune moment
Microsoft has a plan up its sleeve to
prevent this from
happening and its help it's being tested
right now by Windows 10 insiders the key
is artificial intelligence which
Microsoft hopes we'll be able to
accurately predict when the time is
right to install updates if all goes
well in testing the new system should
reach ordinary Windows 10 users later in
early 2019 windows insider chief Donna
Sarkar asked in a blog post have you
ever had to stop what you were doing or
wait for your computer to build up
because the device updated at the wrong
time to which everyone replied yes
Microsoft has listened to this feedback
so if you have an update pending we've
updated our root reboot logic to use a
new system that is more adaptive and
proactive we trained a predictive model
that can accurately predict when the
right time to restart the devices this
means that Microsoft will not only check
if you are currently using your device
before we restart but we will also try
to predict if you had just left the
device to grab a cup of coffee and will
return shortly or at least that's the
plan is Microsoft six protease we'll
have to wait and see until we can see it
working in the wild to know ok so I
understand the motivation behind this
people are annoyed that their computers
you haven't been using Windows for a
long time so know you've heard stories
well you do it for work you have
customers oh yeah
use Windows and so you have frequently
messaged me oh yeah oh and my sister too
has occasionally complained that she's
in the middle of doing something
important on her laptop and then a
Windows update starts ok and then she
has to come back to it the next day
because suddenly her evenings lost to
the update
yeah Sasha's work computer she because I
go in and I get a chiropractic
adjustment and she said that there was a
issue with one of the monitors the
resolution was incorrect could I just
take a quick look at it it would take me
15 seconds to correct the resolution on
a monitor we turned it on please wait
don't shut down your computer wait so I
sat there for a few minutes and
it was like at 2% 3% and then I'm like
oh I gotta get my adjustment and go it's
time for work and I didn't actually get
to do it I didn't actually get to fix it
for them so like that is so frustrating
but Microsoft's approach is this let's
let's look at something broken and
instead of fixing it let's try to do it
at times when it's not going to affect
the user as badly but okay so you're
gonna reboot at three o'clock in the
morning I had a notepad window with all
my you know with my shopping list open
and I didn't save it before so now
that's gone or I you know let just to
give you a scenario maybe I had a
something up that is now lost or I was I
have a lot of stuff open on my computer
when I leave work and I have no this is
what I'm gonna come back to tomorrow and
I'm gonna pick up where I left off and I
come back and everything's closed it's
gone
hi we rebooted your computer because our
stupid AI decided that it was time so
let's look at Linux for a moment with a
slight linux bias right that's what we
but there's a reason for the bias it's
not just like cliche or anything like
that we get updates all the time how
often do we have to reboot mm-hmm
because the the answer is not often
because the the Linux update system will
update in the background you can do an
apt upgrade whenever you want to it'll
ask you if you want to do an upgrade
right now and then when it's done it'll
say done sometimes I'll say sometimes it
says you need to reboot but it does it
for so give you the option to do it
later
yeah it says do you want to reboot now
or later yeah I'll just wait until the
end of my shift
yeah no problem and and it lets you do
that that's how it should be so
Microsoft's approached is to say let's
take the option away from the user let's
take that whole you know when we linux
is approach to would you like to reboot
now or would you like to reboot later
mmm-hmm that's the way I think it should
be
Microsoft is saying okay the user can't
make that decision because they are
and we know better so let's use our AI
to make the decision
so we'll say to the ai ai would you like
to reboot now or later why are we taking
this approach it also feels like a
privacy issue because now they know when
you're on your computer when you're not
they know all your activities welcome to
Windows 10 yeah that's all part of it
they can sort of track you through your
computer activity yeah you know
so-and-so is always on the computer at
such-and-such time for this amount of
time and Wendy's not that's when we're
even but why are we why are we taking it
away from the user and making it an AI
decision when it should just be would
you like to reboot now or would you like
to do it at your own convenience because
Windows has this thing that when it
updates everything breaks unless you
reboot well it's for one thing though I
can say being on Linux I know that there
are updates that are needed to be
installed but I can go days where I just
keep forgetting and I don't do it I just
I'll just keep putting that haha
sometimes sometimes a couple weeks
before I get around to doing it so maybe
they just don't but are those not the
couple of weeks where you just I'm
really busy I don't have time I am busy
right occasion you are the AI because
you're the user don't yeah well it's a
control issue they don't want to leave
it up to the user they just want to be
in full control yeah cuz I've
occasionally had things start to stop
working properly and then I think oh
I'll try installing updates I do that
and then it fixes it it's all better but
I don't know it just seems like a
it up to the user yeah to do it and I
have to disagree that's where that's
where Windows Update is failing it's not
that they're it's not the annoyance of
me having to reboot during the business
day it's that Microsoft is taking away
my choice yeah don't take away my choice
that's what ticks me off as a user
that's what ticks off my customers who
are on Windows 10 mm-hmm not whether or
not an AI says I should reboot at 3:00
a.m.
that's not the right yeah go that's my
opinion what do you think I'd love to
see your comments below if you agree
give me a thumbs up if you don't agree
just go somewhere a hos know thumbs down
come on come on come on or if you don't
agree to all then explain what I'm with
start a conversation that's perfect
big thanks to Roy W Nash and our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight linux'
bias and for the for more content be
sure to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Becca
Ferguson and I'm Robbie Ferguson thank
you so much for joining us again this
week we will be back with our regular
live show next Wednesday night and of
course if you're watching this on demand
probably doesn't affect you when we pre
record but we look forward to seeing you
and interacting with our chat room again
next week so have a great week everybody
and we'll talk to you soon take care
[Music]
