welcome to category 5 technology TV
episode number 4 19 for Tuesday the 29th
of September 2015 I'm Robbie Ferguson
tonight we're going to be looking at a
bar code scanner that actually is able
to scan not only plugged in but also
over Bluetooth kind of taking the whole
mobile POS thing to the next level you
want to stick around welcome to season 9
by the way we've got a great show
planned for you a great season ahead
Sasha terminus is here with us Sasha how
are you I am great here's what's coming
up in the category 5 TV news room
facebook founder mark zuckerberg has
announced plans to help bring the
internet to un refugee camps I you Ana
boon to based open source operating
system is running on or running
forty-two percent of Dell's pcs in China
according to a study released yesterday
by NASA water a key necessity for life
as we know it still flows sometimes on
the surface of Mars Chinese smartphones
mounted a massive web attack against an
unnamed company website android 6.0 our
shmellow is coming to Nexus owners next
week and Facebook has launched a 360
degree interactive video with a Star
Wars exclusive stick around the full
details are coming up later in the show
this is category 5 technology TV
starring Sasha dramatis Hillary Rumble
Kristen wells
your kid
and your host Ravi Ferguson
welcome to category 5 technology TV it's
episode number 4 19 and I'm Robbie love
for you to help me welcome my friend
Jeff Weston to the set tonight our
newest addition to the category 5 family
good to have you here buddy that's a
great start didn't plan that how you
been I'll be good I'm excited to be here
it's been uh it's been a long time
coming yeah Jeff for those of you who
are longtime viewers was on episode 9
mm-hmm I'm talking nine weeks into this
show Jeff was on the show and I guess
because you weren't in town we could
never really hook up to a true regular
appearance he's just moved near the
studio so here he is on board for season
nine I'm looking forward to it gonna be
very very good so that's Jeff West and
everybody recognized the face he's gonna
be your best friend for the next 12
months oh yes i have a contract length
12 months oh good at least Oh at least
good to know how come Jeff is the best
friend Jeff is one of the best friends
we are all best friends here SIA I am a
middle child yeah she didn't get the
memo welcome to our chat room want to
say hey to Bob k 54 I saw alpacas
joining us again this week nice to see
you Garvey's here who else is with us
we've got gwg how field nice to see you
hmm life of pi is back with us again
this week Nate UK good to see you Nate
UK every time I see his name it reminds
me that we've got our cody channel is
stable you can go to cap five dot TV or
pardon me it's a github com / cat5 TV
and right there is our cody channel
which guess it will allow you to watch
category 5 TV on Cody so I see awesome
thanks to Nate UK for making that happen
for us dreamweaver 909 nice to see a
toby also back again this week after a
fairly lengthy away from the show has
decided to come back and we appreciate
you being here so thanks for being here
cool so Jeff your brand new so there may
you know I I purposefully will have some
awkward pauses perfect excellent just to
help Jeff to get the feel of the show
yes we've got tons of your questions
that are we're going to be looking at a
little later in the show today we all
raise our mugs it is international or I
guess national they call it but
international will call it today because
this is the worldwide show international
coffee day so cheers Sasha whoo cheers
cheers everybody so what are people
doing to celebrate International Coffee
Day we've got our mugs but they're going
they're buying our mugs that's what
they're doing can you see if you want to
get a look at that so these are our
studio D coffee mugs they're available
at shop dot category 5 TV if you want to
pick one up we've got a great selection
there you see them here on the set who
else is participating in national coffee
day we've got Star Trek com twenty
percent off all drink where it's just
awesome so if you want a Starfleet
encrusted mug that's pretty cool you
have to use the coupon code on check out
Cheers 20 listen member 20 not yeah 20
yeah not spelt yeah yeah kathryn janeway
a Janeway incidentally was a good coffee
fan yes she was so so it makes sense
yeah it really makes I hear that yeah
Dunkin Donuts tell us about dunkin
donuts what are they doing well well you
can get a free medium cup of dunkin
donuts hot or iced there's still time
yes there's still time folks if you got
a Dunkin Donuts near you peet's coffee &amp;
tea has got a free small cup of peet's
major dickason blend with any purchase
of a baked good oatmeal or fresh food
item Krispy Kreme I like Krispy Kreme oh
you get a free small coffee imaginal
size donut and a donut and a Krispy
Kreme and I don't glazed nonetheless
eight seconds in the microwave perfect
wawa has free coffee in the size of your
choice extra lock I will take a barrel
please who goes and gets a free coffees
as you know I'm small please a lot of
people believe it or not
that's nuts I see it all the time I
don't want to take advantage of the
system yeah like I should be a very
Canadian yeah I'm getting it for someone
else I have a coffee story though today
I was given a free cup of coffee from
Galapagos Islands ooh tell us about that
it was fifty dollars a pound if I wanted
to buy the pound the first ones free and
there you go yes I get you hooked wise
line was it incredible it was about
incredible I think probably tasted
better because I knew it was fifty
dollars hey Charles Darwin approved
likely yes excellent excellent we've got
Lamar's donuts is giving away free 12
ounce cups of coffee and free mugs while
supplies last nice so get on over to to
Lamar's doughnuts yeah sheets you get a
free coffee from there great and staples
if you want to go on the tax side if you
put a photo up on social media hashtag
office mug shot you drinking a coffee
you can get in our chance to win a free
coffee back oh well here's our picture
what's right hello staples send me a
coffee back hashtag this so happy very
happy International Coffee Day to you
it's always fresh coffee here at studio
D 2 so you could always come and sit in
like I'll pected just couple weeks back
sit in the studio and enjoy the show
live and the coffee is always fresh
right here in studio D and always free
yes even when it's not International
Coffee Day so nothing wrong with us
that's pretty awesome ah Bob k-50 for
clarifying for those of us who wonder
wha wha is a convenience store chain
mainly in Pennsylvania yes not the city
in ontario canada that's not it no we
all just drove to love my sister my
older sister her name is Sarah and when
I was younger I used to call her wobble
all the time so I thought it was great
that there was a place called wawa and
Ontario but now now I need to go to
Pennsylvania and buy her some kind of
good ol postcards or something
I still think well want aerial probably
closer than Pennsylvania a little bit
yeah little bit road trip for coffee all
right well I want to say thank you to
everyone who has contributed to the show
this week of course we've got bills to
pay and it's been a very exciting time
for us as we launch some new
partnerships you can go to to easy way
to find out what our partners are right
now because we're in the process of
building our new website for category 5
technology TV is to go through my other
shows website it's called the show show
if you go to the show show TV click on
partners and you'll see all the partners
there you can get great deals on getting
your own printed t-shirts you can save
money on royalty free music for your
presentations you can use Amazon you can
use ebay you can use newegg and you'll
be supporting category 5 TV the whole
network as you do so so thank you to
everybody who's been doing that as of
late should we jump right into it sure
we've got the team ETMC t10 laser
barcode scanner close your eyes trust in
that 10 times real fast that would be
tricky would be tricky this one's unique
because it's got USB and bluetooth yes
you came in with your tablet and said it
didn't work with my tablet because i
don't have USB it's true off you got an
ipad no problem it's got bluetooth right
in this in this barcode scanner so why
do you need a barcode scanner well for a
lot of different reasons to scan things
primarily that's a good reason that
would be a good start i should i should
just make it clear this is a scanner for
like barcodes on boxes and stuff so if
you're doing inventory yes for example
or if you're setting up shop if you need
to keep track of any kind of inventory
or make sales good thing to do but this
scanner here from t me is because it's
Bluetooth it'll work with Windows it'll
work with linux it'll work with mac
it'll work with your iOS devices your
smartphone your tablet your your android
devices we've tested it across many
different devices there are apps Jeff
that will allow me to use the camera in
the tablet as a barcode scanner yeah
sounds like okay
well if I can do that then why do I need
a laser scanner oh boy have I got an
experience for you oh yeah so in
prepping for this I downloaded a free
app to my tablet and I tried to walk
around my house and categorize all my
kids Lego boxes took me forever because
I'm zooming in I'm angling the camera
wouldn't pick up some of the barcodes oh
okay hey yeah because if you're using
the camera you've got a you've gotta
focus that's right so you're waiting for
that you know that in and out of the
focus of your lives you've got overhead
lights they'll affect because of glare
especially if it's a like a shiny rocks
or something dark what if there ya know
dark what no I know it's not gonna real
go with this work in the dark
surprisingly enough it does I knew the
answer to this because we tried it does
the show I said Jeff run into the wash
room and close the door with his Hamlet
here yes and scanning a barcode for a
Raspberry Pi in the bathroom with door
closed pitch black yes scanned it and
work him up on the screen yeah no
problem instantly yeah so use cases that
I can see for this of course there's the
the home application this is a great
little portable devices it's something
you can just stick in a drawer and it's
good but also for a shop Sasha you could
probably think of some uses for this in
in the restaurant as well absolutely I
do the inventory on Monday morning some
of the time but I can just imagine how
much easier it would be for me just to
zip around and you know tag all the
bottles and go into the freezer and I
would only have to be there and four
minutes instead of you know hours
getting boxes I think speed is a is a
big thing with the laser scanner from T
me speaking of the using the camera and
the app to scan barcodes it's slow yes
really slow if it even works and by slow
I'm thinking in terms of not not
scanning one barcode i mean because if
I'm just scanning one bar code to do
personal inventory it's not a big deal
but if in a scenario like Sasha where
she's got inventory an entire bar that
could be a nightmare yes you're waiting
for two coming in app now this scans
about a hundred times per second so on
my hand I can act
we see it flash a hundred times per
second so perceptively that's pretty
much instantaneous so if we scan
something with the scanner yep instantly
babe pops up beeped so it's really
really quick you can check it out cat
five dot TV / barcode if you'd like to
get your hands on one of those it's
going to save you time it's going to
also pay for itself very quickly they're
not very expensive what else can we uh
well from a trouble you live well what
you do with it see I I'm a bit of an
organized guy guess my wife will
probably disagree with that but what
I've always said i would love to
inventory our groceries which sounds
really ridiculous but I've always wanted
it I'm thinking freezer my freezer could
really use that that's exactly what I
mean like you buy all these things
especially if you go to like a bulk
grocery store where you can buy massive
quantities of stuff and you know scan it
all and I know what I've got in an
inventory and it's like hey we're done
with a bag of milk right you know that
way you know when you need to go
shopping for instead of staying in the
fridge one I got the fridge dropper for
five minutes what do I by now I think
though in my freezer what happens is
you'll buy meat or you'll buy whatever
and you stick it in the freezer and it
gets compacted to the bottom and you
don't real you don't remember that it's
their freezer burn not even that but
just forgetting that it's there and then
you go out and buy it again yes I
already had a roast beef in the freezer
been there so I could do that that's
kind of cool let's let's actually give
it a try let's sure let's see what this
can do so you said you installed an app
on your yes I found a free POS app on
the android app store the Google App
Store excel got a android tablet yeah
samsung what's the tablet you did you
know it's i believe it's a tab for i
think ok so anyway the app i download is
called em away number one point of sale
and put links in the show notes for you
yeah category five TV what's interesting
before we get into the app itself and
and just connecting it to your
connecting the the team a device to your
tablet there's been this transition you
know as paypal and other
online payment processors have really
risen up and become payment processors
for small business there's an amazing
trend with mobile point-of-sale where
even in shops now you go in and they're
using an iPad or a samsung tablet an
Android tablet of any kind and they're
punching in point of sale right there on
the tablet mm-hmm because you can do all
these kind of bluetooth devices but yes
now you can add this as well to so much
fun things up it's so much faster than
going through the menus and having to
find the proper sku especially if your
swipe swipe swipe swipe in a sales
environment i could see absolutely ok so
this app is free yeah it was free and
that's just one that we're looking at
because we wanted one that works with
the barcode scanner that's right yeah we
could try it out yep just pulled it up
and so I've already before the show i
plunked Raspberry Pi yeah right into the
system so with the app I just go to add
sale okay and I love you can you can you
see that and maybe I can scan the
raspberry pi just to see what happens
here all right can we all right we're
ready are we ready so it's on the bar
code right there okay so ready yeah 21
look at that number pops auto Raspberry
Pi is popped in there Raspberry Pi 4999
canadian dollars one quantity look at
the high so if I scan it again what
happens to me quantities 22 quantity 3 4
you're rocking at my credit card email
all right nice we are gonna have an
amazing delivery soon folks you're gonna
need that to check out the inventory
that's very cool it does we discovered
operate as a keyboard as well yes yeah
so casual yeah if you do install it and
use it with your you know your wireless
device will there be your phone or your
tablet whatever be aware that this does
work like a keyboard I was about to
throw my tablet out the window because
I'm like why can't I get my keyboard not
working and rob's like just turned off
the bluetooth that it worked I just
turned off this well you cuz it's it is
the default keyboard now so you do have
to set that up yes yeah you still have a
keyboard when this is connect
but what that means is that i could and
i'll show you what's in the box but i
could actually use my computer and bring
up a spreadsheet elegon self retail at
home inventory or whatever spreadsheet
application create home inventory on a
spreadsheet scan and the barcodes it's
got serial numbers or whatever so
looking at the box here from the TV TM
ct10 just real quickly comes with a USB
charger so you can charge it up charge
cable which is also it doubles as a it
turns it into a USB barcode scanner so
you can use it without having to use
bluetooth okay now is that so you can
sync it up to your computer or like does
it have an onboard hard drive in any
capacity does yeah and it actually
stores up to 2,600 codes in the device
so if you're away from the computer away
from the point of sail away from the
tablet and you can't reach it you can
scan inventory in the wine cellar
downstairs for example and that's a lot
to bring it up and sink it 2600 wine
that's a lot they go it came with a
Bluetooth USB adapter as well to make it
so that if my desktop computer doesn't
already have bluetooth now I can be
Wireless so if you've got an older point
of sale or one that just simply doesn't
have bluetooth because why do you need
bluetooth because this is kind of a new
way to do things writings hard wired
right yeah this will allow you to add
that feature to your computer so that's
cool so the sad to say now I can plug
that into my computer and I can start
scanning and because this operates as a
bluetooth keyboard there's no drivers to
install there's nothing that I need to
do beyond just plug it in turn it on and
now I've got the ability to scanning
barcodes automatic once you something
cool absolutely you bring up the Amazon
website on your tablet I can while we
what we have this connected impaired
it's really quite easy to use it's the
teeny TMC t10 laser barcode scanner with
the USB and Bluetooth if you've got a
small shop if you want to do home
inventory it's oh no you don't half line
ah you don't have internet on it no
that's cool I could bring it up on my
phone
but could we do that yes we can t forget
okay absolutely cuz it is kind of cool
bear with me the kids got a kick out of
this anyway amazon yeah okay so just in
the search yeah no yeah wipe that out oh
ok ok I'm wiping it so show that it
showed that to the camera there and just
highlight the search field ok search
field is highlighted now watch what I'm
going to do here and we haven't tested
this but just assuming ok so I've hit
the scan of it no you know we're not
synced to the phone ah what would happen
because ok so what theoretically would
happen if we would plan the head to have
in turn here tell you what why don't we
show them how easy it is to sync it with
you to Herot sure let's do it live TV at
its greatest I know ok so what we're
gonna do we're going to turn this off by
holding in the trigger there's only one
button ok so now it's off now I'm gonna
hold it in for 10 seconds ok now it's on
but keep holding now it's syncing for a
to bluetooth did you hear that oh there
oh ok so now if you bring up your
bluetooth low 20 come on it's waiting to
pair yes I know settings he's going into
the low to this is there we go there we
go you want to show the camera alright
so I'm trying to pair to the device ok
it's got all right now I have to put in
the pin 1 0 0 1 0 binary it means off
there you go connected ok we are
connected so bring up amazon hey go ok
highlight the search field ok so it
feels ok clicking
did it to do it let's try it again no it
did it on the tablet it did it did do it
on the tablet but not on the phone no
yeah I bet were paired with both oh yeah
that's probably it let me turn the
bluetooth off on the tablet all right
we'll try it now just to be safe I can
turn it off Jeff and then turn it back
on here we go all right it's on okay
ready there we go okay that what
happened okay there you go it popped
right up so there's the Raspberry Pi
Brett Raspberry Pi desktop okay 512 megs
right on there so there are so many
different uses for it and it's available
through harsh our shop but go over to
cat five dot TV / bar code to check it
out all the specifications are there on
on amazon as well which helps you to
figure we've got what you can do is go
to your favorite app store and search
for mobile POS and you're going to see
some of the apps that are available for
you like like we said we were looking at
a free one tonight that's right does
that and that work pretty well yeah it
works great the other one didn't have it
didn't have inventory management okay
which I was a little bit for free come
on I know I know but hey I want to
inventory my fridge for free so mmm yeah
but there were some commercial options
as well yeah that looked kind of nice
just so you pay a couple bucks for a
point of sale software on your phone yes
tablet perfect that works quite well
cool stuff this is category 5 technology
TV you'll find us online at triple w
category 5 TV welcome to my latest
co-host Jeff Weston begging us for the
first time tonight as we make our way
through the exciting pneus and hate to
our chat room get your questions in jeff
is standing by with email live at
category 5 TV so we've got those and
we're going to take a look at your
emails right after the news this evening
Sasha how r was it the news time all
ready I'm all haha she's gonna be OS
system sorry I was in the chat room it's
very interesting in the chat box right
now yeah we're talking about food that
are that is from Canada but doesn't seem
to be like Hawaiian pizza it's from
Chatham Ontario is it really you know
what why are they calling in Hawaiian
then I don't know this may be the hump
of the pineapple is something that seems
Hawaiian i guess i don't see ya you
pulled me out of the chat room i'll
never know we'll never know all right
it's tuesday September 29 2015 and here
are the stories were covering this week
facebook wants to help refugees keep in
touch with their families and aid
resources by providing internet access
to UN refugee camps dell has announced
at forty-two percent of their pcs sold
in China are running in a boon tooth
linux-based open-source operating system
a study released yesterday by NASA
reveals that water flows on the surface
of Mars which could potentially be used
as a resource by future human explorers
and they're keeping the details hush but
CloudFlare caught a massive attack
against the company server which was
mounted from more than half a million
smartphones in China google announced
today that android 6.0 are shallow
arrives next week on nexus devices and
speed across the jakku desert from star
wars the force awakens with an immersive
360-degree experience created
exclusively for facebook these stories
are coming right up don't go anywhere
you've got mad skills now hone them
learn new skills or improve your
existing ones with online video
tutorials and training from Linda calm
through our special link at cat five dot
TV / Linda learn software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today to help you achieve your
professional goals join today and start
learning will give you this chance to
try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat five dot TV / Linda
i'm sascha through madison here the top
stories from the category 5 TV news room
internet to un refugee camps speaking at
a un forum in New York mr. Zuckerberg
said that it would help refugees access
aid and maintained family links he also
said Facebook would be a part of the new
campaign to make the internet available
to everyone on the planet within five
years according to Zuckerberg the
internet could help the UN meet its
development goals and lift people out of
poverty he said connectivity will help
refugees better access support from the
aid community and maintain links to
family and loved ones some three billion
people around the world have internet
access and the connectivity campaign the
connectivity campaign aims to bring the
Internet to the other four billion
people that is a lot of people mr.
Zuckerberg says that Facebook has nearly
1.5 billion users who log in once a
month and the social media site achieved
a billion users in a single day for the
first time last month so this I mean if
he could bring Facebook or the Internet
to the refugee camps and then those
people could connect with people outside
of the camps and maybe develop
relationships in not only developing but
I think Facebook is the perfect platform
and this is probably what Mark is
thinking I would expect facebook is the
perfect platform to keep in touch with
those lucky ones that are away I think
it sounds like a great idea this guy
Sasha though sitting behind mark I'd he
does not think that is a great I don't
know sure what his deal is folks Wow but
the girl on the other side she's into it
she's into that right into it she's
right into it she likes his hair the
idea the idea of having internet
available to everybody on the planet is
incredible I like the idea of having it
accessible and I think we did a new
story once where they were thinking
about doing balloons as like internet
hubs or something I don't yeah it was
planning something like
probably doing it already so I guess
Google and marker talking you know
what's going through my head right now
is scotty's voice and we don't have
enough IP addresses exactly what I
thought we did new IP address I they're
working on it yeah it's gonna be it's
got to be rolled out a little faster
than they're doing I think well they
have five years all right open-source
fans rejoice the year of the Linux
desktop has arrived according to dell in
china doll has reported that more than
forty percent of the pcs it sells run a
variant of ubuntu linux that canonical
helped develop specifically dell said
that forty-two percent of its computers
in china run at neo killin an operating
system that originated as an effort in
china to build a homegrown alternative
to microsoft windows also known as
simply killin the operating system has
been based on a boon to for the past two
years when canonical began collaborating
with the chinese government to create an
aboon to variant tailored to the chinese
market which is why it's called killin i
found out that killin is a mythical dear
like creature to google and see why they
called it killin earlier versions of
killin which had been around since 2001
were based on other operating systems
including freebsd a boon to killin looks
and feel a lot like modern versions of a
boon to it sports the unity interface
and runs the standard suite of open
source apps however killins default
theme makes it look just a little bit
more like windows than stock a boon to
in light of china's hostility towards
modern editions of windows the news does
not bode well for Microsoft prospects in
the Chinese market still dell has a long
way to go forty-two percent is indeed
impressive but dell itself only holds
twelve percent of the chinese market so
overall the impact of their statement
actually affects less than five percent
of the overall computer market in china
which is still predominantly
windows-based still i like that's it
it's still a great thing forty-two
percent sounds awesome the way they spun
that yes
and that's it that's it sounds like a
lot but they're actually small in the
market and I love linux operating system
names like I liked it like there's Linux
copyright Puppy Linux Puppy Linux and
now there's this killin which I thought
sounded really violent I looked it up
and it's just a mythical peaceful dear
alright according to a study released
yesterday by NASA water a key necessity
for life as we know it still flows
sometimes on the surface of Mars strong
evidence for seasonal flows of liquid
salty water have been detected by nasa's
mars reconnaissance orbiter previously
scientists have found ample evidence
that Mars was once a much warmer and
wetter place than it is now and could
have supported life then it hasn't been
clear whether the colder drier red
planet of today could still support some
microbial life many scientists think
that life could still survive deep
underground but not necessarily on the
surface where it could be easily
detected the new study looked at streaks
that form on some slopes on Mars during
the warmer times of the year scientists
previously suspected that they might be
caused by flowing salty water the
streaks which are less than five meters
wide and called reoccurring slope lineae
appear in the summer temperatures in the
summer when temperatures can get above
the freezing point of even fresh water
and well above the freezing point of
salt water somewhere between minus 23
degrees Celsius and plus 27 degrees
Celsius and then they disappear during
the colder seasons I wonder if the Mars
seasons are similar to the earth seasons
like if they have four of them I don't
know but no salt water had previously
been detected in those streaks and now
that has all changed the Mars
Reconnaissance Orbiter spacecraft has
been orbiting that planet since 2006
2006 and taking detailed images of the
surface and scanning it for chemical
signatures of water and mineral
associated with water
they found signatures for waterlogged
salts in the streaks but not in the
surrounding soil the researchers wrote
these results strongly support the
hypothesis that seasonal warm slopes are
forming liquid on contemporary Mars the
brine forming the streets would be far
saltier than the Earth's oceans perhaps
five percent water and ninety-five
percent salt suggested alfred mcewen a
University of Arizona in Tucson
researcher who co-authored the paper
they would likely appears thin layers of
wet soil not more than a centimeter deep
not standing water but because the
streaks are visible over large areas of
the surface of Mars if you add it up it
could be a significant volume now NASA
is reporting that water could be
potentially used as a resource by future
human explorers decreasing the cost and
increasing the resilience of human
missions to Mars okay see this one's
really great until they talk about
humans going to Mars and typing the
Martian water suddenly sci-fi cuz now
all of a sudden I feel like what if
there is life on Mars that you know we
can't see because it's a you know
subterranea lure you know and now we're
smell trouble we're so and we might be
ingesting not only stealing but
ingesting the Martian life I just I
don't love the idea of bottling up
Martian water drinking it I don't know
if it's a huge announcement but is it
premature I don't you know who really
knows that they don't actually have
water they have detected certain
minerals and but it is interesting if
you look over your right shoulder there
Sasha there's that you can see the the
slopes actually plan on moving down it's
pretty cool it is that's lynnie a there
that's what it is that's water lynnie a
I I like it but it scares me I want them
to leave Mars alone for the Martian if
you've watched too many sci-fi movies
more than 650,000 Chinese smartphones
have been unwittingly enrolled in a
massive attack that overwhelmed a web
server the huge attack saw the target
site hit about 4.5 billion separate
requests for data in one day that's more
than 52,000 requests per second Wow the
tidal wave of data was traced to a pool
of booby-trapped advert advertisements
that had been seated with malicious code
cloud fair which uncovered the data
dilute deluge deluge revealed that the
ads seemed to have been shown in apps
popular in China analysts found that it
relied on the widely used JavaScript
language as it tried to knock the site
offline what was not entirely clear was
how so many Chinese phone owners were
tricked into visiting the pages hosting
the booby-trapped ads speculation is
that the hackers placed high bids on ad
space which place their ads across many
websites cloud fair did not name the
company that ran the server that was hit
that's just scary because if they can
afford to buy this really great ad space
and then trick people interacting it and
that almost seems speculative to me but
could they I mean they're hackers right
could they not set up dns proxies or who
knows but CloudFlare knows what they're
talking about to so but yeah I mean when
when we buy ad space for example on
google adsense okay um you pay a certain
amount to make sure that you're showing
up at the top and if they have the
resources which if you're if you're a
hacker and you're doing it right you're
making a lot of money there's they're
making a lot of money so like in the
millions and billions of dollars kind of
thing so so yeah it's something that's
perfectly possible but imagine a
wide-scale network of cellphones and
they're all infected right and then zero
day happens and you know the countdown
timer ends and all of a sudden all these
people sitting on the transit system and
all the kids with their phone playing
angry birds suddenly are
hacking a US server or some other server
right and they don't even know I'd be
interested to know what kind of phones
were used you know where they windows
based phones were they yes they were
they're all windows based phones I don't
know because I mean here you know like
apples talked about how you know their
phones can't you can't get viruses
hacked or anything like that so rapa
phones part are they still saying that I
think they're still saying are they yeah
even though they had that massive
like two years ago they're still saying
it yeah well maybe zero percent of the
phones in the hacking we're running
Linux do you think ah yeah but maybe I
mean it's JavaScript right in javascript
is a web language that if you're it's
like flash why is Mozilla said no more
flash and finally put a stop to it well
because and people are saying oh now I
can't watch videos on Firefox well
there's a reason for that and and so
because they're trying to protect users
and it's cross-platform because it's not
Linux Windows Mac it's flash that's the
problem so here javascript is the
problem but that's a that's a really big
problem the javascript is everywhere and
he needed in today's webinar but do you
think that this could be just to
speculate a little bit you mentioned a
couple weeks ago sasha or maybe last
week about apple allowing the blocking
of ads wonder if they maybe had some
preliminary knowledge that these kinds
of attacks were taking place as we look
at it from the perspective and next week
we're not next week but yeah maybe it is
next week sorry I'm not not entirely
sure but I'm not coming episode we're
gonna be talking about how that's
affecting legitimate advertisers such as
ourselves or people businesses that are
funded by advertising but then there's
the whole other side of it where that's
being used to hack people ah yeah I
guess I mean there is the spin to that I
mean they just want it to seat like they
want their program to be downloaded to
block apps or it to block ads right so
now they'll report on something we don't
know that it was ads that actually
caused this right right mm-hmm but
they'll bring that up as a possible
option maybe four
fear-mongering you never know yeah
usually I'm the conspiracy theorists
true for that talking about Mars like
there's aliens there no there's not
aliens there's Martians on Mars oh okay
sorry yeah I thought Matt Damon was the
only one on Mars apparently it's
remarking right now Google today
announced that Android 6.0 marshmallow
will be widely available starting next
week such a yummy names unsurprisingly
it will roll out to Google's line of
nexus smartphones and tablets first with
other devices receiving it at a
yet-to-be-determined time Android 6 does
not have the huge visual makeover that
last year's 5.0 lollipop brought but
instead is focused around a lot of under
the hood improvements for better
stability and user experience one of the
new features is a power saving mode
called doze which lets the system
shutdown processes when it detects that
the device hasn't been moved or used for
a period of time that's a smart move
another headline feature is a revised
app permission system which will give
users more control over the data that
their apps have access to marshmallow
will let you approve or deny access to
things such as a camera or a location on
a case-by-case basis much like how iOS
has handled permissions perhaps the
biggest user facing change is the now on
tap feature which lets Google search
engine look deep within abs apps and
scan content that is displayed on the
screen to provide more information about
whatever it is you're looking at you'll
also be able to ask Google now for more
information in a more contextual way
depending on what you're looking at on
your screen it's not yet clear how many
of these features will make it to the
broader Android ecosystem but Nexus
owners can expect to be able to enjoy
all of them that's it's neat actually I
like some of the ideas like if your
phone hasn't been moving shutting off
some of the process that's smart yeah
yeah cuz my phone dies quickly because i
have so many background processes going
on if i don't go in and and turn them
off myself
so way to go and cool name a short
exclusive Star Wars clip is among the
first 360 degree videos to be posted on
Facebook the sequence created by
Lucasfilm special effects team allows
users to look in all directions as the
camera whizzes through the sci-fi scene
when watched on a normal computer the
mouse is used to move the view on mobile
devices a user can move the device
around to alter the perspective other
360 videos posted include content from
discovery gopro NBC and vice currently
this type of video requires a relatively
complex filming set up to achieve the
360 affect the 360 effect but as the
technology improves Facebook hopes it
will become widespread among its users
they say in the future imagine watching
360 videos of a friend's vacation to a
small village in France or a festival in
Brazil or maybe to wawa you'll be able
to look around and experience it as if
you were there the new feature coincided
with Facebook's now annual oculus
connect event a developer's conference
for people creating virtual reality
experiences and hardware if it doesn't
and it doesn't require a facebook
account to take it for a spin you can
watch it at you can watch the whole
video at cat5 TV / swf be four star wars
facebook that's cat5 TV / SW FB and it's
a really cool video I did check it out
it's me being able to interact with the
video yeah it's cool it makes you feel
like you're exploring like you're the
master and commander it gives you a
sense though with the Star Wars one and
you'll have to check it out a cat5 don t
be /s wfb but it kind of has a sense of
a video game to me like so it's it's
immersive but it feels like a video game
because it's so CGI but when it comes to
real video you think about the the GoPro
rigs with multiple cameras shooting in
3d like a panoramic view being able to
now take real-life videos
and put those into a 3d environment that
can be viewed online without special
software and that kind of because that's
always been the problem is that you've
always needed special software to do it
and now they're ruling that out so
awesome a big thanks this week to senor
wences and roy w nash and our community
of yours for submitting stories to us if
you found a new story that you'd like to
send email at to newsroom at category 5
TV for all your tech news with a slight
linux bias visit the category 5 TV news
room at newsroom category 5 TV for the
category 5 TV news room I'm Sasha
dramatis thank you so much Sasha they
say is category 5 technology TV welcome
to the show it's episode number 4 19
which means its season 9 yes it is I'm
Robbie Ferguson and I'm Jeff Weston nice
to see everybody hi and to those who are
asking in the chat room yeah I'm the new
co-host that's him yep he's in the chat
room oh yeah I'm in lesson yes so it's
really easy to figure it out folks yeah
they need this ah there we go there you
go there we go welcome to the show man
that's nice to have you here thank you
happy to be here mm-hmm you've got fewer
questions ready for us I do so we've had
a few come in very cool I'm in folks
yeah so the first one here is from
Stephanie it's gonna take a little bit
to get things F&amp;E all right but I'll try
and make history the first viewer
question has 40 pages long stress is
initiation that's right here we go so
anyway first off Stephanie wants to let
you know that you're doing an amazing
job you're fantastic fun and thank you
formative thank you there you go so
december 16 2014 on episode 378 she says
you guys introduced a Google Calendar
alternative to the google calendar api
which is so confusing and so she says
what you showed us was awesome and cool
she's trying to build a calendar event
that i remember that but she's missing
some information he or she because I'll
interrupt and say I think it's to feign
just saying okay well hello stephaine or
Stephanie if it's if you're he I'm sorry
anyway so stephanie is trying to do this
calendar but it's missing some
information from a holders point of view
so right so the Stephanie's sent a pic
it's a wordpress app okay it's an
astronomy website and if you look at the
picture it's a 3-cell table with picture
title and description okay the question
is do I have to parse the summary field
specifically regarding the functional
requirement to the website okay well
first of all stephaine it looks like
you're doing a great job it looks like
you've taken what you've learned on the
show and are creating something that's
really working for you it looks great
well done and congratulations on that
it's tough to know exactly what you need
without seeing your source code so a
screenshot is great but if we could
actually get our hands on the PHP source
that you're working with that's going to
help us out exponentially with regards
to answering your question about you
know how to code it what to parse so
forward that along I think that would
probably be best what I see there though
what would I see it looks like you're
doing a great job is there is there
anything in the in the question that I
can actually answer without seeing the
source code um it's it's a tough call a
you can understand why that would be
yeah I mean a little bit more
description so the item summary is so
large of a container says when I need
that where I need that event status I
don't need that okay description I need
that where is reappearing again event
status again reappearing as is event
description so so we're getting
duplication in the array so that could
be the depending again I need to see
your source code that can happen if
you're parsing from XML for example and
you're converting it to an array okay
then sometimes you can see duplication
like that and there are easy ways around
that send me the source code and I'd
love to help you out and we'll
even do that on the air but without the
source it's it's impossible to really
know so what I would do is I would grab
that source I'd run it locally in PHP
just through the command line see what
it outputs and then i would i would do
print are on the array that's generated
by the google calendar so what's tophane
is doing here is pulling the information
from a google calendar and converting it
over to a PHP object or array and is
outputting it to the browser in a format
that's that doesn't look like a google
calendar it looks like their own
customized layout so that's really
really cool and I would just want to see
the source and then we can help you out
a little better but I would print are
the the array itself and see what you're
seeing so cool thanks for sending in
anyways keep up the good work alright so
from Maine geek 75 hey was just watching
the episode from September 15th you're
answering questions about Windows 10 if
you install Windows 10 from ISO USB do
you have the option to sorry you have
the option to upgrade but you must have
the key if it's the first okay this is
two weeks ago we were talking about
Windows 10 and if you install the free
or not the upgrade but instead create
the iso and then wipe your system and
this install even though you have a
legitimate windows seven license it
won't get that license and so then it's
an inactive version and you've got to
buy so okay so yeah just to give you
some background of that that was happen
that was a teeny drone episode was it or
the yeah wasn't teenager no the one
outside with the camera was that yeah
you were here for that so you remember
that was a good one yeah oh it's an
awesome one that was none to that yeah
two weeks ago so continues if you choose
to upgrade this PC then as you stated it
will use your current version key
however if at a later time you need to
format the computer reinstall you don't
have you don't need the key oh yeah all
that will happen is that it will ask you
for a key but you click on the skip this
button and then Windows is finally
installed and you
can activate it it will automatically go
to the activation sites as long as the
hardware matches what's on file it will
activate however if it's different then
you'll need to go through the first step
of the installation your hardware if yes
hardware differs yeah if you change your
CPU then you're getting so first up so
it sounds like what what what man geek
is telling us here is that if i were to
upgrade to Windows 10 from Windows 7 or
Windows 8 or whatever it is that I'm
running that's that gets the free update
and then activate it then then i can
create the iso reformat my computer to
get rid of all the cruft that's left
behind from windows 7 do a full install
and it will be active because microsoft
took a snapshot of hardware yeah they
know everything about my hardware now
since i installed Windows 10 not given
the authorization to know everything
about everything of course yes so I
guess that would be a convenient thing i
don't like upgrades in the sense that
like I say if you upgrade to Windows 10
from windows 7 there's a lot of stuff
left behind from windows 7 yeah and so
I'd rather do a fresh install if I were
to do it they're also very different
operating systems in the way that they
function so you're gonna have tons left
over but if you're on Windows 8 8.1
especially windows 8 though and you want
to get back to a more traditional
interface but in Windows 10 is is a lot
faster and you don't mind the privacy
issues then it's it's probably a good
upgrade maybe that's what happens all
those Chinese phones bill upgraded
Windows 10 different well there's a
great tool which will show on the show I
suppose I should do an install of
Windows 10 at some point and there is a
great tool that is freely available i'll
post a link for you in the show notes
but it it allows you to add the registry
keys and change the registry keys with a
couple of clicks oh cool just with
checkboxes to enhance the privacy by
disabling some of the features but
keeping in mind that you're only really
changing a registry key that Microsoft
has allowed you to change right so
you're not really
turning off things in the back and
you're just changing a setting in the
security settings so cool yeah well
we'll show you about that all right
thanks for the email so another one here
from old salt hey old salt says hey
Robbie I have a dual boot system point
linux and windows 10 don't like 10 no
yeah after we just said orange robably
and okay upgrade you don't mind your
security things what's old salt hey
that's right but now that 10 is on the
notebook I can't roll back to eight I
tried to boot yeah tried to boot into
point with my boot stick this morning
but it didn't work boots dick was made
on linux windows 8 dual boot before
upgrading to windows 10 just realizing
if you don't know what is being said
here out of context it makes absolutely
no sense that's fruiting from point from
the stick yes that's perfect so we got a
pointy stick alright so point point
linux is the distro the the linux
version what's up Sasha you organize was
that the Linux district is yeah yeah
continue okay so point linux on a stick
is the flash drive booting up but can't
get windows 8 back yes plans simple
you've upgraded to windows 10 it's gone
yes so all of that to say the question
is actually really quite simple okay so
old salt thought we did an episode on
this but can't find it mmm i don't
believe that there's any downgrade
process old salt there's no undo button
when it comes to upgrading to Windows 10
however you've got the license key for
windows 8 you may have the light of the
installation media that you can
reinstall if I can go back in time I
know it doesn't help you old salt but
maybe it will help the next person who's
thinking hey maybe I'll I'll do windows
10 upgrade just as an example so I know
it doesn't help you old salt but when
you say that we've done an episode and
you think that it related to this I
think what you may be referring to is
when we taught how to use clonezilla
which you boot up from a flash drive and
you create a clone of your laptop
computer so you've got windows 8
installed or windows 7 or whatever
before you say yes to that upgrade on
Windows 10 boot from clonezilla and what
it will do is it will create what's
called an image of your computer and
that is exactly a copy of everything
that's on there so that's not only a
backup of all your files but it's also
the operating systems all of your
partitions so be a point linux windows
whatever so then you save that to an ass
unit or something else on your network
or an external hard drive and get it off
of the system then you run through the
update process to Windows 10 and you say
oh I hate this which is the case for you
right now and so then you just boot back
up from clonezilla you plug in that
drive or connect to the nass and you
take the image and go through the
reverse process of now taking that image
and putting it back onto your computer
right and so then next time you boot up
it's exactly the state that it was the
first time that you ran clonezilla right
so that's what I would suggest doing
before running through the upgrade
process of Windows 10 if you suspect
that it may be something you want to
undo that's really the simplest way to
do it and given some of the comments
I've been hearing about Windows 10 not
everybody's a fan it's hit and miss so
it's probably smart to do something like
that yeah I think so for home use I
think it's it's alright it's certainly
faster than say Windows 8 it has a lot
of problems with certain hardware and
especially software in business business
is what we're finding is that big big
vendors don't update their software as
regularly as they should and so you get
software that a business relies on and
you say yes to the question do you want
to upgrade to Windows 10 and suddenly
that software that you're relying on to
do inventory to do whatever else part
lookups and things like that no longer
works or the hardware that you have no
longer works and sure you can boot into
Windows 10 but the stuff that you use
for day-to-day business doesn't work
outlook is another example Microsoft
Outlook yes that's a huge thing that you
use for windows on windows for email if
you're in business you're using a mapi
connection to an exchange server zimbra
server
and if it breaks because the version of
outlook that you use is not entirely
compatible with Windows 10 then you lose
access to email or have some weird
anomalies or corrupted data files and
things like that so this it's a for home
use I wouldn't do it for business at
this point cool okay comments from
garbey yeah so Garvey I guess take Darby
take a look from the chat room in the
past someone wanted to know what
Chromebook the other week is episode 4
17 I believe two weeks ago yes so what
they're saying is some link were
provided of Garvey's favorite Chromebook
okay yeah you know what the question
came in from sound pro 69 saying what
Chromebook should I go with and I'm
honest in all gotcha ok I'd ask garbey
Garvey's the guy in the chatroom that
knows all this stuff when it comes to
the Chromebooks so he came into the chat
room and said here's a couple of my
favorites there's the asuste Chromebook
flip and says it's got touch and it's
not too expensive than the other one
that he would recommend is the acer
chromebook 15 says can't beat the pixel
the main downside to the first one the
flip is that the processor is not that
great arm-based Chromebooks always seem
to be fairly laggy so those are the two
recommendations that came in from garba
for you Sam pro 69 cool do we have like
we've got 30 seconds jeff we got 30
seconds the time go all right go go go
so quick it's like one about the epson
printer yeah so don't know if you got
around to it but you might want to
mention that the ink provided can print
11,000 black and white or 8500 color
pages and a twenty-dollar refill of
black can print 6,000 pages Wow twenty
bucks to refill it that is a screaming
deal it's economical isn't it do we have
enough time for justice to come step
onto the set here with his awesome green
shirt
Oh devious disappear yeah well the chat
room would like to see his floating head
I suppose I can do that that's what
we'll all right that's how we'll end the
episode you'll have to we'll have to
unplug you before oh you know he's got
enough buddies I got enough yeah step on
over it'sit's if you're loading head
okay this is what I have to deal with
pho all right my floating oh yeah kinda
sorta look at the blazer Oh ladies gotta
come off oh oh and so does the
microphone that's what happens folks
Sasha get in here everybody have a okay
have a fantastic week looking forward to
it up looking forward to an exciting
season with you have a great week and
we'll see you next Tuesday night
goodnight wave Jeff we hope you enjoyed
the show category 5 TV broadcasts live
from Barrie Ontario Canada every tuesday
at seven pm eastern if you're watching
this on demand or through cable TV check
out the local show times in your area at
category 5 TV and find out when you can
watch live and interact in the community
chat room category 5 is a production of
prodigy digital solutions and is
licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada we'll see you
next time thanks for tuning in
