welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Rob you
Ferguson welcome to episode number 240
of category 5 technology now in full 3d
oh wait a minute no up push 80 in my
poking you in the face the chatter ah
hey Jameson was like whoa just pop right
out there hey everybody nice to see it
it's Tuesday April the 24 25 hey ring
hello Rachel's you joining us tonight
Robbie Pegasus hello good to see you
alrighty so let's see what's coming up
in the newsroom google has plans to
begin offering free storage in the cloud
until when i'm leaving i did enjoy that
up there minerals have been emerging
from the death of billionaire
entrepreneurs and will tell you what we
know so far an Xbox patent ruling favors
Motorola over Microsoft youtube has a
last court battle over music clips so
stick around and we'll talk more about
those later fantastic hey I would love
to receive your postcard we've got a
nice little stack growing and we love
receiving your postcards from all over
the world so send one in category 5
technology TV p.o.box to 9009 Barrie
Ontario Canada l4 n7w 7 we'd love to
receive your postcards please send us
one this week it would be awesome of you
yep category 5 TV is a member of the
tech podcast network and if it's tech
it's here
oh you have the tech podcast network
there is a show celebrating 200 episodes
this week wow it's the geek gamer weekly
get gamer so that's like 200 weeks Oh
pretty impressive so just want to say
hey to chase and the team over there a
geek gamer weekly and wish you a very
big congratulations on your 200th
episode this week's is it all just about
geeky games is that what they taught
monitor plays a horse who gain so it's
like unreal tournament stuff and I don't
think of that far back more modern stuff
and a little bit of tectonic classic
stuff as well definitely Tetris
definitely Tetris if you have not
covered Tetris in your 200 episodes my
friends it's time so congratulations you
can check them out at geek gamer dot TV
lots of your questions have come in this
week we love receiving your your viewer
questions and thank you very much for
sending them and it's been really cool
to have so many questions to bounce
around here at the studio so thank you
so much do you want to get into them
more uh well yeah let's let's take one
before we all righty so this one is from
invincible mutant hey invincible said
before i feel like i feel like i should
say like how you been like there should
be witty banter off the top a little
advantage would you banged her haha well
on the way here yeah the guy pulled up
in the car next to me and I looked over
an I was like whoa he's got one scarab
yo was it happy oh no I thought he had a
really scary hairy wife or child because
it was raining things were destroyed is
actually a sasquatch it was a poodle in
the passenger seat okay but for a second
like nobody that's my pointless story
for you looking at you and panting it
was really creepy uh dear that's on the
way here folks alright Invincibles
question we can we can hit up
alright doing great thank you for asking
yeah fantastically well you look great
nothing alrighty so if you drew my
attention that you hid your IP address
from browsing during this week's show
how did you do that and do you mind
sharing I reckon that you are not using
any CD party proxy and I reckon unsafe
as my dad will be routed to the proxy
and the owner can do anything on the
data unless it are analyzed it or crack
it something of it all right so yeah
couple weeks ago I was doing a
demonstration night and I had blocked my
IP and yeah I guess I should have been
more clear that that was actually me
circumventing the scripts ability for me
to to log my IP address there are some
services out there though that will
allow you to yeah he wanted you to show
how you set that up as possible well
it's actually it's actually irrelevant
invincible mutant the book and the
reason is because I was demonstrating a
userscript and that script logs IP
addresses but I and in the header of
that script I had access to the source
right I just simply over wrote my IP
with a bunch of 0 so that was not
legitimately like I didn't have like a
plug-in in my browser that makes the
server think that I'm 0 0 0 2 0 that's
not possible because you have to have an
IP address it's just that in that script
I had tricked it there is a service I
don't know if we can really say its name
on a g-rated show hide my the it's a
free web proxy that is going to allow
you to basically browse the web hiding
your donkey so you head over to Google
for example and it gives you google I
don't know if it would work what is my
IP and Google gives me this IP address
so now if I do a look up on that
who is dot SC / IP address gives me who
am i today somebody in Toronto at 16
creston road so just for an example
that's a that's a proxy basically so you
put in a website and then surf around
the good thing about that is it allows
you to surf relatively anonymously the
bad thing is that you really shouldn't
use that to you know the fear is is
there that the concern is is that that
could be used to hack or exploit
websites and things like that which I
don't recommend our viewers do obviously
and there's certain things as well like
pop-up blocking and things that it
depends on what you're doing and who
you're visiting if you visit our website
for example and you're using pop-up
blocker private proxy then it may limit
your ability to support us with some of
the things that pop up on the screen
that are helping us to keep the show
going so but that's that's one good guy
says ultrasurf is a popular proxy yeah
never use that one and just seeing if I
know off the top in my head anymore yeah
there's free proxy server CA is another
one that that exists out there another
good one same sort of idea just a proxy
server so so that's what that's really
the only way that you can block your
your IP addresses by using a proxy and
if you don't have your own proxy server
then using one of those third-party kind
of proxies is the next best way to go so
and some of them also offer commercial
services to allow you to VPN tunnel
through their servers so stuff yeah we
can't really get into what that can be
used for but I think you know I think
you know
at a Jameson says therefore paranoid
people who intend to do bad things
online usually I mean if you're going to
the proxy I think I T will tell you well
obviously you're doing something that
you're not supposed to be doing that's
kind of what it boils down to but
sometimes there sometimes there's just
annoyances on the internet like when I
go on what do you use it for it I use it
for testing when I need to test the
website that I'm developing I need to
test it from an outside IP address yeah
but where it can be handy to I can't
stand things like like when YouTube has
a video that's only available in the UK
right and it's like oh my goodness so
you get on a UK proxy and then you can
see that video and you're probably not
supposed to do that but that's really
what people will use a proxy for being
able to access content that's
geo-located in such a way that you're
not allowed to view it locally so so now
you can watch ethic meals from any
country epicMealTime globally I don't
think that they would block it marshalls
available globally unless you locally I
know they had set up a block in China to
to blocker our bliptv server and stuff
and and so hopefully we're available
everywhere but we certainly try to make
it available everywhere so the proxy can
sometimes be necessary get into your new
post cards this week oh I just realized
you you just learned a whole nother
level of proxying did I learn it she
didn't did he has no idea what we just
said I get it yeah it didn't receive any
postcards this week I love to though I
know I know hey we we've got to take a
quick break break Rachel and for you
stick around in our chat room don't
forget we've got some eco alkalines
batteries a full year supply that we are
going to be giving away next week and
tonight this week is your last chance to
qualify so we will be talking a little
bit about that and that we've got your
viewer questions and lots of great
features coming up tonight we're gonna
be looking at ten i vs google we're
going to be looking at service that
allows you to send the emails into the
future and we're going to be looking at
Instagram and seeing
if we want to love it or leave it so
don't go anywhere we'll be right back at
eco alkalines we believe you should be
able to trust your batteries not just
here but here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here Eco alkalines
of the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco alkalines provide
performance the rivals leading national
alkaline battery brands at a comparable
price find out more about the Eco
alkalines difference eco alkalines calm
this is category 5 technology TV and as
I was saying a little bit earlier in the
show we have a year supply of these eco
alkalines batteries to give away and
these are going to be awarded next week
they're fantastic batteries they are in
life oh okay oh they go folks so you can
see you got to be quick you got to be
quick qualify for this stuff yo eco
alkalines are the world's first and only
certified carbon neutral batteries we'll
just tuck you right back in there all
right and we would love to send you a
year supply to help you make it seem
like Earth Day all year round because
you'll be able to use batteries that are
carbon neutral ninety-eight percent
recyclable manufactured with as many
recycled components as possible and they
are carbon neutral so I'm going to show
you how you can actually qualify for
that if you have twitter what you want
to do is you want to get over to
twitter.com slash category 5 TV when
you're there you may have to scroll down
if you're doing this later in the week
you're going to see the instructions
here follow eco alkalines and then RT
this for your chance to win a year
supply of eco-friendly batteries so all
you got to do is bring up the eco
alkalines follow them and then retweet
this message from category 5 tech TV
alright and that is category 5 TV on
twitter i'm good guy wants to know how
our rechargeable batteries vs
I'll clay rechargeable batteries contain
heavy metals chemicals within them that
are not considered environmentally
friendly they don't break down in the
dump and of course you want to send
batteries to recycling facilities
anyways but fact is truth is it doesn't
always happen and so the goal has got to
be to nip it in the bud and say okay
here's a product that if it does make
its way to the landfill it's going to
break down it's going to leak no
chemicals into the earth and it's not
going to cause any kind of detrimental
environmental impact rechargeable
batteries are terrible as far as heavy
metals go very very bad for the
environment when they do break down
because they leak out those chemicals so
mercury cadmium lead different kinds of
things like that that are very very bad
for the environment so and he would know
because he's an Android so he uses lots
of batteries I am an Android okay so if
you're not on Twitter that's how you get
involved if you're on Twitter let's jump
over to Facebook will call it book face
tonight jump on over to facebook log
yourself in i'm going to do that right
now once you're logged in here's the
website you need to go to cat five dot
TV / e co e co when you go there it's
going to that's a short link it's going
to take you right over to eco alkalines
batteries here's their facebook profile
click on like which i've obviously
already done and or click on now here's
what you've got to do okay so you liked
them that's step one now click to bring
up their profile and you'll see that
robbie Ferguson here has again it may be
moved down the list if you're coming in
later in the week you want to bring up
this post that I've created here that
tells a little bit about the contest and
you need to like that particular post
there's the like button down here you
can comment on it whatever you need to
do the whole idea is we want to get you
involved with this eco alkalines and and
like them on facebook like the tweet or
like the my post there as well
and that let it lets other people that
that are friends with you know that eco
alkalines is out there and that's really
what we want to do is just kind of raise
some awareness about this product it's
fantastic it's environmentally sound
it's feel friendly and that's really
important to us here at category 5 TV so
again a year supply of eco alkalines
batteries is just waiting for you and
we're going to do a draw next Tuesday
night and you're going to get your
chance to to win that that's may first
the Ruby drawn those batteries so don't
miss out on your chance righty alright
weirdest thing it wouldn't be funny of
drought one again humans everywhere
contest hilarious ah Oh Josh well time
for some viewer questions and that I
ready so um here's one from Dave
Williams wanted to say thanks for your
webcast of March 27 s which I've been
able to watch episode 236 back in
January when I was trying to understand
how to use wire cast oh I'm your
tutorial is excellent and really would
be valuable to anyone trying to evaluate
the power of wire cast software to
stream a webcast and let's see it's also
great to see fellow Canadian with
Wirecast expertise I'm in Oakville and
obviously not far from you and bury you
appeared to be interested in helping
others and so I hope it's not
appropriate inappropriate to ask a
question of course that's that's the
idea so he's been streaming in a 4-3
format and have found my background
graphic JPEGs to work well if they've
been size 2 720 x 540 pixels I would
like I would now like to experiment with
a wire cast canvas format of 69 and just
can't seem to resize my jpg background
graphics properly I've tried 720 by 405
and 800 x 450 but I just don't get the
same image quality as i do when i use
720 x 540 with a 4-3 canvas do have a
recommended size of jpg that you use
effectively for shot backgrounds thanks
for any assistance you are willing to
offer okay so Dave we're going to step
into some wire cast now
without actually touching Wirecast
tonight in that case and just help you a
little bit with image manipulation
what's the one thing is true about
taking a small graphic and making it
bigger pixelh8 pixel eights what does
that mean it means that it takes the the
pixels the individual dots that comprise
that image and it stretches those pixels
so they become bigger which
inadvertently makes the image look
blurry it makes it look lesser quality
and generally just makes it look bad so
720 x 540 is what you're using right now
which is proportional to a 4 over 3
image like if I go 1024 that is
proportionately 768 which means it's
it's a perfect for over three so now
you're taking that image and you're
trying to make it into something that's
going to scale to 16 / 9 what are the
dimensions that he's using again there
um dave's email he said he's using what
he's using now are the ones who strives
757 20 bucks oh so you're scaling down
720 by 405 but you're also going up to
800 x 450 so that first of all if we
went up to 800 what are we doing we're
making it bigger right it's now 800 x
600 and then we're going to bring it
down to 450 to keep it over 16 overnight
so you're stretching up to do that now
if you're doing 720 by your 405 i'm
going to show you what's happening here
let's start with suppose we're going to
need an image to manipulate here so that
so that we can show you here i must have
some desktop wallpaper an embarrassing
picture of rachel somewhere i do tend to
hold on to those by the way mm-hmm
distraction Utley creep up in the show
intro
yes yes okay you know what I going to do
I'm gonna bring up our website cat
category five dot TV I'm gonna bring up
our photo gallery we're going to find
one here that is going to work so we're
going to pretend that this is our
background what seems appropriate
there's there's so many great images
here I don't even know what to use we
use the Site background from our website
nice picture of rachel alright let's
let's say this is the picture that we
want to use boy oh boy flickr makes it
tough to get an image let's see copy
link address is that going to give it to
me yes alright let's open that up into
the GIMP GNU image manipulation program
you do this in Photoshop whatever you
want to do now that's 461 pixels so I
really I want to give you a good
demonstration I don't want to take a 460
1 pixel image and scale it up to do the
demonstration does that kind of can
confuse if you're unsure what it is that
I'm actually doing so let me hop on to
my network here be helpful if i had the
image that you're working with and then
I could actually demonstrate with your
actual image so if you're joining us in
the chat room pop me an email live at
category 5 TV with an attachment of that
image I'd love to receive it in the
meantime let's see what I do have
doo dee doo yes we want to D do you live
TV is the best e duty because you never
know when you're gonna have to find a
picture do should have a picture on my
desktop that I can always use whenever I
need it all right the music stopped but
I still haven't found here we go season
5 crew of category 5 TV I'm not showing
some of the images where Roberts just
kind of getting set up ready to go all
right you keep that up and I'll make it
tough on you all right let's open that
image and okay we're almost to the point
where we can demonstrate for you what's
going on here we go all right
so you've got an image that is 720 x 540
I've created a canvas here that's those
dimensions exactly so here we are okay
so there is our canvas that's 720 x 540
so what happens here Dave when you
change the proportions of this so if I
go 800 x 600 it's going to actually
stretch that image up and now I don't
know if you can tell but it's actually
gotten a little bit blurry so undo that
what you need to do is when you create
your images you need to create them in
the highest resolution that's possible
for your for your system you're using
wire cast so if you're doing 16 / 9 I
recommend that you use if you're going
to if you think you're never going to do
1080 then you can go with like like just
a 720p file but what I would do is I'd
make a 1080p file that would be my
source because I'm going to then down
scale as Rachel sang a little bit
earlier if you stretch up an image
you're going to lose quality if you
stretch down an image it's not going to
lose inequality I'm going to use an
extreme case scenario here for you Dave
just to demonstrate what I mean by this
let's say we're not dealing with a 720
pixel image let's make it severe so that
it's a good demonstration so that you
can really see the difference here this
image is 200 x 150 if I were to right
click on that scale the image up and
we're going to make that now 1920 x 1440
it's going to make that image as big as
my canvas what I've told it to make it
but now it looks absolutely terrible and
that's nothing to do with the subject
matter why thank you yeah no it has
nothing but it's unusable right because
what I've done is I've taken a smaller
image I've scaled it up I've made a
bigger and I've gone lossy instead what
you want to do is you always want to
have a larger image than what you need
and then always be able to go down if
it's proportional you know that you're
working in 16 / 9 so you know you can do
1920 x 1080 and it's going to be 16 / 9
file so that's what I would do so create
a new file file new 1920 x 1080 that's
1080p 16 / 9 okay and that's going to be
now
your background so within this file if I
paste my image I see that oh no my image
is not high enough resolution for 1080p
so in that case you can either choose to
use a 720p background if you never will
go over that or get back to your source
file get the one that's huge and paste
that in because now it's full resolution
okay so now we'll scale that down to the
1080p layer well by dragging my mouse
might be quicker there we go okay so now
let's just say that's my image okay so
now I've got an image that is 1080p so
if I look at that in full resolution
there's no blur there whatsoever okay
that's only 60 there we go nice and
clear unlike when we scaled up from
before so you see the difference in
clarity right so now because you're
going to be using a let's say a 720
output or let's say you're broadcasting
at a lower resolution which you you seem
to be doing you seem to be broadcasting
with like 800 x whatever there 720 by
405 for example so you don't need to
rescale your image because Wirecast will
automatically scale that down to
whatever you're broadcasting in right
you don't need to create the image
exactly this the same size because it is
the exact same proportion it's a 16 / 9
file so I hope that that's sad that
that's clear and that understandable and
but essentially when you've got a file
that's bigger than what you need as long
as the proportions are right now if I go
watch what happens here we're going to
create a 720 file and it goes down to
four like just to demonstrate don't
actually resize it okay keep it at 1920
x 1080 because that's going to be higher
quality that you can work with later but
just to demonstrate now if I if I scale
that in Wirecast there's what it looks
like and it's perfect it's completely
lossless because I've scaled down rather
than scaling up
so that's always the way that it works
want to scale down cool Raven cool gravy
mmm you know good time for a real quick
question just that just before we get
into the news but Dave thank you for
your question I do hope that that helps
and again if you want to send it if it's
unclear at all send us the image and
I'll I'll show you alrighty so we have
one here that says what do you think of
the idea of plugging in for thumb drives
into a pogoplug and shipping it to a
family member and ask them to just plug
power and ethernet cable in would that
be an any easy access off-site cheap
cloud storage or is there a better way
to do it thank you John it's a smart
idea pogoplug is a device that allows
you to create your own personal cloud by
simply plugging it into the internet
with your own hard drives so unlike
getting into cloud storage with Amazon
or cloud storage with Google or cloud
storage with ubuntu one you are actually
housing the files it's your cloud so the
files are on your device so if you go to
the pogoplug and unplug your hard drive
and plug that hard drive into your
computer the files are all there but
then you can take that pogoplug send it
halfway across the world connect it to
an internet connection and plug that
same hard drive and you've got access to
it anywhere in the world so cool stuff
so yeah if you take a couple of flash
drives if they're big enough and stick
them into the pogoplug you'd be able to
actually send that anywhere what's up Oh
Garvey just says ask ravi when it'll
take the number one spot in what pulse
Oh what does that have to do with
anything I don't know but he said us
good so now that you know that she'll
pretty much break my train of thought no
matter what it's all good no um what
thought you were done Oh sounded round
ok pokel plugs that's what I guess ok so
my friend John if if you if you take
yeah if you take that pogoplug and and
put a couple of flash drives into it
send it to family members house get them
to plug it in then you will have access
to that poker plug if you already
pre-configured
make sure you pre-configure it because
you've got to be on the same network to
set it up so but then when you send it
anywhere as long as they've got
high-speed Internet you would be able to
access that so very very easy breezy to
set it up keep in mind if you're using
flash drives there's a couple things
that I would make sure of plug each
flash drive into your computer and give
it a volume label because pogoplug is
going to interpret each drive by its
volume label so if i call it disc one
disk to disk three discs for then i'm
going to have access to those by those
names on my pogoplug or if you install
the driver in windows it'll be the p
drive or if you mount it to your your
computer and linux it's going to be just
whatever mount point you created but
then there will be disk one disk to disk
three does for so it makes it a little
easier so in similarly if you buy four
identical thumb drives and they're all
stock labeled the same then I don't know
how pogoplug would react to that because
it uses the labels as the drive
assignments so so make sure you label
them plug them in set and set it up at
home and then mail it wherever you want
anywhere in the world and connect it to
a high-speed internet connection you'll
be able to access that data flash drives
it's not going to create a raid on a
pogoplug so keep in mind it's not going
to create one volume it will be as many
volumes as drives there are so if you
have small flash drives you're looking
at you know if it's a four gig flash
drive you're looking at four times for
not 32 alright so keep that in mind so
take a look see how it goes or 16
whatever
anyway yeah sounds cool let us know how
it goes ready for the night she's like
yeah I sense the impatience it's like
it's news time seminary it's
seven-thirty why are you still talking
about pogoplug you know it's awesomeness
Rachel no talk about the class all right
Google is expected to shortly launch a
major new consumer service offering
cloud-based storage for photos and other
online content the effort that Google
drive's likely to offer 5 gigabytes of
free storage is more available with more
available for a monthly fee it would
challenge services including Dropbox and
Microsoft SkyDrive experts suggest it
could also force rival facebook to enter
the cloud market hmm nothing to say on
that yeah would be interesting details
have been emerging of the plan by
billionaire entrepreneurs to mine
asteroids for their resources the
multi-million dollar plan would use
robotic spacecraft to squeeze chemical
components of fuel and minerals such as
platinum and gold out of the rocks
founders include film director and
Explorer James Cameron as well as
Google's chief executive Larry Page and
its executive chairman Eric Schmidt they
even aim to create a fuel depot in space
by 2020 really but with the cost of
getting to space getting it out what is
the price going to be for this that
that's what the argument is and that's
what people are saying like in reaction
to the to the news and to that i say
they are billionaires realistically try
to sell it it'll be like here's a little
cold for a million dollars and that's
what people are saying is well do you
really think that you're going to get
enough gold to pay for this venture but
really the is there not any is there
nothing to be said for is expired
innovation to use your money to do
something for mankind like is there
nothing to be said they don't give it to
me that's true that's true you say got
money to waste send me some to me though
it seems like I mean big hypothetical if
I have that kind of money I mean we're
talking billionaires right
what a multi-million dollar project not
seem a little bit piddly as far as
compared to what I'm actually making at
that point to the point where okay well
this is going to this is going to be the
biggest step for mankind as far as
getting into space and creating a
project that's mining minerals from
moving chunks of rock in space but then
again we know how that goes they're
gonna it's space so we can just litter
everywhere you just try to build a
starship enterprise you add them i have
to right size model fight fried i ran
out of money when it got about this big
dad native play-doh it was made of plano
alright microsoft has suffered a setback
in a patent row over technologies using
its xbox 360 games console the claims
relate to technologies involved in the
h.264 video compression standard with
Wi-Fi Connacht connectivity a judge at
the US International Trade Commission
has ruled at the firm infringed four
patents owned by motorola mobility the
full commission will review the judgment
in august if the final ruling goes
against microsoft and it does not settle
motorola cut theoretically force it all
to halt in ports of the xbox to the US
done and then haha just how the thought
kind of died nada and then all right
youtube could battle oh you could
youtube could face a huge bill for
royalties after it lost a court battle
in germany / music videos a court in
hamburg ruled that youtube is
responsible for the content that users
posted the video sharing site wants the
video site to install filters that's
fought when users try to post music
clips whose rights are held by royalty
collection groups den Jima gemma the
german industry group said in court that
youtube has not done enough to stop
copyrighted clips being posted Gemma's
court case was based on 12 separate
music clips posted to the website the
ruling concerned seven of the 12 clips
if YouTube is forced to pay royalties
for all the clips used on the site it
will face a huge bill if enforce the
ruling could also slow the rate at
which video is posted on the site as any
music clip would have to be cleared for
copyright before being used so if you
want full stories go to category 5 TV
news room the category 5 TV news room is
researched by roy wh with contributions
by our community of viewers if you have
any news story you think is worthy of
on-air mentioned email newsroom at
category 5 TV from the category 5 TV
newsroom I'm Rachel shoot Rachel I thank
you I got past the clouds through the
clouds that got really nervous after
that but just gets you the clouds and
you'll be okay yes alright hey thanks
also to quarter electric the official
electrical company of category 5
technology TV checking out a quarter e
electric com they service the area of
about you know hundred kilometers radius
of Barrie Ontario also garden gate farms
com for certified organic broccoli
sprout and wheatgrass juice is them
online garden gate farms com this is
category five technology TV great to see
you nice to have you here join us in the
chat room its category five on freenode
yay yay so what other exciting stuff do
you haunt us today we have lots to talk
about I mean in the news speaking of
billions of dollars there's Facebook and
Instagram I mean Facebook I mean you saw
a common they got lots of money they're
going to start buying stuff you know
asteroids Instagram it's bound to happen
right you know what Instagram is it's
very cool it was very cool Instagram is
an app for Android and I devices which
allows you to basically use your mobile
device as an old lomo style camera like
the you know pinhole camera or something
like that which is really really cool
now it's it's funny that technology has
gone okay we need to have 1 billion
megapixels and then all of a sudden
there's a new trend where it needs to be
as low quality as possible because it
cool to have a camera that looks like it
was from 1960 that's apparently the case
so since when yeah all right get in
there where are you mm-hmm hmm but you
but today get you yeah all right that's
a fantastic can we can we please let me
take that okay let's try that again I'm
gonna use the forward-facing camera
though because that's a lot easier for
us I know that you like to see but all
right there you go so this is taking a
shot with Instagram what's what's unique
about Instagram rachel is that it allows
you to take that photo now as I'm saying
you can add effects that make it look
like it's done with you know all these
kind of crazy old cameras so that's
pretty cool mm-hmm the issue is that ok
they've gotten really really big but
then Facebook bought them for 1 billion
dollars trying to post this by the way
on my Instagram account so follow me on
Twitter you'll get to see this live on
the air with who posted to Twitter and
Facebook there you go done so with
people's i say i'm posting to facebook
to but a lot of people are not facebook
fans and that's because of the security
issues the the privacy issues that that
are there on facebook do you really want
facebook to now take your profile from
instagram now that they've been bought
out by facebook so if you're an
instagram user who uses it for twitter
but doesn't have a facebook account and
the issue becomes will i don't want to
be a part of facebook's global privacy
scheme where they collect data and who
knows what they do with it but they
certainly have had a few fumbles along
the way so a long come a bunch of
services that are going to allow you to
basically closed down your account
without losing your images here's the
thing is that you don't want to lose all
the images that you've posted because
you've been working on your Instagram
profile for some time and you've
uploaded a lot of pictures i use it for
you know family pictures and things like
that whenever i'm using my ipod it gives
a little bit of a nice effect to the
photos more so than just taking them and
posting them on twitter or something
like that so insta port is the one that
i particularly liked insta port dot m e
and here we go so with this service
we're going to actually be able to
download our entire Instagram account
all of our images so that we close down
that account if we like or maybe we just
want to use this as a backup hey it's a
great way to backup your photos because
traditionally you don't really have
access to your Instagram photos on your
device and now I'm going to go through
downloading each one individually that
would just be a headache and a nightmare
so here we're going to go to insta port
dot m.e there it is we're going to click
on sign in with instagram that first
time use your Instagram account and then
do you want to authorize this app we're
going to say yes and here we go so what
do we want to do do we want to that's
all we want to do download the zip file
advanced options it's already defaulted
to give me all of my photos but say
you've already done this you only want
you know the photos that were taken
between date you know a date span okay
so I'm just going to go all my photos
and I'm going to hit start export so
that is going to actually kind of work
in the background I can close this
website I can keep doing my thing on the
web whatever I want to do and lo and
behold a couple minutes later depending
on how the traffic is you're going to
receive that zip file if you've closed
it you're going to receive an email if
however you still have it up it's going
to actually tell you that it's there and
ready to go so here's my zip file it's
up for me
there it is so you can see that this is
just a single zip file jam-packed with
images how cool is that date stamps are
gone so that's unfortunate but you know
who cares that's just part of it so when
I click on one of those images there it
is it's a full Raz 6 12 x 6 12 image at
least of my baby boy so now that I've
done that if you so choose now you can
use it as a backup service or you can
decide okay now that I've got my zip
file it's got all of my images you've
confirmed that yep it looks like all of
those pictures are there you can go
through make sure you're pleased and
then you can close your Instagram
account if you want because they are now
owned by Facebook so let us know what
you choose let us know if that helps you
out whether you've used it as a backup
or whether you've decided that you know
what I'm not interested in having
Instagram anymore that now that now that
Facebook owns it we'd love to hear from
you pop is an email live at category
five dot TV and let us know what you
think yes this is category five yeah
well I think I don't know what to think
he's all in a different language isn't
so as a coolie gonna be fully goolie
goolie what you think that's why I show
that question and I should do it in
between you know like while I'm in the
middle of programming what do you think
of that Rachel or get a joke owes to
knows about computers no that would
defeat the purpose cuz it cuz they're
telling me more happy about this
computer I think she's mocking I'm
pretty sure she's mocking me yeah
Klingon subtitles are in the works and
ER Jameson is working on the
translations right now we appreciate
Andrew for doing that I know it's a lot
of work the expletives especially you
know having to null it down a little bit
for a g-rated show considering Klingon
is nothing
but expletives speak a line of Klingon
let's see it I'm socially couche ok I
got a question in the chat room last
week just after the show and I thought
sometimes I take for granted that maybe
you already know about a lot of the cool
services that are out there I take for
granted that if a website's down I go to
down for everyone or just me calm when I
go there I can check if the website is
down for me or is it down for everyone
is it down for everyone or just me calm
and then garbe says in the chat room
everybody you got to remind me split a
little whatever it was that he needed a
reminder for I said we'll want to future
Miette he said what future me future me
org if ever you're in a situation where
you think well I'd love to receive an
older maybe someone can give me a
reminder head on over to future me dot
org just fantastic service it's freely
available all you need to do is enter
your email address live at category 5 TV
put in a subject hello from the past and
then you're just going to enter an email
just like your writing at here's to
yourself hey Robbie did you do that sing
with that thing so these are all of this
Oh Rachel you're terrible terrible can
so do you use this all the time like hey
Robbie you're looking good today yeah I
use it to encourage myself and boost
myself up hey Robbie you look fantastic
Wow yeah you can you know if that if
that makes you feel good then go ahead
you know okay did you program that
computer that you were going to program
you dirty dirty girl alright thanks from
Robbie okay so when do you want to
deliver this email is going to go way
into the future I mean it's defaulting
to 2013 I can deliver it anytime I want
and I'll stand by this program because I
know that this has been here
for many many years okay honestly who
needs a reminder in 2031 I think it
falls under the category of time capsule
I think it's like you know um hey hope
you got that job promotion you were
working on her you know maybe you keep
your chin up or it could be whatever
could be encouragement to yourself it
could be a reminder that hey you know
that cuz it doesn't have to be 2013 that
was like I got a letter from the
government saying uh I had to send them
an update in 2030 and I thought why are
they telling me now as if I'm gonna
remember in 2030 I'm supposed to send
them this oh dear yeah that's kind of
crazy okay may first 2012 that's next
tuesday night it's gonna be delivered at
any time during that i'm going to say
hey have a great show Robbie all right
there's my future me message don't want
to add a picture now are you human e HD
k 3 there we go so now with future me
org I'm ready to send that message into
the future sent oh send eight must be at
least 30 days into the future alright
well that's not so bad well that's lame
well cuz what if you have something want
to do tomorrow or next week don't think
it's really a calendaring system that is
its emailing the future you and 30 days
makes sense so let's just pick a Tuesday
night in so if you get lonely in 30 days
you'll get a special little message from
you okay let's say jun 26th all right so
everybody make note jun 26th of this
here i'm going to receive that nice
little message says have a great show
all right am i human I'm surprised the
date doesn't end after 2012 no it goes
all the way to 2062 because they're
assuming that the internet and the world
is still going to be here there we go
all right send to the future gone the
future says thanks for the letter that
is very pleasant of the future to say
future me dot org hey I know you've got
ideas as to what you can use it for I I
think it's fantastic I've used it many
many times it's just one of those things
that you have in the back of your mind
that when you need it you know where it
is sojat thinks you're gonna have to
send yourself another future message to
remind you that a future matches it's
coming I'll send it in 28 days yeah by
the way a future message is on his way
cool stuff on the topic of web services
we've looked at tin I calm before have
you ever heard of that use the nip
tonight was one of the first kind of
popular reverse visual search engine so
it allows you to search images by images
so if you create or if you find an image
you can find a bigger copy of that image
by basically comparing it against
millions of other pictures on the
internet so let's see if I can find a
picture that's reasonably popular I'll
grab like a new boon to screenshot or
something along those lines let's maybe
use that one all right so we'll save
that to my desktop ok so I've got an
image now that is sitting on my desktop
there it is ok so with 10 I i can upload
that image and then 10 I is going to
tell me all the places that it knows of
where that image has been used where I
can get it in different resolutions
where I can find it on different you
know different kind of layouts if people
have use it there's 23 pages of websites
that 10 i knows about that contains that
particular image i can say i want the
biggest copy of that image which happens
to be 403 by oh no ok my source image
was 40 3 by 3 90 here i found one that's
a bit bigger but it's you know it's got
text around it so that doesn't really
count here's one though this 503 pixels
by 487 so it's actually a little bit
bigger than the one that i want or that
i have and so i might want to use that
one because it
it's a little bit bigger higher res
that's not found on their server but you
get the idea of what 10 is right it's
its reverse image search so then all of
a sudden Google comes along and says you
know what we're going to do a little bit
of reverse image search ourselves and
they kind of went up the everything
that's out there and Google's good at
this they're good at one opping let's do
the zipper I do I really need to pull
the zipper to lock this in too here's
another one for you do a barrel roll
there you go I didn't even get to type
it because live search made it happen
okay so we're gonna go ubuntu and i'm
going to click on images and let's find
that same image there it is i'm going to
drag that up and drop it where it says
drop image here and as simple as that
Google is now going to provide me with a
search that is even more comprehensive
for everywhere that that is found and
you can check by not just the image
itself but what about visually similar
you can find images that look kind of
similar that have similar attributes
which a fabulous way to say okay well
I've got an image of this you know like
a nice field or something like that I
want to see if there's some images that
are out there that are kind of similar
to that and you can find ones that are
that are visually similar which is kind
of kind of wild and instantaneous but
again with Google's reverse image search
it's as simple as taking your image
dragging it up there and dropping it and
that gives you your search
I'd encourage you to check it out take a
look see how it works it's one of those
little tidbits that is very very useful
when you're looking for high-res images
that's the other thing is you know
always good to be able to find a higher
resolution when you're working on stuff
and click on more sizes here's the image
in multiple different sizes and you can
see that it's sort of the biggest one at
the very beginning Joe wants to know
what happens if you put a picture of
yourself in google images well depends
on whether you're you're found out there
or not like a fight are you found Robbie
well I had a great five yeah oh there
you are yep but if but if there's a
visually similar image that's find other
images did you got the coin over nice I
look just like that I think that they're
actually noticing the guy in the
background on the left there that's the
guy that's the guy so those are visually
similar images and the reason got that
those have come up instead of an actual
bunch of like a list of a whole bunch of
copies of that one pictures because that
one picture is probably only in one or
two places it's not in too many places
there I see a picture here that was
taken for a news article and I doubt
okay so it looks like it's been used in
many places right so so that's just
because somebody's may be syndicated
that that news article so it works just
the same way with any image that you
find drag and drop really really simple
so cool stuff a love beans yeah any
other questions in the chat room we've
got a couple of minutes left here not a
lot of time but love to write more
viewer questions here a few shots says
he knew I was the queen of hearts oh so
nice that shot he deserves to win a
prize oh great now I've got a nickname
in the chatroom thank you folks
Shh I see the resemblance do you want
any of these yeah no I'm ready for you
yeah all right so this guy says I'm
Bitcoin mining and have two systems
setup to monitor the activity on one
minor I have I just heard Bitcoin mining
and I'm thinking seven minutes of the
show okay re fast I have open ssh server
and screen on Lubuntu 11.04 64-bit ufw
default settings on the computer i'm
trying to monitor from Lubuntu 11.04
64-bit I type SSH user at address and
get connection timed out I've tried to
fiddle with the ufw rules on the box i'm
trying to access but i'm not
implementing them correctly and can't
get ssh to access it the only rule is i
want to change with those allowing me
ssh access into the box i want to
monitor I redman ufw and have also ufw
help but I still need some help cheers
dan okay damn if I follow you I'm gonna
do my best the first thing I would do
you've got a head on that server i would
hope the one that your SS aging in to
move this over here okay so what i would
do on that server on that system i would
first go SSH localhost just like that
that's going to tell you if ssh is
actually working now on my in my case it
says connection refused now you say that
it says connection timed out which is
interesting are you using script to
connect instead of connecting manually
or what are you doing as far as ufw goes
you go ufw allow ssh for example if ssh
is the name of the service that you want
to allow hit enter on that i need to be
root so I'll pseudo that
rules updated right so now SSH as a
service is authorized through UF UF w
that's the the firewall so so in my case
I'm getting connect to local host port
22 connection refused so that most
likely means on I don't have ssh server
installed apt-get install SS a no I want
to go open SSH server yeah see I didn't
have it installed open SSH dash server
yes okay so I'm going to install my ssh
server into this box you want to make
sure that that it's set up and running
so again now i'm going to go SSH
localhost and it's going to ask you if
you want to trust this computer and i
say yes and now it's actually asking me
for a password so i know that yeah okay
i'm working so because you're saying
that your timing out though it's almost
as if it's getting some form of a
connection somewhere so i would check
your your physical firewall if that's
the case if there's something wrong with
your routing then check that out let us
know okay because i'd love to love to
help you but that's that's as far as i
could probably go tonight as as far as
getting you connected so good luck get
into the ubuntu Lubuntu forums and and
see if they'll help you there because
some people you know people there will
be able to bounce some ideas around and
and interact with you non real-time like
the show is real time but there you can
post a message they can get back to you
a day later kind of thing so a little
bit easier for you so ok good luck down
hope that helps so we still got four
minutes for some more cleaning on speak
what keen on cops like us it's not the
only thing you know and Klingon it's
always the same i said before yes thank
you made my my diction is is failing me
all right anyone got it didn't take four
minutes but go kiss a Tribble God
notices I'll get one more egg emoto your
goof now yeah that's that's all the time
that we got it really awful hope you
guys had fun tonight you have fun all
right someone took you eat ex-husband my
o-chem you text can I get a shout-out to
my daughter Brianna she doesn't believe
what is on television is live from
another country hello Brianna Brianna
we're live from Canada whoa Canada hope
you're tuning in we had snow today
Brianna can you believe that yeah snow
spring I'm wearing a sweater vest up
here in canada and it's nice to have you
watching thanks for being here well that
is that is all the time that we have but
I encourage you to get your questions in
through the week I love to receive them
live at category 5 TV don't forget to
send in your postcards i want to add
yours to the growing pile and put them
on our new website when that is launched
also don't forget to check out our
mobile site m dot cat five dot TV you
can access that just by scanning that
code BP and you will be there check it
out what are you up to this week me
anything exciting no I see you brought
Timbits so I know what we're doing yep
Tim bed we see we're in Canada 3d
glasses you can't get those anywhere
else you're missing at least here you
can get them on every street corner ah
yes fantastic that Canada yeah well I
have a great week thanks for being here
yes had fun being here again I've been
here a while yeah it seems like it's
been a while you were sick last time so
Eric came and filled in that the viewers
caught on pretty quickly that I wasn't
you but
well he's prettier than I am so he is
pretty gorgeous you know but I hope you
have a great week don't forget cat5 TV /
eco very important this is your last
week to qualify okay and we're going to
look we're going to talk to you next
week very excited next week we're gonna
have Erika not Eric but Erica back with
us and excited about that and I'll talk
to you next week Rachel will see you
soon all right it's right
popping
