welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode 509 to the 21st it is
the 21st of June 2017 yes yes welcome to
summer welcome to the show
tonight we are celebrating that end to
stable release of Debian stretch it's
the latest version of Debian we're going
to learn all about what it means and
we're going to get a good look at it for
you as well if you're new to Linux if
you've never tried it or you're on the
fence about giving it a go tonight is
for you and hey get everybody around if
you are a Linux user get your friends
here and and we're going to show them
what Linux is all of that stick around
Sashadhar made us all right here's
what's coming up in the category 5 TV
news room carrier log phones are being
outlawed in Canada and providers must
unlock phones for free Amazon is buying
whole foods market Tim Cook has
confirmed that Apple is working on a
self-driving car system and to end
encryption for online services may
become law and we finally have a release
date for Star Trek discovery pick around
the full details are coming up later in
the show this is category 5 technology
TV our live recordings are trusted only
to solid-state drives by Kingston
Technology Reviver computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in live every week on roku
cody and other HLS video players for
local show times is a category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech is here cat
5 TV slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash ia IB
I'm your host Robbie Ferguson welcome to
the show it's episode 509 can you
believe it and it's the first day of
summer
happy summer solstice everybody longest
day and to celebrate before our show Wow
um I'm gonna be here for another hour
lots of fun coming up this is Sasha by
the way hi Sasha
Henry Bailey Braun joining us again in
studio here tonight as we bring you
Debian 9 Debian stretch whoa is the code
name because we're so mysterious in the
Linux stretch unity stretch keep it cool
I think the names come from Toy Story
really would stretch bees oh the slinky
there you dude there you go
dog so very reliable you know loyal good
job stretch that's what we're going to
learn tonight a loyal reliable
distribution of Linux hey welcome to our
chat room it's so nice to see you there
Henry if you if you see Henry on his
phone like he's just like oh yeah we had
our one of the drives in the netbook I
don't know what happened but blew up
fifteen minutes before the show is and
it decided to happen it was not a
Kingston SSDs oh no I wonder if my
computer just attacked it while we left
it on the whole really mad all the the
netbook actually has in it because it's
the netbook that was headed to the
studio and I stuck an SSD in it guess
what the SSD is my first ever is it
ready oh now I can't read I can't use it
in anything because it's like it's got
any capacity to write so maybe it's
given up the ghost donated to a museum
Rafi's SS my first SSD it's this big but
it's only this big as far as capacity
goes so anyway so that's why he's on his
phone instead of the netbook tonight
there you have it
chat room it's great to see you and nice
to have so many comments questions
coming in by email if you're watching on
YouTube comment below we appreciate that
as well and always a pleasure to have
you along we're going to get right into
it Sasha awesome are you ready for it's
a giant kind of here as the question
asker the
in there a newbie new user were you yeah
your windows user essentially yeah I'm
yeah I windows sorta born-and-bred but
like my laptop is Linux that being said
I am Robby installed it and I use it yes
I forced to the for know if you're going
to volunteer here on the show got
install Linux I'm super happy to have it
I just I am like Linux new light I just
that's who I am so I want to start just
by asking you like the very first most
important questions okay what is Debian
what is Debian yeah okay so we're going
to back it up just a little bit for
those of you who are not familiar with
Linux Linux is at its core it's another
operating system we're going to really
kind of simplify when we're going to
really simplify this and for those
viewers who are there say well it's a
kernel and and let's get into all the
distributions and the flavors and all
this kind of stuff you know as an
experienced Linux user those of you who
are watching who are experienced with
Linux
it can be very convoluted very confusing
for new new users people just want to
give it a try who are currently using
Windows Mac whatever else you're on so
if that's you if you're if you've never
really experimented with Linux I really
kind of want to keep this for you
tonight because this should be something
that we Linux users can share with those
individuals to help them to see what
Linux is all about and how cool it
really is how great it really is so
Debian right has been around forever
from the dawn of time
Debian was there so like as soon as
Linux was there Debian was there
well like hand-in-hand its which came
first okay which came first Debian is
basically a long-standing well-respected
version of a Linux distribution there
are all kinds of Linux distributions you
hear things like linux mint ubuntu
debian and open SUSE and all these
different names yeah and it really is
just at its core an alternative
operating system to things like
Windows and Mac so debian has been
around forever and has always done
really really well with stability if
that's been their push we're going to
learn a little bit about why that is
tonight how they do it the stability is
really where it's at security is where
it's at with Debian that has been a
little bit of its downfall in the modern
desktop linux era because companies like
canonical come along and introduce
Ubuntu and Ubuntu is a desktop Linux
operating system at its heart and a lot
of people use it but it's focus is not
so much on the stability in the security
but instead is on the bleeding edge
technology right so on the desktop this
stigma has been associated with Debian
to say oh that's you know that's the
server operating system that's the OS
now so that's why you pick that one over
the other is like first on security back
ten years ago okay okay so now here we
are in the desktop linux era yeah and
debian has really had trouble kicking
that stigma because it's always been
when Ubuntu did not exist debian was
there and debian was on the server
debian runs the internet yeah if you've
ever been to a web site you have seen
Debian you have seen Linux and because
at its backbone at its core the Internet
is largely Linux based and Debian is you
know it's always been there it's know
don't want it really comes to the
question then Robbie because like a lot
of people are visual nowadays like I
said of boom - really we have desktops
now right on par with Windows and Mac so
I'm sure you can answer this question
because you're the tech guy here in this
wonderful building we have uhm but why
would a modern day user then choose this
guy over other distribution over say
like Kubuntu or something yeah like in
the modern day like why why would
somebody choose well yeah that's a hard
a hard thing and it's it that's the
question that if you're new to Linux if
you've never used it that's the first
question that you've got to ask yourself
which one do I want to use right so we
just have to kind of
rephrase that and said instead say which
one do I want to try what do I want to
give a go at because with Linux it's
free so you can try Debian now you can
give it an experiment with it for a
couple weeks give it a go and then try
Ubuntu and see which one you prefer and
that's all good way to do it I could do
that because right now I'm not with
Debian I do I have Soren Zorin OS class
so housing in mind Debian edits is
basically a lot of distributions are
based on Debian ok Ubuntu is based on
Debian ok Zorin OS is based on Debian ok
see this is sorry guys this is how I
have to load away ok so why on it why
would I choose anyone so I'm going to
look at what kind of features am I
looking for and this is where that
stigma says Oh Debian is more for the
power users it's not really the case
anymore we're going to see tonight how
great it is and how much it's come along
with Debian stretch with this release it
is absolutely an exceptional desktop
product right out of the box so it
really you know we've seen that whole
you know this is the admin the sysadmin
the experienced Linux users OS right now
is just a thing of the past cool it's
really just a matter of you know which
one do you want to try which one do you
want to use and we're going to learn a
little bit about that as we get into
this so talking about things like the
way that they include packages I
mentioned that Ubuntu is based on Debian
right okay so Debian is is here and
Ubuntu is getting the packages that it
needs in order to exist in order to be
Lubuntu ok from Debian okay now of
course canonical now also takes a lot of
those packages modifies them to add
stability or certain feature sets and
things like that it's open source it's
community based so they can do that they
also add their own products they create
their own software and add those to make
a boon to what it is okay that's the
awesome thing about it being open source
like everything and people can give into
it yeah change it or modify it it's such
an amazing thing can that make it
stronger but then also like weaker
depending on what faster bigger stronger
when I dunno whatever I did just buy a
new just dance 2017 I think I learned
that dance okay video or doesn't happen
okay so like if people are in there
adding right is there like a certain
level of intelligence or like know-how
they have to have before they can go
ahead and do that or would somebody be
suggest adding like me well yeah a Joe
Blow user a novice manager could not
okay create a distribution base well yes
okay so but but I think I understand
what you're saying you know can it be
customized and modified to be your own
OS kind of thing right Ubuntu is made by
canonical it's based on Debian and they
have basically said you know okay these
are the this is the way we want the
desktop to work so we've created it
based on our vision of what the Linux
desktop could be and so this is
Canonical's vision now debian is very
much into freedom of choice free
software let's give you all the options
and just let you decide what you want to
do so it includes a lot of different
desktop environments it includes a lot
of different features that you can
selectively install versus the the
out-of-the-box experience with with
Canonical's Ubuntu so along that vein
Ubuntu make some decisions that they
want to push toward this particular
branding of distribution oh so a good
example would be the unity desktop
environment so Linux is Linux it's an
operating system but then a desktop
environment goes on top of that so
that's basically the interface that you
use in order to interact with your
computer that's the part that I know NT
that's about that I'm most concerned
about sure and if it doesn't for me it's
the part that if you click on a button
and it doesn't do what you expected to
do you go nuts and you say Oh Linux
sucks
right because the desktop environment is
not behaving the way that you want it to
behave right but it's there's more to it
than that
daylighting absolutely so when
canonical' created this unity desktop
it's to replace no mmm gnome is another
desktop environment so we're boom to
would say okay let's push for our own
version of the desktop environment let's
create unity let's let's do this and
they've done that and they've been
running this for several years now as
the default de-facto desktop environment
so the interface is Canonical's
interface where debian on the other hand
has said no we're not going to go that
route we're going to stick with what we
know what is tried and true what's
stable what is well supported and that's
gnome and so debian continued on and
gnome so this is where things get really
different because if you've been using
ubuntu you've gotten used to unity and
you've gotten and and you've gone along
with Ubuntu's experimentation and their
development process but now here we are
in 2017 and canonical has said ok we're
finished with unity we're going to go
back to Nome we're dropping unity we're
stopping support for it we're not going
to continue developing it and instead
we're going to switch our operating
system back to Nome so anyone who has
been using Debian has already been using
Nome through that whole process
presumably you can install other desktop
environments easily but the default does
tend to be no so you can see how
canonical may you know push for
different technology but then they may
revert back because it's it's more
experimental for the desktop so it's
canonical just like the brains of their
the company they are a company that
creates this distribution and the way
that they make their money essentially
at its core is to provide support to
businesses for that distribution ok but
they offer the distribution itself the
operating system for free so you can
download it and install it on your home
computer and it's fantastic that's what
I run on my laptop most of the time it's
boom to Ma Tei right but looking at w9
ok I have I have a quick chat info yeah
um so let's see once it says to myself
thank you um canonical is dropping unity
for 18.04 saying UD is Cribs
yes yes yeah and that so when they say
18 point oh four that's their versioning
system which represents a year month so
that's April 2018 so they're version
okay Linux is no longer going to have
unity in April darn that's how that
that's how that works
okay so so there are you know I want to
keep this fairly simple we don't want to
get into the semantics yes and they
really complicated set off but we do
kind of need to talk we need to know a
little bit right a little bit so Boone
two pulls from what's called testing and
unstable repositories mm-hmm so what
okay so what's an unstable okay
this is where Debian difference so
Debian being the base so this is what a
lot of other distributions are based on
Debian being the kind of the main one
we'll call it or at a higher level yeah
yeah so the way that they work I
mentioned earlier they are focused on
stability security so the stable release
which we're excited about today because
Debian stretch has finally gone stable
we're going to understand that in a
moment
is considered stable it's the rock solid
this is the distribution for you if
you're a new Linux user if you are
running a server that you have ones on
the Internet all the functions that they
weren't working they're working right
can I like tell you what my impression
of it is and then you can tell me
whether or not that's right okay so
canonical which is like the company okay
it like beams things as like the thing
they support it's being stable and then
there are other ones that maybe aren't
as order but canonical is unrelated to
Debian in that I'll canonical build
Xubuntu and Ubuntu is a version of Linux
based on Debian okay nice our focus is
really on Debian but understanding that
there are other distributions out there
that are based on it
okay so Debian stretch is stable yes who
says that it's stable who's the boss
that says it's stable well Debian is a
very community driven product so
it is set up in such a way that teams of
individuals work together to create this
distribution and to commit and donate a
lot of time in order to make it happen
so the way it works is oK we've looked
at GIMP two point nine point five love
it okay but it's still got a couple of
little bugs here and there so what
happens is the development team now puts
that into the unstable version of debian
okay so there are three versions
unstable testing stable so first thing
happens is it goes into unstable people
start testing it and playing around with
it working out the bugs and things like
that right once they've worked out the
bugs now GIMP two point nine point five
for the example moves into testing sort
of like beta testing for video games
yeah it's like the Alpha over beta
versus open but it's an entire operating
system of yeah software bigger than a
video game we've got to get away from
you know the Microsoft mentality of
Windows updates updating my operating
and that's it Linux works by updating
everything right if you're graphic
editor and your office suite and
everything else is updated you get all
the updates and it's really ok it's
beautiful so once it enters testing now
it's much more stable but there may be a
little bit of issues here and there but
it's to be considered fairly stable it
is working well and then when that
distribution the testing distribution
with all these new versions of software
that have now gone through testing is
considered stable it moves to the stable
branch or the stable distribution that's
what just happened with stretch should
anybody even bother installing an
unstable or a testing or should you just
stick to stable like wait until it's
stable okay so stable is going to have
the oldest version of software at the
end of life consider that the
predecessor to Debian stretch as stable
was Jesse and Jesse has been the stable
distribution on Debian since 2015 so for
a little more than two years
it has been stable so all of these new
versions of software like even in Debian
stretch GIMP is still version 2.8 right
because that is considered stable 2.9 or
3 has not come out yet so there there
are some benefits in doing an unstable
system or distro distro distribution
okay and and that is because it'll have
more cutting edge you got it yeah right
so if your actions so here if your new
Linux user or even an experienced one
who wants stability security rock solid
performance start with stable if you
find at that point that there are
packages that you really want to have
newer versions of and you want to you
don't mind taking a little bit of a risk
because sometimes it can have problems
not going because it might be budget
fasting you can easily upgrade from
stable to testing so it's a really easy
seamless upgrade process all of your
packages are just going to upgrade to
the latest version in testing and you're
going good so that's once you've got a
little bit more experience now if you
are a power user you know your way
around Linux you're not afraid to have
things absolutely break right you're not
afraid to go in and fix them and figure
it out then that's when unstable is for
you because you're going to get the
absolute latest absolutely bleeding edge
software because as soon as something
comes out it goes into unstable right
that's the newest version yeah so you
get this super cool stuff you always
have the super cool stuff but you got
the super latest version okay more
anything like brand new that hasn't made
its way down through the the chain of
testing yet yeah so there are benefits
to like definitely well so with Debian
it's very specific that you can choose
whether you want bleeding edge or
stability or a happy medium with testing
in between okay so boon to from
canonical takes from Debian's
testing and unstable not from stable
because it considers that Ubuntu or
bleeding edge then
than stable Debian stable so right now
having just switched to stable on
Saturday
Debian stretch is latest and greatest
stable packages whoo because it just
it's only been a few days right so yeah
I'm excited oh what art well know my
next question is cuz I feel like I took
you away from it but now I want to get
back to it what are this excuse me in
line here what are the new features what
is oh yeah oh yeah can you tell me about
it yeah okay first of all your Mac guy
sorry dude PowerPC is done so if you've
got an old Mac one of the nice things
about Linux is that can always be
installed on older hardware well Debian
has done away with PowerPC oh so there
are various architectures if you're a PC
user certainly if you use Windows you
know about 64-bit and 32-bit those are
two main options so there is absolutely
support for those right out the gate you
can download an AMD 64 or i386 which are
64-bit and 32-bit PC versions of the
distro respectively there there is a new
64-bit MIPS architecture that has been
added all right
and then really this is largely all
about that chain of getting the latest
versions of software and getting things
up created refreshed so we're looking at
a new kernel I think we're at four point
nine point something I kernel is just
what they call that's Linux it's heart
okay like the skeleton there okay so
that you know the upgrade process so
what have we got a huge amount of
upgrades as far as the software that's
included gnome is now 3.2 - I didn't
want to get into technical stuff but KDE
is up-to-date LXDE these are all desktop
environments matei is one point one six
and XFC is four point one two but the
thing is is that there have been over
15,000 new packages that have made their
way down the chain into Debian stretch
that we're not in Debian Jesse
and from the packages the were in Jesse
more than half of them have been
upgraded so you've got new versions of
these pieces of software right that it's
been now upgraded that way can you give
us like an example of a package so like
for like somebody new to Linux sure so
if you're trying to sell it no not sell
it cuz it's really good if it every time
I go to work if we're trying to convert
Sasha to it yeah how would you tell her
I mean hey stall it on her lap yes
because ok my mind still works like I've
been fully franchised so I buy a
computer from computer store and I bring
it home and it already has that would be
Windows typically on it you don't buy it
without windows on it she just take
Windows off of it and then have you know
load it you download debian from to work
before you take Windows off because how
else you don't have to even download it
right on Windows ok and then you can
insert a USB flash drive yeah you can
use a tool that the instructions are all
on their website ok website you can use
a tool that will actually now do what's
called a burn to the to the flash drive
right sized flash drive what I need for
gigs oh well ok gigs I think it's 4.4
gig 16 so not is not huge ray like
you're fine flash and then quote-unquote
burn it to the is boot oxygen tank right
okay so everybody needed I download it
to the flash drive you know you download
it to your computer and then you burn it
okay flash drives how comes a bootable
operating system so it's like don't you
sit off there and it replace record soft
and you used to use a CD right now you
don't need a CD optical medium is dead
base what's a CD
yeah exactly so so then you boot up the
computer from the flash drive and it'll
say do you want to install over top of
Windows or do you want to install in
addition to Windows and if you do in
addition it's called a dual boot correct
you've learned 8 points for Sasha ok so
keep in mind if you buy a new computer
may have UEFI that you may end up having
a little more trouble getting Debian
installed because Debian is very very
focused on free stuff and that kind of
comes down to firmwares and some of
these UEFI systems can have proprietary
firmwares and and issues like that where
canonical Xubuntu makes it very very
easy to install on any platform debian
is still very very easy I want you to
try it but just a heads up don't get
discouraged if you have trouble hit the
community hit our website category 5 TV
ask some questions and we'd be happy to
help you our community I'd be happy to
help you what else is different things
that have been updated you were asking
LibreOffice awesome so free word
processor not just a word processor but
a full office wheel suite you know
remember when we used to have to buy
Microsoft Office yes I know right the
only thing missing from LibreOffice is
an Outlook equivalent everything else
like PowerPoint and Word all that stuff
Excel they're all there and fully
compatible you can open files that were
created on Microsoft Office in
LibreOffice and saved them back in
LibreOffice random questions okay if
they're like a help manual I would like
in libre writer it's called from the
office writer yeah right I want to just
select the whole document and shrink it
to one page but I can't do I know I can
do that in Word but I want to be able to
do it in writer I know that you don't
know how to do that
Pacific Tomatoes I know I like but I
just I would like there to be want to
fit it on the fray but I am sure I
instead of asking individual things like
that I'd love to know if there's a way
to download some sort of how-to I'm sure
yeah okay there would be office org
you'll find documentation there there's
probably a weekly and all that kind of
stuff yeah but do keep in mind
LibreOffice what's neat about it as well
as being compatible with Microsoft
Office is it's very similar in its
feature set and its commands so we're
its version of Excel which is called
calc has equations and things like that
it's the same equation formulas as
Microsoft offices Excel right right so
if things are pretty one for one at this
point and it made it really really easy
so it's been updated I use it and I find
it easy with the exception of like
random Chinese
that I'm like I'm sure we can find your
help for it absolutely it's better than
paying like 200 miles are hundreds of
dollars yes yeah now I mentioned Outlook
being the one thing that's missing but
there's a program called evolution that
comes with Debian as well it's also been
upgraded and it's very similar to and
it's all free still it's all free yeah
there you go yeah so if you think this
sounds like a sales pitch wolfin we're
giving it away yeah so laughter go
download it for free and you know that's
kind of a I think you know if you have
any questions for us get in the chat
room right - is watching Henry's
watching on his phone as well anything
at all that you want to ask about Debian
should we can we look at it yeah here's
something yeah
let's actually get into to Debbie and
get a look so there's a debian 9 which
I've installed on my laptop now you may
be in a similar situation to me where
you've got a production system computer
that you use all the time and you don't
want to wipe out your system you want to
try it out though so what I did is I
simply stuck in a different hard drive
so I removed yeah I don't know where I
set it from Garvey quick why is that
even better than rpm yeah well there's a
lot of C now we're going to get into
personal preference experience and we we
kind of want to avoid those kind of
questions Garvey a little bit just on
account of what we're looking for rpm
debian 2 different software distribution
that was a joke there you go sorry and
and we can get you're going to find this
folks if you're new to Linux it's going
to be if you get into if you get into
the forums and you say which one's
better you've just made a mistake to war
you have opened a can of worms because
Garvey is going to say rpm I'm going to
say Debbie never posted on reddit you're
going to list oh my god yeah it was a
social glue where the food said earlier
the best thing to do would be to find
one that one of your friends has already
installed and saw it yourself that way
you have support of somebody who knows
what they're doing already absolutely
and if you don't have someone who uses
Linux follow along with our show it is a
great way because if I'm using Debian on
my system then you can ask me question
about Debian and I can bring it up on
the screen exactly like that if you're
doing it and it's new to you let me tell
you you have a friend in me right so
everybody in common so this is Debian 9
stretch running like what's called
cinnamon which is the default out of the
box in my case because when I installed
this hmm it asked me which desktop
environment do I want oh that's nice
either give me all of them here come on
I want all so I can play around and then
I can decide which one I like the most
it comes with gnome 3 it comes with
cinnamon it comes with plasma everything
yeah it's got it's got tons of stuff
even LXDE which all these things are
just to say you can go back and forth
between them and see which one you like
the most and that's part of what Debian
does well is it makes the decision up to
you you want to customize your system
you want to make it yours instead of
some other software developers you can
really toy around with it and try
different things so this is the you know
this is the screen that I'm greeted with
on first boot and you'll see that there
is a ton of software already installed
and we mentioned you know Libre Office
for example so if I go to office you'll
see well I've got a document viewer for
PDF files I've got so I don't need to
install Adobe Reader there's that
evolution email program that I was
talking about that has the calendar and
everything else map you support for
exchange and all that kind of stuff and
then we've got LibreOffice base calc
draw impress math writer and you'll get
used to the names and the differences
there pretty quickly and sometimes
you'll find alternatives on Linux that
have silly names like calculator instead
of calculator why did I do that
why not but with LibreOffice it's pretty
straightforward and you can also just
launch LibreOffice by itself and it'll
say hey what do you want to do well
create a document create a spreadsheet
create a presentation so you make coffee
draw a drawing a Ferrari draw it
probably makes coffee it is it connects
with your Keurig sounds like another
Raspberry Pi project there so what do we
want to do calc spreadsheet so when I
click on that you'll see isn't that
familiar yeah looks very very much like
Microsoft Excel and we've got the same
kind of formula system we've got
Sheetz down at the bottom here we can
create new sheets we can name our sheets
whatever we want to do and it's it's
basically at its heart it's Microsoft
Excel so then it lets say I've got
friends or colleagues in business who
are using Microsoft Excel and now I have
to send them this I don't want to have
to say oh you need to install
LibreOffice to open the file no that's
no good so save as and when I save it I
choose the format default to these the
open document format like libreoffice
format spreadsheet but then you can
choose from here Microsoft Excel format
XLS remember those or there's the newer
XLS x10 you'll see the PDF you can do
PDFs but it's a little different as
opposed to saving so this just answer
that question but here we're looking at
compatibility being able to open this
and edit it on a Windows computers
Microsoft Office if I'm going to email
an attachment I want to email it I want
to email it as a PDF if you don't want
them to be able to edit it essentially
so like an invoice or some sure yeah
right so I can just save it as PDF not
you can't save it out the PDF that's a
little bit of a different thing I can
export it's like so as we're saving we
would select a Microsoft Office format
Microsoft Excel LSX so that's to send it
to a colleague who uses the the full you
know they have money to throw away so
they've bought Microsoft Office what I
would do in the case where I want a PDF
see this giant PDF button nowhere and
it's just going to save it as that's
awesome
okay so that's the version that you
would use to share it as an email
attachment or right so if I was sending
like intake forms to a patient who wants
to fill them out before I would just go
in save it as a PDF print and then fill
in yeah
oh for sure yeah okay absolutely got
that and same goes for your Word
documents not to put too much focus off
of the distribution that we're looking
at yes debian but to show you that hey
you know what it comes with a large
suite of software that's going to get
you up and going pretty quickly I'm
going to bring off LibreOffice writer
again not to focus on the this
to software but instead just show you
hey you know this is really really
straightforward you just started super
user friendly I use this and like it
yeah a lot
well it's familiar right like it dives
into the familiar about the same time
it's so useful great we can save as Word
document files docx
there you go or just the old docx format
so you see what I'm saying is that if
we're transitioning from Microsoft
Windows
unless there's specific software that's
an executive ol file that you absolutely
need to have new accounting software
might be a good example but a lot of
that's moving to the cloud so you use it
through your browser anyways sorry oh
why not install a distribution like
Debian that is not susceptible to the
same malware you don't have to worry
about viruses like you do on Windows
that kind of stuff so let's jump through
the the suite of software here we've got
everything was nicely organized one of
the things I've always admired about
Linux you notice when I go to games it's
just there are the games what do we not
see Just Dance 2017 well we don't see
that but you know what I don't see in
the list is readme all right about the
product and all these subfolders that
are nested in you selling selling or
show you install a program on Windows
and you get all of this stuff on your
menu and they've kind of done away with
that by changing things in Windows 10
but it's now become even harder to find
the things that you're looking for in a
lot of cases this one it just is out of
the box there's not a lot of we'll call
it craft from a programming standpoint
you know that's the term where it's just
junk that doesn't need to be there this
is all the stuff that is installed I
mean it even comes with VLC I just saw
you know that media player pre-installed
you can watch our show in HLS from that
live
yeah comes pre-installed we've got all
this kind of stuff so they really
thought of everything didn't they
beautiful is why it's stable
this is why it's stable any questions
from our chat room at this point before
we take a quick break ah nothing to do
nothing no nothing after at all break
time if you are interested in Linux
you're new to it you've never seen it or
maybe you have seen it and you just
maybe you know on the fence because it's
you know that I could like we've talked
about tonight
it was here five years ago and now it's
a really viable desktop operating system
as a replacement for Microsoft Windows
for example you can put this on your
existing computer hardware and we're
going to talk a little bit about that
right after the break we're going to
take a quick one and we'll be right back
[Music]
this is category five technology TV
welcome back and thanks for joining us
tonight as we celebrate the release of
Debian stretch as a stable distribution
of Linux and we're doing this from the
approach that we're presenting it as a
new option for Windows users Mac users
to switch to and we certainly welcome
you to send us questions if you go to
our website category five dot TV you
click on contact us and you'll see ways
to reach out to us if you've got any
questions about the transition or the
software that you can use Henry during
the break you were mentioning what keeps
you on Microsoft Windows
yeah and it's unfortunately like right
now it's a must for me right because I
have both Adobe products whoo a medical
fan of Adobe for like video editing okay
for Photoshop yeah Premiere Pro like all
those guys um but also as gaming right
like you got to have a little bit of fun
right like I know that like Linux has
scheme and other fun stuff but at the
moment there's a lot of games that I
play that currently don't have scheme
okay like the capability but I'm seeing
a lot more that are like try compatible
sure so like with Mac what happens and
you know we're certainly seeing that and
these days as you say steam being a
Linux product steam OS is in fact Linux
so you know they're putting a focus on
games though as far as Photoshop goes
we've looked at it on the show check out
GIMP two point nine point five that was
the one thing that was holding me on
Windows was a Photoshop because we have
locked from yeah the loss enos of
scaling the images everything else in
GIMP was great in two point eight but
the the fact that you lose quality when
you rescale yeah that's to say this is
an alternative version of Photoshop it's
free well here's the thing this next
release really excites me too though
because with it being more accessible to
people and the fust talking about it on
the show hopefully more people try it
which means that more people are going
to be using it which means that
programmers and those developers is
going to be like a more people are using
it maybe you should move our program
towards this off yeah oh
lose what you hope so I really hope like
over the next three years like this
really kicks into now but there is there
is the opportunity to dual-boot right
yeah yeah so could you not okay so not
super exciting you can't wait can keep
windows right will run Linux exactly so
could you not do that until you start it
to feel comfortable and try try the
products offered by Linux see how that
feels and then maybe uninstall or just
never used Windows if you absolutely
right that's how I migrated over to was
dual booting because I still needed to
boot into Windows once in a while and so
that gave me a chance to use Linux for
all of my online stuff keep me safe
online do all that stuff and
progressively these days everything is
online yeah most of the stuff that I do
so it just makes sense to use it and
then you can just do it into Windows
when you need to right it will be true
so what happens you turn on your
computer and it's just that black screen
and you just scroll to you choose which
operating system you want it creates a
marker that says Windows Windows 10 or
Linux Debian so that you mentioned
Photoshop and and I and I mentioned GIMP
for those of you who aren't familiar I
mean Debian right out of the box comes
with a program called GNU image
manipulation program so Henry what this
is I know you know but for the sake of
our viewers this is a full image editing
software you look at it and it looks
fairly similar to photoshop in its and
it's the way that it actually operates
I'm going to go into single window mode
so that you can see something that's
even more photoshop asked but there you
have it so it's it's a free alternative
to photoshop that came with debian 9
right out of the box and you guys
already have a lot of tutorials that can
go with you guys yeah exactly so yeah I
really hope to see more open source
programs like that right now right
because like again like we're seeing it
happen video production exactly
up-and-up exactly and I'm really excited
about that because like I said I use
like Adobe Premiere Pro um I use
InDesign i use like pretty much the
entire suite even Dreamweaver and all
the other guys um but that's the cool
thing about like this age of technology
is that access is becoming so huge right
now so we see a lot more
open source programs like this and it's
absolutely I'm excited
head on over to deputy dot org peb I a n
dot org support the community if you can
and certainly get a download there look
for Debian stretch it's under stable and
you want to just select amd64 if you're
using a 64-bit system which most most of
your systems these days are going to
support that so go with that that's the
better of the two or there's also i386
which means 32-bit so if you've got an
old system that doesn't support 64-bit
then you can go that route as well you
can install 32-bit on on a 64-bit
computer but you can't do the other way
around right so but I would lean toward
the 64-bit if you have support for it
where there be any benefit to installing
the 32 on it on a 64 system now ok so
just don't do it all the way yeah if you
can go hi yeah yeah I always go with the
best go with the best support that's
around okay alright so the questions
anything at all send us an email off our
website category-five TV and that is
debian from debian org thanks so much
okay Sasha I know you're eager to jump
over into the newsroom
alright so smashes got our news stories
what do you got for us all right here
are the stories were covering this week
in the category 5 TV newsroom carrier
lost phones are being outlawed in Canada
and providers must unlock phones for
free Amazon is buying Whole Foods Market
Tim Cook has confirmed Apple is working
on a self-driving car system and to end
date for Star Trek discovery these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere
Jeff Weston jela you're building a
brand-new beautiful website
what are you come on you're a terrible
actor
what that's where acting comes into play
oh I don't know what Isaac you're
supposed to act okay fair enough
building a really cool website are you
building a really cool website you need
hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
it's sure how much hard drive space you
have how many email accounts how many
domains can point to it well we've got
an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are going to get
unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the route put your own
com dice to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat5 dot TV slash
dream host still out of the
papers on just don't do it
but hey it's a great deal folks best
deal you're going to find five dollars
and change per month go to cap five dot
TV / dream host I'm Sasha dramatis and
here at the top stories for the week of
June 21st 2017 Canada's broadcast
regulator has ruled that cell phone
networks may no longer charge fees for
carrier unlocking handsets nor cell new
phones locked to their network the
Canadian radio-television and
Telecommunications Commission
crtc said that as of December 1st of
this year phone sellers will be banned
from selling handsets locked to a
specific carrier and all carriers will
be required to unlock customer handsets
for free the change is part of a larger
overhaul the CRTC has made to Canada's
wireless code a set of consumer rights
guidelines that the CRTC manages in
addition to the unlocking rule the CRTC
also mandated that any new charges from
overage fees or roaming charges be
approved by the primary account holder
this applies mainly to shared family
plans where the parent who owns the
account will now need to give
before racking up additional charges
remember we had and we had a new story
where somebody's charges got like that
right now oh this is this is good I
think it's about time yeah like
especially with the fees oh yeah we go
to Jamaica and I needed like they've
needed a phone unlocked and a cost I
think 50 dollars to do it oh wow
yeah see the unlocking thing that bugs
me that they lock phones and you've got
to pay to unlock it yeah my phone was
locked to a network and I paid for the
unlock code and I did it myself
mm-hm um we're great yeah I now use it
you can go to Jamaica I do whatever I
want with unless I swap Sims all the
time just because I've got certain Sims
for certain things and so some have
internet some are just pay as you go by
yeah yeah secret my secret is out here's
what bugs me is our Canadian regulators
don't understand they don't understand
how things actually work in reality the
other don't plain and simple
let's say you're paying an astronomical
fee for LTE internet and you're
downloading a six gig file mm-hmm let's
say you're downloading the 4.4 gig
Debian ISO or image okay and then all of
a sudden you approach your cap right the
the presumed cap like just the point
where they need to ask you are you sure
you want to continue downloading yeah
yeah
so now I get four gigs of my 4.4 gig
download into my download on LTE and
then they cut off the download can you
freeze your install right if everything
stops oh I lose the download and then I
bring up my browser and it's a
presentation from the regulator saying
you've reached your cap would you like
to authorize more use so I'm sure their
settings you can adjust you're not this
is a regulation that the government puts
in and says the the phone companies are
not allowed to disable that so then when
you say yes is the download just
continue no
have to start again unless you're using
a download accelerator or something like
that which would be brilliant but who
does on their phone so then your six gig
download which you have four gigs into
start over you have to start over so now
a 10 gig know anything is in Canada we
don't really have any like you know
cellular providers that have unlimited
data yet no right um so like I know in
the States and in Europe they have like
other companies that you can say hey I
want to pay for unlimited data sure we
don't have that in Canada and for yanny
we only have like two or three major
companies you can understand their
reasoning from a from a paper standpoint
like hey if it looks good on paper let's
make sure that if someone's going to go
over five gigs that we let them know and
require them to authorize continued use
it makes sense
in reality though it costs me money it
cost me pointless money and drives me
nuts I don't share mine with anybody
daven I even have separate data mines
altogether we have no sharing stop
messing with my internet COTC sorry
online retail giant Amazon is buying
whole foods in a 13.7 billion dollar
deal that marks its biggest push into
traditional retailing yet Amazon which
has long eyed the grocery business will
buy the upmarket supermarket supermarket
for forty two dollars a share
investors greeted the deal as
game-changing for the industry sending
shares of rival groceries grocers
plunging but Whole Foods which has been
under pressure has climbed founded in
1978 in Texas Whole Foods was a pioneer
of the move forward towards natural and
organic foods it has grown to more than
four hundred and sixty stores in the US
Canada and the UK and employs about
87,000 people the takeover deal the
biggest in Amazon's history is expected
to be completed in the second half of
the year pending approval by
shareholders and antitrust regulators
the takeover also makes Amazon an
instant player in the grocery into
we're his operated at the fringes since
launching its food business service
Amazon fresh in Seattle in 2007 Apple's
chief executive has confirmed it is
developing a self-driving car system but
Tim Cook indicated that it is too soon
to say whether it would license the tech
to other car makers or try to build its
own vehicles his interview with the
Bloomberg News Agency yielded his most
detailed comments about the project to
date until now Apple has avoided
publicly discussing its plans although
it has confirmed the scheme in US
filings mr. Cook
told Bloomberg we're focusing on
autonomous systems and clearly one
purpose of autonomous systems is
self-driving cars there are others and
we sort of see it as the mother of all
AI artificial intelligence projects it's
probably one of the most difficult area
a is to work on he goes on to say we'll
see where it takes us we're not saying
from product point of view where it will
take us but we were being
straightforward that it's a core
technology that we view as very
important he added that the rise of AI
electric vehicles and ride-sharing
presented an opportunity the publication
of the interview coincides with an
announcement by General Motors that it
has completed production of 130
self-driving Chevrolet Volt cars at a
factory in Michigan meanwhile Audion
testing a being has begun testing a July
reveal of a new car the a8 that will
introduce semi-automatic features of its
own so I feel like there are some
problems in self-driving cars of late so
this should be an interesting situation
for Apple to get into pretty
non-committed a they're super super
non-competitive how this goes is going
up a see how mp3 players and smartphones
go ok god total know everybody else yeah
okay now go was it like a kind of Apple
fanboy I guess I was raised on Macs I
know um but like I'm happy to kind of
see a move that they're thinking in the
general direction because I
there's been a lack of like new things
from Apple recently unfortunately a lack
of innovation from Apple Wow
I know that's coming from a fanboy - no
but I'm happy to see them branching out
um and just to relate to like that
Amazon story as well you know what's
coming now right Whole Foods prime 9
right for acquittal right ahead
brilliant because European Parliament
committee is proposing that end-to-end
encryption be enforced on all forms of
digital communications protect citizens
the draft legislation seeks to protect
sensitive personal data from hacking and
government surveillance EU citizens are
entitled to personal privacy and this
extends to online communications the
proposal argues a ban on backdoors in to
encrypted messaging apps like whatsapp
and telegram is also being considered
encryption involves digitally scrambling
a communication to protect its contents
and then using a digital key to
reassemble the data end-to-end
encryption means that the company
providing the service does not have
access to the key meaning it cannot
listen in to what is being shared giving
the sender and recipient added
confidence in the privacy of their
conversation the proposal seeks to event
article 7 of the e use chapter
fundamental rights to add online privacy
it will require approval by committee by
committees members the wider European
Parliament and the Council of Ministers
before it can be passed into law that is
actually good news that there
I think privacy in whatsapp and such
well if they're forcing encryption and
testing encryption in Europe then we
start to see that impact here in Canada
Hey mugs global right well it becomes
yeah the Internet is global and we're
all you know a lot of english-speaking
folks and you know so what happens is is
that we in order to appease those
regulations so that European site
visitors can visit our websites yes we
have to comply to these all its issues
as well it's like the regulations in the
EU right now like you
all that like we use cookies on our site
it's one of their regulatory things no
anyway so when you go to category 5 yeah
V which is based out of Canada hosted in
the United States and heart and we have
CDNs all over the world yeah we on our
website have that you know cookie
statement because that's a regulation in
the UK exactly so there you go
maybe people didn't know that I didn't
know that on there nice guys always say
ok because I don't know what cookies are
but they're called the Olaf SS I know
like I say I guess everybody's doing
this cookie thing I'll I'm ok with it
good
the latest chapter in the Star Trek saga
has finally had its premiere date with
the 15 episode season set to be released
in two chapters Star Trek discovery will
launch on Sunday September 24th with a
broadcast premiere on the CBS in the US
and space channel in Canada the series
premiere will also be available on
demand on CBS all access and the second
episode of the series will be available
on the service that same night
immediately following the broadcast
premiere Star Trek discovery will also
stream exclusively in Canada on crave TV
with full scheduling details to be
released in the coming weeks not in the
can't not in Canada or the u.s. don't
worry Netflix will launch Star Trek
Discovery on Monday September 25th the
first eight episodes will air from
September through November with the
second chapter being released in January
2018 and the crowd goes wild
five minutes out of date first Star Trek
in a long time all I can seduce ya
booked we have to have like a viewing
party or do that live stream watch of
the eye there we go nice thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news so it's a slight
Linux bias and for more free content be
sure to check out our web site from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Derrida
Sasha this is category five technology
TV welcome to the show it's so nice to
have you here
I appreciate everyone who has been
sending in their comments if you're on
YouTube and commenting below or whether
you're going to our website category 5
TV and submitting an email that way or
commenting on our videos we do our best
to keep eye on those and a couple of
come in maybe we could tackle just a few
of those I know we're running short on
time we don't want to keep you oh
there's no problem with that all right
all right so I have one from Andy Oh
Andy yes hi Andy Andy says firstly
thanks for answering my question about
getting across the Great Firewall of
China a couple of weeks back all I did
was teach you how to create an SSH Sox
tunnel how you use this knowledge and it
is up to you and the instance of the
info you gave me about setting over
proxy really helped I already have an
old thin client working 24/7 as a VoIP
server here so I'm hoping my friend will
be able to SSH in through that while
she's away brilliant changing the
subject entirely I'm forwarding the
attached email I have legit I allegedly
received from Amazon Europe this morning
it appears to be a very clever phishing
scam to obtain login details I almost
fell for it but my seller accounts on
Amazon is dormant so I knew pretty much
for sure that I didn't owe them anything
I thought you might want to give it a
mention on the show so others can be
aware of this very convincing scam the
email looks like it's from Amazon and
warns that his credit card has been
charged offering him a chance to review
the transaction by clicking a link and
logging into his Amazon account sneaky
that is pretty common we see things like
PayPal versions of that oh I get a lot
of those yeah and they trick you into
thinking hey click here - there's the
bait and then there's the click so the
bait is we've charged you or we're about
to charge you or there's been a donation
of $10,000 usually it's not that
significant I'll get them and it'll say
there's a donation of $100 because
that's feasible to me yeah I'll fall for
that click here to login to your PayPal
account and relay the transaction very
typical Andy's well spotted and a way to
keep yourself safe and
for mentioning it so that our viewers
can do the same Henry the one came in
from PJ I'm excited I think my name is
on this one so yeah so for you thank you
so much PJ you you ordered we can't even
get through the first part don't open it
okay so this one comes to us from TJ hey
PJ
although news of the two terabyte drive
is a breakthrough which it really was
you know it broke through the wall and
oh man it was amazing having a big
column if I get worried over the latency
if that's the right word to use so what
are the minimum and maximum read/write
operations of the drive and also the
likelihood of the USB connection
breaking during the transfer I think we
touched on that as well it was USB 3.0
right 3.1 in fact oh three point one so
the new news yeah but I think what it
boils down to is anything can fail you
know any hard rock on it so there was a
time when SSD hard drives SSD drives you
know we're you know we had the same
stipulations because they didn't have
the life of a hard drive but we got past
that and flash drives are pretty much
you know they're getting there yeah and
Kingston with this two terabyte drive
like this is not your average USB flash
drive this is a solid state of aluminum
bodied like die hard they went all out
for the really beautiful and built to
last and you know as far as the
specifications go I mean you can check
you can go to our website through the
link cap five dot TV slash big flash and
all those specifications are listed
there and find out kind of you know what
how many writes can you do to it how
many reads and watch last week's episode
then there you go
all set okay so they continue sorry
Henry myself mentioned use on a
Raspberry Pi so with the two tears oh
yeah yeah um so that's for the Raspberry
Pi does have limitations on SD cards and
I should imagine so on USB as well that
is true again you can look at the
limitations on the readwrite dispenser
yeah okay all right yeah so yeah so like
especially about that it's funny you
would mention that yeah I was looking at
that
a as a matter of fact because I have an
M's user which is natural enterprise
monitoring server and it it's on my blog
bald nerd comm check it out it's a
Raspberry Pi distribution that's also
okay and with this distribution I have
one particular user who is really seeing
it run very very slow that's interesting
and the one one user the tapping that
runs slow and so I thought okay it could
be the SD card could be the power supply
if it's getting low voltage and so I
actually wrote a benchmark tool for NEMS
it's on there now actually read in the
in the documentation how to run it so I
did this specifically because I wanted
to see how fast his card was but then I
as I ran that and he was getting two
point something megabytes per second
right mmm-hmm
ridiculously slow oh yeah I ran it on my
own and I was getting ninety so
something something's going on yeah oh
absolutely something's up with his card
or the reader or the power or something
but what it made me realize is this is
not a traditional card reader ninety
megabytes per second that's pretty fast
for right yeah on an SD card so they've
really stepped up the reader in that in
the the Pinetree
yeah and it's it's micro SD as well
right it's it's not the full size it's
the EDB it's awesome okay so I'm not
done yet
Edgar okay the new story concerning
Boeing oh I know something um I I have
thought the pilot will need less flight
hours due to boredom but if ground
control in quotes um could take control
over just like in space 1999 and their
Eagles I'm guessing that's the one where
the moon like goes out of orbit and
she'll need a difference my death my dad
loves it yes maybe if a pilot comes ill
or dies McFly knock on wood a normal air
hostess or even a passenger could take
control of the aircraft or over to
qualified pilot on the ground with all
instruments and controls in front of
them like a simulator select a UAV kind
of situation up and down a trailer
somewhere but actually in full control
of the aircraft seems a lot more viable
excluding signal hacking this episode
also smacked of a
motion for Kingston jeez ah why no well
it Kingston were the ones who made it
right so obviously we had to have
mention them in there
yeah um yeah but yeah it to knock the
Boeing stuff really quickly yes the main
issue with that right now is hackers
because there's actually news story a
few years ago about somebody hacking the
actual aircraft because everything is
fly-by-wire nowadays right there's a new
story that was actually about a hacker
who was just flying on a commercial
plane they didn't have any ill
intentions but through the onboard Wi-Fi
because there's one of those sites I
remember that he actually went in
through the flight entertainment system
yeah and he could actually if he wanted
to he could deploy the flaps like the
manoeuvring stuff math you can control
the engines so with things being
networked nowadays and the aircraft are
networked to the ground now and GPS
systems everything else that's one of
the largest issues is security right
because any it's these systems are
hooked now it's all like Battlestar
Galactica one button you turn off the
airplane now right so sir I'm a big
sci-fi fan film we're almost done guys
um but yeah so Kingston and I was
recently ripped off attempting to buy a
Kingston SD card by eBay oh no um it was
for a Raspberry Pi so yep so I checked
it on Windows 10 and found the card
didn't register at all Oh cut long story
short a warning for your viewers if
possible by direct the higher cost much
outweighs the hassle for a bad SD card
USB Drive or hard drive maybe if you
should have not already gave taste in
all lost at is the worst especially if
it's something such as family photos or
your work things like that you're going
to put that in but those SD cards in
your camera exactly right and get
Kingston if possible you're saying this
not me as an affiliate link right
because well you will have those links
online so for Amazon things like that
yeah we actually do you can go to our
shop so on our website category five dot
TV and click on to support us and you'll
see a shop with us and this is our own
store and Kingston SD cards are there so
yeah I mean the the Kingston thing it
was a it was a promotion in a way
because you know we we obviously want to
show you cool technology but in order to
get that technology we have to offset
the cost right so so that's that's that
as far as Kingston goes and and shopping
with affiliate links and buying and
things this is kind of why we do what we
do so when in and I'm speaking on when
we provide when we look at a product
when we looked at that drive what do you
hear me say I don't say go to Amazon and
do a search for Kingston 2 terabyte
drive no I say go to cap 5 dot TV / big
flash because we've already verified the
seller we've already verified that this
is legitimate product and we've made
sure for your sake that you're getting
the proper device yeah I even mentioned
last week when we were looking at this
product that there are manufacturers
that are shady and that are building
fake 2 terabyte USB and you see them on
the wish app there they're there and
they're garbage there 128 gig flash
drives that they've hacked into the ROM
and we reset it so that it looks like a
2 terabyte drive when you plug it in
then you get to the 128 gig cap because
that's all it actually has capacity for
and you lose all your data I think the
easiest thing to do would be before
ordering check reviews because I had an
issue ordering a video part like a the
GTX 1060 just as it comes out I saw this
awesome deal online on Amazon like it's
on Amazon you can't go wrong yeah you
can yeah exactly I learned that time
that it turned out to be a fake sellers
just after I click the Buy link I
checked reviews um don't buy it this
guy's a scammer etc so it took me two
days to get my money back to the support
system so I did get my money back but if
you can check reviews oh yeah and
another good example is the sjcam SJ
5000 acts things like that when we say
go to cap 5 TV slash action cams same
things we've done it because sjcam who
basically makes a gopro knockoff himself
right so it's a cheaper version of an
action cam that's 4k so what has
happened they didn't patent the
technology they didn't do anything would
protect their their development so a
bunch of knockoffs came out
and they look exactly the same they
appear the same they've got similar roms
they look in all essence the same but
they're garbage the soul is not there
man it's nothing
they have bad optics they take bad
pictures bad video so you have to go
through legitimate links and it's very
hard to do that but that's why we do the
fishing for you and we find those and we
make them available to you through our
shop right so shop with us yes go to
category 5 TV we do our best we do it
one more for me oh well I think my
problem we're gonna wrap up okay we're
gonna have to just do the rest next week
we're sorry we couldn't get to your
questions your comments but we want to
be able to commit the time that it takes
to answer your questions accurately and
adequately we don't like to rush through
things so as we're out of time for
tonight I want to thank you for joining
us and hope that you've enjoyed the show
and learned a lot about Linux and Debian
stretch in particular you check them out
Debian org thank you so much for joining
us we'll see you next Wednesday night
so thanks I do yeah
