I is in here the top stories for the
week of November 7 2016 three years
Twitter announced Thursday that it's
killing off the vine short video
platform in the coming months when
Twitter launched the micro video feature
back in 2013 it quickly became a viral
enigma challenging users to cram as much
comedy or culture into each 480 x 480
pixel frame users will still be able to
keep and view their vines in the
announcement fine says to all the
creators out there thank you for taking
a chance on this app back in the day
back in the day being three years ago
long time ago the surface enjoyed 200
million users in 2015 some of its
biggest superstars include Canadian
board Andrew kingbach bachelor with more
than 16 million followers and
toronto-based singer-songwriter shawn
mendes vine videos arguably created its
own genre of meme thanks to the hypnotic
nature of its six-second clips that loop
by default vine co-founder russ Yusupov
has little positive to say about the
shutdown tweeting don't sell your
company shortly after the announcement
Yusupov along with co-founders Don
Hoffman and Colin Kroll sold vine to
Twitter in 2012 before it's wide release
I love the little vine loops so I'm I am
sad I will watch them always as long as
I can so hopefully somebody else picks
up the company i don't know what i don't
understand though is why they would get
rid of it i mean this is such a popular
thing i mean if you look at many social
media there's always these collections
of all these great vine videos i mean i
think of the one picture the guy is like
story time and that'll do all these like
story time i'm like hammer time exactly
but like I I enjoyed these videos so I
don't understand why they're pulling the
plug I think it's my guess Twitter ain't
making money but it's not they gotta
start cutting back
they're letting go a staff they're
letting go of services they're trying to
bring themselves from here and get back
up to here get that but then sell it off
I mean it's still wildly popular yeah
but i don't know i mean i will see what
happens next i know a guy who's a vine
star ii from here and berry but i don't
know what he's gonna do now the ripe old
age you're like 22 i think he's gonna
have to get a real job he's gonna do
something a lot longer than six seconds
look can I get your order of adults
sorry what's up all right in other news
an 18 year old has been charged with
three counts of computer tampering after
accidentally swapping Arizona's
emergency services with thousands of
bogus 911 telephone calls meet Kumar
hide to bat he decide told police he had
tried to share on Twitter a link to
JavaScript code that exposed iOS bugs
making phones freeze or restart he had
hoped Apple would pay him a bug bounty
for the information about the flaws but
had mistakenly linked to an earlier
version of his app that made that that
had made users phones keep on dialing
911 a statement Maricopa County
Sheriff's Office said the link had been
clicked almost 2,000 times threatening
emergency services across Arizona
because the 911 service is classified as
critical infrastructure interfering with
its operation is treated in Arizona with
the same severity as human trafficking
or second degree murder Oh mm-hmm
talking to police after his arrest mr.
Desai said the bug he had been planning
to exploit had been sent to him by an
online friend using it he intended
exploiting it to make a benign but
annoying app that people would find
funny writing on the ARS technica news
site Dan Goodin said the incident
contained a valuable lesson for anyone
getting started in security research
hacking devices or networks without the
explicit permission and cooperation of
their owners is dangerous and can result
in significant legal penalties I would
find this funny if it did
not actually bring into play the 911
situation because I can understand why
it with Perry like a second-degree
murder charge if you are hampering the
response time for somebody who's
actually in critical need that's a big
deal and we haven't heard if anything
like that I mean how would they know
right I can't get through to 911 they're
swamped with these bogus calls calls
from a piece of malware I'm a programmer
and one of the things that you know I
adopted early on in my programming
career is you don't put things into code
like automatically dial 911 or you know
swearing on in or silly things in in
placeholders for example when you're
developing something for someone because
if that ever gets forgotten or you
forget to remove it hello you should
have used lorem ipsum see and that's why
it's there I I don't want to be that guy
because I know I'm not that old but as
soon as the new started I here 18 year
old I'm gone Alex poor guy like he's not
really oh sure like life experience
makes you think about these met
ignorance isn't innocent by any means
but there is no way he ever ever
intended this that's how it sounds yeah
exact time when I was in my teens and I
was getting into programming stuff I
mean I know for myself I'm like what all
can I do how come how far can i push
that I was writing autoexec.bat viruses
well yeah nice tribute in them at school
in your team's you kind of like how far
can i push this so I'm sure the guys 18
I'm thinking chances are was some old
file that he created it was a mistake if
it was Oh some 40 year old did it I go
and I'll see that as a mistake but
that's just because I automatically
default to ageism to hear 40 we expect
you to know better I feel bad for this
poor kid personal record at 18 he can't
even get that expunged I'm sure well he
wasn't convict
that was he was just charged he'll be
convicted yeah I don't know ah you may
have a plausible defense he needs
lawyers like these lawyers in this story
that's true okay uber drivers in Britain
should get paid vacation days and
guaranteed minimum wage a tribunal said
Friday in a ruling that the company will
appeal the Jeep megabytes labor union
says the decision will have a major
impact on the drivers who argued that
they should get the labor rights of
employees not not self-employed workers
the central London employment tribunals
decision Friday affects as many as
30,000 drivers uber argues it is a
technology company that links
self-employed drivers with people who
need rides it also says drivers should
seek arbitration in the Netherlands
where ubers European operations are
based Nigel Mackay the attorney
representing the workers argues uber
drivers often work very long hours just
to earn enough to cover their basic
living costs it is the work carried out
by these drivers that is allowed uber to
become the multi-billion dollar global
corporation that it is he goes on to say
we are pleased that the Employment
Tribunal has agreed with our arguments
that drivers are entitled to the most
basic workers rights including to be
paid the national minimum wage and to
receive paid holiday which were
previously denied to them uber based in
San Francisco California says it will
appeal the decision and not in the
meantime it only applies to the two
people who brought the suit okay so ah
those are pretty fantastic lawyers to
make that happen really I I think that
uber was always supposed to just be a
supplementation to a regular income I
don't think was ever supposed to be
full-time employment for anybody so I
don't know about paid vacation time yeah
personally see okay this is a Jeff
question but yes he works for the the
unions yes my entire career is dealt in
labor law so when this story came out it
didn't matter what was happening around
me there could have been gunshots going
off and I was going
to my phone reading this one I I've been
waiting for this decision I really have
ever since uber came around I've said
this was going to happen and there's a
couple reasons finelining it is a very
fine line but I think there's a couple
reasons for it and and one of them is
the fact that it's they're not
entrepreneurs and self employed in the
fact that they're drumming up their own
business they have a company that is
providing the work for them and while
uber can try and argue that oh we're
just contracting them out there's no
contractual agreement that says I am a
subcontractor to over in the way that
it's set up it's I download the app I
just make it happen they find the work
for me I work on their behalf they're
the middleman with the money like
everything about it to me screams
employment yeah does it does it start
does it start to feel like to you that
uber is like the company that is evading
taxes by putting their money abroad in a
way but they're doing it through their
employees if you will the people who are
doing the work for them and this is
something I've never thought about until
this occurred I used to be a uber driver
you download like the driver app or
whatever it is I've seen somebody with
it I've never done it myself but you
choose when you want to work you don't
have to work anytime you don't want to
work is there a qualification process
like there has to be a way I've never
used uber but you have to record check I
a criminal record check which is typical
of me take a picture of it you take a
picture of your license a picture of
your insurance and you upload it to them
like an application yes when but you can
work for 15 minutes a week if you want
or 15 minutes a month if you want you
can decline rides you can just straight
up say no you don't want to do it what
other job can you do that okay okay I
get that but the thing is I mean if you
look at when the terrorist attack took
place how did this turn to them
you're not you're not going in
Australia's remember the terrorist
attack in the coffee shop yeah it was a
big PR nightmare for uber because when
that terrorist attack hit they have
their software based on demand sets the
prices and the prices skyrocketed to
like a hundred bucks a kilometer just to
get people out of the core the downtown
core when the when the shots started
firing and so if you are a contractor
chances are you're setting your own rate
uber is setting those rates you are just
the driver so when you look at that kind
of stuff Uber's in complete control of
every element of that job the only thing
they don't have control over is your
hands on the steering wheel hmm and so
from the bat bat by look at and I go I
think it's a very valid argument that
they are in fact employees yeah i work
for a company who sets what we charge
the customer and what I get paid does
that sound like anyone you know rhymes
with Boober but you're an employee I'm
an employee yes yeah yeah but do you get
to point in case you get to decline work
I get to decline work if I want to
decline work i will decline work
absolutely i am the red flag okay so I'm
like forty-nine percent on your side
really yeah determined that much
49-percent not 48 it's all I didn't have
to get myself see a majority on this one
only because I kinda empty müber she's
like I am going to be a new driver right
after the show do with with weather uber
is a great service or not sure I mean I
what are they what are they defined as
right I don't think that you can be an
uber driver and work 15 minutes a month
and get vacation pay you know well that
no no no no because then you'd be part
time okay okay but the people who What's
in question here is the people who are
putting in 15-hour days like a taxi
driver right should they be compensated
like a taxi driver regardless whether
they want to be an irregularly scheduled
employee that picks up shifts on their
choice of me when I worked for the
government I could turn down any shift I
wanted if I didn't want to go in for a
month I didn't go in for
but I i picked up the work is that just
before you got fired but i mean i was
always available to work I mean you look
at where it was going where they're
looking to do uber air with flights yeah
I mean are they gonna say that I mean if
I'm gonna hop into a plane and have them
fly me I can guarantee you you're gonna
sign up to be an uber part I hope that
they are an employee is on the hook cuz
if that plane goes down I don't want my
family suing just some random guy who
you know crash the plane I want to make
sure that uber is on the hook and if you
look at there's a something with amazon
i want to say with one of the states if
you can't get hold of this came out just
yeah okay i think it was if you if you
can't get a hold of the company that
sold you bad product you can go after
the seller so does that mean if in this
case that they could also go after uber
I mean that's a whole nother legal side
of it but I I totally think totally
think they are employees see the comment
thing below see that field down there
please comment on this post your
comments I don't resolve the
conversation below I think in the
comment section well team stats on this
one nope facebook inc's software knows
your face almost as well as your mother
does and like mom it isn't asking your
permission to do what it wants with old
photos facebook encourages users to tag
people in photographs that they upload
in their personal posts and social
network stores the collected information
the company uses a program it calls deep
face to match other photos of a person
to match the other photos of a person
alphabet inks cloud-based google photos
service uses similar technology while
millions of internet users embrace the
tagging of family and friends in photos
others worried that there's something
devious afoot are trying to block
facebook as well as Google from amassing
such data as advances in facial
recognition technology give companies
the potential to profit from biometric
data privacy advocates see a pattern in
how the world's largest social network
and search engine have sold users
viewing histories for advert
the company's insists that gathering
data on what you look like isn't against
the law even without your permission if
judges agree with Facebook and Google
they may be able to kill off lawsuits
filed under your unique Illinois law
that carries find of one one thousand
two $5,000 us each time a person's image
is used without permission big enough
for a liability headache if claims on
behalf of millions of consumers proceed
as class actions a loss by the companies
could lead to new restrictions on using
biometric in the US similar to those in
Europe and Canada Wow see I didn't know
that we had restrictions in Canada but I
will tell you that that whole like deep
face technology always mistakes me and
my sisters as each other oh yeah so for
me it's just funny because yeah well
that's pretty small scale now i have i
have like little star trek trinkets
around the studio and everything we used
to have a bobblehead that was Spock so
and I have things all over the studio
like my coaster right and and and it's
not just these companies that are doing
at Twitter was experimenting with it for
a while there and I don't see that they
still use it but they must in the back
end I had a studio picture that i posted
and twitter said Robbie Ferguson posted
this with Leonard Nimoy and it had a tag
going to his Twitter account Wow and
that freaked me right out like I was
like okay that's cool for one thing the
technology is astonishing but also a
little bit creepy but at the same time
creepy but cool the creepy but cool I
think it's the next-gen of where things
are going to have to go for surveillance
and you're gonna see it when it comes to
you know we talked about you know the
threats that are out there and they have
to be able to track these things AKA
person of interest right i mean truth be
told they have CCTV everywhere in Europe
right now so I mean I meant this and
integrate this and boom and there's a
little bit you have to be a little bit
worried I want to use that 23andme
genetic testing but I'm scared that I'm
sending my DNA to somebody who I don't
know I I want to know the results
okay I know that I'm the guy that for
some reason defaults to conspiracy
theory and Manti robots taking us over
and all that kind of stuff but I'm not
why does this one come as a shock like
technology is going this way why are
people freaking out about it as if it's
like some big issue I've known this is
coming for a while I think from its
science fiction gone reality well yeah
but I mean this is this you're right
what's this situation is we're dealing
with it from a legal standpoint and not
looking at it from a morality standpoint
and our world globally has moved away
from the human element to the legal
element and we are now legal entities as
far as our own basic human rights we're
nothing more than contractual
obligations but do's and don't it does
it violate my rights that my picture is
recognized by an artificial intelligence
when if I'm standing in a room sash I
can see me from across room say oh
there's recognized know what to do with
you yes what to do with me that's the
issue is they're saying like fly a drone
in and no should be in a hedge with a
rubber bullet this this whole thing is
saying you shouldn't be able to use my
biometrics to earn a profit and I have
tits data data is money that's the
currency why is Windows 10 free yeah and
Facebook is free I get that exactly
that's exactly the business I know for
something that's completely free nothing
is free I let people know that yeah we
talked about apps they sure ask for all
this access because it's a free app you
want those out by not downloading the
app yeah exactly and this is the thing I
mean Facebook changed the way that we do
the world before Facebook it was you had
to give explicit permissions for
anything to happen and then Zuckerberg
and his and his team came up with this
brilliant idea to say you use our app
yeah you're volunteering if we're giving
on everything and you tell us what not
to use and and we'll change that halfway
through after that now after you've said
no will eventually just say yes and you
have to go back and find it as a it
Milligan moral landscape absolutely it
is changing remember back in
interrogation not that I've ever been an
interrogation room but they used to try
and like drag information out of you but
who your friends are and who you were
and everything and now all I have to do
is go on your facebook and be like oh I
have a list of all of your friends I
know exactly where you've been I know
what you've eaten in the past 14 days
yeah they have everything now we have
pictures to prove it you know that it's
not the end of the world though I mean
this is the way technology is going the
way that we will know that the
apocalypse has come is when robots take
over our kitchen I mean it's not
possible right it's never ever going to
happen it's true well apparently having
home-cooked meal from the kitchen of
Gordon Ramsay could become a reality in
2018 moley will launch the world first
fully automated and integrated
intelligent cooking robots what yes it's
a robotic kitchen that has unlimited
access to chefs and their recipes
worldwide and not only can this robotic
chef cook over 100 different meals for
you it will clean up after itself to
bless you robot according to Mark Olynyk
CEO and founder of moley robotics the
way this machine works for the end user
is by specifying the number of portions
type of cuisine dietary restrictions
calorie counts desired ingredients
cooking method and chef and so on for
the recipe from the recipe library first
then with a single tap you could choose
your recipe place the individual
prepackaged containers of measured
washed and cut ingredients on designated
spots and press start for the cooking
process to begin moley consists of all
the necessary cabinetry appliances and
utensils it starts with two special
sensors which record each movement of
the actual MasterChef while they cook
away wearing special gloves this kitchen
then replicates the movement with two
fully articulating robotic arms and can
cook anything just like a human chef but
since the whole kitchen could
essentially cook any downloadable recipe
on the internet
food robotics AI startup expects to
include a share and sell your own
recipes feature where consumers and
professional chefs could access and sell
their ideas via the digital style
library of recipes database designed to
work with anyone who has the desire and
the ability to cook this platform for
collective creativity and knowledge
could become a launching pad for
aspiring chefs while you may need a
Wi-Fi for pulling in new recipes
recording a new dish or sharing your
work the database of recipes that comes
with the kitchen is available offline
what's more the robotic kitchen can
always be used manually to questions
comments thought you know what I think
is the first thing the first thing that
came to mind is what right but then I
really think about educational
facilities where the teacher could
download these recipes and actually use
it to guide would be chefs to learn now
of course there's the other side of it
that says they're gonna you know Gordon
Ramsay can now open a thousand kitchens
around the world and it will be his
cooking yeah that's true i was thinking
more along the lines of having say your
grandmother make her her on yeah and
then you can eat grandma's lasagna oh my
god time right you not only but that
made me think see we were just playing
off of each other right here what about
grandma when she can't cook that lasagna
anymore but she loves to eat it right
right I love this so much oh my gosh
there's so much here told I'm not a
great cook like I'm not a super great
cook but I want to be so this would be
great for me I could just watch this
robot cook and then like it said I mean
I can just turn off the probably the
arms and not gonna happen no great
you're just gonna sit there drinking
your whiskey watch my robot robot song
make me okay I love it how do you how do
you feel about this Jeff alright here
comes the opinion folks so we know how I
feel about robots taking over the world
this is just the kitchen I realized this
is just
kitchen as you're reading the news story
there's one question that's coming up in
my head and it goes back to the you made
the comment that there's two sensors
that watch what the chef is doing so the
question is in the middle of making a
beef wellington will these hands drop
the knife flip the bird and then call
somebody oh Gordon Ramsay oh Gordon
Ramsay what have you done with this
program what can he cook any meal
without doing something like that yeah
like there's no auditory component
that's fantastic oh I bet you they'll
included yeah I the other question is
I'm sitting here between Sasha and
Robbie and both of you are talking about
replacing grandma with a robot no it's
about supplementing grandma like with a
robot helping grandma so that she can
cook once and eat her lasagna for author
I do believe it was grandma's lasagna
then you could have it till the end of
time implying when grandma passes away
she's replaced by robotics but you can
eat her lasagna you can pass the
delicious taste on that's true what my
thought is more and if they have to do
with your stomach say well but why not
just learn to cook the lasagna no yeah
of course but there's something about
grandmas robot hands cooking you up a
lasagna while you said they're drinking
your whiskey okay okay let's take this
like let's take this on the poutine turn
ok so today careful how you bring up
poutine that is a sacred form I know but
what I'm saying is i am talking in the
chat room but how poutine is amazing
yesterday and they don't get it they
don't get it cuz they're not some canada
so what if i upload how like a delicious
poutine wrestle sure yeah but right and
then they're robots can make it and then
they can understand okay yeah yeah what
kind of poutine are you making a
requires robotic it's fries gravy cheese
curds think about that yeah it's gotta
be Kurt spade a minute what if you do
the poutine recipe and I you did the
recording and it was this nice
russet potato and then Jeff takes it
home and loads up the recipe and he's
got this larger potato and the
ingredients and the recipe the mix
everything is completely I feel like
they must have controls for that they
have total I couldn't remain a mystery
but it did say about prepackaged food
and all that kind of stuff right
essentially this is nothing more than a
glorified microwave no no this is fresh
food this is not but instead of new
package you can't have Rebecca no you
can go into a grocery store and buy a
pre-cut up fresh turnip yes right way
easier than cutting her and turnip right
but so now take that and put that on a
tray and say okay now robot make me a
turkey dinner and it includes the
pre-cut turn I don't know what I can we
enjoy still would rally yeah let's
interview them let's go Thank You Molly
let's get a dozen of these moly kitchens
and we just really i'd rather make my
bowl of Cheerios myself oh yeah just
scratch aim high reach the stars thanks
for watching the category 5 TV news room
don't forget to like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category 5 TV news room and sasha
tomatoes
