okay so tonight we are gonna be looking
at a text editor called Adam 80 oh em
and they deem themselves as being a
hackable text editor for the 21st
century it is a you know text editor is
a text editor on the surface it's it's
pretty boring I'll admit it not all that
exciting but what I do like about Adam
and what I like about a good text editor
like Genie or something like that is
that it provides syntax highlighting
okay so no matter what language you're
coding in you're going to be able to see
if you've entered a syntax error today I
was programming an atom for example and
I was doing a I was doing a prepared
statement for MySQL I in PHP and I was
just slipped my mind and I hadn't
assigned the value to a string and I was
trying to inject the string directly in
the prepared statement in the params so
you can't do that you've got to assign
the this the value to a string and then
you can include it in the prepared
statement right so the the editor Adam
actually told me that before I even
uploaded the the mistake and got a
syntax error on Apache so I could see
visually through the syntax highlighter
that hey I did something wrong here I'm
not quite sure what I did and then I
realized oh yeah I put 43 there I needed
to put that in a string and then call it
in the prepared statement so all that to
say syntax highlighting can really help
you as you're coding because it color
eise's and makes things easier for you
to visually see if you mess up in
addition to that things like matching
brackets when you highlight ya bracket I
always miss a bracket somewhere well
yeah and it's it helps to be able to
find the bracket if I click on and I'll
show you this in a couple moments when
we install this when I talk about
matching brackets let's say you're
creating a function in PHP and that's my
core language so so that's what I'm
going to be coding in most of the time
if you create an opening brace for
example for the function and then you
create the closing brace and then you
create all your fun
in between and then you forget where
your closing braces you click on the
opening brace and it will highlight the
closing brace so that okay you can
visually see well there's the closing
brace for this function not the next one
down and it really really helps so we're
gonna jump over to boon to Matei I've
got it installed here in a virtual
machine and we're just going to get
started with installing the atom editor
now I'm using 16.04 and I was surprised
to find that atom is not in fact
available in the repositories for 1604
but it is available in 16 point 10 so if
you go into the software boutique and
you try to find it you're you're
actually not gonna find it anywhere in
there and even through I installed
synaptic package manager manager because
I really don't like using these you know
the software boutique and a boon to not
into that so what I would do if you are
not into that at all just like me not to
digress but just to give you a little
bit of help first of all again go sudo
su to become root then I don't have to
type sudo which is really you know one
of those things in Ubuntu that you know
I'm more of a debian baby so I prefer to
do it this way so I could go apt-get
update and run that command and then
apt-get install synaptic and that will
give me synaptic package manager' so now
I don't have to use the software
boutique I can actually use synaptic
package manager which is especially on
16 point o4 which is the LTS of Ubuntu
Matei you're gonna find that's a lot
easier to find packages because it's got
the search functionality in Ubuntu meant
a 16 point 10 we start to see the
boutique improved but I still prefer
synaptic package manager so that's not
to digress but it is not Adam is not
available on your system you may be able
to simply install it like that after get
install Adam or whatever whatever
repository management system you're
using whether you're using llaman on
your system or however you do it so in
our case we're gonna have to get it off
of their website which fortunately they
make very very easy so we're gonna head
on over to their website it's Adam dot
IO my nose is stuffy so every time I say
Adam it sounds like I'm saying Adam
I know that so just keep that in mind
we're talking atoms here like the atomic
scale all right let's get in there okay
over here we see that there is a Devan
rpm package ready for us it's
automatically detected that I'm on Linux
if you are on Windows if you're on Mac
OS 10 it's going to auto detect that as
well and give you the installers for
that so okay even though I'm doing this
on Linux on a Debian based system this
is Ubuntu matei you're going to be able
to do this on Windows on Mac it doesn't
matter what platform you're on
and of course it's compatible with any
any Linux system as well if you'd like
to find you know find out more
information about it there's a cute
little commercial about about the the
software itself but again it's just a
text editor I mean we'll call it just a
text editor let's download that that deb
package you can click on other platforms
if you're not seeing the one that you
know if it's not giving you the right
one and that's where you'll find the
windows download the Mac download all of
them in once in one single place okay so
yeah there it is so there they are see
that so Mac windows you've got all of
them all in one place here okay so you
can download the Windows version if you
need to being on Linux on debian-based
Linux I'm going to download the Det pack
so we're gonna save that now for anybody
who's not familiar but they want to get
into this what's the difference between
the dot Deb and the dot RPM dot Deb is
for debian-based Linux operating systems
not RPM is for Red Hat based operating
systems so there are two different
flavors of Linux different package
management utilities and a different way
of distributing packages so you just
need to know which one is going to be
compatible with your system that's all
and if you're not sure just find out
which which operating system yours is
based on Firefox places your downloads
up in this kind of guy up here so when I
click on the arrow I can then click on
the folder to bring me to the folder
that contains all my downloads usually
that's in your home folder there is a
folder called downloads so that's where
you'll find it
okay let's see where it's gone there it
is okay so you can see I already
downloaded it a little bit earlier I did
that just in case we had in the internet
troubles tonight so now in Linux I can
do this one of two ways first of all I
can right-click on it and open it with
my package installer that's the way that
we're going to do it tonight
alternatively if you want to use the
terminal or if maybe if you're you know
if you're not finding a package
installer you can also use dpkg so to do
that and I'm just gonna show you a CD
sly tilde slash that's your home folder
so if I hit enter on that it's gonna
take me to home but now I'm gonna go
into my downloads folder and if I do an
LS you'll see there's the file so I can
go dpkg
- I Adam amd64 Deb and that's going to
actually install that in in debian so
using dpkg so I can do that in the
terminal as well we're gonna use the the
GUI this time though so let's
right-click on it open it with our gdb
package manager and remember that this
step may be entirely unneeded for you
because you may find if you're using
sixteen point ten onwards or if you're
on Debian I also found it in the
repositories on Debian eight so you may
be able to install this directly using
synaptic package manager or whatever
your favorite package manager is we're
having to download the debian pack and
and then we can install it that way okay
here we go it's just loading up and
figuring out what the dependencies are
it says that it's going to install three
different packages we can kind of click
around and find out what it includes if
we want to we don't need to do that
let's click on details we'll see that
it's going to also install get get man
live error Perl it's not gonna remove
anything so we're happy install the
packages the package itself I'm gonna
minimize the oh that's asking for a
password here we go this is your super
user password root password and there it
goes so nice and easy to install again
just a text editor how boring is that
super but very cool I'm a coder so I
like good text editors absolutely I'd
love to know what what language you're
coding in
primarily and you're gonna see this III
program in PHP all the time and I just
use the text editor to do that I do a
lot of a lot of PHP obviously some CSS
on top of that some some j/s as well
you'll find that you'll see a lot of
text like just plain text as well that's
just like config files or whatever so
we're gonna look at that it's so because
of the way that atom can be integrated
with a service called code stats we're
gonna be able to turn this into more
than just a text editor we're going to
be able to make it so that through code
stats we can track not individual code
it's not monitoring or logging our
keystrokes in that way but it logs
points it has a point system that is now
going to turn your coding into a bit of
a video game for you
so it makes it a little bit more fun add
some incentive as your coding to try to
code a little bit more than the next guy
write fun like you did get this
installed let's let's distribute our
code stats links and compare who's doing
the most coding and will battle it out
so this is just installing from that Deb
pack here we go and you're gonna see how
code stats is going to take this text
editor and make it into something a
little bit more fun no that's a feature
of it I think it's important to note
that because this is a hackable text
editor and what that means is you can
it's extendable so you people can add
packages to it plug-ins and themes and
all that kind of stuff so you can you
can tweak it to do some extra things
that a text editor can't normally do so
that's how we're able to implement
something like code stats which is just
gonna make it a lot of fun okay
installation finished there we go
Adam amd64 Deb was installed all right
let's close out of that and let's go
into programming in our applications
menu if everything went to where I
suspect it's going to have gone there we
go okay so we're in Adam okay what could
we do we can install a package we can
open a project we can create new files
of course being a text editor what does
it look like well just like that so
hello we're old okay nice and easy peasy
you can close all the tabs that it opens
up you can set it so that it doesn't
open those up at at program launch you
can play around with all your settings
and figure out how everything works
we're not going to get too detailed into
all the different settings and things
that are available we'll get into some
fun stuff so let's jump over to code
stats let's see if we can get there now
code stats dot net and I'm going to do
this on on the hypervisor here so that
we have a little bit more resources
available to us so code stats is pretty
cool it's a free service that allows you
to basically well there you go right
code level up show off it's a free stats
tracking service for programmers and it
feels like this is like the Fitbit of
programming it tracks it tracks
everything that you do and in a
completely like it's not sharing my code
it's not taking my code it's just
keeping track of my what I like how much
I code and then gives me points based on
that so I can actually bring up my own
profile and and we'll see that in a
couple of moments time but first of all
let's let's get logged into to code
stats here I'm going to jump over to
another system so that I can grab my my
password which is super secure so let's
bring her in so my user profile is
called balled nerd I'm gonna login well
bald nerd there we go case sensitive
usernames okay so there's my profile so
if you go to code stats net slash users
slash bald nerd em as we determine just
now it's case sensitive you can see my
stats for today and so the oranges today
and the green is previous days so you
can see that I am currently level two on
PHP level one on JavaScript you always
start at level zero CSS CSS I'm still at
zero shell scripts I'm at level one so
I've leveled up a couple of times there
and I've been programming on their
system just since December 13th
so hey game on game on how do we do this
how do we make it so that we can
actually start tracking our stats it's
surprisingly easy now that we have our
Adam editor installed so we're gonna go
to machines once you've created and
logged into your code stats account and
down here we're gonna create a new
machine so this is going to be called
slow virtual machine and we're gonna add
that machine and that's going to give us
an API code for that machine so we're
just going to copy that to our clipboard
okay and then jump back to that machine
and in Adam we're gonna hit ctrl , and
that's going to bring up our settings
window and in the settings window you're
gonna see packages at the left hand side
here so let's head on over there right
okay haven't installed it yet so we're
gonna jump over to install my mistake
yeah oh did he say that just way to go
yeah who said it first me or Garvey it
was Garvey by it it was it Garvey Oh
Garvey you're women
you gotta women by a point all right so
in install let's try it again here code
- stats - madam enter now it's searching
thank you very much Garvey there it is
okay so let's install that there we go
okay so now that code stats - Adam is in
we're gonna hit settings don't worry you
only have to do this once
look it's looking for an API key all
right so I'm gonna jump back there I
want to just make sure that I've got
that API key in my clipboard go to my
machines jump to the slow virtual
machine grab just the key itself with no
additional spaces or anything like that
there it is in my clipboard and we're
gonna add that to the system no it
doesn't copy from virtual machine let's
see if we can turn on clipboard sharing
did it
let's just go bi-directional what are
you giggling about who was first
it was Darby no come on two points for
garbey come on now yeah it's kind of the
Garvey show thank you for your
interaction I appreciate that
okay so with shared clip for it on you
jerk it works okay so there we go
there's no Save button or anything like
that there's nothing else I need to do
it's done I can close that and there we
go so now code stats is indeed tracking
my slow virtual machine but it's not
showing there yet because I haven't
actually coded anything so let's get
coding what do you want to do let's
create a PHP file so we're going to
basically tell the system that this is a
PHP file by saving it as a PHP file
let's just throw that onto our desktop
and we'll call this test dot PHP and
let's do what we said we were going to
do
hello equals I know this is incredibly
lame and we'll go we want to just echo
it just for the record I actually like
this is my level this is actually just a
little bit above my level when you're
like this is incredibly lame I'm like
wait hello so we created a string it's
not a PHP tutorial nor should this be
considered one okay oh we're gonna say
hello dot work and add a comment by
Robby I'm not sure if there's a
underscoring you see first or not is
there the syntax highlighting tell me
know us first you see first
oh that popped up you see yes no there's
definitely not
I love how PHP throws you for a loop
sometimes with that so now that I've
done some stuff there at least I've got
a PHP file gone and you see my slow
virtual machine has now gained me 64
points Oh B dagger B there you go so now
I'm climbing I'm climbing now so I'm on
my way to a level four as far as my
points goes so you know what it's a lot
of fun it's a text editor but with that
addition of code stats we've got a
little bit of competition going on a lot
of fun to be able to track your your
progress and do it that way so that's
something interesting that you can do
with Adam but looking at the editor
itself so let's get a look at it we've
got some cool features like you see how
when I do echo you see first which is
uppercase first first letter
and I hit bracket it creates a closing
bracket okay okay so then I can start
going hello and then when I click on the
when I when I'm currently cursor Don
that closing bracket notice how it has
put an underline on my opening bracket
so that I can see that that's the
bracket that is part of that so so if
I'm creating a function as I was
mentioning before and notice it did some
kind of auto complete there so now I
have two closing brackets whoops because
I had closed it myself so you need to
watch out for that kind of thing and
that's why I don't like automation when
it comes to closing brackets and stuff
and let's go you know whatever alright
so we can create a function out of it
but then when I click on that when i
cursor over that closing bracket that
closing brace I can see the the opening
brace up here is underlined right so
let's look at how we can kind of change
that behavior let's again hit control
comma to go into our settings and then
we can go into core and oh no you know
what I'm gonna go into packages here and
we're gonna do a search for bracket and
you see the bracket match were there
let's go into settings and we can change
the behavior so that it doesn't
autocomplete everything like if we
wanted to stop Auto completing brackets
I can actually turn off that feature
while still leaving the the highlighting
in place Auto completes smart quotes
which can be equally annoying to me so
that's where if I add a quotation it
will add a closing quotation wrap
selection in brackets you know you might
leave that on or turn it off depending
on your preference but it allows you to
customize it quite well and then we can
add plugins to to change the way that
the brackets look the way that the theme
looks if you want to change the theme
what other text editor gives you this
kind of customized ability so if I want
to change say I want to go to the base
16 tomorrow dark highlighting so that's
now changed the highlighting colors of
my text editor in atom
so that looks pretty sleek and you can
actually install and download more
themes and all kinds of things so let's
do a search for bracket for example and
you're gonna find and this is really I
mean this is a very very basic tutorial
you'll find this as a hackable text
editor there's so much stuff that you
can do to customize atom and make it the
way that you want it to be let's let's
find one that okay here's one that
animates the bracket highlighting this
one provides an obnoxiously fancy
animated bracket matcher that sounds fun
so I'm gonna throw that on there and I
can always disable it I can always
reenable it or change the settings
however I want to do it so that one's
going to actually require that we still
have our bracket matcher enabled the
plugin that we were just configuring but
it's going to change the functionality
of it change the skin the style of it so
even if you didn't find a package or
feature that you like you could write
one and install sure if you know if you
know the this is no js' I believe so if
you if you know how to code for it then
yeah absolutely
and that's part of the idea that's part
of the brilliance of atom is that
they've built it so that it is something
that you can add features to and
something that all these folks have
added features to and and they've made
it so that it's it's easily accessible
through their own kind of installation
process so now that I've installed that
you'll see see how the brackets have
changed now it's no longer an underline
it's this highlighted thing oh okay
right so that stands out very very well
for me I like that I do too I don't find
that obnoxious ly annoying at all I find
that's kind of nice so that's you know
that's Adam in a nutshell as far as
getting an install getting it up and
going it is a text editor it's it's got
syntax highlighting for all your popular
languages and it's gonna
probably functioned very very well for
you give it a try see what you think
some folks are like oh it's no js' I'm
not into that I'm I'm like it works
great
you know I it runs on Windows Linux and
Mac so I'm happy if it runs well even on
my dreadful virtual machine it performs
quite well and I love that you can add
things like code stats check them out
code stats net and get yourself signed
up and add your computer to add them and
and and then once you have get into our
community send us an email if you like
live at category-five TV tell us what
your profile is I'm bald nerd with
capital beef capital n and you can kind
of compete with me throughout the week
and see how how each of us does I think
we'll have a lot of fun with that all
right
that's Adam from Adam dot IO check it
out exciting text editor but hey I'll
give it that
[Music]
