this is this is me at work and in my
business okay hello oh hi how are you
good and you good good I'm sorry I
didn't I didn't catch your first name my
name is me me me that's an interesting
name where are you from from here okay
yeah from here me from here okay so I've
I've made a note now so that as the
conversation is going on because I want
to be a personable salesperson and and I
don't want to be just another
salesperson so I'm referring to you as
me yes and from here and and you know
how's the weather here and and you know
these so having these discussions and so
I'm taking notes with every phone call
every and I take a lot of phone calls so
as the call comes in I'm taking quick
little scratch notes write those scratch
notes our one-off stuff that I don't
need to keep that I don't actually use
that I don't need to take you know and
scan into my computer or anything like
that they're just one-off things so that
I can be a better salesperson so that I
can be a better and when I say that not
to be salesy but to be even more
personable because I want to be that
person that is that I genuinely care
about you calling me about your needs
right so I want to I want you to feel
that hey I care all the time I go
through notepad after notepad at work to
important information in the moment that
I need to refer back to quit but then I
have to shred it because I work at a
clinic and it's patient confident like
if there's a name on it it's
confidential I need to shred it so not
only am I wasting paper but I'm also you
know spending time shredding yeah
exactly okay so here's my scenario so I
do this and I and I scratch these notes
and then I take another call and I
scratch more notes and then I take
another call and I got more paper and
I'm scratching these notes and at the
end of the day you know it's it's ten
minutes past the end of my shift I'm
still on the phone phone calls over and
thanks have a nice day and I'm out the
door and you know cash out and go right
then the next day I'm adding more notes
more adding more notes and then all of a
sudden I'm like oh my goodness this
stack is like this
I don't know whether any of that is
important so now okay I'm gonna just
phone's ringing I got to keep going I
gotta keep going right it's taking more
now it's taking more notes stacks
getting bigger finally I get around to
going through and I realize wow all this
stuff is just one-off scratch notes so I
don't need any of this I'm going through
oh here's a paper that I do need right
and going through the stack and I just
wasted maybe an hour or more okay doing
that but then I've got a stack of paper
like this right so under my desk I keep
a box so I'm doing this as to actually
test the theory under my desk I keep a
box for recyclables okay for shred and
that box is entirely full after just six
months right okay entirely full so
you're talking a heavy box that's full
of eight and a half by eleven pieces of
paper right that is just scratch notes
just scratch notes Oh which are
recyclable though all of which are
recyclable but it's now a box and I mean
yeah the environmental impact sure Ferno
right yes right but really it builds up
and it builds up and builds up and now
I'm back to building up building up
building up now that's under the desk
building up building okay so let's put a
stop to that ladies building so let's
get some e paper so I picked up two e
paper tablets okay to test rights and my
theory was okay if I have a small pocket
one I can put this in my shirt pocket at
work and I can take this to my meetings
and I can scratch notes at my meetings
perfect okay that's how much you pay
attention your meetings tiny little Oh
for sure I have an amazing memory if I
just scratch notes my scratch notes are
just a bullet point and that's an entire
paragraph is it genius this is not no
but but that was okay so this one I keep
on my desk beside my phone now I've been
doing that for about two weeks now okay
I have no paper on my desk none right
not a one right because when I finish my
notes yes and then the call is complete
I push the button and it's clear I'm
getting myself one of these
absolutely okay and here's why okay I
just went for a team building in night
at an escape room and they had one of
these in the escape room and I was the
note-taker
and so when you were finding out you
know clues and codes and trying to
decipher things I was using it and then
when we figured out that step I would
clear it and then start again right and
I loved it those notes anymore right
somebody said to me well okay so you're
taking these phone notes right how do
you now transfer that to the computer
how do you now do something with that
and I said I don't need to know these
are my scratch notes now at the end of
the day I look over it and I see all
these and I scratch things out because
it works with my fingernails so let's
actually jump in here so that I can I
can show you this let's see I've got a
camera over here that will give you a
little bit of a better view so I can
take my notes here and I can actually
scratch them out with my finger so if
I've got a note I can cross it off like
that with my finger nice and easy I
don't even have to get the stylus out
okay and then to clear it I just hit the
button and now it's a clear tablet so if
I'm taking my notes so I've got my notes
here and then at the end of the day I've
got maybe one that is not scratched out
so I clear it and then I rewrite that
one at the top of the list right so I've
got a note here that says Jeff call and
now I know tomorrow that that's the
first thing that I need to do right and
then when I'm done that so this thing
gets full full full by the end of the
day and then I push that button and it's
clear again it seems like such a simple
thing but it actually works you need I
remind you sits on my desk beside my
phone not a single piece of note paper
right okay so you have the two different
sizes one for your pocket one for your
desk
yeah have you found that one is more
usable over the other okay so here are a
couple of things that I've learned and
things that I would look out for as
you're shopping now we do carry these
and I've got a selection in our shop if
you go to cat5 dot TV / E paper you'll
be able to check them out but here's
what I would show you this one is a
little bit larger and it
one feature that the little one does not
sighs so he also is stylist watch this
so no they both have a stylist okay they
all come with a stylist I don't see this
task
oh so it's it's held in their fancy yeah
yeah so I'm gonna right away so here's
these are incredible notes I can't write
upside down that's what it is no medical
script I'm gonna push the button ready
it's not working right right because
this one has data lock so that I can't
accidentally bump that because there's a
little tiny switch right here that I
can't rip at the beginning of the day
just to make sure that I don't
accidentally bump that button now at the
end of the day I can flip that switch
hit clear and it does it okay this one
here this one does not have a lock
button so no matter what if you
accidentally hit that button which I
have done because this is meant to go in
my pocket it's not ideal so you
definitely want to be more careful with
this one this one's got the lock so I'm
not kidding this would be super super
helpful at work I was perfect right oh
yeah
well people come in and they start
talking to you and you just jot down
boom boom boom boom or they're coming up
they're approaching and you say to your
coworker Oh what's her name again
Oh Lucy right exactly I mean it's just
sitting on your desk oh hi Lucy
right usually build customer service and
report exactly and usually it's things
that I don't need long term so I usually
end up writing something and then when
it's done I just scratch it out ya know
even as Claro paper laughs that is
needed that is the thing so for myself
with my job yeah I can't have short term
paper well that's not true I could I'm
sure that a lot of my notes yeah even if
it's just a simple phone call goes into
a file for long term information your
government so this would be totally
useless from unless there is the ability
to download it right these don't have
that's right that's right okay so for
long term use not such a great option
but for short so it's not what it's for
at all
so with this so I scratch things in and
if there's anything that I still need so
for a meeting for example these are my
notes so these are my scratch notes and
then I sit down the very first thing I
do when I sit at my desk is I set that
down and I type out the long form of my
scratch notes right and I email them to
the person I have the meeting with Ryan
I say thanks for meeting with me here
are my notes these are the things that
we discussed these are the things that
were we're going to be doing and this is
what I need from you this is what you
need from me and then clear bright so
and there are scenarios where this is
not ideal of course yeah of course but
for me and in this in again in my
environment it works perfectly so I'm
really really pleased with it it has
served its purpose if if if if it's not
clearing they do have a small battery
and like a like a watch battery some of
them have watch batteries some of them
have like a cr2032 so you just have to
change that battery and it will still
work even without batteries but it will
not clear if it doesn't have batteries
right okay I want you to see something
here because I have a camera on my phone
so there is no ability to plug this into
a computer or Wi-Fi it for printing
purposes
correct correct because nothing like
that it's a strictly you say clear it
right on it clear it I want to see you
you've drawn a wonderful picture there
so I am an artist now I'm gonna be
really clear with this because it's a
question that I see it is kind of an FAQ
on Amazon they are not at all
illuminated okay okay so you cannot just
like normal paper you can't use them in
the dark it doesn't work right okay but
if you do take a picture and you want to
use it because OCR you can just take a
picture and yeah just email yourself
yeah they were fine so you can get you
can get these there are only 15 bucks -
maybe 25 bucks for bigger better ones
yeah they're cheap and you can get them
at cat 5 dot TV / e paper I think in in
my case absolutely worth the fifteen
dollars the disc washer because now my
desk looks neater I
better I feel decluttered and I feel
more organized right yes it's a good
thing I like it
[Music]
[Applause]
