all right tonight we are looking back at
our secure backup Drive now I want to
reiterate we use this Kingston
DataTraveler USB Drive just for the sake
of the demonstration my actual reason
for choosing this is because it's only
16 gigs I'm stuffy so it's hard to say
16 gigs
how are you season it's only 16 gigs so
it was really really quick to pull
together a presentation we didn't have
to wait to format a terabyte drive kind
of thing so that's my reason for
choosing it but you may be using an
external hard drive you may be using
something over SATA it could even be an
internal hard drive that you're that
you're doing this with it doesn't really
matter but for our demonstration we're
using this USB drive I just want to be
clear that it can be anything as long as
it's a partition in your Linux system so
tonight what we're going to learn as I
promised last week is how can we now set
this up so that it is accessible on our
system without having to constantly
enter the password so what it boils down
to is hey we want to backup our server
for example a good example from this
perspective we want to have a drive that
we can back up all of our server files
to and then unmount it take it somewhere
put in a safety deposit box so if it
gets stolen along your data sticks me a
lot of video because of category 5 right
hawza box well it's just an example let
me do the example thing here Jeff so I'm
put these out and someone's going to go
oh yeah that's a good idea because you
know here's why you've got all your
family photos on this you've got them on
your computer and you feel confident
that hey I've got two copies and now
it's my computer fries I'm safe right
and the house burns down and you don't
ever want that to happen obviously but
having this somewhere else is a really
good plan right if it's well away from
everything else so now so looking at the
server idea if I have a server set up
that I want to back this up on my Linux
server that's my backup and it copies
all the files over and then I can take
it and it's encrypted so if someone
steals it or it gets lost they can't
open the file so it's still person
that's still private but the thing is is
if I plug that back into the sir
ever maybe it doesn't have a monitor
right and I can't type the password or I
can't do those kinds of things I want it
to automatically mount to that system or
at least be able to just to go sudo
mount - a and it will mount it and I
don't have to manually enter the
password every time when connected to
that server but then still have it so
that if I checked it from that take it
home plug it into my home computer I
have to enter the password there right
for safety reasons right so tonight
we're going to learn how to take this
and make it so that we do not have to
enter the password on our system that
could be the server that could be our
tiny little notebook or whatever it is
Jeff I'm sorry we are going to have to
look at some Luke's dumps tonight you
know what I think I got out of the right
system line you got it okay yep you
watched back and you laugh hysterically
a couple times to be sure the kids I
showed the kid yes I showed my wife
I spent time just having giggles to
myself hot still like four or five times
we all wash it yeah I showed get it out
of my system because I knew we were
going you're going to be talking about
yes like desensitize yourself I showed
Dave and he's like I need to spend more
time on the show like he wants to come
watch live now and every time he comes
I'm so nervous I never say anything like
oh yeah oh yeah it was so much fun yeah
okay but it's out of my system we're all
good
so that said if you haven't seen it yet
this is part two and it is very much
part two if you have not seen part one
yet please go back I've got the the link
up there if you're watching on YouTube
or of course you can go to our website
category five dot TV and you can watch
episode number five oh five make sure
you do that first okay otherwise none of
this is going to work none of it's going
to make sense
so get your saying is this is the
episode that's looting wa2 2.0 number
two nigga link step number two me a sec
okay here we are on my computer you can
plug in the USB flash drive here and it
should ask me for the password great
right I'm going to say forget password
immediately because we don't want to
have to log out every time here on the
air so I'm going to enter my password
and if it all went well there we go
no typos tonight my friends okay so what
I want to do
was make it so that I no longer have to
do that I don't want to have to enter a
password every time I plug it into this
computer so let's see what we can do
here so bring up our terminal we're
doing everything to do with this
particular tutorial in our Linux
terminal cool so I'm going to create I'm
going to create a super user login by
typing sudo su on my debian are on my
Ubuntu system on Debian it would just be
su as we learned last week so first of
all if you go into slash route you see
there's nothing in that folder there
might be I don't care but I just wanted
to show you that there is currently on
my system nothing there I'm going to
create something now I'm going to
actually create a random key file so
it's a big long crazy binary string
that's going to be used as a key
literally like an actual key to unlock
this drive and we're going to add that
sugar cookies like that on the screen
may all I don't know maybe we'll see it
depends on your GUI but we're doing this
in the terminal Jeff oh yeah all right
so we're going to create that file so
we're going to go DD that's like disk
destroy or disk duplicate or whatever
you're doing with it it can do both in
file equals slash dev slash random
pardon me dev slash u random because we
want it to be ultra random actually does
not mean that it just is a good way to
do it
oh good way to remember write ultra
random it's the better randomness okay
so out file oh pardon me Oh x equals and
we're going to go I'm in the root folder
but just for the sake of being accurate
/ root slash and we're going to call
this my USB dot key let's just do that
now we're going to say BS how much BS do
we want this file to have a lot of BS
yeah we're going to give it a whole lot
of BS
that's 1024 is what we're going to do
and then the next count equals 4 and
then hit enter and what that's going to
do is is actually going to generate
a thousand 24 bits of data within this
file check it out I'm going to cat it
USB key it's already created it was
instant so you see how much gibberish
that is that's actually our key so good
luck remembering it
good luck typing that in if you're
trying to hack into my flash drive I
don't even know how to pronounce those
boxes yeah you know like something that
you would actually put on the news desk
- yeah you had gesture pronounce that
tonight he does things like that I hope
you can get that yeah that's the name of
the guy who invented it so with that key
now we're going we learned last week at
the end of the set of the show that we
have when we create a Luke's dump right
crypt setup
Luke's dump slash dev slash SD I'm
assuming this is still s DB oh I may
have to I unmounted it so it may be
I may have to unplug it and plug it back
in again because the dev is actually
gone
LS dev / SD star now as TB one is there
so okay so if I do a Luke's dump sorry
Jeff so like I said setup it's out of my
system is it okay good good he's not
snickering we don't you're holding
something in your hand and you're
squishing it
no no it's I have to fidget I'm a
fidgeter so are my USB M I think that's
your fidget spinner thank you yeah it's
like yeah shape setup Luke's
dump remember that from last week I do
remember that
do you capital D and slash dev slash
SD be one enter okay so what we learned
at the end of this segment last week is
that we've got key slot 0 that is the
actual password for our device that's
when I plugged it in it ask me for a
password that's key slot 0 key slot 1 is
currently disabled so what I want to do
is I want to actually add my key file
which I've just created USB key - key
slot 1 the way I'm going to do that
is crypt setup remember I am super user
right now
Luke's ad key dev /s db1 in my case it
may be different for you don't forget
that okay and then the key file is route
/ USB dot key enter this is asking me
for my existing password now because
guess what
encryption is not going to let me add a
key file that allows me to decrypt the
drive if I don't already know the key
right otherwise where's the security
someone said in on some forums who said
I've lost my password can I add a key
file so that I can open the drive well
you lost your password so how how secure
would it be if that was allowed right
because then there's no security at all
anyone could just add a key file and
boom they open your drive just a little
bit of know-how so this is a lot more
secure than that enter your existing
password I only have the one so that's
why any existing password is the
password right so now it's actually
uploading into the headers of that
partition that key file so now if I do a
Luke's dump you see key slot 1 is now
enabled so I can now open that drive
decrypt it using either of those 2 key
slots my password is key slot 1 0 and my
key file is key slot 1 so those are both
now attributed to that drive I can open
it with either or okay so now what I
need to do is I need to you've heard of
a UUID a unique identifier for a drive a
partition we need to know the unique
identifier for our luke's partition our
encrypted partition so the command is a
little bit different it's not VLK ID
instead what we're going to do is crip
setup luke's UUID slash dev slash SD b 1
and that gives me the unique identifier
for this particular drive so I need to
grab that I'm lucky because I'm actually
in a suit sort of
a pseudo terminal window here so I can
actually copy and paste and grab things
into my clipboard because I'm going to
need that there are other ways around
that if you don't have a clipboard I'm
sure you can figure it out you write it
down as long as you're very good at
typing because you're going to need to
put it in verbatim okay so now we need
to edit our Crypt tab notices the Crypt
tab not a FS tab so we need to first
setup that the cryptography decrypts
this drive so that FS tab our filesystem
table is able to mount it automatically
okay so slash etc' slash crypt tab it
already exists so I can just hit tab to
enter it but there's nothing in that
file so I need to type USB in my case
I'm going to call this what I'm actually
doing there is I'm assigning it the name
USB so that's what this is going to be
referred to from now on and then the
device UUID so slash dev slash disk
slash by - UUID just like you'd see in
an FS tab and then I'm going to paste in
the UUID that I copied from earlier and
then the location of the key file so
/root slash USB key now notice it's
called USB and my device is also called
USB that could be anything I want it to
be called it's not related at all okay
and then at the end of the line Luc's
and that's that's all we need write it
out ctrl o and then ctrl X to exit I
could reboot my computer now if I want
those changes to take effect to my crypt
tab but I can also just start the the
drives as well and that's going to make
it it's going to make it happen without
having to reboot so crypt setup no it's
not crypt setup actually this time it's
crypt disks start
USB is what I call this one crypt disks
underscores start
there we go crypt disks underscore start
USB so now USB is in fact started so if
I go let's just go into CD slash home
slash Robbie that's my home folder I'm
going to make a folder make derp and I'm
going to call this one USB decrypted
just so that you know what what it is
you can call that whatever you want it
to be you might call it backup for
example so now I'm going to go into that
folder we've learned this command before
but watch what happens this is a folder
on my dry on my computer and it doesn't
currently have anything mounted so if I
touch something now that file exists so
I don't want that to be the case because
if I accidentally write something to
that folder while the drive is unplugged
and unmounted it's going to then make it
so that it can no longer necessarily
access the mount point or I'm going to
get confused thinking that it's mounted
that it's not because there looks like
there's files so instead I'm just going
to make it so that remove that test file
that I created so the folder is empty
I'm going to go CH attr plus I dot and
the dot represents current folder
because that's the folder that I'm in so
it did nothing to the folder but watch
what happens if I touch test again
setting times of TAS no such file or
directory LF there's no file it made it
so that I cannot create files in this
folder now once I mount the drive on it
now I'm going to be able to place files
on the drive because it's not going to
have that chatter okay so let's open our
FS tab this is where things get fun
folks FS tab here we go so now we're
going to be using our our mapper that is
called USB so we don't need to know the
the UUID anymore that's all done through
crypt tab now what we're going to use is
the mapper slash USB so it's going to be
a little bit different here so we're
going to in our line here flat you can
comment if you want but I'm just going
to go slash dev slash mapper slash USB I
keep wanting to type backup because
that's usually what I call it
and then where I want to mount it so
we're
slash home slash Robbie and this is
going to be different for you
USB decrypted I believe I called it and
then space ext3 is I believe what we
formatted it last week ext3 and ext4
interchangeable so it's not going to
hurt anything if I got it wrong between
the two that's okay and then here's
where things get a little bit complex
folks defaults alright that seems pretty
generic no fail that one's important to
me the reason is if this drive is not
presently mounted to my system and I
reboot that system if I don't have no
fail in the mounting line on the FS tab
it's going to keep trying to mount that
drive and it's going to hang up the
system and it won't be able to boot it
may timeout after a thousand minutes or
something but you don't want to have
that happen so no fail says you know
what if it's not connecting just move
along folks move along and so that's a
good thing to include on the line then
comma RW because we want it to be
readable and writeable comma user comma
X system V dot device - timeout equals
five do you notice that that works
alongside of the no-fail as I was
explaining and this says hey if it does
not connect within five seconds move on
thank you very much and we do not want
to scan it so we're just going to put
zero spaces zero okay hit ctrl o to
write that out and then hit control X
and then type mount - a keeping in mind
that again I am still super user so I
can just press can mount - a I don't
need to use sudo and now I'm going to
hit enter this is the moment of truth
folks are you ready for it we need some
yeah ting music here here we go
did nothing absolutely nothing no I did
something because there was no error
okay he was joking
that was a joke
NLS nothing it thank you
I'll be here all night ah touch test no
such file or directory okay so it's not
mounted mount let's see what's happening
dev slash mapper / USB mounted as ext3
on Robi
USB decrypted that looks right you mount
USB decrypted let's look at the
permissions here root root okay mount -
Bay nothing changed there we go i
rev1980 was my my host here what was
different about this time when i mounted
it versus the first time tonight did you
catch it
no and i plugged in the USB drive the
first time what happened it asked her
password ask for a password when I typed
mount - a what happened there was no
password will pass my requirement my
friends yes to the cheat sheet yeah
cheechee oh bloody alright so there you
have it folks so that drive is now all
set so now CD dot u mount USB decrypted
now if I look in there there's not going
to be any test file okay so now I'm
going to physically remove the drive
okay and we're going to plug it back in
to my computer error unlocking that's
interesting I wasn't sure what was going
to happen from the GUI perspective
interesting so I think the GUI in this
particular case kind of messes with the
drive let's take a look here
wrong FS type what will be formatted
last week the xt for maybe actually yeah
I think it was Noel was the xt3 was a
three yeah so let's just see here so it
doesn't want to mount it in the GUI oh
you know what I did you didn't take a
look stump I didn't need to but what I
didn't do is I didn't stop the
cryptography on the drive and I
unplugged it so we got to think we got
to think in terms of now there's two
parts to this
we've got cryptography and we've got
mounting like that as a drive right so
what I need to do is crypt disks
underscore stop USB you mount okay so
now now that that's done I'm going to
just you mount just in case I don't
think it's melted not mounted unplug
I've got it unplugged I do plug it back
in now
crip disks oh-oh-oh-oh
I didn't have to start it no it just
popped right up okay let's try that
again folks eject I'm just going to
eject that just going to unmount it just
like a normal USB Drive see this is
what's fun about national it's like
there's a password required in order to
unmount it all because it's route
obviously there we go okay can i okay
cancelled cancelled cancelled all right
let's close everything there we go we're
back at square whoa I'm having a camera
guy there's the flash drive okay we're
going to take this now after our
two-part demonstration and I'm going to
plug this in to the computer in three
two one it's in there yes y'all
there's my test file did not ask for a
password and we're good to go so now
this Drive anything that I put on this
Drive now it didn't ask me for a
password on my computer but it's going
to ask if you plug it into your laptop
Sasha it's going to ask you for the
password you're able to open it
very cool there you have it folks I hope
you enjoyed this this two-part series
this is a great way to protect your data
I always fear you know if you're doing
backups if you're keeping private stuff
and it doesn't have to be private like
you think about private and it's you
know private secret stuff well no I
don't want someone getting their hands
on a drive that's full of my family
photos it's kind of cleaner right like
it's not there's anything there it's
what it's kind of creepy well Platt I
don't mean you don't want anybody to be
just taking up a drive and checking to
see what's on it so you might as well
you know and and this way I don't have
to really worry about what's on it like
it may have a spreadsheet with some of
my passwords in it it may have a
spreadsheet that has some accounting
data or something like that and I just I
feel a lot safer now that my drive is
fully encrypted so it works on my USB
flash drive perfect it
works on your external USB Drive it
works on your internal hard drives it
works on your eSATA removable drive that
your hot swap and it works on anything
that you're going to be storing your
data on on Linux check it out
[Music]
[Applause]
