welcome to category five technology TV
I'm Robbie Ferguson and I'm joined
tonight by sasha Rickman and Shizue
Yamaguchi is back with us again for the
second time in about a year and when she
was here last time we talked about meri
condo and the life-changing magic of
tidying up a book that has really
revolutionized the organizational system
in my house and she's gonna take that to
the next level I believe tonight and
show us how we can take that
organizational skill learn from that
book and translate it to our desktop
computers our laptops our technology
don't wanna miss out stick around
this is category five technology TV
[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 TV slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash ia IB
welcome to the show this is category 5
technology TV episode number 563 563
weeks of category 5 TV
save that one it's not gonna talk about
that power was years ago we were here we
were here but power was out and then the
following no that was three weeks ago
and then in the following week the
internet wouldn't work
am I getting on LTE so we have a new
internet tower on our roof providing our
internet tonight
which is fantastic so not only is it
faster and more reliable it's got
unlimited bandwidth and Michel said
wouldn't you guys like to maybe bring
back backstage pass and we did yes so hi
backstage pass it's actually front stage
pass so you see the white camera over
there I see yeah and they can see us so
that is our second stream so that you
can kind of see behind the scenes even
when we're off the air and things like
that it's kind of fun and tonight is a
bit of an experiment to see how it works
Big Brother just putting in the humour
I'm trying okay I try just throw dark
spin on it what I'm using is now Michael
will be interested to hear about this
because we were talking on patreon about
you know I need to get a camera to do a
backstage pass because the last time we
had backstage pass was at our previous
studio in season 7 so with this what
what I've done is I've taken that camera
that you remember from cat5 dot TV slash
PTZ
so it's a pan tilt zoom camera love this
thing for wow man so it's right now for
our test tonight it's sitting on a desk
and it's pointed at us now ultimately
what we're going to do is mount it on
the wall and it will be our backstage
camera so it's streaming a secondary
stream to YouTube and it's interesting
how I did that
you you want to you want to know yeah I
do I'm such a geek me too I want to know
okay good cue tell us okay so I've got
I've got computers all around and a lot
of them are running Linux as you know in
fact the only ones that are running
Windows are they have to be running
Windows because of our production suite
for for video production okay so on one
of those Linux computers I was like well
how can i stream from an on visca to a
youtube channel with no computer with
like no second Wirecast server for
example right so what i did is i on
linux so it's debian i installed ffmpeg
this is so simple and yet it just
clicked and I was like oh this makes
sense so on a computer that already is
running 24/7 it's just one of our
servers here I installed ffmpeg and I
connected ffmpeg with RTSP to the camera
because you remember when we reviewed it
there's an RTSP live stream always
running on the camera that we are not
using but it's internal so we can watch
it from any of our computers but nobody
outside can watch it it's internal only
right so then ffmpeg now loads the RTSP
and instead of an output file where
ffmpeg you would normally output to a
file i/o output to the rtmp on YouTube
so it's basically live streaming to
itself through ffmpeg and then relaying
it up to youtube in real time low
latency and that is supergroups
fantastically well and virtually free
because that just using hardware that we
already have so definitely something
that I might want to like show you if
that's of interest to you I'm really
interested in taking cameras and making
things like live webcams and and and
things like that so one of my next
Raspberry Pi builds is going to take
that approach and now here's another
thing I can throw at it
that's super ffmpeg live relaying to
YouTube how cool is that
freezy oh did you roll your eyes just
there with our new internet connection I
just want to say thank you to those of
you not only who are patrons in the past
but also who have become patrons and
also some of you have decided to take on
that installation because it did cost a
lot of money to bring it in and I still
got to pay the bill but some folks have
said hey I'm gonna I'm gonna pitch in a
little bit extra here and some a lot
extra to help us get that internet
connection up and running which is
graciously already installed so yes so
thank you to those of you if you'd like
to be a part of that help fund what we
do here
of course our patreon page is
patreon.com slash category-five but if
you'd like to throw a little extra in
the tip jar you can simply go to donate
dot category-five dot TV and there's a
ton of options whether you want to pay
just by credit card just to throw
something in the end of the tip jar
toward that and liebre pay what pay it's
it's a strange word because I think of
Libre libr e ib er a take a like library
but very very pay what do they pay so
what it is is it's kind of like patreon
but without the perks and without the
minimums
you know like patreon it's a dollar a
month kind of thing which is you know
anyone can do that but if maybe you want
to do something different
Libre pay a libre pay allows you to do
any amount that you like and it's
strictly a donation so it's just another
donation platform but it's interesting
because it works on that social model
and you can see how much is being
donated to category 5 at that time and
you can just throw something into that
tip jar and it's a recurring payment
that comes off of your credit card every
time you reach $10 I think it is
something like
that that's simple and easy yeah that's
a cool way that you can support us and
that is now found and when you go to
donate category five TV it's one of the
ways that you can support us affiliate
links really helped to certainly and
it's almost prime day so I know Amazon
is a really big thing and they send me
lots of metallized sixteen yes starts
yeah so that means there's gonna be
incredible deals on Amazon you're going
to want to buy them and it's super easy
just to click the affiliate links and
then yeah you don't have to go to our
website and it's category five TV click
on support us and you'll see our partner
links and if you shop on Amazon anyways
a portion of that sale is going to go to
supporting category five TV yes we're
all volunteers and we do this thing for
free that's right but it does not cost
the free you know what else we do for
free what do we do give you a game
sometimes I know right yeah we still
have some debt effects to veer a few
like I'm thinking I'm looking I just
sent bill his his activation key detect
dead affect to VR and there is I think
only three copies of the game left so
now your email has to be really awesome
to win no it's a random really raise the
bar so email us at contest at category
five TV and let us know who you are
where you're watching from how you're
watching then you'll be submitted into a
draw to win the game and then you can
play with either myself or Dave become
our friends on Steam there you go makes
sense makes sense speaking of being able
to support category five TV just quickly
we have shirts category 5 TV shirts yes
you can go to camp five dot TV slash
shirts to to check those out now you you
started talking I know I just had to
mention the shirts because people are
asking about them dead affect to VR YES
on Steam yes with your VR headset yes we
were getting into the discussion before
the show and you put a stop you're like
no wait this has to be said so as most
of you know I love my vibe love it
and I love my VR games and you're asking
which games I actually play now I'm
incredible at headshots it turns out so
I do play some first-person shooters but
not like a whole time it's called
headshots Wow I'm incredible in headshot
incredible it's like I have like super
accuracy in headshots it's ridiculous
I'm also a vegetarian they're not gonna
be shootin anything for real but then I
also I have like table tennis and I have
a game called audio shield where like
the beat of the music is shown in
spheres that you punch out of the air
but then I have a meditation VR game
that I like or you can pick anywhere
well not anywhere in the world like
anywhere conceivable to go sit and do a
guided meditation that's why meditated
in a cave on the moon one way I've also
like come home sat in my living room and
been just on a beach and the water just
relax up and yeah it's good Dave plays
like Arizona sunshine and fallout 4 8
house of the beach meditation Dave
doesn't play the meditation stuff as
much and then we did get this dirt track
game I can't wait to see it and that
brings me to my point is that I have not
yet experienced modern VR right have you
experienced no what do you mean we went
to the RTO as well went to VRT oh yeah
yeah we sent Henry what do you mean
again Henry had a blast yeah but I
didn't get to go so what do you mean by
modern VR modern VR like I played
Virtual Boy
that's not that's not real well as the
failed RIA yeah yeah no my virtual
reality experience comes out of things
like the early days so VR was the
original you are ahead of the curve
right yeah the very beginning yes yeah
right and so now that it's taken off and
become as realistic as it is that you
can sit and meditate on the moon
in a cave that's right you're going to
get to experience
Lona away like it's it is incredible
dogs in debt effect to like I don't
think they're actually dogs they're like
we're rabid Rhetor legged things but
they just come out at you out of nowhere
and you you flinch and when you crouch
you're crouching behind things oh yeah
have you ever come close to like taking
out your TV hi no because Dave is
careful like your spotter no he
calibrated the system so that you're
always like your main view is pointing
away from the TV oh that's smart
so when dave is spectating on the couch
yeah I've almost hit him and he in turn
has almost hit me he actually wants me
in turn back we were playing a long bow
game and you and he didn't know where I
was sitting but he literally for like 10
minutes was just shooting arrow after
arrow have you ever done VR yes on a few
occasions what have you done I don't
think I could name the specific brands
and all of that stuff but I have done
the Google travel all over the world one
yeah yeah streets yeah so I it was kind
of interesting though was person I did
it with as well visited places that we
had already been so it was really
interesting I had just gone to Florence
for a week my first time traveling Italy
and so I was able to use Google Earth to
visit the very places I was these like
Street view images that have been
converted into 360 view I think like
it's it's very much like a
reconstruction okay so there's not like
people walking around and stuff like
that right I always remember people but
it's like it is like the like the Google
Maps you know when you go into Google
Maps and you click that little person
icon yeah and and then you would like
picture after picture exactly is it like
that yes it's like that yeah I would say
it's a little more cartoonish right
version that I I tried that was last
maybe last fall okay but pretty cool I
had the opportunity to get on another
game just tried so many different games
I think the coolest one was probably a
paint program I was like a 3d paint
program okay and you're really into
creative design and this was the most
well one of the most unique because of
course it was like boxing games and like
shooting games you're like terrifying
for me like zombies coming at me I'm
like no like this is not this is not a
good time but I really liked the paint
one because it was something that I
would never be able to do in real life
mm-hmm like I would be able to do a
video game I might actually I mean be in
a circumstance of war I don't know why
hopefully never but the paint one was
really interesting because I was able to
like paint things in 3d and then
teleport myself to the other side of the
room which was like so cool you ever get
to do that ever right it was really
amazing able to like sorry sweet hilt
tilt brush yes I think yes yeah that one
was really neat and then also I was
actually am able to see an invention of
someone at OCAD use lab and so they have
like a VR version so that you could see
it well they had like a VR setup because
that was part of this particular
researchers thing and it was so funny
because he said Oh like let me just show
you something that I made in like a
couple hours it's like it's not that
great and so we put put this thing I I
had the VR glasses on and it was blood
vessels like it was like the like the
flip being inside a blood vessel in a
giant room and these huge like I don't
know we call themselves blood cells red
blood cells and white blood cells and
they were just it wasn't a lot of them
but they were just circling around and
like moving and I was like that blew my
mind as well because so much potential
well it's just so interesting cuz he was
like oh yeah I took a couple hours and
it wasn't really that I don't think he
was playing it down or anything I just
basically said yeah I just made this
thing and but I was blown away because
that experience is also like when will
you ever see crazy floating something's
just going around
so different like I see stuff like that
and like I think it would like bring me
to tears with the thought that this
could be used for like micro surgeries
and things like that to be able to
immerse yourself to to remove a tumor or
something like that and have robotics
control what you're doing they use for
training purposes they use VR for people
who are doing like helicopter rescues
right so that you can kind of get the
butterfly feeling out you know exactly
like the training for training okay also
use it for therapy in phobias nice pose
yourself in a safe environment in
Toronto there is an amazing setup for
vehicle rehabilitation for people who
have been through tragedies in a car
accident and things like that right
where they're immersed in a vehicle er
scenario that's completely vr but
everything from but it's it's a real car
they're sitting in an Audi with a
steering wheel and everything else and
the rain is coming down in front of them
but they're surrounded in screens and it
could totally be used for that or think
about people who can't travel going back
to your Google Earth VR and so you know
you were there yeah and then you went
there and hey this is cool but imagine
if you were bound to a wheelchair or a
hospital and you could just put on this
headset and I'm in Venice or you know on
a date with my wife somewhere halfway
around the world that's true that'd be
so cool yeah I mean I have to say one of
the interesting things about some of the
experiences like I had a chance to get
on a rocket and like like just like fly
over buildings and it was pretty cool
but what was interesting was that only
certain games for me had like an
emotional impact and like stayed in my
brain like locked in my banks I really
thought flying around on a rocket would
be more fun and it was that first I was
like whoa this is crazy you never done
this before but after a while I just I
don't know it just kind of wore off
maybe I was just like I'm just kind of
flying around
the city and I go this way and I go that
way and there's building this way here's
a tall one here's a short one and then
maybe be more immersing like a game and
also having the element of something you
absolutely cannot do anywhere else
within this known world right like
seeing crazy huge objects or exactly all
sorts of things what does your VR
experience been so far or have you had
any experience or are you like me and
you've played Virtual Boy which was
pathetic selflessly gave someone else
the opportunity to do what you would
have liked to have done so that's that's
even better way to spin it yeah I
allowed Sascha to buy an HTC vive and
then come back it was a news story that
made it happen do you remember yes
anytime we do a news story about a
product Sascha buys it it's tight I just
have to review something really really
cool it's like yeah unfortunate I fell
in love with little gadgets very easily
yes we do need to take a quick break
Shizue and when we come back what what
is it that you do you want to share a
little bit about what you're here for
just briefly before the break absolutely
I'm here to have a good time and I'm
here to talk about the Mary a condo
method I came on the show last year to
speak of it and I want to give a
follow-up presentation regarding how I
con Mary a did my MacBook Pro so can't
wait to hear it stick around
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cat5 dot TV
slash shirts welcome back this is
category 5 technology TV find our
website at category 5 dot TV joined
tonight by Xu Zhu Yamaguchi of course
sash is here as well but she zoo was
here about a year ago and talked to us
about them is it Marie Kondo the Mari a
condo matter a art of tidying up it has
certainly had an impact on my household
and the organization skills of my wife
and she's tried to push these these
lessons that she's learned on me I am
okay I'll admit it have you ever done a
Google search about being disorganized
I have never googled being disorganized
because this changed I figured I was
already my life we have the book my wife
even bought the manga version so that so
that the kids can read it maybe you can
also read it ok so this is how long do I
have
we've got about 25 minutes ok so you
want to really quickly recount what is
this oh yeah
so last year I came on the show and
had read this book the marry a condo is
called the konmari method and the book
title is called the life-changing magic
of tidying up and the basic proposition
yeah the basic proposition of this book
is that you should get your act together
and clean your stuff up however in a
very specific manner so that everything
you keep is something that you feel a
feeling of joy and magic and this
feeling of just like wow this is the
greatest thing ever so you go through
the through your shirts your pants your
everything your books your personal
belongings everything you own basically
you put through that filter and it's not
witchcraft this is like a little Hebe
when it's like oh the you know is it
magic is enjoy I go through my cupboard
in my closet and I'm like okay I lost
some weight a year ago
yeah I'm still losing weight and there
are shirts that when I put them on I
feel ha ha ha and I feel like I feel
really disgusted with myself so I'm like
I need to get rid of these shirts
because they sparked that feeling yeah
when I put them on and and if they're
the only thing that's clean I will put
them on and and so I don't I don't want
that so get rid of them
replenish my well okay robe so it's a
very interesting it's an interesting
topic and I've been thinking a lot about
it since I had the opportunity to
actually apply this method to my
computer so maybe I'll just get started
on that first because this organization
systemization it worked really well with
my computer I do have a caveat on the
method and I think it's an important one
because it helped me to better embrace
being disorganized in certain aspects of
my life and I think it's just an add-on
maybe like an addendum to the book at
the back maybe you know like a Asterix
being disorganized is actually a sign of
maybe a sign of something else
[Laughter]
so honey I'm smart okay so let's go
through the process so first we'll go
through this application to my computer
so have you have you taken what you
learned and applied those principles now
to the technology that you use yes this
specifically something that's talked
about in the book it's not really talked
about in the book but I know that last
year when we spoke about this method you
asked about you know how does this apply
to computers or you know I think Sasha
you actually had a question about you
know would you scan everything that you
really loved and then put it onto your
computer somewhere and I didn't I don't
know if I had the best answer for that
however computers are very I mean
they're interesting things I mean they
have different facets you can put in a
million documents into your one terabyte
computer I guess right I do have a
Windows computer at home and it does
have that capability and I actually
would have applied it to my my Windows
PC however I really don't have to
because I have so much space it's just
it's so straightforward you just type
with a really well maybe maybe what made
you think about doing it on your Mac is
it it doesn't have as much space um you
know what it was I just had some free
time and I was like hey let's just see
what happens if I organize this in a way
that's a little bit more streamlined
okay I can't wait to learn this so I'm
going to switch over to your MacBook
just so the viewers at home can see what
what you're showing here yeah all right
so say hello to my favorite band member
of The Strokes Julian Casablancas he's
being a little unfriendly my apologies
so this is my opening screen and usually
with max in general they have this doc
thing at the bottom and what I did was
usually there's the dock has a long line
of a bunch of things that you can keep
on there but what I did is I minimized
it to the two things that I need so
chrome is on there and finder was it
finder you can't get rid of okay so the
trash
crazily I actually just went through my
trash today in preparation for this oh
yeah because obviously you know you want
to keep your computer apropos you know
do you know what personal documents
showing up so anyway I am deed my trash
and there were 60,000 items that I
deleted decided that this was garbage oh
yeah I put it into my trash I've only
had this computer for a year and I don't
know how I had so much shortage but I
went into like okay I can literally open
up my trash right now and there's a
screenshot that's it she's nice but
anyway I was like 60,000 okay alright so
let's begin at the beginning so I
decided since finder was there I decided
to optimize it so usually and this
information this this concept transcends
the MacBook to Linux Windows it doesn't
matter what type of computer I use yeah
the concepts that she's who is teaching
us today are hopefully gonna work their
way to my Linux desktop as well yeah so
I basically just wanted to make my
computer mine how I use it what I use
the most and so what I did is I just
minimized minimize minimize and I
thought about what elements I use the
most so I just made it the most useful
computer for me and the benefits in this
I'll just say this upfront mmm my
battery life my battery life
my battery life is actually improved
quite a bit
really this is just a subjective thing
but you know how you always because of
programs that are not running in the
background
what it is but I feel like optimizing
your usage of it somehow
I don't and it definitely wasn't because
of all of the items that I had on it
because I just deleted those documents
right in the trash
yeah today so maybe it's subjective but
I really like plugging it in I just
don't do it I don't think I'd do it as
often as I used to and I had had my
computer since last June so I think it's
a pretty decent you know comparison
right I see things like Skype on your
screen for example yes and Skype is not
in the dock bar so I presume that means
it's not actually running it's not which
means it's not using battery yeah right
okay so basically what I did here is I I
set it up so that it opens up on the
applications and I named I renamed I
tried to find a way to put all of the
most used applications that I use up
front and center okay and I really tried
to minimize as much as possible and I
would have put so this is my
organizational system so iMovie I named
one Photoshop I named
one one okay so is this just so that
they'll organize themselves
alphabetically on your screen so that
will show up first so the first thing
that happens when I click on
applications is I'll see one one one one
on one and it was a very it's binary
like a one zero ones that have been a
little fun alternated a little bit yeah
yeah you know what that would it that
would be good and I think I had to
figure out what the system was for max
and how they organized it because I
think a didn't work okay for some reason
or one the ones just worked better so
anyway those are the four the five most
used applications that I do use I would
have put so there's iMovie Photoshop
word GarageBand that should probably be
higher now actually and Skype and System
Preferences is where all the magic
happens I would have tried to name that
with some one combination to get it up
front but they wouldn't allow me to
change things
so that's one of the maybe faults in the
system however it might not be a good
idea to actually lose track of system
preferences right right you're relying
almost exclusively on the icon itself
like the Photoshop icon is how you
recognize that it that I I or one one is
oh yeah for sure for sure yeah yeah but
yeah if you can imagine what Apple
thinks about when they name when they
allow naming or don't allow naming
renaming if you were to lose System
Preferences somehow you named it like
bing bang bang or something like that
like right that would not be good
because if you were trying to change
some kind of setting that was important
you would not know where system
preference was right exactly okay so
this is the thing that I kind of liked I
went through adjusted the doc you know
minimized some of this stuff I
experimented with the doc I don't know
how familiar are you with max oh well
it's very similar to Linux in that you
know with Linux like this to me looks
like matei with with a doc bar okay so
pretty pretty much the same and that's
you know very cool
do they have so basically the doc bar
can be minimized it can do this I'll
show you scale effect genie effect if I
come out of here
there are many different things you can
do with the dock so you can actually
position it in different places oh okay
so I experimented with that I
experimented with the size as well I had
it like this big that was a little too
much what else did I do
I tried doing the automatically hide and
show dock feature as well yeah so this
is a feature and I'll just change the
size of it and make it big so you can
kind of see what happens so this allows
you to use the full screen and anytime
you need it you just mouse over and it
like it shows up for you I don't like
this and I don't know why but that just
was my preference I personal preference
because I don't know I can't immediately
see where it is and it's kind of
annoying to have to do two actions
instead of just one I just on a Windows
machine there's a Windows button that
brings up your Start menu is there
anything like that on a MacBook that you
know yeah not really no yeah yeah that
would be ideal
you could probably search for programs
just like you can search for programs
just like you can as well I just fix
this back okay so moving on this is
actually the one feature that I actually
really like date and time yeah this is
kind of a feature that's just kind of
fun I think so every quarter hour you
can customize a voice to tell you the
time so please hear out those different
voices you can choose there's Karen
or Fiona yeah I asked my favorite is the
youth system voice which is not a very
nice or like what's in a name
I guess you system is my my voice so
it's telling you something it's it's
you're hearing a voice I love Karen name
is Karen so they have an astro this is
your o'clock instead of having a clock
on the screen
well the clocks on the screen but it's
it's a bit of a relief because I'm not
always checking the time mm-hmm so when
I'm using my computer I just kind of get
automatically updated right how much
time has passed
yeah it's actually incredibly non
intrusive to have the time just kind of
told to you and I think in general right
this seems to be the direction of IOT s
in general right with like Google home
and yeah these different devices every
time there's some cookies
yeah just easier sorry we're talking
about Alexa about just reminiscing about
doll houses and cookies alright veña
veña name is veena I am an Indian
English so the organizational kind of
process for you has been not just to
clean up your desktop and things like
that but also to customize your computer
make it feel more like hey this is
cheezer's computer it's meant to work
for you yeah it's very much optimized
optimized to what I like cool and I
think the aspect that relates to Mary
condo is well organization as well your
desktop looks incredibly uncluttered
which I love yes and I and I kind of
envy because mine ends up getting filled
with icons yeah how about you yeah yeah
my simple way around it is I just hide
my icons you hide your desktop icons yes
cuz I like my wallpaper right
my wallpaper at work is a picture from
the balcony where Dave and I had our
honeymoon and it's all palm trees in the
water and I want to see it so I just
hide all my icons and then when I need
to do something like work
I just unhide them find my thing open it
and then I hide them again okay so it's
similar
yeah what do you keep on your desktop
I'm just curious for work like mostly
just like work programs like the
operating suite obligation yes oh yeah
exactly
okay so make sense and then on my home
computer it's literally just all VR
games oh yeah but we we actually have
all of the icons up because they're fun
and Dave will change the the order of
them to like make a smiley face out of
the icons you know things like that what
I tend to do is different from what what
you've what your approach has been in
that I will just create a folder on my
desktop and that's where I put
everything so that my desktop right
looks clean but under the hood there is
actually this mess of piles how do you
like what kinds of why that's how I make
my email look organized many emails and
then I just have created a folder for
every single person who's ever sent me
an email and I'm like wow that goes in
the Ravi folder a single filter that
moves everything into a different folder
and it makes my in book inbox look like
I do things I am very big on redundancy
so I save copies of copies of copies you
use Photoshop so you know what it's like
to have a PSD file and lose your work
and all those layers that you've spent
hours and hours working on to lose that
PSD
you have a ping but your PSD is gone and
now you're you know what do you do so I
have file one dot PSD file two dot PSD
file three dot PSD so they're all the
same thing at different iterations of
the file with various ways of being able
to go back in time but I never ever lose
more than you'd say one sessions work
because I always save as an incremental
number but then at the end of the day I
end up with a folder filled with tons
and tons of these redundant files yeah I
think that's a great system though
numbering it like that because I think I
mean in terms of my organization of
folders this is something I I don't know
maybe I did a number of years of admin
work so this kind of started me off very
early in terms of folder organization
but in terms of actually I have the
reverse problem though in terms of
anything graphic design related or
graphics related nightmare you know five
different you know files name with the
word final in it right if you're doing
graphic design man that's or if you're
using those kinds of file video editing
so weighty right so yeah that's I think
that's an excellent solution probably to
add to that I think the only thing that
can be done if your files are
disorganized the way I do it or have
done it is to clean it up right after
you finish that particular piece of work
because that's when you remember which
ones are which right and after that it's
just a nightmare like after that you
open it up and it's like like thank you
sort by date I can show you my graphic
designer actually see how she does it's
always horrendous ok so this is the the
worst Oh under the hood folks yeah
you're not nearly as bad as me though
that's not mean this is this is because
boy maybe because I haven't done graphic
design too much if you looked at my old
market would be
is it over a lot worse yeah however
contrary to everything graphic design my
other folders are alright so folder
organization know what's what's so you
have the approach of putting a folder on
your desktop I organize everything by
date by date so when I create a folder
it's like today it would be the folder
name would be 2018 Oh 704 - whatever it
is that I'm working on I do that - yeah
so that's that's my project folders and
that's how I do everything right so what
would you do like so I'll just show you
what I have here so I have these are
basically all my document folders hmm
would this look similar to what you
would oh no mine is much longer I'll
show you so basically what I did is
these are all the folders I actually
have used since last year 2017 and the
only thing that I've altered for this
show is the sensitive Docs I created
another and the sensitive Docs really is
just actually any folders that have more
personal things so actually I literally
have one called Docs which is a bit of
my miscellaneous folder and then money
is anything related to money photos of
course photos like Facebook photos
family photos and writing I have you
know my folders 2017-2018 and then I
just I name my documents as you do so
that even if they're altered later it'll
still say 2018 - you know for - April -
24 or whatever so yeah so I think that's
I mean I'll show you some of these
folders but they're like my classes it
looks incredibly organized to me and and
I'm interested to hear I know the chat
room has been has been chatting away I
don't know if you've caught much of it
and I'm sorry that I you know I'm not
really monitoring the chat room very
well tonight
but I think just getting it through
through my mind that hey I need to be
this organized I would love to be that
organized
I would also love to be that organized I
appeared that organized from day to day
don't open them one folder on my desktop
order that you can understand though if
is if it's within your own language then
do you ever lose your what what does no
I don't lose things because I name
things very verbose Li so I'm able to do
a search yeah within file names I can
use find in the Linux terminal and I can
find anything that I'm looking for where
I run into trouble is my projects
transcend the folder structure of
documents graphic design video
production because I'm working on things
like a logo for a video and things like
that so it makes it really hard to
organize in that way oh that's where the
dating really helps organizing by date
okay so when you're looking for files
let's say you're looking for a logo for
a video project that you did last month
how would you go about so for example
there's a category 5 folder on my server
and in category 5 is a breakdown of
every show so technology TV is this show
and within that folder there's graphics
backgrounds animated backgrounds and
things like that video assets and then
they're organized by seasons so season 4
is different from season 7 from season
11 right of course and so I can always
find what I'm looking for that way but
then I do end up with a lot of stuff
well it's really good that you're not
like hey Sasha do you want to organize
my stuff for me oh I would literally
just have one folder and it would be
like I wouldn't think to subcategorize
buy anything we just all be in there
with the assumption that I could go into
there and then click the search bar and
then just search light at random some
words that I know are part of that like
like fork that makes broccoli tastes
like chocolate like I feel like I would
search she actually has that document
right that's the this is right on the
top
I'm sure it's sort of my priority it's a
1:1 chocolate tasting broccoli
exactly I'd be interested to know what
our community thinks and what our
community is is doing to keep files
organized maybe something she's was
shared with us has inspired you to do
things a little bit differently maybe in
in work or at home and we'd love to hear
from you if you could comment below if
you're watching this on Facebook on
Facebook YouTube wherever you are or if
you're watching this on cable TV make
sure you get on to our website
category-five TV and click on contact us
and we'll be sure to share your story
with Xu Zhu and the rest of the
community as well anything any final
thoughts that before because I don't
want to cut you off
oh okay so final thoughts final thoughts
folks can you tell the t-shirt story
sure so when I clean up my space so this
is back to the book the life-changing
magic of tidying up when I was cleaning
on my space the ideas you hold on to
everything that is magic and joyful and
just you is like brilliant to you and I
came across this t-shirt which is a
t-shirt I wear at night and it's so
comfy
you've had that a while yeah I've had it
since Red Bear yeah I bought it I think
at Lara in Japan and like two or
something so it's like 2008 and it's
like my favorite shirt ever like it just
the way it feels when I wear it so I
wear it at night and I actually because
it didn't look good like it's a little
fit it's faded by Nature right and it's
a little bit more a tiny bit more faded
now but I think it's actually supposed
to be this thing it's it's back in now
but basically the idea is that this
shirt I actually threw out with my bags
of stuff because it didn't look good and
I was like I cried I actually literally
cried and this was a hard thing to let
go of
but that's our old mindset of wanting to
get rid of stuff to declutter yeah and
it hurts yeah it hurts it hurt and does
not hurt when I throw away my fat shirts
every object has a different spirit to
it I'm telling you I have a guitar and I
literally I belted it in on my way over
oh yeah yeah I had to I know it's weird
but I can't help it that thing is
beautiful so this shirt I threw out but
I sneakily actually took it back because
I liked it that much and I hadn't
actually gotten to the portion of the
book where Marie Kondo says oh it's cool
to keep like one or two things that are
you know on the sly things that you
really like like a pajama shirt and I
was like cool gave me the thumbs up
I could probably speak more on the whole
on the open portal that that actually
created with regards to disorganization
and messiness and prioritization and the
idea that having a messy room is
actually in some times and circumstances
the better thing to do in my opinion but
I'm not a famous super step what my
authority is based on but for those of
you who are interested in finding out
more about being disorganized and what
that relates to Robbie was exactly right
it is to do with creativity intelligence
it's also to do with being a Brie Kohler
we'll talk about the anthropologist
Claude levi-strauss anyway all sorts of
great things but please do Google search
that because that actually changed my
perspective on things and that's the
asterisks that is a little bit of a
mystery just a Google search away there
you go and we still have the book in our
shop as well at five dot TV slash tidy
how has that just as a final thought how
has that mindset of holding on to
something that you otherwise would have
discarded how is that transcended to
your MacBook and your organization
technologically have there been any of
those files that you might have removed
but have held on to well this is the
miracle of Technology you can actually
be a little more infinite with what you
have you don't limit it to the same
amount of confined space yeah I mean you
can keep all of those shows on your
computer and it's not like a heavy load
unless you can't find it which is
another you know
you imagine it just it just don't dawned
on me like every single Netflix show
will say but on a VHS like could you
imagine if you had that a whole library
or catalog of things you can watch but
as things that would be horrid on a
single VHS like I know I'm talking about
like if you metaphorical be like if you
had VHS tapes for every show right right
likely but now we don't have that we're
like yeah yeah we're minimalists really
now as far as I get all on a computer
and you don't have to have you know
bookcases full of VHS yeah my phone can
have thousands upon thousands of
full-length CDs on it yeah yes and I
think that's the I mean it sounds a bit
messianic it's that's that's a
horrendous word but I mean technology
really has this capability of allowing
us to stay organized focus but also to
allow us to like allow our creativity to
flourish right and and if that means the
manifestation of that is the like a
trillion files which can be organized in
certain ways then that's what it is but
that's the amazing part about it so that
would be my application is creativity
away on on your computers and so that
brings us back to kind of the technology
TV and of things where I need to say
make sure you backup your files folks
yes make sure you've got a backup
because I'd hate to see you lose that
millions and trillions of files that
Shizue has just given you permission to
have on that no can I do a 17-second
absolutely okay because speaking of
creativity I have a little video and
it's literally 17 seconds all right
folks
slow rap making it easier to wrongful
and out the two-syllable in the nick of
time reppin real fast makes it how to
understand google search another lyrics
into service to your fans flow alright
we can't here here in the studio very
cool alright well thank you she zoo for
for sharing with us tonight do check out
the book by mary condo the life-changing
magic of tidying up a cat5 TV slash tidy
it really is a game changer and i know
it sounds kind of silly
it's a tidying kind of thing but it
really works well when your space feels
good to you like if it's not
overwhelming to walk into your home
because all of a sudden you're looking
around and it's just simple it's all the
things that you like and it's organized
it's like your brain can relax when you
get home and then life gets better so so
we've got to head on over to the
newsroom hey Sasha
hello here are the stories were covering
this week in the category 5 TV newsroom
Amazon has purchased pill path an online
pharmacy for nearly 1 billion dollars
adidas warned late on Thursday that
hackers may have taken customer data
from its US web site an experimental
robot with an animated cartoon face has
been sent to the International Space
Station on board a SpaceX Falcon 9
it and Facebook is giving up on its plan
to create drones that beam down internet
connectivity
these stories are coming right up don't
go anywhere Jeff Weston Gemma your
building a brand-new beautiful website
what
aren't you your terrible actor
what does where acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay are you
building a really cool website are you
building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host this is
the category five TV news room covering
the week's top tech stories with a
slight linux bias
I'm Sasha Redmond and here are the top
stories were following this week Amazon
has purchased pill pack and online
pharmacy for nearly 1 billion dollars a
week after appointing a CEO for its
healthcare joint venture with Berkshire
Hathaway and JP Morgan Amazon announced
on Thursday an acquisition that
underscores how it also hopes to have a
more direct and more commercial role in
the world of healthcare in the coming
years the company has purchased pill
pack an online pharmacy that lets users
buy medications in pre-made doses terms
of the deal have not been disclosed by
Amazon but sources close to the deal say
that it was for just under 1 billion
dollars pill pack had reportedly been in
talks with Walmart for an acquisition
but Amazon came along offering more pill
pack has a license to operate in all 50
states in the US but it doesn't seem to
be operational international markets in
the pharmacy OS the system that it
billed that built it built that forms
the basis of the company is a platform
that helps manage patient data and
figure out how to balance medications
together in safe doses for its customers
pill pack was last valued at 361 million
dollars after a round of funding in 2016
this deal is expected to close in the
second half of 2018 it just goes to show
how much they're banking on this being a
success
that they pay like three times its value
well of course it's going to be an
success in that when you when you watch
any amount of TV and you see the
commercials for medications like their
constant so I get that but I also I mean
I have a far more I guess a preventative
health care kind of mindset right so I
worry about people being able to just
order off of Amazon medications that may
or may not be best for them I'm assuming
they'll have to produce some amount of
prescription for some of the right like
their money I would imagine so there
would have to be some medical it's not
even just that it's the fact that Amazon
recently has had that couple that were
charged in the fraud where they were
receiving things and then saying that
they were damaged or they hadn't
received them right and they were able
to scam Amazon for tons of money I can't
remember what the exact figures so now
when you're putting in pharmaceuticals
into the mix and those are sometimes
life-saving and sometimes very addictive
so you're doing that and you're
expecting people to leave the packages
on the doorsteps
I can't yeah and I can't sit in front of
Amazon and control my self right I buy
what Amazon tells me I need to buy right
oh you also probably want to add this to
your car do you know how many people are
falling into that so now when it comes
to medication that's a whole other can
of worms exactly and I know that in
Canada it's different but in the state's
I know well it's not completely
different in Canada to be honest but
doctors do make a lot of money on on
kickbacks for medications that they'll
prescribe right so that changed things
right so then if you're in a doctor's
office and they have a computer right
and they give you a prescription are you
then going to feel more pressure to
actually fill that prescription because
it's
easy versus perhaps going home thinking
about it and think oh wait maybe I can
do that with diet and exercise as
opposed to a pal I wonder too though
because this has to be shipped to you so
you're looking at two day shipping
probably so is this more like for people
who this is just a kind of a rhetorical
question but is it more for people who
are on regular medications things that
are recurring treatments essentially
this is where I I kind of side with Jeff
in that there should be like a human
component to it I like the idea that
Walmart would have bought pill pack
because to go in see a person and that
person will say oh wait no you don't
look like you need this it's gonna you
know maybe take that instead well I
think having a couple of options is good
right and I think the idea of you know
whether medications are healthy or
whether there are alternative ways
that's that's one side of a maybe a
different argument I think this is just
another way of consumption right so in
terms of the scammers you know you have
the proverbial man who grabs like goes
to a doctor you know a doctor could be a
naturopath even grabs like ten sheets of
prescriptions and just does the signing
of that do and you have the same problem
right so because I think this could be
of benefit to people who are taking
medications or who go to a pharmacy
regularly but maybe want a little more
privacy right it would be good for
people who can't travel outside that's
what I was just thinking yeah or infirm
who need their prescriptions filled I
guess the other Amazon story about the
couple that scams Amazon it's just too
recent for me
like it's I can understand that yeah
sure adidas warned late on Thursday that
hackers may have lifted customer data
from its you a u.s. website the
sportswear makers said that personal
data including contact information
addresses and email addresses and
encrypted passwords may have fallen into
the hands of criminals but was able to
reassure customers that neither
financial nor fitness information was at
risk
according to the preliminary
investigation the limited data includes
contact information usernames and
encrypted passwords it said adidas has
no reason to believe that any credit
card or fitness information of those
consumers was impacted the company has
notified law enforcement and brought in
experts to help investigate the breach
which adidas says it became aware of on
the 26th of June after claims by an
unauthorized party implying that the
breach was only detected once hackers
attempted to sell the data this leaves
an as-of-yet unspecified number of
customers at heightened risk of
unusually convincing phishing emails
extra vigilance and changing passwords
is advisable gotcha so that's the fear
when you have a data theft like this
it's like oh well my username I can
change my username what if you didn't
hear the story and you get that phone
call you deal with this every day yes
there's definitely an educational
process that I feel at some point should
be put into schools actually because
that's smart yeah because I think that
the young people as well as people in
older generations even myself going
through cyber security training learning
about some of the basics now what's
considered basic now and in terms of
internet use is not basic from 10 years
ago and it's not basic from 20 years ago
and if they have personal information
about you it can be very convincing yeah
phone call that that's fake email or
that fake snail mail right if they have
your address they can send you actual
letterhead looking you know government
documents yes for collection and things
like clicking on a email that looks kind
of funny or even by accident it it
signals that you clicked on something
and that you're a real person and that
you should be sending more so these
kinds of things are a funny email that
you're just like oh that's kind of funny
you know some scam blah blah blah and
you open it up just for fun it's it's
signaling that you're a real person and
these kinds of things are items that
like for myself especially I've learned
a lot and in the last even even just the
last couple of months
there's so much to know to prevent these
things from happening right with how
often this is happening and it always
says at the end of every story I read
change your password how often really
should I be changing my password hmm
right because I know no matter what
we're all at risk
at some point from some this is adidas
like this doesn't seem like something
that you would even care about but
eventually you have to if I can put one
piece of advice onto that before
answering the question directly it would
be don't replicate the passwords across
multiple platforms so if somebody
compromised my adidas account now we
understand that these are encrypted
passwords but encryption can be
decrypted and as soon as they figure out
the master key they can decrypt that so
then they'll have a database full of
passwords so if you've also used that
adidas password as the example on online
banking or on your email oh oh dear now
they've got access to that as well so
they already have your email address and
now they've decrypted your password
you've used that same password now they
can access your email if it's Gmail
maybe they change your password and then
they do a forgot password on your online
banking to get access to that
you never replicate the same password
across many different plans yes and I
we've done it before where people use
like the password generator or
calculator or there's a formula yes a
password recipe yeah that's gonna my
strategy is to have a recipe for
passwords so that you don't ever you
don't ever write down your password you
write down the recipe for the password
so and I'll refer you back to our
website go to category 5 TV do a quick
search for password recipe and you'll
learn all about that but I think it's a
very valid way to do it so I would look
at something like okay if my desk here
I've got a Bluetooth keyboard I've got
another Bluetooth keyboard I've got a
laptop so I think of a recipe so and the
recipe becomes my password so laptop is
part of the recipe
the actual password is Dell I've got a
counter over here and its name is Tim so
I maybe put my recipe is now laptop
counter keyboard and my password is now
Dell Tim our tech right so I never wrote
down Dell Tim our tech I wrote down
laptop timer keyboard smart so it's a
recipe for that password I'll never
forget it
nobody will ever guess it yeah but it
will even figure it out if they see my
note right this story could prompt
everybody to go ahead and change their
passwords which would be great you
should be doing that often but it's
really important once you change your
password to know your password right and
that's the problem that's really
managers help big time yeah so I have a
master password for my password manager
that is based on my password recipe and
I could tell you my password recipe and
you never guessed my password you'll
never figure it out but that master
password now unlocks all of these crazy
64 digit random strings that are my
actual passwords to Twitter my online
banking all these things yeah so but I
only need to remember my password recipe
right how comfortable are you in that
you don't change your passwords that
often or do you anytime I have an X here
of an exploit
so I subscribe I subscribe to a service
called mi owned and with that service
they will email you if any of your
information is ever owned and and so
it's a helpful service and so I get an
email when oh okay
LinkedIn just got hacked and my email
address password and some other
information has been exploited so now I
go on to LinkedIn and I changed my
password but my password on LinkedIn is
completely separate from everything else
right I never had to remember the
LinkedIn password because it's randomly
generated by my password generator and
I'm just memorizing my master password
recipe perfect
thank you and Robbie you probably
wouldn't be able to do all of those
things if you were a perfectly organized
person I don't think well something in
there sorry I had my piece I'm just
gonna stop let me just say that that's
just brilliant okay an experimental
rocket dubbed Simon short for crew
interactive mobile companion the device
is intended as an AI based assistant for
astronauts
Simon weighs 5 kilograms here on earth
but in zero gravity it will float and
move itself around using 14 internal
fans it is an attempt to find out
whether robots and astronauts can
collaborate to this end
Simon is equipped with microphones and
cameras that help it recognize Alexander
Gerst the German astronaut with whom he
will work a will work an offline button
has been designed for Simon which allows
girths to avoid having audio strains to
servers on earth during moments of
privacy IBM engineer Mateus Vinayak said
right now our main mission is the is to
support the astronauts with their daily
tasks to save time because time is the
most valuable and most expensive thing
on the ISS Simon which speaks English
was developed by Airbus and IBM for the
German National Space Agency DLR it will
be able to give astronauts instructions
to help them carry out scientific
experiments and will be able to respond
to verbal questions as well okay I of
course love this and already would like
a Simon I ain't zero-g yeah helpful all
these things take me back to the Mars
mission and how this could so easily be
translated to that and I wonder if
that's the direction I bet I wonder
whether or not they could use this idea
obviously not with fans whizzing around
so that there's a robot just floating in
space but in places where people are
typically isolated right so deep-sea
missions so
or you know Secret Service II sort of
things right people where people need to
feel like they have interactions even
maybe prison systems where you really
just need to feel a connect but can't
easily I think that's interesting
because I feel that connection is maybe
I'm a traditionalist I just feel that
the connection part and feeling
connected is is a people thing and that
and that AI creates but I don't know who
knows but the part I do like about Simon
is the fact that it has a face that's
kind of cool I want to see a face
actually it probably is adorable right
and I think the benefits of such a
program is that they can stay real chill
when they're giving instructions I think
that's that's a great benefit right and
and being offline to you that's kind of
nice you know a little bit of privacy
when you're you know maybe having a
stress moment let's say when you're
trying to do a B and C but there has to
be recorded I think that's brilliant
it's very friendly yeah yeah I don't
know that you need to have another
person for a connection I just watched a
hilarious Netflix movie called
Tao and it is I don't want to spoil it
in any way and I don't need you to watch
it but it's great it's about it's about
a house like a completely automated
house and the captive inside of it and
how she bonds with the house Dave it's a
it's good as how it's the sort of
situation where I can see where a I can
take you to emotional places I think
being able to take a eye off of the
phone off of the Alexa devices off of
the Google home and put it into this is
a rudimentary kind of you know mock up
test space station but as I say could
something like this make its way to the
Mars mission when it occurs and and a
tool of information because right in
space travel you're not going to have
access to Wikipedia you know
gonna have access to YouTube where you
can learn how to fix a lawnmower I know
what a carburetor is now but so now take
that put it into the confines of this
box and turn it into something that is a
tool for those same purposes that we use
Wikipedia and YouTube for exactly you
know I think that I wonder and I know
I'm playing a bit of the devil's
advocate here but I wonder though if
like let's say you were going on a space
mission into infinity and let's just say
let's just say you're just gone for a
long time and once you come back let's
say you don't come back then I think
having an AI would be like fantastic
because they can interact with you and
you don't have to worry about you know
the perfection of that interaction
blinding you a little bit to how people
really are which is like a little
unpredictable you know and not just an
unpredictable but human like we're human
we make mistakes so maybe the AI if it
were you know imperfect the way we are I
think that would work okay but a perfect
you know because what I notice for
example when I use Google Maps I go in
the wrong direction and look the Google
Maps person is just like oh just keep on
going along listen just take a left and
it's it's super cool because I'm
basically never making a mistake I'm not
judging you I am making a mistake big
time but it's very non-judgmental it
helps because I'm able to drive calmly
and not worry that I made a mistake but
imagine having interactions consistently
with an AI and everything you say goes
imagine coming back to the planet Earth
and then you know there should be
mistakes as we're human and anyway this
is going probably into lucky girls gets
Simon and it gave Tom Hanks in castaway
volleyball so my final thought on this
one is it because it takes me to how in
2001 Space Odyssey and you don't want
to occur what I like about this is it's
it's autonomous and disconnected this is
something that I can interact with as a
cosmonaut or astronaut and not fear it
taking over my ship or my space station
or the exact reading capabilities right
final thought another Facebook story
Facebook is giving up on its plan to
create drones that beam down Internet
connectivity project Aquila first
announced in 2014 failed to achieve the
long flight times managed by airborne
connectivity efforts from the rivals
including Google in one test Facebook's
craft suffered a broken wing as it came
down into land the company said that it
would instead partner with firms such as
Airbus to continue its efforts to
connect more people to the Internet the
decision means that the closure of a
facility in bridgewater UK that had been
used to build the technology in a blog
post Facebook's director of engineering
Yael Maguire said it's been exciting to
see leading companies in the aerospace
industry start investigating this
technology - including the design and
construction of new high-altitude
aircraft he goes on to say given these
developments we've decided not to design
or build our own aircraft any longer the
project Kela craft had the wingspan of a
Boeing 737 and weighed the same as a
typical family car it was solar-powered
during the day and battery powered at
night and in testing managed ninety
minutes in the air however Facebook's
effort paled in comparison to Project
loon a similar idea using high-altitude
balloons rather than drones it is being
worked on by act the experimental arm of
the Google parent company alphabet
Project loon balloons have flown more
than 15 million miles of tests with the
longest continuous flight lasting almost
190 days in 2017 the balloons were used
by residents of hurricane ravaged Puerto
Rico
so project loon always gets the wind for
me I know wait
Facebook you know how I feel about you
but Facebook it needs to focus on what
it's really great at and it's not
beaming Internet down via drones it
turns out but I I hear some kind of
subtle nuance to what you're saying in
the story in that Google yes
alphabet Project loon yeah
these are all separate entities where
Facebook is Facebook right social media
platform and has its hands in so many
different things I think Google's
approach is going to is they are
successful and unimaginably successful
and I think that approach is part of
that to to to specialize yes and create
companies that specialize within a
blanket of alphabet exactly so I think
initially I'd be sad that this is coming
to a close this is something that we
were really excited about yes but to
know that a big company like Google has
taken over the the acceleration to being
able to bring not stratospherically
they've already done it they already
helped residents of Puerto Rico they
were able to keep those balloons in the
air I remember when we were talking
Sonic's yeah it makes most of it and I
again you know why am I thinking about
Mars all the time I don't know but I'm
thinking about how the balloons can be
you know a connection to earth and you
know maybe get these up in the air I
can't
but drones just don't seem the way to go
and maybe that's what they realized and
said hey drones I mean if you needed
just 90 minutes Internet you'd be fine
so big thanks to Roy W Nash and our
community of yours for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight linux
bye
and for more free content be sure to
check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson and I'm
she's a Yamaguchi aka she's the M she's
the AM sees the day and she's the am
have a wonderful week it's been so great
having you all here with us please
remember to check out our website
category five dot TV don't forget to
search for life-changing magic of
tidying up is that what does come I
directly yes yes on our website category
five TV click on search and you'll be
able to check out she zoos previous it's
time that you were on the show and learn
a little bit more about that have a
great week everybody we'll see you
