one of the things I talk a lot about on
our patreon vlog and certainly with NEMS
Linux is single board computers I am so
excited about the way computers have
gone
we started with like big XT computers
that you know you had to pull out and
and they were massive they were heavy
they had big CRT monitors on them and
now we're into laptops and tablets and
very small form factor computers and
they're quite powerful our phones are
quite a bit more powerful than the
computers that we had 10-15 years ago
right yeah so now taking that technology
so think about a phone and how small it
is in holy cow how can it do 3d games
how can it do such sophisticated
graphics and and really responsively and
then take that technology and try and
transfer it to what's called a single
board computer and tonight I'm looking
at the rock 64 which I've installed an
operating system on I'm going to show
you what this looks like let's see if I
can there we go so the rock 64 you saw
it unboxed here on category-five TV this
is super tiny now I want to give you an
impression as to how small this is I'm
just gonna reach out and touch this just
like that there it is folks I mean this
helps here's cell phone here's your
smartphone yeah thanks Jeff so this is
what type of phone is this a8 alright so
there you go so it's super super tiny
you see the circuit board here and what
I've got connected to it is a full-sized
HDMI now the rock 64 supports 4k at up
to 60 frames per second how beautiful is
that look at the form factor so we've
also got gigabit ethernet
we've got USB 3 and I've actually got a
dedicated USB 3 bus here and I've got
two dedicated USB 2 ports so when I say
that it's dedicated that means that it's
not sharing the the the bus with
say Ethernet okay one of the downfalls
of the Raspberry Pi microcomputer the
single board computer is that it shares
with the USB to its Ethernet so even the
gigabit model the the Raspberry Pi 3
even though it's technically gigabit
they branded as Gigabit Ethernet
it only gets like 300 megabits a second
because it's shared with the USB 2
writes this has completely dedicated
lanes and it is gigabit true Gigabit
Ethernet then we've got a barrel
connector for the 5 volt power and what
I'm running on tonight there are two
hard drive options out of the box
there's emmc which is what I'm running
on I've got a 16 gigabyte emmc card and
under that you can install instead a
micro SD card micro SD is a little
slower for sure and certainly less
reliable emmc is more like an SSD for
single board computers a couple of key
points for those of you who are makers
or want to be makers this has raspberry
pi 2 GPIO s as a matter of fact so we've
got the Raspberry Pi Phi p5 plus and
we've got the the 2 GPIO built into the
rock 64 a couple of other specs for ya
64-bit quad-core CPU it's the a 53 so
it's Adam
it has comes in three different models
so the Raspberry Pi is like it's limited
to and and if you're a Raspberry Pi fan
like me don't misinterpret what I'm
saying I'm not saying Raspberry Pi is
not good I'm just saying let's let's use
something that is very familiar to us
and compare so the gap applies better
not a chance
sorry Raspberry Pi comes and as one
gigabyte of memory now the rock 64 has
one gigabyte two gigabytes or four
gigabytes so there are three different
models that you can buy ok so the 4
gigabyte model that I'm
using today is four times the RAM of a
Raspberry Pi 3 B plus it has true
Gigabit Ethernet and four times the RAM
plus it has emmc which is faster and
more reliable than microSD and the
Raspberry Pi only has microSD so there
is a big comparison here a big contrast
in what you're getting right so when you
look at the bottom dollar and you say ok
well the rock 64 is a little bit more
money than the Raspberry Pi 3 B+
it's a little bit apples to oranges or
pies to rock 64 because raspberries to 2
rocks yeah because you're you're getting
something completely more powerful with
the with the rock 64 now for somebody
who's used to only Raspberry Pi or
Odroid can this fall in the middle
because it's 4 gig well it's 4 gigs of
ram so it has two gigs more than the
Odroid xu4 right the Odroid xu4 have 58
course what it has 8 course yes exactly
so how would this compare to the Odroid
if somebody's think kind of going we'd
have to benchmark them side-by-side and
maybe that's some laws and we'll hook
everything up no I would like to do that
absolutely not really the nature of what
we're doing tonight because tonight I'd
like to kind of take a different spin
because the benchmarks are out there and
you can see like four necks for example
give some fantastic benchmarks that
users have benchmarked these boards
against one another okay and you can see
those the xu4 is blazing fast yes the
rock 64 is pretty darn good mm-hmm and
amazing for the money now the rock pro
64 which is is available now I have not
got mine yet but I will be showing it on
the show here is unbelievable
are you ready can I just tell you it has
10 cores what yeah I know right on a
single board computer now that's not
this one we're looking at the rock 64 so
this is this is step down from that but
it's a fantastic board but what we're
looking at I want to take the approach
of can this be used as a computer sure
I don't really care about numbers I just
want to know like can i fire this up
it's a really really cheap computer
right brutally cheap go over to cap five
dot TV slash pine 64 to check out the
pricing in your region and the reason
that I don't say the price is because we
have viewers all around the world and if
you're watching in California well the
price is completely different than what
it is up here in Canada
unfortunately we pay through the teeth
yeah so let's look at it from a user
standpoint okay I I think you know
that's really the core of what I wanted
to tell you about the peripherals in the
and what it is the only other thing I
want to mention is first of all it's got
an infrared port here so that if you
want to use software that allows you to
use a remote control you can it also has
a power button a reset button and a
recovery button the recovery button
allows you to restore from a emmc card
power button of course you know they're
just little details like that it's just
a momentary switch but it allows you to
power off safely it'll do an ACP I shut
down on that board Raspberry Pi doesn't
have that that's true so that's
something to consider
now the Oldroyd xu4 does that's right
mm-hmm alright so let's get into the
software and the things I want to
actually bring that up on my screen so
what I've installed is the IU fan build
of Ubuntu 18 point o4 with LXDE and
right out of the box that's kind of what
it looks like now I simply added a
desktop wallpaper that I got off pixels
calm
it comes with Firefox why thank you why
thank you and let's let's just bring up
Firefox and see how things look and I
realize that things are very very tiny
I'm gonna I'm gonna make things a little
bigger for you as I can so a couple of
things that I experienced right out of
the box just to be upfront straight with
you the certificates right and I think
that you might encounter this I brought
up Firefox and Google wouldn't come up
or wouldn't come up nothing would come
up and it would say that the
certificates were invalid okay I thought
what on earth so I thought okay well
I'll generate snake-oil certificates so
I Korea
did snake-oil certificates still the
same problem huh
yeah you're like we show we haven't this
is all totally different this is deja vu
okay right stay close obviously this
faked a certificate number right that
didn't fix it no weird yeah I know right
so I got looking at it I was like okay
what could this be and then I realized
the I'm not even sure does the rock 64
have an RTC real time clock hmm I think
it does but I don't have a battery
plugged into it right
so regardless I got into the terminal
and I decided to check so now you see
it's fixed so obviously I did find the
problem let's bring up system tools LX
terminal and thanks to our viewers for
sharing with me and I'm gonna absolutely
memorize this ctrl shift plus plus
allows me to zoom in thank you my
community and I gotta go sudo su and my
password is simply rock 64 on this board
and let's see so I'm gonna type date and
I see now that the date is correct but
what I saw was that it was set to July
3rd 1979 or something I don't know
something crazy so on my computer my
laptop I brought up my blog because my
blog has some pretty interesting things
on and I gotta say now I've got I've got
the browser working here now so I can do
this
but let's head on over to bald nerd calm
that's me lots of shameless plugs
tonight good alright so on my site
there's a search up at the top right and
what I want you to do is type Linux date
let's see if that comes up for me and I
did this on my laptop it doesn't so I'll
just give you the URL let's see here
we've got NEMS
who's the bald nerd regardless its bald
nerd calm slash nerdgasm 'z ok so on my
blog and I will what I'll do is I'm
gonna post a link below because that's
gonna make things a little easier for
you to find alright so here I've got set
your Linux date and time and the reason
that I want to show you this is because
what this script does that I wrote is it
automatically gives you the command that
you need to run in order to set your
date and time based on the current date
and time in your region so it actually
supports multiple different time zones
so Sasha will be thrilled about that so
all I did was I ran that command because
what was happening there Sasha is my
certificate right was issued it's even
though it's a self-signed certificate it
was issued for a future date right
because the date on my SBC was in the
past so if you encounter that it's a
little bit of an idiosyncrasy it's like
you could tear your hair out if I have
any and and and that's all it was the
date was incorrect on the board the box
yeah and so I could dumb down version of
the y2k just one of those things right
so having set the date all of a sudden
everything started working so I was able
to browse the web and I'm able to get
online and so on and source so forth so
so everything seems to work pretty good
now right up front and just so you
understand a little bit about like rock
64 and they and this whole kind of and I
started playing with I wanted to check
out if I could do mining for example
okay and I wasn't able to get that to
compile and I have some trouble you'll
see in my history here I I tried to app
to install gam then I used flat flat
pack to install GIMP and I actually had
to use flat pack in order to get it
installed ok why is that good question
and this is this is what I want to
differentiate and I want folks to
understand
a lot of times we can get into these
bleeding-edge kind of pieces of hardware
we get a rock 64 or Rock Pro 64 one of
those new single board computers and
that's the same thing happened to the
asou stinker board it got a really bad
rep because the software just wasn't
there okay okay
so understand there's there's a bit of a
process with this type of thing it's a
very open platform so what happens is
the manufacturer in this case pine 64
develops an incredible board mm-hmm they
release it and then it's up to the
development community to create software
for it okay so it takes time right so
right now ayuh fan is working hard on
this but also working on the rock pro 64
and so this one's kind of fallen by the
wayside and some things are falling
through the cracks and when you do an
apt up update you need to approve the
fact that I you fan has moved the
repository with a yes so there's some
things there are some things in the
software so don't judge the hardware
based on the software instead learn
along with it looks a bit of a process
and it's really exciting to be here at
that kind of entry level and like while
it's bleeding edge while it's still
being developed right and so with GIMP
for example I couldn't use apt to
install it but I was able to use flat
pack and the instructions are directly
on gimp.org when you go to download it
says here's how you install it with flat
pack and it actually took me through
installing flat pack first which I did
through apt and then installing the GNU
image manipulation program when I say
GIMP that's what I'm talking about it's
like basically like Photoshop but it's
free and it's available on Linux
[Music]
[Applause]
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching so let's give
it a go I haven't even haven't even
launched this yet
but let's see okay so I'm gonna open and
I only have that one picture here Jeff
I'm gonna go over to rock 64 pictures
there we are the mountains that I that I
got from from Texas calm and I have to
say okay so this image is like 30 like
3000 by 16 it's really hard like it's
really fast
yeah it's responsive it feels like it
feels a little bit like a desktop
computer and I and I hesitate to say
that because you know you may you may
mileage may vary right it depends on
what you're doing so while I have that
GIMP image open let's let's try a couple
of other things let's get back over to
Firefox and let's do something I haven't
done on here yet and let's bring up
YouTube and and see what happens and so
I'm connected through Ethernet on on my
network here so speed maybe because
we're broadcasting let's try category 5
TV
and it does feel a little sluggish so I
can feel that okay I can feel that yeah
so little egg yeah so I do feel the the
kind of hesitation when I type something
but that's okay
because I know what I'm expecting out of
a single board computer at this price
well exactly yeah and where does this
kind of thing fall in I mean behind your
TV if it plays video well if it actually
works then then hey we're golden it does
have that Gigabit Ethernet which i think
is a huge advantage when it comes to a
set-top box for example but as the
software evolves and as things grow with
the rock 64 community the development
community we're gonna start to see
things really work even better and and
things work really really well
Oh Sasha look oh it's me it's use that
try it buy it
it is it was a great show that one
episode pilot
mm-hmm-hmm I realized that it was really
just gonna be expensive I was gonna try
everything and buy everything I know is
the problem this is exactly how it would
have went down now what I want to know
once we get through the add-on on
YouTube okay is it gonna let me skip it
ah Thank You YouTube so what I want to
know is you know what's the performance
so video looks like it performs very
well yeah it does I'm just gonna mute
that just in case I'm not sure if you
guys can hear that or not so performance
looks great - I'm gonna make a
full-screen
framerate still looks pretty pretty good
mm-hmm it's a little laggy yeah but it's
absolutely absolutely usable that's cool
hey that takes you back done that yeah
so I mean things now remember I've also
got this massive image in the background
here yeah that's sure and let's see what
happens if I run a quick effect here so
let's let's simply do a rotation
so we'll rotate at 90 degrees that is
unbelievable I mean that's really really
good mm-hmm
pretty simple tests here but this is
really you know I want the user
experience I want to know kind of how
this works
what about like if you adjust the colors
like the saturation or something you
want to give it a go yeah just because
that's like a real-time adjustment sure
and just see how it affects so let's say
you want to know about saturation so and
again this looks really really tiny on
my screen because it's got that sliding
scale right yeah so how quick is it
Therese
yeah that's pretty good
let's try something like like curves or
levels even levels would be a good test
in real-time oh that's true yeah let's
darken the photo I can grab that little
oh okay so you Wow so it's not it's not
terrible it's not like my 24 core dual
CPU system no but if you're doing some
minor graphic editing it's totally fine
and if you're doing something like
accessing the Internet and you just want
a really cheap kind of system connected
but what else is this good for I
mentioned the GPIO s yep so it has two
of them if you want to tinker if you
want a little more power than what
you're used to with a single board
computer if you want to create some
things if you even want to install names
on it I mean nemesis support it if you
wonder was it as a server right right
you can do that and it is more powerful
than the than the Raspberry Pi 3 so
definitely check it out cap 5 dot TV
slash pine 64 is a link that will take
you to to all the various pine 64
products that we have reviewed here on
the show and Antonia and as well we've
got the unboxing video and so on and I'm
really I have to admit I'm impressed
with the build quality and the and the
overall quality of the pine 64 boards
and the software again is not quite
there yet right I know it's coming and
I'm excited about it a little heads up
you can install Android on it so you
can't do that with some other s pcs but
with this one you can and and so there
are a whole lot of other programs that
install this is a boom to 18 point o4
you can install other applications head
on over to their website to find out
more about what's available check out
the rock 64 you can get it a cap 5 TV
slash pine 64
